Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12161-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTHMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 7, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
nis document has a restricted dishibu*on and may be used by redpIents only in the perfonmance of
their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disedoe  wlithu World Bank authorzaton.



-   4'~ 
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 1993)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00       = Rp 2,074
Rp I million   =  US$482
GOVERNMIENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
UNfTS AND MEASURES
I meter (M)   =  39.37 inches
I kilometer   = 0.62 miles
I hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYM USED
ADB               -  Asian Development Bank
AADT              -  Average Annual Daily Traffic
BAPPEDA I and II -  Provincial and District Development Planning Board
BAPPENAS          -  National Development Planning Agency
DBM               -  Dinas Bina Marga Provincial Roads Department
DGH               -  Directorate General of Highways (MPW)
DGLC              -  Directorate General of Land Communications (MOC)
DGRD              -  Directorate General of Regional Development (MhA)
DPUK              -  Local Government Department of Public Works
DPUP              -  Provinicial Government Department of Public Works
EIA               - Environmental Impact Assessment
GOI               -  Government of Indonesia
INPRES            -  Central Government Grant to Local Governments
IPJK              -  Central Government Grants for Betterment of District Roads
IRE               -  Institute of Road Engineering in Bandung
lRI               -  International (Road) Roughness Index
1TB                  Institute of Technology, Bandung
P.T. Jasa Marga    -  Indonesian Toll Road Corporation
MHA               -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MOC               -  Ministry of Communication
MOF               -  Ministry of Finance
MPW               -  Ministry of Public Works
OECF              -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
IRMS              -  DGH's Integrated Road Planning, Programming and Budgeting
System
PSAP              - Policy Statement and Action Plan
RBO               - Regional Betterment Office (of DGH)
Repelita          -  Indonesian National Five Year Development Plan
RKL               -  Environmental Mitigation Plan
RPL               -  Environmental Monitoring Plan
SOE               -  Statement of Expenditures
VOC               -  Vehicle Operating Cost
Vpd               -  Vehicles per day
VWD               -  Vehicle Weights and Dimensions



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMENT IPROJECT
LOAN AND PRoJEcr SummARY
Bonrwer:         Ihe Republic of Indonesia
Amount:          US$350 million equivalent
Terms:           Repayable in 20 years including five years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Projeet          The objectives of the project are to meet the rapid growth in road
Objectives       traffic and to reduce road transport system costs by improving the
and Desciption:  service quality of naional and provincial roads, expanding the capacity
of the road network and further strengthening the institutional capability
of the Direcoorate General of Highways and the agencies responsible for
road sector policies. The main components of the project are:
(a) 2,000 km of periodic road maintenance, 2,200 km of road
betterment and 5,300 m of bridge replacement;
(b) 210 km of road capacity expansion and upgrading;
(c) instimional strengthening of the highway agencies at the central
and provincial levels, including human resource development; and
(d) strengthening of the Ministry of Communications for the
implementation of its policies on road user charges, vehicle weight
and dimension and road traffic safety.
Benefits         The project will reduce the cost of road infrastructure provision and
and Risks:       road use and help forestall infrastructre botdenecks which could
constrain future economic growth. Lower transport costs will be passed
on to producers and consumers and over time, will translate into lower
agricultural and industrial production costs. This will also contribute to
a better integration of the Indonesian economy. The risk of inadequate
improvement in the quality of works is being addressed thugh the
various components and arrangements under the project aime at
enhancing construction quality. To help minimize the risk of slippages
in the implementation of parts of the Second Stage Action Plan,
agreement has been reached with the Borrower on the establishment of an
effective Action Plan implementation mechanism.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usvd by rer'3ients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be di.losed w;hout World Banka



Fadmated Cost: La                             Lew         Fordg       Total
(US$ milion)
A. Road Network Improvement and Preseation    22.5        181.S      384.0
B. Road Network Expansion                      89.5        76.2      165.7
C. Insional Stre ening                          5.6        27.7       33.3
D. Human Resourcs Development                   0.6         2A4        3.0
E. Action Plah Implemetation                    1.3         63         7.6
Total Base Costs                           299.        294.1      593.6
Physical Cotingenes                       29.9         29.4       59.4
Price ContigeDcies                         14.5        13.0       275
Total Project C3ts                            9Ma
Fnamcing Plan:                                Lca         Forep       Total
(US$ milion)
Ceral and Provincial Governments La     310.3         20.2     330.5
Proposed Loan                            33.6        316.4      350.0
Total Finai  Requred                    343.9        336.6      6803
tdma Disbeme: FY                1994  195  19919 9997  1998  199  2000
(U-S$ million)
Annul                       5    75    100    90    55   22      3
Cumulative                  5    80    180   270   325  347   350
Economic Rate of Return 38%
Povety Category: N.A.
Maps: Nos. IBR) 25056, 25057, 2058, 25059R and 25060
La Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$61.9 milion equhealt



-i -
CONTES
1. TRANSPORT AND THE ROAD SUBSECTOR ....................... 1
A. Economic nd SectorSetting .......                               1
B. TheRoad Network ... .. .. . 2
C. Tel989RdSuberPo        icyStemen andAction Plan              . 3
D. Rad Tsp..                                                       3
E. HighwiayA "mI  I     . ...... ...                     ....      8
F. Highway PamningaudFai...  10
G. Environenta and Social Aspct                                   13
3. PAST BANK INVOLVEMENT IN THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
AND LESONS LEARNED.... 14
A. Past Bank Iolvement.14
D. MainLessons Leamed ....              ....14
4. THE ROAD EXPENDITURE PROGRAM AND ROAD SBSECTORPOUCIER
DUJRING FYs 1994/9-19967 . . .17
A. ThreyeExp Edir Han for Naoal and Provinca Roads.               17
B. Anual Work Progms and Budget  .. .......         .19
C. StagelohPbli  pe -nenitonAction   .an.....   20
S. BANKPARTICIPA1ION                  .         .... 23
A. ObjectvesawdR RationaleforaklnoWemet    ....23
B. Description of the Projet         . . ..23
C. EronnentAssnf .....                             ....3'
D. Land Acqisition and Restleent .   ,     ,     .. . . .. ,5
E. Cost Estmates ndl  ncing. .3. ....              ....   36
F. ImpmntawknofBankP i       Sua.dSubprojects ...                 37
G. Procement of Bank Financed SubpJec.....              ..     .  38
H. D..... .se.......                                              39
I. RetroaveFinancin    .......                                    40
1. MonioringandAuditing   . ....  41
Ti report was prepad by Messrs. D. Hawes (Frasport Economist), D. Martin
Envromental Speist), W. Paterson (Seno Hihway Enginer), 1. ToUil (Senor
Highway Enginr) and 1. Van der Von (Task Manager) lowg mprais in May 1993.
Pee Reviewers we M.Le Blac (secto  and econmic awects), 0. Ragpmbi and
S. Sgfsson            nd tcna aset).  Ms. ME Hag, Director, EA3, and
Mr. A. Khama, DMsion Chi  EA3IN, hae edrsd the projeeL



i-U
6. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .......            .........................   42
A. Generd ......................................   42
B. Metodologie Used for Prepag the Expenditur Plan and Budget . ..  42
C. Risks..............................................   4S
7. AGREEMBWI REACHE  AND' IIOMM   NDATIONS ..........    46
1. Trrasport Settlng ........................................    47
2. Road Subsecor Policy Statement and Stage   Action Pla  ....   ..........   51
3. Legal and Admistrave Framework of Road Transport ...............   66
4. Highway Adminisaiton ...................................    68
5. lteurbn Road Manageent Systemof DGH  .....................   73
6. Methodology fbr Formating Expaen    Plan and Work Programs .... ....   88
7. Capacity Expansi  Componet - Impact Asmnt and Migt   .... ....   94
S. Projectplmn onSchede ..............................    99
9. Speriou ad Repotig ReWqiremens..
10. Dooments Avable in the Project File ..........................   107
TABLES
1.1  nmrutanDomesiFreig w    Movement ........................  109
1.2 laterudranDonmesdcPase _Tffic .......................... 110
1.3 RoadNetworkLenthbyRoadQCasand IslandGroW  .              ..............  111
1.4  Road Nwork Density...................................  112
1.5 Road avementbyRoadClass and landGroup ...................  113
1.6 Conditiou of tte Naional, Provincial and Disti Road Network 1990 .....  114
1.7 RegiteredMotorVebicdes,1980-1990 ........................  115
1.8 Ditibun of Annua  Vehhcle KomeUn by Road Cla  and land Grop .            .  116
1.9  MeanTrafficLevelsbyRoad Cis andIslandGroup  ...............  117
1.10 Road Transport Indstry Idi"cam  ...............         ............   118
1.11 Road User Charsand Tot RoadExpendkiures ...................  119
1.2 HighwaySector ERxnditures1984/95-1996/97  ...................  120
1.13 DGH Geonmtric Standards.................................   121
3.1 Foward Epd         Planfor NW     and Provincial Roads ....    .......  122
4.1 First List of Bank Fined Subpwojects ........................  123
4.2 Technical Assistaw  ....................................   126
4.3  ist of Equnient ..........................              . . ..   127
4.4 Expedime AcwutbyCompo.net...                                            129
4.5EstimatedSchedule.............    130



- iii -
CHAR¶rS
1.1  Owgazonof the DIeoratoGeneral ofHighways ................   131
1.2 Organzatoofihe Povinci lPublic WorsAgency .................  132
1.3 Ouization of the Drectrate Gonal of Ronal Dwvopmen ..t...             133
MAPS
JERD 2506 Naional and Provinca Roads Network in Swmta
RD 25057 Naional nd Provinc  Roads Network It lava and Bali
MMD 25058  National and Provnia Roads Network !a Kdmuntan and Sulawed
IBD 2509R Nationa and Provincial Roads Network inN Tunor
RD 25060 National and Pwrvind  Roads Network in ian Jay



CHAPTER 1
TRANSPORT AN)   ROAD SUBSECTOR
A. EComIC AND SECzO=R SE
1.1        All transport modes-road, rail, shipping, civil aviation, iland watrways,
and pipelines-play a role in Indonesia's transport system. The modes tend to complement
one another wih each serving specfic market needs. Interurban freight is moved mainly
by coastal Shipping, but when both long and short distance transport is taken into account,
then road is tae dominant mode (Table 1.1). Interurban passenger traport is also
predominantly by road (Table 1.2). Only in Java and in a few corridors in other regions
is there a limited meare of intrmodal competition. Java also has the most developed
and best mtegrated transport system where congestion and capacity constraints are
emerging in heavily trafficked corridors. In other regions such as Kalimantan and Iran
Jaya, by contast, accessibility and services are still poor in certain areas.
1.2         The transport system has bee-n shaped by the different resource endowments
of the islands and the distribution of populio and economic activity. While exports of
pdmary products have taitonally been moved directly from producing areas to export
markes, manfactuing exports in contrast originate in the main cities which are also the
destination of imported capital and most consumer goods. The changing structure of the
economy has thus led to rapid traffic growth in in a number of transport corridors and
though the principal ports. The predominant interisland tramsport flows are between Java
and the Outer Islands with Jakarta and Surabaya as the focal points. The organization of
the sector and Government objectives and policies in transport are discussed in Annex 1.
1.3         Since the mid-1980s the Indonesian economy has grown at more than
6 percent per amnn with the inpetus coming from the non-oil sector and m c
exports. ITansport)has coped well with the rapidly growing demands of a fast expanding
and diversifying economy. This is due mainly to G;Ors expenditure policies which
consistently mphasized development, rehabilitation and maintenance of the transport
infstructre.  During the rest of the decade GDP is projected to grow at about
6 - 7 percent per annum with manufacturing production and exports again functioning as
a main engine of growth. If transport is to contine playing its suppordng role to the
economy, it will need to address the major challenges it is facing in terms of capacity,
efficiency and quality of service.
1.4        In the recent past, growing trmsport demand has largely been met by  ae
capacW   and improvent of extng infrastructure. But capacity constraints are emerging
on various parts of the transport system and there will be much less spare capacity to
accmodae fure transport demand resulting from continuing economic growt. The
dhallenge will be to develop appropriate strategies for addressing the rapidly growing needs
In particular corridors or at points in the system, taling into account the comparative



-2-
advange of the various modes as well as the envionental ip     of transport
infrastructure investments.
1.5         A second challenge will be to coninue seducing transport costs to the
economy tough improvements In: () the provision of transport services, i.e., mainly
the quality of inplementation of inf    wors; and (ii) the way the road, maritme
and air tranport sysems and ihtrod  tansport funcon as a whole. Steps have already
been takn  towards gra   effidency of the road tsport system through better
coorolnation of policies on infrastructure development and mai ance (e.g., road design
standards) on the one hand and policies govening the use of ihe infrasuctue by transport
operaors (e.g., road usercarges and vehicle weight and dimesion limits) on fte other
(paras 1.10 and 1.11).
1.6         A third challenge will be to continue improving the quality of ransport
services and the responsiveness of the secor to evolving demands. Quality apts which
merit particular atention are the saf  of passengers in general and the qulity of urban
passenger transport servicus. Alse, in view of the Government's policy of industrW
diversfication and export-led growth te tranport industry will need to stay attenive to and
cater for newly emerging traffics and serve the reqirents of overseas clients in a cost
effective manner.
B. Tiz ROAD NKIwORK
1.7        Indonesia's classified road network has expd  rapidly in recent years,
from about 136,000 km In 1979 to a totl of about 260,000 km 11 In 1992 (national
roads: i7,700 kIn; provincial roads: 34,100 khn; district roads: 176,700 kn; municipal
roads: 25,400 kn; t    gn  roads: 5,300 ki; and toil roads: 400 km; Table 1.3).
Growth occured mainly I the ditict roads and resulted more from absorption into the
network of unclassified roads raher  n from new road construction. In the last severd
years the emphasis for all road classes has been on rehabilitaion and ipove     It is
expected that the classified network will contne to grow in tie medium to long term, as
road density in Indonesia i still low, at 130 kmI1,000 sq km md 1.50 km/1,000
popuation, compared to other countries (Table 1.4).
1.8         The condition of te network has improved steadily since rehabiliaion
began in the early 1970s. In 1992, about 48 percent of the total classified iter-urban road
network was reported paved (90 percent of national roads, 75 percent of provincial roads
but only 39 percent of district roads, see Table 1.5), compared to about 33 percent in
1980. Condidon surveys indicate that some 58 percent of the national and provincial road
network is in good or fair conditon 2/ (Table 1.6), while for district roads it is estmated
hat 46 percent are in good to fair condition.
1.9        In addition to the above described road nework, there are sixteen toll road
sections of 2-6 lane, with atotal length of 374 km, and six toll bridges, with a totl lengt
1/  Thi are, in addion, extensiv notwod  of vl  roads ad other unclifiod rod 
development schemes.
2I  Roads with an nJ (_tationl ougims Index) of 8 mikm or le8s ae cosdeed in fair and
betw conditio



-3-
of 1,80 m, being operated by the state terprise PT (erro) Jasa Marga. A firther
two sections totallig some 50 km are under construction. The majority of these toll roads
serve the Jakarta area and some sections are within the city. Other sections are bypasses
of Iportat cities and a few are nterurban. Except for a 35 km section In Sumaa, all
toll roads are in Java. All of these roads are in good to excellent condition.
C. Tsil 1989 ROAD SUBlSECOR POLUCY STATEMN  AND ACTION PLA  (PSAP)
1.10        Following a teview of past policies and of the recommendations of a number
of tansrt studies, the Governme  in 1989 prepared a comprehensive Policy Statement
and Action Plan to govern the development of roads and road traffic and ransrt in the
medium term. The Policy Stamen covered seven main areas, namly: (J) legal and
regulatory framework, (ii)  stional stengthening, (iii) ;nermodal tranport, (iv) road
works planning, progr       and exeution, (v) road user taxation, (vi) vehicle weight
and dimension limits, and () road traffic safety. It was formulated by a working group
drawn from the key agencies concened, and partdcular emphasis was placed on proper
coordination and integration of policies and programs ta span the responsibilities of
seval ministies or departments. In adopting these policies, the Government recognized
the need for progrive in      tion  rough a carefully planned and managed action
plan. Specific acdons-focussed primaily o inerurban transport-to be taken during the
period 1990-I992 were included in the assocated Short-Term (Stage I) Action Plan. The
Policy Stament and Action Plan (PSAP) provided the basis for, and was supported by,
the Bank's ongoing Highway Sector Project (Ln 3133-IND) approved in November 1989.
1.11        Nowrthy achievements under the Stage I Action Plan include: the
enactment of a new Road Traffic and Transport Law, the decentralization of road trffic
and transport functions to provincial and district authorities, and the progressive increase
in the price of diesel fuel to its opponunity cost About 80 percent of the planned actions
under the Stage I Plan bave been completed but progress was generally slower than
envisaged and some important acdvites suffered considerable delays. These were caused
in part by: (a) fte delays incurred in the passage through parliament of the new Road
Traffic and Transport Law and the associated additional workload for key staff;
(b) difficulties experienced in realizing he envisaged level of iner-agency cooperaton and
coordination among MOCIDGLC, Traffic Police, DGH, IRE and MHA; and (c) long
delays in the recruitmnt of tecical assistance consultanu by DGLC. In retrospect, there
is litte doubt tat the targets which had been set were very ambidous and the achievements
are very sisfactory.
1). ROAD TRANSPORT
Admintraive and Igl Frmework
1.12        Wihi MOC, the Directorate General of Land Transport and Inland
Wateways (DGLC) has overall responsibility for road traffic and transport matters.
Following a major reorganization in 1989 its first level technical units now comprise three
direcoorates: Inructure; Traffic and Trasport; and Safety and Vehicles. Each of
thee three directorates inchudes at least one sub-directorate dealing with road-related
maers; thus there are sub-drectors  of Road Infrastructure, Road Traffic and Transport,
and Road Vehicle Technical Affairs. Safety and enviromnental matters for all land
transport modes are handled by a single sub-directorate of safety. Since late 1989 MOC's



-4 -
regional organization i based on a single office (Kanwil) in each province dalig with
all transport modes. Each Kanwil has at least one section handling land transport mters.
1.13        Preparatow  work for the modernization of the legal and regullotry
framork for road trport, vehicle weights and dimensions and road traffic and safety
has been ongoing for several years. The enactment in May 1992 of a modemn Road
Traffic aMd Transport Law represeed a major milestone and the proces came to
completion by end- September 1993 with the issuing of the implementing regulations and
instructions for the new Law. Thep- regulations will resolve the uncertainty and ambiguity
regd   the respective roles of central and regional road traffic and trant agencies
vi-a-vis the traffic police for the enforcmt of road traffic and transport reguations.
Differences of view concening the division of responsibilities among these agencies has
been a main cause for the slow progress in the modernization of the lgal and
administrtIve framework.
Tric
1.14        Motor Vebide Fleet. The fleet of four-wheel motor vehicle was estimaed
at 2,806,000 in 1990 (Table 1.7). Commercial vehicles-buses and tucks-accounted for
53 percent with cars making up tlde remainder. Motorcycles numbered 6,083,000 in 1990
up from 611,500 in 1972. Four-wheel vehicles have grown rapidly-averaging aound
14 percent p.a. between 1972 and 1983 and slowing to around 9 percent p.a. since 1983.
The nmb  of buses, motorcycles and trucks, however, has grown even faser.
1.15       Traffic Volume ad Growth. Anmna utflizaion of the inxcity national
and provincal network amount to about 47 billion vehicle-kn, of which about 27 billion
(57 percen) was on national roaas and 20 billion (43 percent) on provincial roads Crable
1.8). About 50 percent of all vehicle-km are in lava and Bali which account for only
22 pece  of the network. Traffic volumes in tenns of average annual daily traffic
(AADT) on this network also vary considerably between regions, from about 200 vpd in
the Outer Islands to more than 6,500 vpd in Java (Table 1.9). The highest traffic flows
occur on approach roads to Jakarta, Surabaya and Bandung, somI of which are toll roads,
where volumes range from 40,000 up to 110,000 vpd. Traffic has grown rapidly since
the early 1970s (ranging between 6.5 percent and 10 percent per annum or approximately
a four-fold increase) but the growth rate has declined somewhat in recent years. Traffic
growth is lowest in East Java and Bali while high rates (10 percent and over) still prevail
in the Outer Islands where cmrrent traffic levels are relatively low. For the next ten years,
traffic growth by major region has been projected in the range of 5.5 percert to 10 percent
per annum, equivalent to a growth of 70 to 150 percent over the period.
1.16        Road Capacit. Traffic growth in the past has been largely absorbed by
spare capacity and rehbilitation and beterment works, including minor widening of
exiing roads. Hwever, on many links in high traffic corridors congesion problens are
developing and it will no longer be possibe to accomodate most of the future growth with
spare capacity. Significant capacity increases will, therefore, be required within a few
years. Emerging capacity problems are aggrar- d on many road sections where traffic
flows are impeded by grwing side friction from ribbon development, encroachment and
edge deterioration from roadside activities which consequently erode the avaIlaie capacity.
Estmates of the capacity expanskin needs by the year 2003 range from 4,000 to 8,000 kn
of the national and provincial network, including about 2,500 kn which waT upgrading



to dua cariageway.  Mme high proportn of hev  vehin th  traffic stem
(avering 45 percent) Is a aor influence on this,  sitating Improved road geometry,
btidge desig criteria, and pavemen desin  There i a need for iproved procedur,
Incorpaing long-range spat plannin and network deveoe and tain Ito accou
environment aspects, for fbmwlatg a capacity expain sateg, a  Idenidfyig t
approprit sohlions In individual ca  (incemenl wdning, dualzaton or alternative
algnment). Recent studies aimed at addressing pcular capacity problems (such as dte
Bank-finnced Capacity Expanion PUlot Fesblty Sudies or the flCA-fnaed Heavy
Loaded Road Progrmme Sudy) bav hglted es  Issue.  h proposed projec
incudes a compont to help address capacity exason needs (para. 4.11 - 4.14).
Tai  Safety
1.17       Road raffic accidents are a serious  ic Issue in ldonesia. TIe
limited data available indicates ta there are about 15,000 fatit  while about 6,000
road accident victims ar seriously ftjured annually. Fatality rates are about 10 tmas
higer  aI mos in stalid counries. Studies financed under previs highway
projecs have identified the major causes as: indequacies in  w  and reglatons
regarding vehicl  and traffic, inadequate enforcement of safety meaures, poor drver
behiour and ranng, and defiiencies in the staads and condition of roads. As part
of the Action Plan for road sector policies, the Govment has begun to address the most
ctical road safety issu  and an extensve agenda of actions for furer m o
during the period 1993-95 has been prepared (par  3.17) and will be supported by the
psposed project (par 4.31).
The Road Trasport Industy
1.18        S te  and Perfo        e  Own accou  trucking operi, by both
private and publicly owned    an  acount for more ta half of tot road transpor
The majort of the for-hire paors have only a sma number of vhicles (1-5 trucks)
but In Java and Sumaa thera   e a  a _nber of operators owning large flee (40 or more
trucks). In recent years the idustry has exerienced a significat shk-out: one q er
of the firms diappeaed and the number of truck declined by about 14 percent between
1985 and 1989 (Table 1.10). However, heaverage tuc si  rose by 11 percent o that
toal crying capacity fl only marginaly. Also, there was an ince, both in absolue
and relative tm, in the med sizd fm  with 30 to 90 trucd, suggesting ta small
firm  were merging to form lar    units.  lhe for-re road transport industry is
competitve and road trasport is generaly preferred to other modes for the moveme  of
non-bulk freight over short, medium and long distances on acount of cos, speed and
reliability. Truking tariffs are no longer regulated and vary consideraly depending on
factors such as commodity type, availability of retn loads and route. On heavily
trafflcbed routes, trucking rates are In the range of US$0.02-.05 ton/kn, which are among
the lowes in the world. While the induty is generaly responsive to users' requrements,
there i scope for furtier improvement in operational effciency, in the quat  and
diersity of services being offered, and more generally in meetig the requrements of
intermodaI transport associaed with te export tradea.  he ongoing Highway Sector
Project (In 3133-IND) incles a component to build up a capabilty for the trig   of
privae sector road transport operaors.



6 -
1.19        Intban bu services are operated by the private sector and are also
reasoably effcient. The distribution of frms by size is similar to that In the tdukn
industry: narly 60 percem  of firms have less ta 20 buses and only 2-3 percet hae
moreth  60 (Table 1.10). On te trunk routes, services are firquent and fast. Mere Is
Jfed concern, however, over saety standards. Urban bus services-whether operated
by dt  publc or private sctor-suffer many     .        Overcrowding b the norm
during peak hours, dcealess is a problem and breakdowns are common. Tariffs are
cnroled for economy services but operaors enjoy reasonable flexibilty in settlg tariffs
for higher standard services offern special addidonal comforts.
1.20        Ecomic Regulation. The satisfactory performance from th   ers' poiit
of view of trucking and iturba bus trasport Is related to the competiiv coknd
g    qeray prvai    in the Industry as a resut of ease of enty in the market and the
relavely flexible enforcement of conols and regulations. A public tsport opesors
license, issued by the disrict govenment, is required for the operation of frgh or bus
sevices. Bu companies requie, in additon, a license to oper  spedfic services which
ar to be granted depending on suply/demand con aons. For trucking operati
across povia boundares In Java, a route license is also requed which was orighially
Introduced to protect rail ansport. While the economic regultons as relaed over the
years are not cauig mjor distortions, the way they are taprted or applied incres
operator' cos  as obtnig the various licences geerally involves supplny
payments. The new Government Regulaions on road transport (a  1.13) will further
stamle  the regulay regime.
Road User Taxatond User Cbarges
1.21        Road users conute to Govermnent revemue thrugh  ree main forms of
tand   (I) purchase-related (mort duty, VAT and in some Intnces luxm   goods sales
tax on new vehicles, and the ownership trnfer tax when vehicles Cage hands);
(1) owne    related (the annual regisration fee or motor vehicle tax which Is set by
MA decree and is colected by the traffic pulice on behalf of the provincial
governMAS);s1 and (i) use-related (import duty and VAT on spare parts, tires and
lbricants). In addition, the price of gasoline (which was increased from Rp 550 to
Rp 700/liter in Februay 1993) includes an inplicit tax component on account of the fact
tha it exceeds the opportunity cost (Rp 375) by a significant marin. In conast, thie price
of disel sInea sed to Rp 380 in February 1993) does not include a tax comqponent as it
only just covers its opporunity cost and was below its opporunity cost in the pasA/
1.22        Counting only those te which are generaly consided as a road user
carge (tbe diffeen  between the pump price of fuel and its opportuity cost, the an
motor vehicle tax and the owneship anfer tax) overall cost recovery from road users
has been less than adequate in the past with the outcome depending mainly on te dse of
the diesel subsidy (Table 1.11). The coverage ratio of total expendiures, hover, has
y   FCr 1992/93 pinci    a    t revenus fiom thd mntor vehcl tax () ae esimaed to
v toaled mms p4SO billio
f  lm prtmecti ofed to muu categoes of vehicle.        by ah domesic automobil
idusty Ummh hiSh iMo dute on cmp_g iponps en dao be comids  a ta an ned
use, em tough it dos not prvid n explict reve



-7.
Imrved sWficanty since FY91192 following the Increase in motor vehicl taxs
effective January 1992 and the faict price increases of July 1991 and January 1993. k b
esdmated ha by FY1993194 an overall cost recovety rado of 0.8 will be acved. Wh
cost recovery is consred by vehicle category, however, the picture has ben unbalanced
as more ta 80 pen of tax receipts are sdtl acruing from small gasoline-gnled
veicles. Taes on tucks which cause most of the road damage and rqure the
constructon of strng pvement have been nil or reladvly low. This distorton, which
Is a long    ing  ature of the road user taxation system In Indonesia, many aises from
the fut  the priciple of cost recovery has played a mini  role in road usi  aSdton
pocies IThe structure and level of road user taxes has been the outcome of dedsions
made by differet paru of governmet on such grounds as ource mobilization, tre and
usial poli, ani-in on policies and perceived ability to pay and have  t beea
detrmined by a clearly fornmulated policy of charging road usen for cost recovery
Purposes.
1.23        IntrdenWl coordination, which is crucial for the formulaton of a
road user chages policy, is now takig place under the umbrella of Bappenas. In
parcua, under Its impetus a decree was prepared to revise and restucture the annual
motor vehicle tax (PKB) which is curently the key road user charge on conmmrcil
vehicles. The Decree was signed by the Minister of Home Affairs in Septmber 1993 and
wil beome effeicdve on Jany 1, 1994. In contrast to the previous tax schedule, which
were tied arbitrarily to vehicl engine size and age, the revised rates establish for the first
tie a linkage with the road wea and tear caused by different vehicle categories. ITe
new rates will begin to encourage vehicle sizes and configurations which are efficient from
the economic point of view. For commercial vehicles, the increases in the annual motor
vehicle tax are In the range of Rp 100,000 to Rp 500,000 per vehicle (US$50-2SO) or on
the order of 100 peroent; for the most commonly used vehicle the increase is on the order
of Rp 350,000 or about 150 percen   Furthemore, multi-axled trucks, which cause
rlvel less road damage, wiXl receive an incentive wheas such vehicles were penalized
rou  higer tax rates. These changes will bring about for the first time a substnial
shift in the structure of road user charges for comnmercial vehicks and represent a key
mlestone towards an appropriat road user charges regime for commercial vehicles.
Road T uanspwt Sectw Effieucy
1.24        From the brader economic point of view, road tnsport efficiency-as
measued by the sm of highway expendit   and vehicle operatng costs-can be further
improved. Total road trasport system costs are estmated to amount to some US$17.5
bio  per annum (comprisg US$15 bilion of vehicle operating costs and US$2.5 billion
of road expeniur). So, even a small reduction in percentge tms will gener
sbsatia savigs. For natonal and provincial roads, Indonesia is already using Ihe
advanced plnning tools developed in recent yeazs to minimize systm co. Hower,
aurent cost levels are stil higher than they could be on account of mainn weakbsses
In the sector. Less than adequate maintenace on some roads and bnkienc  of poor
ecution quat (ptcularly at the district level) combined with vehicle overloading
cause more rapid road deterioraion which in turn increases vehicle opeatng costs. To
secae the ful poti  benefits of the large higway sector outlays, the improved
expnditure policies and executon practices need to be complemented by improved
Implmentaion of policies on road use, in particular the vehidlceaxie weight and di on



-8-
regulatins and the level and stucture of road user taxation as provided for in the Stage
11 Action Plan for Subsector polices (Chapter 4).
1.25        Ibe new vabicle wit  and dImsion rle which cam  into effect in
septmber 1993 (para. 1.13) provide for a maxmm single-acle load liit of 10 tons. t
will now be Iportat to dire  attendon towards enforcement of dtese rules. TM
novamm Of contsom by suably configred vehicles was already legalized in 1990 and
conaner are ncreasngy being caried on purpose built 5 and 6 a:le trucks.
1.26        Surveys by DGH have Indicated tat on the order of 10 percent of heavy
veles are overloaded in respc ofth 10 ton axl load &mit on the heaviy loaded roads,
wit up to 1 pecent ee exed    20 tomes on some roads in East Java. The  vehicles
contibute 50 to 90 percent of th damage to the pavements. Polcies encorgin greater
use of mulI-axle vehicles and srone enforcement of the new load iHmits will have
significant Impact by reducing the costs of pavement construction and reabilitaion as well
as vehicle operaig costs. Initatve have been taken to begin to remedy the problem
such as the conduct of pilot enforeent schemes to build up experience prior to the
Inoduction of the new regulations in Septmber 1993. Also, Jasa Marga, fte stae  Toll
Copoation, has taktn steps to prevent damage to its roads by diectig trucks though
pcal entry gaes eqip  with weighing equipment.
E. HIGUWAY AMINIAION
1.27        The higway neork Is admisred by te public works agencies at fte
three        of governmen (national, prodvn    and disric) whose re ibilities were
broadly defind in the Road Iaw of 1980 and in imple tion regudons of 1985.
DGH is the highway ageny at te centra level 51 (Chart 1.1), while agendes at lower
1vs ar, respectivly, the provincal public work departe   (Dinas Peejaan Umum
Prpinsl-DPUP) and the dis /n y public works departments (Dinas Peea
u    nm         [dt IawDPUK) (Chart 1.2). Tolil roads are developed and opated
by P.T. an Matsga  Te vaious aspect of highway adminitration discussed below are
fute eaoated upon In Annex 4.
1.28        GOI has started to decenrale many of DOl's fuciom , including asfer
of staff, to the DBMs. lhe latter wil eventualy have responsibility for the pro mg,
bugti, design, cution,uvison and motong of all provinci road programs,
while DOl would roIn the rpsility for nationwide planning and monitoring, overall
quat  control, eoonomic aiteda, techical standards and specifications and appropdate
manua. In the last few years, DGH has also become increasiWy involved in providing
assstac for the management of the district road progrms.
ibgway Desgn and Consrueton
1.29        Design of highays and brdges for the national roads and major wok for
the prvinci  roads netok i th  reposibility of te engineering unt of DGHs
D hrectorate of Pl_ing, IncuHng the eight PJB0s. The DBMs are responsible for the
design of bsser works on provicial roads and the DPUKs for all design for ditict roads,
F   MOC ha avel =        k foe agWing road taffic and th wad t_ant ndusty and is
iavid in rdatad           an kmrammt (p    1.12).



-9 -
while DGH, upon request, provides teical assistance to both for the design of roads and
bridges In their programs. Most of the work is done by consulan  and increasingly by
local consultants. Initial road design is simplified in order to cope with the large
betterment programs of recent years through a computerized design system and limited
field data  These designs are then checked, updated and refined by the supervisoy
consulants prior to construction, taldng advantage of the contractor's mobilization period
to carr out more complete and updaed surveys. However, for more complex works
(e.g., capacity expansion and new construction), final engineering designs are prepared
prior to tendig. To strengthen exist  capabilities, the proposed project provides
tance for desig to DGH (para 4.20) and to the decentralized units (paras. 4.9 and
4.24).
1.30        ResponsibilIt for highway construction lies with DGls three Regional
Implemetion Directorates for the national roads and some of the mvjor works on
provincial highways; with DBMs for the provincial roads and some of the minor works
on nabonal roads; and with DPUKs for the district roads. Under the ongoing
decntralization, the DBMs are taking over more of DGH's responsibilities (para 1.28).
The work are eed under contracting arrangement which have proven cost-effective
and are now the rule except for very limed emergency siaions in the outer islands.
Overall, the quality of roadworks has been progressively improving due to more
appropriate specifications, conacor capabilities and better supervision but the quality
remains varable. The proposed project will support the establishment and  g
of a cental quality assurance unit in DGH, and the implementation of the constuction
monioring subsystem being developed under the ongoing HIghway Seaor Project (Ln
3133-IND).
ighwayMe
1.31        Since the mid-1980 highway expenditre programs have shifted in a
significat way towards more and improved mainteace carried out by contract Also,
state-of-the-art pro ming and budgeting systems for road maintenmce and betterment
works are now being used for the entre national and provincial network and growing parts
of the district network.  The DBMs (i.e., their road maintenance units when
deenralization i complete) and the DPUKs are responsible for all aspects of road
maintenane on the provincial and district road networks respecively and the operatonal
responsibility for the mntece of national roads has been delegated to the DBMs.
1.32        Until 1987, road mantenan  was mainly executed by force account with
a major shift towards contracting in 1988 as a means of handling the much larger vohlme
of work sStng in X year. Although the quality of works is still variable, the shift to
contracted works has been accompanied by improved quality. Measures taken for
Improving general execution of works are benefting maintenance implementation. These
include  t     of staff, including supervisors and project managers as well as conraor's
staff, improved procurement procedures and improved budgeting and monitoring. The
proposed project wfll continue support to activities to improve maintenance works.
Staf and Trainig
1.33        Total DGH staff now exceeds 8,000, of which 4,000 are permanent. About
1,500 are professionals (about 1,000 engineers). Despite substial efforts to expand and



- 10-
upgrade staff, the shortage of qualified personnel remains an important problem for road
authorities at all levels. Training continues to be a major element in DGH human
resources management through both MPW's overall training activities and specific DOH
programs, A training needs analysis is being underaen under Ln 3133-IND with the
view of formulating a draft Master Trauiing Plan for National and Provincial Roads Staff
(para. 4.27).
Aooounting and Auditing
1.34        DGH's accountng procedures are adequate. Accounts are audited both
internally and externally. The MPW's Inspectorate General, which reports directly to the
Minister, carries out intemal audits of DGH. The State Auditors (BPKP) is in charge of
external auditing. The Regional and Provincial Inspectorate of MHA aud;.t the district and
provincial accounts internally; the BPKP does the external auditing.
F. IIGHwAY PLANNNG AN!D FINANCING
Planling and   gn u
1.35        Preparation of multi-year plans for national and provincial roads is the
responsibility of DGH's plamng directorate, Bipran.  Preparation of anual work
programs and budgets is shared beuteen Bipran and the DBMs with BAPPENAS playing
a key coorditng role. Considerable efforts have been expended in recent years to
inroduce a comprehensive and integrated road management system (IRMS), based on the
Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Model, to plan, program, budget and design
betterment and periodic maintenance work programs. Systematic procedures have been
itroduced to collect key inputs for the system such as traffic and road condition data A
bridge management system has also been developed. Although there is a continuing need
for improvements and refinements in areas such as data collection, and for making it easier
for staff at all levels to use the IRMS effectively, Indonesia now has an adequate capacity
to prepare mainenance and beterment programs for its national and provincial road
network based on rational criteria. Greater attention can now be directed to the planning
and programming of other tpes of work, mainly major upgrading/capacity expansion of
roads and bridges and new construction (including that of high capacity roads), which are
not yet well integrated in the overall planning, programnming and budgeting (PPB) process.
Actions in these areas have already been initated, such as the establishment of a feasibility
study unit and the conduct of pilot feasibility studies for road capacity expansion (paras.
4.10-4.14) and further initiatives will be supported under the proposed project (para.
4.17). These will assist DGH to plan adequately and allocate the growing expenditures
which will be ne%ded in the mediumn term to accommodate traffic growth on many parts
of the network.
1.36        District officials have primary responsibility for drawing up the district road
programs based on guidelines and within a funding envelope detemined by central
governent. Early attempts to imnprove planning started with the introduction of the npres
Jalan Program in 1979/80 and were supported by external funding agencies e.g., the
Bank's First Rural Roads Project (Ln. 2083-IND). Three subsequent Bank projects have
provided assistance for improving the district road planning process and strengthening the
planning capabilir at the district level. Practices have improved considerably over the last
ten years. Funds for plamning are now being allocated in the annual budget, evaluation



- 11 -
and planning guidelines have been developed and arrangements for assistance fom
provincial highway offices to district staff have been set in place. However, much remans
to be done in particular in districts which have not benefitted from direct assisnce under
Bank supported projects.  Ongoing district roads projects focus on:  (i) effective
dissemination and implementation of the planning guidelines; and (ii) based on the
experience gained, refining the planning procedures through improved data collecdon and
better assessment of priority needs.
Expenditures and Financing
1.37       The level and composition of total highway expenditures have chaged
significantly since the mid-1980s. As indicated in Table 1.12, total expenditures bave
increased considerably in absolute volume from Rp 900 billion in FY 1984/85 to an
estiated Rp 4,900 billion (US$2.3 billion) in FY 1992/93. As a percetae of (GOrs
development budget the increase was from about 9 percent to about 20 percent. This
increase was accompanied by further improvements in the composition of the program.
Under the national and provincial roads programs, which account for about 70 percent of
total expenditures, the emphasis has been directed to betterment and periodic maintenance
of the imnproved network. Expenditures on district roads, in recent years accounting for
the remaining 30 percent of total expenditures, have been directed at upgrading and
rehabilitation with a progressively growing emphasis on maintenance of rehabilitated and
improved roads.
1.38         The draft forward expenditure plan for nadonal and provncial roads
(Table 3.1) calls for continued growth.f/ The Maintenance/Rehabilitation and Core
Betterment subprograms-which are generated by the Integrated Road Maagement
System (IRMS)-account for about 50 percent of the overall program, while the Bridge
Replacement subprogram-which is now being generated by the Bridge Management
System (BMS)-accounts for a further 14 percent. The Special Betterment and Road
Upgrading/New Construction subprograms which begin to address the network capacity
needs account for the remainder. However, financing for a sizeable portion of the plan,
amounting to some Rp 1,500 billion, is not yet identified. Should this balance remain
unfinded, the growth in expendiures would be much reduced but the quality of the plan
would not be affected. In recent years, when firming up the annual programs and
scheduling projects under a budgetary constraint, DGH has given priority to maitnance
and betterment which have the highest return and this approach would be continued under
future programs.
1.39       For disict roads, expenditure plans have aimed at addressing the sizeable
backlog of betterment needs. Over the 4-year period FYs 1988/89-1992/93 expenditures
more than trebled and continued strong growth is planned for the forward expenditure
plan, albeit at a much reduced rate (on average about 10 percent in nominal terms). This
growth in expenditures is intended to extend further the percentage of the district road
network in stable condition. Ihe target, however, should not be achieved at the expense
of systematic mamtenance of recently improved roads. A review of the policy goals and
strategies underlying the district roads expenditure plans is, therefore, indicated.
I/  As GOI's budgeary projections and the funding envelope for the next 5-year ighway sector
developniet plan (as part of Repeita VI, covering FYsl994/95-1998J99) have not been finaized
yet, the overa size of the plan may be subject to some (downward) reviion.



- 12 -
1.40        Public  cor expenditures on tol roads do not follow a clear trend and are
mainly determined by the timing of major investnents. Government expendiures for toll
roads relate to the land acquisition phase while Jasa Marga (the Toll Road State
Corporation) expenditures relate to actual construction. GOI's policy for toll road
development emphasizes private participation and two schemes involving prtvate investor
ae currently under construction while a number of schemes are under consideration.
Governmmet has developed a medium/long term plan of toll road construction which is
open to private sector investment  Under this approach inplementation of individual
sections is dependet on private groups succeeding in finalizing financing and other
arrangements, and those schemes that are able to move forward are not necessaily those
that have fte highest priority from the point of view of addressing medium and long term
network capacity needs. It will, therefore, be important to develop a mechnism for
reconciling priority network development needs and private sector initiative.
1.41        OveralU, the draft forward plan of highway expenditures is sound considering
the geographic, economic and social seing of the country and takdng into account that e
actual level of expenditures will be lower owing to funding constraints. Table 1.4 shows
the early stage of development of the network in terms of road network density when
compared to selected developing and industrialized countries. While overall network needs
wrrant a steady growth in expenditures, continuation of the high pace of growth
experienced in the recent past (30 percent per annum on average since 1988/89) is not
justified and would not be financially sustainable as road expenditures from public funds
could not grow at a faster pace than total development expenditures. To meet fte priority
network needs in the fuure, it will be critical to continue adjusting the composition of the
expenditure plan to changing needs and improving the quality of works. GOI is committed
to pursue these objectives under each of the various program categories while developing
In parallel an nIproved overall planning framework for all road classes aimed at
.ptimizing expenditures within and between programs. In particular, in order to equip
itself to better meet the challenges the country is facing in the planning of overall road
sector expendiures, DGH intends to further develop and extend the coverage of the road
management system. 'Te project will support this effort (para. 4.17).
1.42       At negotiations agremen was reachedd thw every year wider the project
GOI woidd provide by November 15, for review with the Bank by Januaiy 31 of the
ibiowing year, the stats of  plementation of the current fiscal year's road subsector
expedre program and the drqf three-yearforward road subsector expendture plan with
ndicaton of die approaches used to achieve balance whin and between programs and
ofprogress towards he extension of the road mangement systems.
G. ENRoNMENTAL AM SOCIAL ASPECS
1.43        The significance of environmental inpacts resulting from highway works
varies beween the various program categories. Road maintenance, core beterment and
bridge replacement, which account for about 65 percent of total expendiures, entail no or
only minor environmental impacts. Standard nitigation measures have been formulated
with assistance of Bank financed projects to address these impacts and the mitigation
nmcasures are now incorporated in the standard contract documents and instructions to
contracto. Other investment activities may give rise to significant impacts which require
environmental impact assessment (ETA) and mitigation under the government's procedures.
In the case of mwor  b   yprovment of national and provincial roads (e.g., some capacity



-13 -
expandon investments)       can be significant Impat on the soclo-eonmlc
e   Me capacity epnsion compone   under the prposed projec (par. 4.10-
4.12) I designed to assist in the developmen of appropriae approaches for deaing wfit
such ipac. in th case of district road hInestmet th la physical and biologic
environment can be affected. Bank financed district roads projects have helped in the
dveloment of a sectoral A aproac for screening subproJects  d a conulaton
-procedu  with afficted people.
1.44         GOI eo et procedures (referred to as the AMDAL proce) are
embodied in LAw 29 of 1986 which nudaes at an Environmental nforaion Report
(PIL) be prepared for al new activity that will have an impact on the environment.
Guidelines on the level of amessment ar provided in Mnsy of Public Works Dec
No 531 of November 1989. To deal wh Its Important and grown resposbilities in hie
area of EIA, DGH is s ening its capabilities through the creation of a specal unit
within the planning    drecte and the assigment of addtidonal staff. Furdemo,
w severa intiadves have bee taken to improve the quality of the EIA process and intgrte
it in the project preprton and implemenion cycle, including the pilot sudies for road
capacit  expaion and the establ      of a feasibility study unit. For te futre, in
view of the lead dmes involved in ETA, to make the process effective and me gfi, It
wil be cmcia to establish a good linkage betw    advance projeMprogram planning and
environmena and social impact assessment. Appropriate steps and progress in advance
ETA planning will be reviewed anuay in the context of the au  program reviews
(pama 3.11).
1.45       VehIcle emision conrAol, including the seting of sadards and
impleentation of progms, forms part of GOI's general air polution monitoring and
control efforts. With assistance provided under the Bank-assisted Jabotabek Urb
Development Project, monoring of vehicle-related air poluion has been initiated and this
provides input to de formulation of a national saegy for controlling vehicle emision.
By assisting GOI to reliev capacity bottleneck and by supporting appoprie fuel pricing,
the project witl conte to a reduction of pollution due to vehicle emissions. Me issue
of vehicle emisions is a major item in the Bank's ongoing dialogue with GOI on
environment and energy magement It is envisaged ta as and when a specific role for
MOC is tefined this will be incorporated in the Stage II Action Plan for Subsector Polices
(para 3.11).



-14-
CHAPFER 2
PAST BANK IOLVEEINT IN THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. PAsr} BNK  vOLVENr
2.1         Dug  the pas two decade, the Bank has finaced twen   one projects in
dth  ansport sector (two eah for abppin, ports, railws, fri     distuti, and
tirte   for roads).  vom ent has been patcully mpotn   i Om road sctor, with
total lending of about US$1,750 million since 1969. Nine of the road project have been
comlpltd and four are under ipl     ton  PCRs prepared in recent years inclue
oe for the First Rural Roads Development, Highway Bettment, Jakarta-Cmpek ToR
Road, and Hgway Maintenae and Bet     Projects. PPARs have been issued for
the Second an Third Highway Projec  in 1980, for the Fifth Highway Project in 1989
nd for the Highwway Bettemnt and Highwvay Maie      and Betement Projects in
1993.
2.2         Lendig in the road subsector has been directed at three broad objecdves,
namely: () improving the qualiy of the road network through new road constcion,
re;abilitaton, and-in recen years particularly-improvement and maintance works; (U)
developing the capabilit of the road agencies at cental and regional level  ogh
tecal support and traiig   and through inprovements in planning and prog in
systms, In road construction tchnologies, and in procedures and guidelines forpreparing,
impe tng and monit    road works; and (lb)   ghening the capacit for road
sector policy formulation and implementtion, and improving key road sector policies.
Becue of the rane and complexity of the issues and of the GOI institonal set-up,
lending differentates between the major road classes. Projects supportng development
of the natn  and provincial road newrk encompass assismce wih capacity building
in the centra and provincial highway agencies and address land transport policy
deelopment and imple      n, whie projects in support of the district road network
focus an     g       i utional capacity at the district level. Development of urban
roads has been addressed as part of urban tasport and broader uban development
projects. The sole toll road project focussed on isses specific to development of this part
of the network.
B. MN LESSONS LEAR
2.3         Cii Works. I general, civil work programs have been implemented
quite isfWctorly in terms of timeliness. Experience (i.e., The Hiwa Manance and
Betterment Project, under which works were implemted largely ahead of scedule) has
shown that, when the scope of works is well defined and the procurem  process is well
advanced by the time of Loan approval, works can be implemented on schedule. Overall,
DGH has been able to develop its phnning, progmmming and implmention capabilities
in step with fast expanding expendiu  programs during the 1980s.



15 -
2.4         Wbfile construcdon quaty has contnued to improve, it has remained uneven
and there is scope for fure impove  in tis ares in particular under disict roads
programs. Construction quality Issues wer atrtble mainly to prblems rlated to  e
choice of road technology and to weaknesses in the domestc road constuci  Industry
and the supervision of works. lhe problems have been greatest In project which included
a large number of small contracts with weak implemetion     , such   in t
First Rura Roads Development Project and under the first  intenance cmponent of the
Hpighway MWntenanc  and Bettm     Project. Experience with the two subsequent
projects (Second Rural Roads Developmen and Highway Sector Projects) has dkown tat,
with bet   Iemnion arrnements-includg more intensive supervion, btr
results can be achieved. The recently complted PPAR for the Highway Mitnan  and
Beement Project concluded that fte quality of the works could have been better. lhese
lessons have been biorporated in the design of the   plementaion and superviion
arra'ngemets for this project which includes assistance for stengt he   quality asance
(para. 4.19).
2.5         A noteworthy aspect of recent projects is the high participation rate of
domestic conaors and consuls in conta  to ealy projects in which only a few
domestic contractors and consuls partcipated. The Bank's efforts under pat project
in assisting and promoting the development of the domestic contng and consultaing
industry have contributed to this achieveme
2.6         Under past projects, the Bank has actively encouraged and promoted greater
attntion to road maintenance in terms of both increased budgetwy allocations and qualit
of exedton.   xperence has shown that reliance on Loan Covenant and lendg
conditonalty for achieving these objectives has not been effective becaue of the bias
towards new construction and the difficulty of ensuring proper preparato  and
ImplementatIon of ma_intna    programs. Therefore, building upon the  epratory work
carried out under the Highway Betment Project and strting with the Highway
Maintenance and Betment Project in 1987, the Bank undertook to fiance maintenance
works on national and provincial roads, including for consultancy serices for technical
support and supevision. Ihe improved programming, budgetng and implnon
procedures combined with improved supervision were instrumental in securing better
resuts from maintenance, and provided the basis for GOI to increase dramatically its own
fumding for maintea. Periodic maintenance is now an integral part of the anmn
works program generated by DGH's road management system.
2.7         Highway projects in Indonesia have been well justified and are sustable.
The audit reports for the early highway projects confirmed  a the investments were
economically justified. Except for the Third Highway Project the ERRs were estmated
to be in line with those esed at appraisal. The PCR and PPAR for the Fifth Highway
Project concluded that the overal ERR of the project was comparable to the appraisal
estimat. lTe PCRs and PPARs for the Highwa Betterm  and  ghway Maitan
and Bergmnt Projects found that the projects were well justified wit overall Es  about
the same or somewhat lower dtan estimated at appraisal. However, becaue of the very
large number of relatively small subproJects fimanced under the programmatic approach
of these projects and the chamge in plnning and evaluation tools at DGH after completion
of these project it had not been possible to carry out an appropriat ex-post economic
analysis. Ihe PPAR recommended that steps be taken to enable such analysis under future



- 16 -
projects. This weakness in implementation monitoring is being remedied under the
ongoing project (Ln 3133-IND).
2.8         Isitutional Developments. Ihe institutiona' objectives of past projects
have largely been achieved. The capability of the agencies responsible for the preparation
and impl     ion of road works programs has continued to Improve and Bank financed
projecs have contrbuted significantly to his achievement. The main lessons drawn fom
the Bank's involvement in tuse capacity building efforts are that nmjor Immnts
require: (a) considerable staff input-from GO1I and its consultants as well as from the
Bank-over an extlnded period of time; (b) weil prepared and detaied Imnp leentation
arrngements; (c) conting aendon and support from decision makers; and (d) a flible
aproac which will provide for ioveirents to take account of and to be iegrated inO
GOrs systems and procedures. Et has also shown ta only a limited number of objectives
should be pursued at any point in tne, and the objectives to be supported under a
partcular project should be carefully selected.
2.9         A considerable amount of tiing has been spported under successve
projects. The impact on the overall institutional perfoimance has, however, been less ta
expected, mainly because such training did not always address adequately the agencies's
piority needs. Therefore, training to be supported under the project will be dermined
following the compledon of a carefilly prepared needs assessment.
2.10        Road Subsector Policies. The results of assistance with subsecoal policy
developent and implementation and with related capacity buildmg have been mixed. Ihe
main causes for this have been: (a) inadequate attention to subsector policies on the
Govrment's side (in part the result of a bias towards road development at the expense
of atnion to the efficient use of the road system); (b) the fact that for key policy areas
(road user taxation, vehicle weights and dimension limits, road safety) the acive
Involvement is required of several agencies coming under different Ministers; and (c) until
the mid-1980s, wieak Bank supervision and follow-up. The experienc has demoned
te importance of systematic dialogue with aU concerned parties during the preparation of
uich components, and the need to carefilly tailor the pace of implemenation to absorptive
capity.  hese lessons were incorporated in the ongoing Highway Sector Project (Ln
3133-ID) in the form of a detailed Action Plan and led to a much increased supervision
effrt on the Bank's side. While this has resulted in some significant advances during the
early 1990s,    onal and staffing changes within MOC subsequent to project
prparaion  impaired tha azency's ability to play the lead role envisaged for it.
Accordingly, the instittional arrangement  for subsector policy fonnulton and
implekentation will be appropriately strengthened under this project.



- 17-
CHAPTER 3
TIE NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROAD EXPENDlTURE
PROGRAM AND ROAD SECTOR POLCIES
DURING FYs1994/95-1$96/97
A. Tiz-YAR EXpECNi            PLAN FOR NATIOAL A   PaoviNCIAL ROAS
Repeita context
3.1       Repelita V (FYs 1989/90 to 1993/94) placed strong emphasis on the
rehabilitation and maintenace of National and Provincial i -,ds in line with GOl's policy
of improving trasport inuctre. The targets were ambitious, and have largely been
met in terms of quantitative outputs of km of periodic maintenance and betermuet and
meters of bridge replace     Also, the back1og of rehabiLitation has been largely
overcome and the distribution of needs is stabilizing. Road expenditures have been
increased close to their optimal level, except possibly on low traffic roads. It is estimated
tat in 1994, at the end of Repelita V, conditions on low tric volume roads (30 percent
of the National and Provincial road network) where minimum service levels may not
always be met, will not yet be in unsatisfactory condition.
3.2       During FYs 1994/95-1996197, GOI plas to continue to devote a large shae
of its development expenditures (para. 1.38) towards improving and upgrading its national
and provincial intertuban road networL. This period covers the first three years of
Repelita VI (FYs 1994/95 to 1998/99) which would begin to address network expansion
needs on Hinks where congestion problems have arisen and network extension needs with
road upgrading in key development areas. A main challenge for the plan i to achieve an
appropriate balance between preservation of the existing network, expansion and extension
to satisfy growth and serve development, and the achievement of economically appropriate
levels of service in the network. Enhancements to the plannng and progr g system
made under the Highway Sector Project (Ln 3133-IND) have gone some way to providing
DOH with the means to idendtfy this balance, reflected in the forward expenditure plan
descried below. The further strengthenng of DGH's planning capability to bring all
development expendiures and performance targets within the same economic analysis
framework, to be undertake  in the project (para. 4.17), will help to achieve the
appropriate balance more explicitly in the future for use under Repelita VI. A second
chalenge will be the integration of environmental considerations and analyses ir. the
plnning and programming process and in subproject formulation and design. In view of
the lead times involved, it will be crucial to establish a good linkage between advance
project/programn plannig and environmental impact assessment. DGH is taking steps to
Improve this likage and the ree-year forward works program will include the associated
program of EIA work (para 4.9).



- 18 -
ltollg lbree-yew Expe editue Pr
3.3       DGH  is now preparing annually a comprehensive three-yewr forward
expenditure plan of high priority activities on inter-urban National and Provincial roads
and a detailed work progrm and budget for the next FY. The purpose of this plan is to
provide a conmrehensive framework to guide DGH's decision-making in preparing annual
work programs and budgets taking into account local and foreign funds lifely to be
available. The plan is based on an estimate of funds available under the various domesdc
budgetary sources, disbunt under exin foreign loans and under exped new
lks. lhe FYs 1994I9M-1996197 plan is not fully funded and about a fifth of the
financing required remains to be ietified. Actual expenditues are, therefore, likely to
be lower but the highest prioritf  actives-maintenance, beement and bridge
replacement-with ret     % ell In excess of 1S percent are fully covered. The plan is
summarize  below and details are given in Table 3.1.  Plaed expenditures for
FY1994/95 and FY1995196 are from the FYsl993/94-1995/96 plan reviewed at Appraisa,
while the FY1996/97 expendi"tures are from the draft plan for FYs1994/95-1996/97, which
is crently being finalized.1/ The picplks and crteria underlying the fonmuon of
the plan are outlned In Annex 6 and were conjiwed at negodatons.
3.4       All proposed maiance and betterment works are based on DGH's
tegrated Road Management System (IRMS) which is now rigorously applied to all
52,000 km of National and Provincial roads. The IRMS identifies the optimal reatment,
program category and timing for a 5-year period, applying DCH's technical design
andards and opmiin  the economic benefit (NPV/Ikm at 15 percent discount rate)
(Annex 5). No budgetary constaint are applied except to make slight adjustent to the
timg widtin the three-year period.  During the three-year period, mantence
expenditures would suntain a fairly high level, covering the periodic maintenance of about
9,400 km. Subial incases in the routne maintenmce finding are also being
proposed to segthen the effdctiveness of road maintenance. Betnt works would
conthmie at a high level of expencdure but on a reduced length of abou-t 8,500 kIn,
incorporatg improvements in the quality of sideworks and an increase in the projects
involving minor widening of the carriageway within the existing roadway. A substantial
program of Special Beterment, involving projects identified outside the IRMS in the order
of about 4,000 Ian are being proposed.  Some of the incrwe  in expenditures is
attrbutable to a 30 percent increase in the size of fte network (from 53,000 to 70,000 In)
arising from the new classiflcadon being applied for Repelita VI. DGH have begun the
series of modifications to the IRMS, agreed at negotiations, to improve the balance of the
program. Each year's progranm will be reviewed in accordance with the agreed principles
and criteria (Annex 6) incorporating these successive.  -ovements.
3.5       The bridge replacement program has been xuintified for the first time by the
new Bridge Management System (BMS), which identifies the needs based on a technical
evaluaion and priorizes the works using a systematic procedure. A total of about 20,000
m of bridges will be replaced.
1/  As GOrs budgtry precs and the fundng envelope for thk next 5-year highway sector
develoeat ple (as pat of Rp V  cvering FYs 1994195-1998199) have not bee finalized
yet, o oveal a  of the th-year forwad pln may be subject to some (downwar) rvin



- 19-
3.6       Increased expenditures on road upgrading/new construction are proposed,
amounting to some Rp 1,750 billion over three years.  This program includes the
traditional new construction, road upgrading and land acquisition investments of which
about a third has been identified for relief of heavily loaded corridors subject to feasibility
study. The progran would also include the capacity expansion investments, prepared
using the mnthodolMgies and approaches developed under the pilot feasibility studies
fnanced under the Highway Sectr Project (Ln 3133-IND). Thus, investments under the
new construction program are also progressively brought within systmatic project
evaluation and program formulation processes. If financing is insufficient for the full
program as proposed, there would be scope for reducing road upgrading/new constuction.
Adjustments to the targets would be made, based on annual results, every year that the
plan is rolled over.
B. ANNUAL WORx PROGRAMS AM BUDGETS
3.7       The annual work programs for maintenance and betermen works on national
and provincial roads and bridges are now formulated by province through the IRMS and
BMS respectively. For periodic maintenance and betterment, the corresponding budgets
are formulated thrgh the IRMS's budget module. However, a substantial portion of
every year's program comprises ongoing and committed projects. The general principles
and criteria underlying the formulation of annual work programs are outlined in Annex 6.
These provide for a balanced allocation of funds within and between programs and were
agreed at negotations.
3.8       The review of the first year's annual work program, for FY94/95, is being
conducted in accordance with the agreed criteria. The program is being prepared using
the initial modifications made to the IRMS (para. 3.4 and Annex 5, Table 4) which
focussed on te needs of poor condition roads and the assessment of benfits for
betterment projects. Particular attention is being given to verifyig traffic history and
maintenance history in order to identify roads which have received recent treabnent or
betterment and to monitor the effective life of the works. Future programs will be
prepared on the basis of the IRMS suitably modified to incorporate any recommendations
resulting from furither reviews. The format for the presentaion of the program and budget
will also be improved by providing key data to facilitate rapid analysis and presenting the
kind of monitoring indicators which are likely to be useful for interna management of the
process by DGH.
3.9       At negotkatlons agreement was reahed on: (a) the criteria and princpks
underlying the foJtdtlon of the annual work programs and the three-year forward
programs of national and provincia roads (Annex 6) (b) the various analyses and
measures for Improving furter the IRfS and BMS as plamning and programming tooLs;
and (c) the format for the presentaon of the annual work program and budget.
3.10      Furthmore, agreemen was reached: (a) that every year under the project,
GOI wuld provide by November 15, for review with the Bank by Jauary 31 of the
following year () the status of plkmentaton of the current year's program, (it) a draft
work program ad budget for the following year; and fiu) a draft three-year foiward
program, Including the associated work program of environmental and soci  lnEact
assessment; (b) dwt every year the foUowing year's program and the three-year forward
program would befirmed-iw using: (i) the general criteria underlying the preparation of



-20 -
the annual and three-yearforward work prorams; () the Improved IMS and BMS; wad
() tabng nto account the Bank's commenS on the pla
C. STAGE Il POUCY TIMLNTATION AcQON PLAN
3.11      Ihe '989 Policy Statement and Action Plan (PSAP) (para 1.10) contine to
provide a sound and coherent framrk for the efficient development of the subsectr,
and the Government has now formulaed a Stage II Action Plan covering the three-year
period 1993-1996 to achieve further progress in implementing the objectives of the Policy
Statement. Me Stage 11 Action Plan provides for the completion of some outstanding
Stage X activities, and covers new activities designed to extend further te implntaion
of the adopted policies. The draft Stage If Plan was reviewed by the Appraisal Mission
and found satisfactory; it has been finalized, incorporating the comments of the Mission
and has been formaly com cated to the Bank. The policies and the activities planned
for the coming three years are ummaized below (paras. 3.12-3.17). The full Policy
Statement and the Stage 11 Action Plan are attached as Annex 2. In light of the experience
under the Stage I Action Plan, the implementation and monitoring arrangements for the
Stage II will be strengthened. At negoiations agreement was reac   that GOI wil
(a) establish by June 30, 1994 an effective mechanimnfor coordinaion between the various
agencies involved, andfor iplementaton monitoring; No) every yearprovide by November
15, for review wih the Bank by January 31 of the folowing year, the status of
Imlmentaton of the Stage IlAction Plan and te activiies plnnedfor the coming year;
and (c) foUowing such anual reviews amend the Action Plan as appropriae taking into
accownt the Bank's comments.
3.12      Re          Reform. The enactnent of fte new Road Transport and Traffic
Law in May 1992 reprened a major milestone in the mplemeion of the policy
objective of modernizing and stramlning the regulatory framework for road traffic and
transport. lhe aim is to foster a more efficient and safer road transport industry, inter
alia, by adopting current international conventions and sound practice and replaing
wqumtity" licensing of road transport activities by more appropriate "quality" licensing.
The next key step is to isue the subordinate Government Regulations (PPs). The Stage
UI Plan provides for the completion of the PPs and Ministerial Decrees (KMs) needed to
impleent the new Law, for the conduct of awareness campaigns to inform road users and
the general public on its objectives and provisions, and for steps to begin to properly
enforce the new regulatory framnework.
3.13      Int ona Reform. Formal measures to decentralize and restrucure the
Directorate Genera of Land Communications (DGLC) under MOC have been taken but
plementation has proceeded more slowly than anticipated. In particular, there is the
question as to whether DGLC's new organization structure (based on functional lines as
against modal lines previously) can be made to function effectively as intended, given the
manner in which modal responsilities are divided among the three directorates bluing
responsibilities and posing problems of coordination. The Stage I Action Plan covers a
revivew of this issue and acdvities directed towards the implemenWation of decentralization
of road traffic and trasport and the formulaion of an accelerated and more soundly based
medium term program for instittional development and traindng in the subsector, including
at the regional level.



-21 -
3.14      Inat ion o Transport Sector Poliy Formulation and P}anin. Ibe
specific steps included in the Stage I Action Plan have been completed nd these now need
to be followed by further actions towards the realization of the overall policy goals in this
area which are to further reduce transport system costs and improve service quality. inter
alia, through securing optmal use of existing infrastructure and facilities and in pardcular
tough fuhlly exploiang the compaative advantage of each mode and the cost saving
poal of hnermodal transport. The Stage II Action Plan therefore inchdes actvities
directed at: dieminang widely and ufilizing effectively the results of the recent s r
policy and staegic studies; formulating sound sector development suegies and progrms
for    ion  in the Repelta VI Plan; and assessing the curt status of Irtermdal
transport in Indonesia and identifying remaiing impediments to is wider use.
3.15      Road User Taxation. The aim under this policy area is the progresiv
introduction of higher tacation on commercial vehicles-using a combination of fuel prices
and annual motor vehicle tan-eswhich reflects as closely as possible the road costs
imposed by these vehicles. Ihis will provide incentives for goods to be transported by the
most efficient vehicles or the most efficient mode and will raise additional revenues, in
particular at the regional level. During the period of the Stage I Action Plan fuel prices
almost doubled following three price increases (regular gasoline increased from Rp 385
in late 1989 to Rp 700 in Januay 1993, while automotive diesel increased from Rp 200
in iate 1989 to Rp 380 in January 1993). The last price increase waspart of OI's new
energy prcing policy under which the pump prices of fuels should cover not less than the
opporunit cost of each product. It elimined the subsidy previously enjoyed by
operators of diesel powered engines. Also, the rates of the anual Motor Vehicle Tax
(PIB) were raised in Ja y 1992 by an average of approximately 45 percent. However,
when cost recovery is viewed by vehicle category the picture has been unbaanced (para.
1.22) and, the annual motor vehicle tax rather than encouraging greater efficiency in road
trt, has disrted decisions by penalizing vehicle types and configurations which
cae  relivey les costs to the road system. The Stage I Action Plan, theire,
provides, inter alia, for: (i) a restructuring of the annual nrotor vehicle tax rats to begin
to correct te distortions. This action was taken in September 1993 and the rvised rates
will come into effect on Jamny 31, 1994 (para 1.23); (ii) a second revision that for
commercial vehicles would chage effectively the computation paamete  from vehicle
engine size and year of mancure to road pavement damage potenil; and (i) the
formulation of specific rec ons for the futre pricing and taxation of gasoline and
autmotive diesel.
3.16      Vehide Weights and Dimensions (VWD). During the perod of the Stage
I Action Plan, the movem   of containers by appropriately configured trucks on the public
road network was legalized, improved vehicle weights and dimensions limis have been
incorporated into the draft PP on Vehicles and Drivers, an initial nework of primary
feight routes has been defined jointly by DGH and DGLT, and a prom of pavement
gthening has commced. The aim of these measures and those under the Stage II
Plan is to reduce the total system costs of goods transport by providing for the operadon
of more economical vehicle tp  and by containing the road damage cased by heavy
vehicles. Under the Stage II Action Plan, the focus will primarily be on implemeng and
enforing the key provisions of the new regulations, first on a pilot basis with monitng
of impacts, and including awaene  campaigns. Key provisions inchlude the introduction
of a revised system for classifying and marking vehicles.



-22 -
3.17      Trafie Safety. Under the Stage I Action Plan, measures aimed at securing
a significant reduction in accident rates and In the related human loss and physical damage
included the introduction of an Inproved traffic accident reporting form, surveys of serious
accident-prone locations (black spots) in Java and Bali, surveys of the effectivenes of
vehicle inspection sations, and improved training of traffic police in safety-related aspects.
The Stage II Acdon Pln emphsizes implementation and enforcement of the safety
provisis in the new Road Transportand Traffic Law by conducting awareness campaigns
and trough measures relating to accident black-spot remedial works, expanded traffic
police training, hnprovement of driver behavior, enhanced effecttveness of vehicle
inspecton services, and imple ton of better accident reporting and analysis
procedures.



-23 -
CHAPTER 4
BANK PARTICIPATION
A. OuiCnvMSAN  RAUOAZ FOR BANK INVOLVNT
4.1         With the generl objecive of meeting the rapid growh  in road traffic
resuiing from sustaned economic growth and of reducing road ransport system costs, the
project aims specifically at:
(a)   improving the service quality of the road network;
(b)   developing effective approaches, with due regard to enviromentl impacts,
for increasing road network capacity;
(c)  improving the quaft of exeuon of roads works;
(d)      ning  the capability of DGH to formulate work programs and
allocate fids between activities (maintece, betement develpnm,
road safety), as well as classes of roads and regions; and
(e)  improving road sctor policies and ttrengthen  the capability of road
sector agencies to formulae and implent such policies.
4.2         DGH has become an effective insion capable of dischag   curnT tas
relatively wei but is confroned with new chllenges arising from the emerging capcity
conraints and the need to intgrate envo n  aspects in he project prartion cycle.
There is, erefore a key role for the Bank in contiuing to provide guiance on complex
tbhica and planning maters. With regad to sectoral policy, the subsector age s need
to adapt to their new role in a poliy envroment of dereguladon, decent on and
greaer private sector involvemen  The Bank can play a constructive role through further
spport for the formulation and survision of policy analysis studies, insutonl
stegthenin efforts, and montoring of PSAP implementation. And, GOI sdll needs
extenal financing to implement its road program during Repelita VI.
B. DzSCwInoN OF THEPNojncr
Gener
4.3         The project would finance part of DGH's program of national and provincal
roads for FYi 1994/95 to 1996197 and provide suppon for the imple ion of a second
stage of GOI's Policy Statment and Action Plan to improve subsector perfoimance.
Financing would be provided fo subprojects prepared on the basis of principles and
criteria ageed wth the Bak  Subprojecs could be any new commitment which is part



-24-
of a saisfactory annual work program during FYs 1994/95 to 1996/97 sudh as a conta
for civil works, for the supply of equipment, consultancy services or training. The lUst of
sbprojems seketedfrom DGH's FY994/95 program to be lfanced duing diefrstyear
qf the project was agreed In priple at negotatons and wi be coVbme subject to
on f a saactory analprogram  and three-yearforward plan prepared wing
agreedpripks and criteria (am 3.9). At negoatons, agremen was alo reacheS
(a) obrforsuequen years the project wouldfance subpvjects wkh are pat of he
anual work progms prepared wing agreed prncks, criteria and prcedures
(ar 3.9); (b) hda the subsequent year's programs and subpvjects for finang In
equ years wndd beforwed so the Ban by Novweber 15for revw by Janary
31 if the wfolowing year: and (c) on the fonnat and supportt  d an  fwse
4.4         The subprojects finced from the Loan would provide for: (a) road
network  proveme,   prising: (i) road betterment; (ii) periodic mannac, and
(il) bridge replacement; (b) road network expansion; (c) inituonal  g ,
directed at (I) DGH, (ii) the regional/provincia public works levels, and (Ci) ME; and
(d) human resource development, including the preparation and implm ni  of a
Naia/Provincial Roads Master Training Plan bn addition, the prject iudes  pport
to MOC to implement e Stage II Action Plan for firther progres in: (i) road user
chages; (i) vehicle weight and dimension regulations and enforcement, and (il) road and
traffic Safety.
Component A: Road Network Iprovement/Preservation
4.5         The Lst of subprojects proposed for Bank fincg   ng   with FY
1994195 includes: 705 km of road rehabilition/bet      works at average cost of
Rp 195 milion per km, 290 kn of periodic maintance works at avmerage cost of Rp 115
miion per k, and 1,915 m of brges at average cost of Rp 17 million per meter (ble
4.1). This program is based on a cautious assessment of what can be iniiated under the
project during the first year. Te desIg, procurement d   pl ion wffl be carried
out by DBM staff assisted by the RWO's ad consulan.
4.6        (Al) Road RIIabilltaiTn/htermt  e   works will be carried out on
deterioraed and congested sections of national and provincia roads in various parts of the
contry and selected an fte bas of cical and economic criteria, using the IRMS.
Tey would genaly comprise, as reqired, repair and improvement of drainage,
resurf    strengthe    and mimor widening of pavements and shoulders, or upgrading
of gravel pavemet. The works will be designed for a 10 year life in accordance with
agreed standards, subject to the review of crheria mentioned in para. 3.9. All pavemet
will be stengthed by bitumios overlays designed on the basi of exist  condition
(meaurd deflection under load) and trffic vohume and loadings projected for a ten year
period. Works will be carTied out on existing alignments. The doumentation to be
submited to the Bak as a basis for fiancing under the project would inchde: the wmulti-
year unconstrained program report, an indication ta the lat  year traffic data have been
checed sgainst traffic history, as well as an indication ta beemen projects have been
sceened for potial envion     impacts. The tables summarizing th prposals would
also provide the following  matin or indicators: (i) a key to the teau"in codes;
()te cost/in, NPV/Am (at 15 percent discount rate) and EIRR in the table of



-25 -
subprojects; and (iii) a sunmary of the total costs, total NPV, median EIRR, as well as
the range (mnimum, maximum, average) cost/km, NPV/kan and EIRR (Annex 6).
4.7         (A2) Periodic Maintenance. These works will be carried out on numerous
sections of the national and provincial roads network in all parts of the country where:
(a) pavement deterioration is still moderate and can be corrected by relatively simple
measures such as bituminous surface treatment or a single hot rolled sheet overlay; or
(b) where low cost pavements of earth or gravel need improvement to engineered gravel
standard. Designed for a 5-year period, selected, and executed as described above for the
rehabilitationbetterment component, works will be of much smaller scope and cost.
4.8         (A3) Bridge Replacement Ihese works include bridges on tme national and
provincial roads in various parts of the country that have reached the end of their service
life and are becoming traffic bottlenecks for one or more of the following reasons:
(a) severe load limitations because of low initial design loads or advanced structr
deterioration; (b) width restrictions; or (c) hazardous hydrological conditions. Selection
of bridges for replacement, as well as design standards, will be based on the BMS which
use acceptable technical and economic criteria.  The output of the BMS wIll be
supplemented by te following documentation to be submitted to the Bank as a basis for
final approval: (i) the results of an incremental analysis prioritizing the scheduling of
subprojects, and (ii) a summary of a technical and economic evaluation supporting Xt
choice of bridge superstructure technology (all elements of bridge replacement are eligible
for financing under the proposed project).
4.9         Design and Supervision of Road and Bridge Works. Most design of road
works and bridges will be carried out by local consultants using DGH's standards,
procedures and systems. A total of about 2,200 kan of betterment works, 2,000 km of
periodic maintenance works and 5,300 m of new bridges will be designed during the life
of the project Supervision of road- and bridgeworks, including for capacity expansion
and road upgrading subprojects, will be carried out by DBM staff supplemented by local
consultants who are qualified to provide such services. Ihe project will provide
consultancy services to DGH and the DBMs through the RBOs for a total cost of about
7 percent of the works contracts. Detailed terms of reference were agreed at negodations
and are available in the Project File.
Component B: Road Network Expansion
4.10        Because these investments raise new and challenging issues, the worb under
this component are carefully prepared under pilot studies designed to develop models of
good practice for the itegration of environmental and social aspects in the project
preparation cycle, in particular during the project formulation phase, and for appropriate
social impact assessment, mitigation, monitoring and reporting in compliance with GOI
and World Bank guidelines and procedures. A main objective of the pilot stdies is to
evaluate alternative capacity expansion schemes taing into account the associated impacts
and to formulate appropriate mitigating measures.
4.11        (lBI) Capadty Expansion. Ihis subcomponent comprises two phases.
Under Phase I seven subprojects have been carefully prepared up to the feasibility stage
under a program of pilot feasibility studies financed under the HIghway Sector Project (Lan
3133-ND). Owing to the screening and selection criteria adopted the works will be



-26 -
carried out on existing alignments and for 65 percent within the existing right of way. The
feasibility stage documenion prepared comprises: (i) individual feasibility studies ;
(ii) where applicable, the associated environmental and social impact assessment and
management (RKL) and monitoring (RPL) plans; and (iii) a 'Capacity Expansion
Methodology Manual" providing guidelines for preparation of capacity expansion projects
in general. This documentation was reviewed prior to negotiations and the Phase I list of
subprojects (Table 4.1) was firmed up at negotiations. Final approval of subprojects will
be based on submission of the final FS, PIL, RKL (resettlement/relocation plan where
applicable, prepared in accordance with agreed principles), RPL, and detailed engineering
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.37 and 4.42). The schedule for submission of these
docunents was fwmed up at negotiations.
4.12        Phase II. The preparation of a second group of subprojects will follow the
methodology developed under the first phase and outlined in the Methodology Manual.
Candidate links for Phase II are being selected from as large a pool of potential links as
possible, including those identified under recent studies (para. 1.10). Again as a result of
the screening and selection criteria adopted, the works would be carried out on existing
alignments and in general within the existing right of way. The project will support
preparation of Phase I in two areas:
(a)   Feasibility studies and detailed engineering (DE).  The consultancy
services will provide for the preparation of a final list of subprojects
according to identfication and screening criteria which are detailed in the
TOR (available in the Project File). The services would, in addition, cover:
preparation of full feasibility stage documentation, including preliminary
environmental and social impact assessment and associated management and
monitoring plans, to be followed with detailed engineering and preparation
of final environmental and social impact assessment and mitigation
recommendations.
(b)   Additional da  needs to support the program. Two types of data have.
been identified from experience under the Pilot Studies as being required to
efficiently implement the program: (i) satellite remote-sensing imagery of
the region surrounding likely capacity expansion project sites, necessary to
facilitate identification of alternative alignents; (ii) small format aerial
photography (SFAP) of the alignents identified for detailed feasibility
study and design. It is proposed to procure these data under thuee separate
contracts (for Spot data acquisition, image processing, and SFAP
respectively). The TOR for these services were agreed at negotiations.
4.13        A total length of about 150 km is expected to be fianced under this
subcomponem lThe list of subprojects to be financed under the first year was firmed up
at negodations. For subsequent years, a list of proposed subprojects (including feasibility
stage docuntaton or status of preparation as applicable) will be provided to the Bank
in the context of the armual program review (para. 3.10). Approval of subprojects at the
feasibility stage will be based oa satisfactory FS, and if applicable PIL, RKL, RPL.
Approval at the detailed engineering stage will be based on final FS, RKL (resetement/
relocation plan, where applicable), RPL and DE documentation satisfactory to the Bank.



. 27 -
4.14        Preparation of Capacity Expansion Subprojects for Future Financing.
Four of the subprojects studied under the above Phase I study program were found to
involve significant environmental or social impacts (such as town by-passes) requiring
fuirter in depth preparatory studies and a detailed environmental or social impact
assessment (ANDAL) under GOI's guidelines. Also, from among the subprojects studied
under the Phase 11 study program there would be a number having significant
environmental and or social impacts (corresponding to category A subprojects in the Bank
classification) and under GOI guidelines requiring a full EA (ANDAL). Because of the
study and execution times involved, these subprojects can not be completed under the
proposed project. However, the project will provide fiuds for the preparation of the ElAs
and management and monitoring plms so that these subprojects can be made ready for
financing under a possible future Bank Lan or another funding source.
4.15        (B2) Road Upgrading. The project includes limited fmancing for the
preparation and implementation of road upgrading on a pilot basis. Such subproject(s) ar
being processed to the feasibility stage by the recendy established feasibility study unit
under the guidance of the Feasibility Study T.A. consultants. lhe EIA (PILs, RKLs,
RPLs) and detailed engineering for subprojects with category B type environmental impacts
as well as the ANDALs for category A type projects will be prepared by consultants
financed under the project. If compatible with the project completion date, subproject(s)
which would not entail significant environmental impacts (Category B type impacts) could
be financed under the proposed project. For subproject(s) with category A type impacts,
preparation of the required EIA and mitigation plans could be initiated with the view of
tking up their financing under a fuure project. Selection of subprojects will be carried
out in close consultation with the Bank so as to ensure that relevant Bank EA guidelines
are complied with. Final approval on financing of a road upgrading subproject would be
contingent on the preparation of final FS, DE and EIA (PIL, RKL and RPL) satisfactory
to the Bank It is expected that about 60 km would be fmanced under this component.
The schedule for the submission of the feasibility studies was agreed at negotiations.
Component C: Institutional Strengthening of Highway Agencies
4.16        C<I s objectives are to ensure high quality planning, programming,
budgeting, design, construction and monitoring of road works, while at the same time
developing local capabilities to reduce the need for foreign technical guidance. To meet
these objectives, the various agencies involved need techmical assistance, as well as
specialized equipment, for (i) institutional strengthening, and (ii) to support implementation
in the newer areas of network capacity expansion (para. 4.11 and 4.13). A total of about
3,000 staff-months of consultancy services would be required, 800 staff-months of foreign
and 2,200 staff-months of local experts' services (Table 4.2). These services will address
technical assistance needs over and above those directly related to implementation of the
proposed project (i.e., for the proper formulation and implementation of the overall road
subssetor expenditure program and on account of the imnlmentation of GOI's
decentralization objectives). Furthermore, in designing the component due consideration
has been given to the absorptive capacity of the institutions involved. Institutional capacity
building has been very successful in DGH under previous projects, as witnessed by state-
of-the-art level achieved in some areas (Annex 5), and by a high level of productivity. An
important objective of the project is to further this type of action, as an effective
investment in the sustainability and improvement of these capabilities.  During
negotiations, agreement was reached on the terms of reference and implementation



- 28 -
schedules for the technical assistance services (available in the Project File) as well as on
the lists of required equipment (Table 4.3).
(C0) Strengheng DGH's capabilities
4.17        Extendon, Development and Implementation of Road Maagem t
Systems. DGH needs a unified ramework to support an improved planning process
aimed at optimizing the allocation of the highway sector budget among actvit
(maintenance, bettrent, developmet, safety) and mong functional classes of roads and
regions of the country. The proposed services would provide a linkage at fte program
allocation level between the various subsystems, supported by a database for all road
systems cowmiled within a GIS (Geographic Information System) ftrmwork
Development would include a new subsystem supporting network pling, ring
relevant aspects of demand forecatng and feasibility study methodology.  For the
subsystems for bridges, toll roads, urban roads and district roads, which exis in part,
redevelopment would be limited to only specified aspects (regarding the toll roads
subsystem, it is expected that the development effort started under the previous project
would be pursued by Jasa Marga. For this purpose, the project will provide tecnical
assistance to DGHI's SubDirectorate for General Planning for a total of about 62 staff-
months of foreign and 268 staff-months of local consultants services. Because the various
subsystems would remain the prime responsibility of the respective agencies a coordinaing
mechanism for regular liaison and consultation with all concerned agencies will be
miportant for the successful development and implementation of the proposed planning
famerk. The draft TOR, which would provide for the establishment of a coordinat
mechanism, were reviewed at negotiations and are to be finalized by February 1994.
4.18        Urba  Road Maagement System.  Following preliminary concept
developments made recently, an Urban Road Management System (URMS) will be
developed, based on similar principles to the IRMS and consistent with the inegratd
urban infrastructure development programn (UIDP) concept. Services financed under this
project would produce a system utilizing current DGH procedures, economic evauaion
and design manuals, with accommodatons where necessary for compatibility with IRMS
and IUIDP. It is intended  t e new system would serve as a norm and bbleprint for
use in major cities in the country, particularly in respect of the database and data
protocols. For this purpose the project will provide technical assistance to DGE's
Directorat for Urban Road Development for a total of about 78 staff-months of foreig
and 129 staff-months of local consults' services. The TOR were agreed in principle at
negotations and are to be finalized by April 1994.
4.19        Quality Aswrce Development DGH needs to develop and implemet
a mechanism for effective quaity control and monitoring (including technical audits) of
road works in a decentralized environment (para. 1.28). This will include tainin of a
number of engier based at DGH HQ (from the Directorates of Implementation), 80
DBM  supervision engees, over 200 provincial laboratory staff, some 400 project
managers and some 300 contractrs' and consultants' staff. For this purpose, fte project
will provide technical assistance to DGH for a total of 84 staff-months of e iate
engneers and 208 staff-months of local engineers and laboratory technicians. Laboratory
and field testng equipment already procured under Loan 3133-IND would be exclusively
used for this purpose.



- 29 -
4.20        Higbway Capaity M ul Dlissemination.   The development of
Indoesia's highway capacity manal for urban and intercity roads and traffic wa
supported under La 3133-IND. ITere s a need now to review/develop traffic engineri
guien  and standards. For this pwrpose the project will provide technical assice to
DGH for 39 staff-months of foreign and 129 staff-monfts of local consultan' services.
4.21        Engineering Development. DGH will need support to fitr deelop Its
thical expertise for radworb  and bridgeworks design and control, as well as to assit
provincial staff in the resolution of tecnical issues during imlementation. For this
purpose, he project will provide specialized equipment to DGH's SubDirectorates of Road
nd Bridge Enging for swvey, tesing, and investigation, for an  ont of about
US$1.5 million (Table 4.3). lhe list of required equipment was agreed at negotiations.
4.22        mprovement of Tafic and Road Monitoring. Accurcy, reliabiliy and
meliness of data are important factors in the management of national/provincial and toll
ras netwr, and there is scope for inmprovement in data capnure. Regardig r4k
monioring, support was provided under previous projects through acquisiton of counting
and welghikg equipme, as well as the establishment and operaion of a Centra
Weighbridge Unit (CWU) to monitor axle loads and vehicle weights in order to imrove
pavement design md analyze the damaging power of vehicles in relation to appropiate
road user taxation.  Hower te   are sdll inefficiencies in the organizaon and
management of the taffic data collection programs, and the CWU progrm represents an
insufficent sample (less dan 1 percent of the links). These programs need therefore to
be suengthened and expanded, with a planned coverage of the CWU of about 10 percent
of the inkL For this putpose, the project provides for: (i) technical assistance to review
the rffic monioring programs and needs (included in the assigmnent under para. 4.17
above); and (I) addtiional equipnent for counting, classifying and weigh-in-modon. A
tentative lu is shown in Table 4.3; it would be finalized based on fte recommendations
of the review. The schedule for submission of the results of the review is reflected in the
implementation schedule (Annex 8).
4.23        Regarding road montioring, a program of vehicle-based auomated road
characteriics /ontion surveys is proposed to replace in large part the current manal
srveys, pardculaly on the major islands. Two types of equipment are proposed:
(I) Pavement and Road Monitring Equipment (PRME), a mobile device usig laser
scaers and on-board sning devices combined with video-logging, to colect substanta
inormation about pavement condition and road characteristics at normal traffic speeds;
(ii) Pavement Structal Assessment Equipment (PSAE) to measure pavement stregth,
usig Falling Weight Defleters (FWD), which are towed devices used for Inermient
stationary tstig. A total annual surv  task of 33,000 km of paved roads is proposed for
the PME, requiring one unit in continuous operation. FWD equipment is proposed to be
used for surveys over a three-year cycle, for a total of approximately 41,000 km of roads.
Ihe project will finmce a thee-year road monitoring data collection progran, for a cost
estmated at US$3.6 million. The PIRME surveys are to be procured as contIc services
for the supply of fiished data for the firs three years of the project. After at least one
full year's experience with te monitng services a decision will be made whether to
procure a second PRME device directly or through continued contc suvey services.
The FWD unib are to be purchaed by Bina Marga and operated under the control of
Directorae of Road Ledger.



-30-
(CZ) Stre    ig dene8ed DBM and RBO's capabilities
4.24        mhe fArther             of DOG fimctions to the provindal level wilU
place an extrm  burden on the 26 DBMs which will now become the ma  highwa
agenc  responble for preparation and implementation of all work programs for national
and provinci rads, nlding data collection, design,   cuion, sueviion and
monitoring. In addidon to plnned staff tasfers fom DGH to fte DBM, there Is a need
to strengthen the RBOs with two to thre expaiat and local experts in each RBO to
provide all-around support In tecal and environmental maters to each DBM and alo
carfy out on-tho-job training. Ihe project will, therefore, provide consultay serices to
the RWOs for a total of 216 staff-month of foreign and 864 staff-month of local
cnsulans service   Detailed tem  of reference were agreed at negotitons and are
available in te Projea File.
(C3) Sgthg the apabites of the Instute of Road Engineeing  E)
4.25        Road Reearch, and Technology Transfer and Standards Development.
Under previous highway projects, the Initue has been provided with some assistan  in
as such as pavement monitormg and mesch, matenals inventory and mpping,
geotechiques, traffic (including road safety) and research training. Contued astn
s requied in these areas but also in consolidating studies and research on the local rock
asphalt (Asbuton), in the tetng of new materials, equipment and tchology and in
unifyig stndards and spefor all road classe. For this purpose, the project
would provide  ical a ce to IRE under two conac  for a total of 174 staff-
monfts of foreig and 168 staff-months of local conslnts' services. The project also
provids for additional labory and research equipment for US$0.7 million (Table 4.3).
TOR for the services were agreed at negodiaons.
4.26        Pavement Testg Faclity. Road performance studies in Indonesia have
been caried out on in-service te  secio  of the road network, with all the inherent
limitations, for example design variables were difficult to control. An iternative to be
vestigted is the provision of an off-road pavement test facility with compaction and
laying trial areas. A joint research program between 001 and Spain has been undertake
to ia  and apraise the use of a pavement test facility prior to its possible
Implementon in Indonesia. The research would use the facilities located at CEDEX
(Cento de Estudlios  ErI n   de Obras Publicas) in Madrid. The project wowld
support this colaborative rech program by providing technical assistance and
felowships (24 staff-mont).
Component D: Human Reo          Development
4.27        (D1) NaomalPovlncial Roads Master Training Plan (NRMTP). In
addition to the formal and on-the-job traiing conducted under fte various  nical
astan  senrices described above, DGH is underting, under the ongoing Highway
Sector Project (Ln 3133-IND), a tanng needs study leading to the preparation of a draft
Master Trang Plan (para. 1.33). The proposed project will support the fmiabdon and
start of impl    on of  s iportant study.  he objective is to ine e all training
iniatives for DG0  staff at al leve, so hat othey become coponent or s o s
of the Master Pan.   e beft expected are multiple: all taining efforts for DCI's
buman reources development will be homogeneous in terms of expected outp  and



- 31 -
ros; will be cost-effectve in their implementaion; costly overlaps will be eliminat,
and measurable benefits of training for groups and/or individuals would be obtained as
valid justification for further expenditure for human resources developnm  In the road
sector. The target group will be key central and provincial DGH personnel at all strucur
and functional levels who are engaged in managerial, technical and administradve activitis
fom planning to constucion and mainnce. Such key group would include about
2,000 staff. The traini  and institional development activities covered under the
Instiional Development and Traning Project (Ln 3112-IND) and the Kabupaten Roads
Projects (Ln 3490-RI  and Ln 3579-IND) wi1l be considered, so that al training Inputs
are cmplem    y to each other.
4.28        Te project would support only priority parts of the N.PRMTP (in addition
to the various training activities conducted under the project's technical assistance
assignments, such as the Quality Assurance Unit). Other financing sources could be
tapped for the remander of the Master Plan, which would thus constitute a suitable vehice
for preparing and implementing well coordinated highway sector tning progms. Items
eigible for financng would include professional training by specialized inttions locally
and overseas and technical assistance, up to a total amount of US$2.0 million. Proposas
would be submitted according to I!ie following schedule: (a) the draft Master Traing
Plan by May 31, 1994, (b) the final recommendations by July 31, 1994, and (c) the final
training progran to be finmced under the project by September 30, 1994 as reflected in
fte agreed imlementation schedule.
4.29        (D2) Trahnig for Masters' Degree in Highway Engineering. Under
previous highway projects and in liaison with the Bandung nsitte of Technology (llB),
two-year master's degree pr-ograms in development plmning and economics and in
highway and traffic engieing were strted in 1982 with most lecturers provided through
foreign universities. The planning and economics program has been fully absorbed into
I1B's regular course program and the engineering program will soon be absorbed except
for lacing capabilities for cerain specialized topics and for thesis work which are being
strenghenedin Haison with the  situte of Road Engineering IRE). Furmore, since
1990 the program was split such tdat about half of the second-year students (a total of 10
to 15 students per year) would vMry on and complete their studies at selectd universities
overseas. This program has been effective and will be continued   er the project
However, in view of the need to coordinate all traiing activities (param 4.27): (a) orly
the first year ffB program would be contined under the present conditions; and (b) the
program would be placed under the umbrella of te Master Training Plan and from the
second year onwards would be implemented in accordance with the recommendaions of
the Master Plan Study.
Componet E: Support to MOC for Stage II Action Plan Implmentao
4.30        (El) Strengteng of MOC. A number of technical assistance services
to suppoN impeaon of the Stage I Action Plan and to strengthen MOC's capabilWi
are already in place with fiancing under existing projects or are being considered for
financing under the Infratructu  Technical Assistance Project (Ln 3385-IND). The
proposed project inchldes expert advisory services in the following areas:
(a)   Road User   arges Implenentation and General Advsory Services.
MOC has been given responsibility for coordinatng the preparation of



-32-
proposls for improving cost recovery from road users and monitoring the
impact of chans itroduced. MOC requires continuing advisory services
to asst in O  formulation of specific recommendations for furthe
progsive improvement in road user charges. In addition, here Is a need
for advisory seOices to assist MOC with transport sector policy formulation
and implaon issues in general.  A total of 26 staff-mownths of
expaiate and 32 of lcal expert assistance will be required. TOR for the
services were agreed at negotiations.
(b)   Vide Weight and Disuension Reglation and Enforcement. MOC will
need assistance In the Implementation of the recommendatons being
developed under ongoing consultancy services on VWD which will end in
the fir  half of 1994. Ibe draft TOR for consultancy serices were
reviewed at negodations and will be finalized in the light of the
recommendations of the ongoing services.
(c)   Manpow   Deveopment. Assistance is needed by MOC towards the
Implemnltation of decenlized road traffic and transport fimctions and the
strengteing of the trning functon of MOC. A tota of 21 staff-months
of foreig and 55 staff-months of local consultants services will be required,
and the overseas fellowships progran will be continued. Draft TOR were
agreed at negotiations.
4.31        (E2) Road Traffic Safety. Strong support to improve road traffic safety
hitiuto  and enforcement was provided under previous and ongoing Bank fiaced
urb  and highway projects. The proposed project will continue this support through two
actions:
(a)   Tlric Police (SATLANTAS) Training. The proposed services cover the
further development (under a Stage II which is part of a four-stage program)
of the Initial and Stage I Traffic Police Training Program. Ihe inital
program has proved to be successful and the aim of the four stage scheme
is to achieve self susainability of training witiin the national Traffic Police.
The Stage It program TOR will be finalized once lessons of experience of
Stage I are available.
(b)   Road Trafic Safety Adviory Services. These services to be provided to
DGLC will assist in the furtr implementation of the recomedtions
being developed under the ongoing consulancy services on road traffic
safety which will end in the first half of 1994. Draft TOR were reviewed
at negoatons and will be finalized in the light of the recommendations of
the ongoing constac services.
Ibe schedule for finalization of the above TOR, as well as the list of required equipment
(Table 4.3), was discussed and agreed upon at negotiations.



- 33 -
C. ENVIRNMENTAL ASSESSMT
4.32        Road Network ImprovementlPreservation. The works which will be
carried out on existing alignment and within the existing right of way - the periodic
maintenance, bridge works and more than 99 percent of the betterment works - will have
only minor adverse environmental impact and no earthworks nor additional land would
be required. The road works would often include improved side and cross drainage,
strengtening of shoulders and pavements, overlays on old pavements, and bituminous
surfcings on gravel roads, all of wAhich will improve conditions along the road by
reducing dust and noise and erosion because of flooding. The bridge replacement
subprojects will be undertaken at existing bridge sites on national and provincial roads
where bridges have reached the end of their service life and these works will often
improve on hazardous hydrological conditions. Under DGH's EA screening guidelines the
above categories of works on existing alignments and within the existing right of way do
not require site specific impact assessment. The guidelines -which were revised in July
1993 in the light of experience in recent years- require that minor impacts, such as those
arising under periodic maintenance, betterment and bridge replacement works be addressed
through standard environmental mitigation measures included in the design and contract
specifications.
4.33        The guidelines also specify that those betterment projects involving widening
and which would require extension of the right of way and land acquisition (which would
be the case on less than 1 percent of the betterment works) are subject to preparadon of
a site specific Preliminary Environmental Information (PIL) report and associated
management (RKL) and monitoring (RPL) plans. The screening guidelines thus provide
a clear and sound framework for EIA of the road network improvementl preservation
component. As the EIA and its associated impact mitigation plan will be submittd to the
Bank as part of the approval of beterment subprojects requiring land acquisition, the Bank
will satisfy itself of the adequacy of the environmental assessment and mitigation measures
before loan funds are committed for such subprojects. In order to ensure that proper
screening is undertaken in a tmely fashion the environmental team at DGH's planiing sub-
directorate is being strengthened (para. 1.44).
4.34        During the first year of the project existing standard guidelines and
specifications for mitigation of environmental impacts developed for use tinder previous
Bank projects will be used. These will be reviewed in the light of expeAence and if
deemed appropriate, suitably modified guidelines for use under subsequent years will be
developed and agreed wifth the Bank. Supervision of implementation of the standard
guidelines and specifications will be the responsibility of the supervising consultant for te
works whose TOR clearly specify this responsibility. During negotations agreeme  was
reached wih GOI:  (ii on  ese procedures and arra egents for migation of
environenal Impacts under the roadpreservationl broveme  component; and (U) at
for betennent projects req Wring widening with land acqudon GOI wll submit
appropriate EM and associated action and monitoring plans as part of the subproject
proposal docwnmeaon.
4.35        Road Network Capacity Expansion. Capacity expansion subprojects are
typically located on national and provincial roads on the urbanizing approaches to manjor
cities and in the vicinity of towns while road upgrading subprojects would typically be
located on road links in rural areas. Because these investments raise new and challenging



- 34-
issues, the works under this component are prepared under pilot studies designed to
develop models of good practice for the integration of enviromnental and social aspects in
capacity expansion invesunents, including at the project formulation phase, for appropriate
social impact assessment, preparation of mitigation and monitoring plans, reporting in
compliance with GOI and World Bank guidelines and procedures, and for implementation
arrangements. A main objecive of the pilot studies is to evaluate altenative capacity
expansion schemes taking into account the associated impacts and to formulate appropriate
mitigating measures. A first group of seven subprojects has been selected taking into
account potential enviromental impacts and has been prepared up to the feasibility stage
with completion of EIA including Preliminay Environmental Information Reports (PIL),
Environmental Management Plans OKL) and Environmental Monitoring Plans (RPL).
A second group of subprojects and road upgrading subprojects will be prepared under a
second study phase (financed under the project) applying the methodology developed under
the first group and taking into account lessons of experience.
4.36        On account of the subproject screening and selection criteria adopted, works
will be carried out on existing alignments and for about 60 percent of the works within the
existing right of way. While the works will not cause significant impacts on the physical
environment, some impacts may be unavoidable. These would concern: (i) minor loss
of vegetation and natural habitat; (ii) some increased run-off and erosion; (iii) resettlement
of some households affected by the land acquisition requirements (paras. 4.38 - 4.41); and
(iv) socioeconomic problems related to rerouting of traffic from existing businesses or
teMmporary closure of access to businesses, markets and farms. The impacts will in general
be managed through standard environmental mitigation measures included in the design and
contract specifications (para. 4.33). The impacts on the physical environment which arise
in cases requiring extension of the right of way and associated land acquisition (which
require site-specific ETA) will be identified in the PIL during the feasibility stage and
mitigation and monitoring measures wi11 be outlined in the RKLs and RPLs. Ihe impacts
will be adequately addressed or minmized by standard mitigating measures based on
appropriate general engineering designs and codes of sound environmental practice at the
survey, design and implemeon stages. These standards and codes will be appLied
during the detailed engineering phase and reflected in the final detailed engineerng and
contract specifications. Fmal approval of the subprojects by the Bank will be based on
submission of the final detailed engiering, and when applicable, the site specific PIL,
RKL and RPL satisfactory to the Bank. The same approach will be used for the second
group of subprojects.
4.37        Supervision of implementation of the standard guidelines and specifications
will be the responsibility of the supervising consultant for the works whose TOR clearly
specify this responsibility. In addition, the arrangements for supervision of implementation
of AMDAL guidelines in general under national and provincial roads will be strengthened
under the project. An environmental supervisor will be included in each of fte
consultancy teams assisting the eight regional betterment offices to help supervise the
implementation of the AMDAL guidelines. One expatriate expert will coordinate the on
the job taining and development of the eight supervisors. At negotatons agreemnent was
reachedW (i) on the procedures and arrangementsfor mitigation of environmental Wacts
under the road network capaciy epansion conmponent; and (u) taflnal approval on
finaning of road capacity subprojects requirng site-specific EIA would be contngent on
the preparation of E1A nPIL, RUL and RPL) satisfactory to the Bank.



-35 -
4.38        Ihe component, by assisting GOI to relieve capacity bottlenecks will
contribute to reducing pollution from vehicle emissions. Other positive impacts of the
proposed capacity expansion schemes are generally those of a more satisfactory operation
of the highway in terms of: (i) more efficient regional traffic flow; CiH) increased regional
accessibility; (iii) provision for non-motorized traffic and other roadside activities;
(iv) improved motorized traffic flow and public safety; and (v) reduction of congestion and
accidents.
D. LA      P   A        M     IJR N IRrON
4.39        Road Capacity Expansion Component. While the works under this
component will be carried out on existing alignments, about 40 percent would involve
extension of the right of way and some land acquisition and resettlement. Subprojects are
prepared under pilot studies designed to develop models for appropriate social impact
assessment, mitigation, monitoring and reporting in compliance with GOI and World Bank
guidelines and procedures (para. 4.35). Under a first study phase seven subprojects have
been selected taling into account poteni land acquisition and resettlement requirements
and have been prepared up to the feasibilit stage with completion of preliminary social
impact assessment and preparation of preliminay mitigation and monitoring plans (PIL,
RKL, RPL). A second group of subprojects will be prepared under a second study phase
applying the methodology developed under the first group and taling into account lessons
of experience.
4.40        Of the seven subprojects selected for financing under the first group three
(which account for 65 percent of the total length of the group) require no land acquisition
with nminor land acquisition involved for four. In the four cases with land acquisition,
three involve resettlement/relocation of households. The land acquisition requirements
ranpe from 1.3 ha to 5.5 ha, and are not concentrated in any one location. Tie number
of households afferted range between 19 and 83. The nature of the surrounding rural
environment will c.able replacement plots to be found in the vicinity. It is expected that
the subprojects selected as part of the second group to be studied under the second phase
would have a similar range of outcomes and impacts as under the first phase.
4.41        To address the impacts of land acquisition and resettlement, plans for
consultation, survey of properties, building demolition and restoradon, land acquisition,
compensation, resettlement/relocation, and street amenity enhancement will be prepared
durig the detailed engineering phase in accordance with Bank requirements under
OD 4.30. These requirements are reflected in the TOR of the consultancy services for
preparation of the detailed engineering, the final assessment of social impacts, and the
action and monitoring plans for the subprojects. Based on the findings of the feasibility
stage studies and experience under recent road projects, it is expected that most of the
resettlement will be voluntary and will be handled based on GOI procedures and guidelines
for land acquisition and compensation. For situations where there is involuntary
resettlement (mostly people without any formal type of land title) appropriate compensation
for assets, if necessary logistical support for moving and a relocation grant, in accordance
with OD 4.30, would be provided. Resettlement costs estimated on this basis have been
included in the preliminary cost estimates. These estimates will be firmed up during the
detailed engineering based on more accurate infornation on land acquisition and
resettlement costs. The same approach would be used for the second group of subprojects.



- 36 -
4.42        Overall supervision of implementation of the recommendations in the final
action plans and monitoring plans will be the responsibility of the Kanwil, which is tho
body responsible in general for supervision of inplementation of MPW guidelines for
mitigation of environmental and social impacts. The supervision arrangements in general
will be strengthened by attaching an environmental supervisor to each of the eight regional
betterment offices to supervise the implementation of the recommendations of the action
plans and monitoring plans (para. 4.37). At negotations, agreement was reached.: (1) on
the princples to be foUowed In the preparaton of detailed resettlement plans required
uder the road capacoty expansion conponent and on the supervision arrangements; and
(Xi) that Bank flnancing of road capacity subprojews involving knd acquistion antd
resettlment would be contingent on the preparation of acton plans and monimtoring plans
saVactory to the Bank.
E. Cosr ESrMATEs AND FINANCIN
4.43        Cost estinates represent base costs as of end 1993. The direct and indirect
foreign exchange conponent for civil works is estimated at about 47 percent on the
assumption that local contractors will carry out all maintenance works and some 80 percent
of other roadworks, as has been the case in recent years. For consultancy services it is
estimated at 20 percent for supervision, engineering and relatively simple studies and at
80 percent for other technical assistance and complex studies. Costs have been derived
from completed and ongoing contracts for civil works and consultancies.  Price
contingencies have been estimated based on the following rates of inflation: for local costs
5.5 percent from 1993 onwards; for foreign costs 2.8 percent from 1993 onwards.
4.44        The Bank loan of US$350.0 million will finance about 51 percent of the
total project cost of US$680.5 million (including taxes and duties amounting to US$61.9
million). GOI would provide US$330.5 million (or about 49 percent of total costs). The
table overleaf sunmarizes the cost of the various project components. Details of
expendiures by component are provided in Table 4.4. The allocation is subject to revision
in light of the implementation progress and the subprojects agreed under the second and
third year of the project.
F. IMPMENTAlaON OF BANK FINANCED SUBPOJECr
4.45        As for previous highway projects, the Ministry of Public Works will be
responsible for implementing most of the project components through DGH's and IRE's
permanent organizations wiffi the assistance of the project coordination unit (PCU) in DGH
which will also coordinate progress monitoring and reporting. At negotations agreement
was reached that the PCU would be maintained for the above purposes. Effective
supervision of the civil works is key to improving the quality of execution. Therefore, at
negodations agremen was reached that Bank approval of, and disbursemew for civU
wor&s subprojects wil be subject to provision of evidence that the consulat for
construction supervision have been engaged. In MOC, DGLC and MOC's Bureau of
Plnning will be responsible for implemeion of the technical assistance to strengthen
MOC. The implementation schedule in Annex 8, which shows the key events of project
impLementstion, was discussed and agreed at negotiations.



- 37 -
PROJWC COSr SUMMARY
-   Ruiahiion)-    -US  (million)-               Fat
Loca   Fog    Total   Local  Fore      Total   xda
A. Road Network ltmpovement and Pervation
Road Bettem        248.9  205.6   454.4  120.0    99.1  219.1         45
Periodic Maintence  134.8  111.3   246.1  6S.0    53.7  118.7         45
Brd  Replacement    36.4   59.5    95.9  17.5    28.7   46.2          62
Subtotal           42Q0   3764    7C4 205    181S   380               47
B. Road Network Expanion
C - city Exp       159.4  135.4   294.8  76.9    65.3  142.2          46
Road   pg    W      26.1   22.7    48.8  12.6    10.9   23.S          46
Subtoal            185.5  158.1    343.6  89.5    76.2  165.7         46
C. io"n S8regam
C.ringthen DGH       5 S.9   33.7    39.6   2.8    16.2   19.1        85
StrenBOs 3.7    14.8                 18.5   1.8      7.1    8.9       80
StrengthaningIRE     2.0    9.1      11.1   1.0      4.4    5.3       82
Subtotal            11.6   57.5    69.1   5.6    27.7   333           83
D. Human Resource Development
Natonal/Povincial Roals
Mast Training Plan    0.9    3.7      4.6   0.4      1.8    2.2       80
TB Magister Porm    0.3      1.4      1.7   0.2      0.7    0.8       80
Subtotal             1.3    S.0       6.3   0.6      2.4    3.0      8s
E. Action Plan Implementation
Strengthening MOC    1.7    8.8    10.S   0.8        4.2    5.1       84
Road Safey           1.0    4.2       5.2   0.5      2.0    2.5       80
Subtot               2.7    13.0    1M7   13         C3    7.6        83
Total Bsline Costs La   621.1  610.0  1,231.1 299.5   2941   593.         s0
lPhyscal Contingenaces  62.1    61.0    123.1  29.9    29.4   59.4    50
Pnice Contingencies    55.5   51.4    107.0  14.5    13.0   27.5      47
Total Projecl Cots B  ZU       2A   1.4C1 i1     9 M52 MU    i.           a
Due to rounding, tobtls may not add up.
Including btxes and duties amounting to US$61.9 milion equivalent.
G. PROCUREMEr OF BANK FINNCED SUomEcrs
4.46        All road works costing US$3.0 million or more, and all bridge wodrs
costing US$1.5 million or more, will be procured on the basis of ICB procedures by firms
prequalified in accordance with procedures which were agreed at negotiations. lnvitaions
for prequalification will be issued In accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Bidding documents will be the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD). Prequaifled
contractors will be allowed to bid on any contract or group of contracu for the above civil
works but will be eligible for awards only up to the value of works for which they are



- 38 -
prequaified. In bid comparison and evalbuation under ICB, domestic contractors may be
grated a margin of preference of 7.5 percent.
4.47        All civil works costing les       the above thresholds (up to a total of
US$175.0 million for road works and US$38.0 million for bridge works) will be procured
under LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank (including satisfactory p ificatlon
procedures) agreed at negotiaons. Interested foreign contactors will be aLd fiu
paicipation and will not be required to register the firm in the provinces where tey want
to plce bids.
4.48        Contract packaging will be as follows:
Miimum Value   % Above US$3 M          %AboveUS$1.5M
Beterment            1 M            at least 75
Periodic Maint.     0.5M            at least 10
Bridge Repl.        0.5M                                  at least 20
Capacity Exp.        3M                100
Road Upgmding        3M                100
in addition, all ICB contracts and a minimum of 50 percent of LCB contracts would be
mui-year conact.
4.49        All civil works under ICB procedures ($3.0 million and above for roads,
and $1.5 million and above for bridges) will be subject to prior review by the Bank. The
remainder (LCB contracts) would be subject to post review on a random basis.
4.50        Equipment will be procured on the basis of ICB (using the Bank's Standard
Bing Documents), except for minor items or groups of items estimated to cost less than
US$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount for all contracts not to exceed
US$800,000, which may be procured on the basis of LCB. Items estimated to cost less
than US$50,000 per contract may be procured on the basis of international and local
shopping by obtining at least three quotations from foreign and/or local suppliers, up to
an agegated vahle of US$200,000. Items should be grouped to the etent possible. In
bid comparison and evauation under ICB, domestic manufacturers may be granted a
margin of preference of 15 percent or the prevailing import duty, whichever is lower.
Contracts for procurement of equipnt over US$200,000 will be subject to prior Bank
review. This will result in a prior review of about 90 percent of equipment contracts.
4.51        The consultants will be employed in accordance with principles and
procedures satsfactory to te Bank on the basis of the August 1981 guidelines. For
complex, time-based assignments, the Bank's standard form of contract would be used.
Trang actvities incluing overseas fellowships will be contracted under procedures,
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank as agreed at negotiations. Contracts will be
subject to prior Bank review.



-39 -
4.52        The pocurement arraemens for the Bank-financed componen are shown
in the table below. At negotaons, agreen was readied on the aboe  prweres.
e   nomt Method la
nentoa  Local
Competitive  Copttv
Bidding     Bidding      Other        Total
A. Civil Works
Bettement               174.8        58.3         -          233.0
(78.6)     (26.2)                   (104,9)
Periodic Maintence       12.8       11S.5         -          128.3
(5.8)      (52.0)                   (57.8)
Bridge Replacement       11.8        37.3         -           49.1
(5.3)      (16.8)                   (22.1)
Capacity Expansion      149.9          -          -          149.9
(67.4)                              (67.4)
Road Upgading            24.8          -          -           24.8
(11.2)                              (11.2)
B. Goods                      13.2         0.8        0.2lk        14.2
(12.0)       (0.7)      (0.2)       (12.9)
C. Cl 
Works Supevision           -           -        41.0          41.0
(37.3)      (37.3)
Implementaion Support      -           -         14.8         14.8
(13.5)      (13.5)
Capacity Building          -           -        23.5          23.5
(21.3)      (21.3)
D. Professiond Trainng 1d       -           -          1.8          1.8
(1.7)       (1.7)
Total &                      21                                 gm
La   Figures in parenfesis are the respecive amounts financed by Bank.
h International and local shopping.
LC  In accordance with Bank's Guidelines for use of consultants.
Li  Under arangements atsactory to the Bank.
L/   Due to roundingtotals may ot add up.



-40 -
4.53        Disburseents from th, loan will be made agains applications for conact
in respect of agreed subprojects as follows:
(a)   Civi Work: 45 percent of the total expenditures;
(b)   Equipmuent: 100 percent of foreign expenditur  for directly iod
items; or 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory, net of taxs) of
locally manufactured ie; or 65 percent of local       for other
locally procured iems;
(c)   Consulting Sumes: 100 percent of total expenditures; and
(d)   Professiona Traing: 100 percent of total expendit.
4.54        In order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be opened by
the Ministry of Finance in Bank Indonesia or a commercial Bank for the purPoses of the
project lhe account would be maintained in US dollars and an initial deposit of US$23
million would be made as about the average expenditures for a four-month period.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be made on a monthly basis,
or whenever the amount to be replenished reaches 20 percent of the Init  deposit,
whichever cones first. A schedule of estmated disbursements is given in Table 4.5. The
schedule differs substantally from the disbursement profile of highway project (which
reqire some seven years for completion both Bank-wide and for Indonesia), mainly
because the project is limited to new commitments relating to three consecutive annual
workprograms for national and provincial roads. Disbunemens are expected to be
completed in about 5.5 years. The closing date of the loan will be December 31, 1999.
4.55        Dbisbursements for item (a) for contracts of over US$2.0 million for roads
and US$1.0 million for bridges, and for items (b) for contracts over US$200,000, (c) and
(d) would be made against full docntion of expenditure, while disu n  for all
other items would be on the basis of Statements of Expendiures (SOEs).
L RI OACTm  FINANCING
4.56        Retroactive financing for civil works and consulting services, not to exceed
US$35.0 milion, would be provided under the proposed project for expendiures incurred
after June 1, 1993 and before the date of the loan agreement.
3. MONmoRI    Am AUDrTN
4.57        Most conrt   miistraton under the proposed loan vould be de
responsibility of DOG  and the DBMs with a few contrcs being the responsibility of IRE,
and MOC. These agencies would keep records of all procurement documents, (incuding
bids and proposals and their evaluadon and con=tr awards) and official decions on each
aeed subproject Showing accmuatd exendius, monthly pamen  and odter
ye data and would prepare quarterly reports with this information. The Bank



-41 -
woud reserve the right to inspect and review the documentaton mainained on Individual
conta  by the agencies and would be sent copies of documents on request.
4.58       The amnn  consultations on the highway expenditure program and budget
(para 3.10) and on the Stage II Subsector Policy Action Plan (para. 3.11) would provide
the opportunity for reviewing progress of the implementation of the programs for national
and provincial roads and the implemntation of the proposed project. Monitoring and
supevision will focus on the following (detailed requirements are in Annex 9):
(a)    he annual budgets and work prograuns for civil works including their
pbysical target against which progress will be measured;
(b)   The progress made in subsector policy implementation as measured agaist
key steps included in the Stage I1 Action Plan;
(c) The progress of implementation of Bank-financed subprojects.
hebformat andfreqpency of reporting were agreed at negotiations.
4.59       Also, at negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI that:
(a)   The implementation agencies would keep separate accounts for the proposed
projec;
(b)   The project accounts, including documentation for statement of expendiures
(SOEs), would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank; and
(c) Ihe consolidated audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within nine
months after the end of each fiscal year. In addition, the implementing
agencies will prepare and furnish to the Bank,within nine months after
completion of the project, a completion report on the implementation of the
project.



-42-
CHAPTER 5
JUSTICATION AND RISKS
A. GEERAL
5.1         BenefIts and B    a .  Ihe various project components wn  the
iniiatves supporwtd by the project wil give rise to a wide range of benefits. First, the
road works financed unter the project will bring about reductions in vehicle opaing
costs (voc) fo; the users of these roads. Second, improved planning and programming of
works and improved design standards (including the mitigation of environental impacts)
and execution quality will increase the effectiveness of road expenditures and contrte
to reducing voc of road users across the entire network. Third, more appropriate pricing
and regulation of the road transport industry and greater safety will increase the efficiency
of road trnport in general. Finally, the capacity building initiatives supported under the
project should ensure that the above improvements can be sustained and that the agencies
involved will be better able to cope with the evolving challenges they are faced with.
5.2         The benefits deriving from the civil works financed under the project consist
largely of voc savings accruing to the road users on these road sections and can be
quatified. Based on the ERRs available for the first year programs of the various
components with quantifiable benefits (representing 92 percent of total project costs), the
overall ERR of the project is estmated at 38 percent. Because of the competitive
conditions in most transport markets-as evidenced by the fact that on heavily trafficked
routes bus fares and transport rates are among the lowest in the world (para. 1.18)e
savings are being passed on to producers and consumers in general. The benefits flowing
from the improvements in road subsector programming and in subsector policies and from
capacity building ultimately consist of reductions in total road transport system costs
benefitting the economy at large but are less easily quantifiable. However, considering
that total road transport system costs are on the order of US$17.5 Billion per anmum [the
sum of voc (approximately US$15 billion p.a.) and total road expenditures (approximately
US$2.5 billion p.a.)l, even a small reduction in system costs in percentage terms translates
in substantial savings for the economy.
B. MEroDOLOGu   USED FOR PREPA G TME
ExPZnmE PLAN Am BunGEr
S.3         The methodologies used in preparing the three-year expenditure plan for
national and provincial roads have been developed and refined over the past several years
with assistance under successive Bank projects. The focus under previous projects was
on the road beuerment and maintenance expenditures, which constituted the major part of
the annual programs. Under the ongoing Highway Sector project (In 3133-IND), te
development and review has been extended to methodologies used for minor road-widening
works in the beterment program and for capacity expansion and bridge replacement
projects. The recent extsions have focused on evaluautng inprovements to traffic



-43-
capacity and flow, and for bridge works, both of which are the subject of ongoing field
reseach to strengthen the underlying empirical relationships used to predict the techncal
impacts and hence economic benefits of given expenditures. For road upgrading/new
construction works, which are planned to expand to about 15 percent of total expendiures
under the three-year plan, the methodology applied is the feasibility study method used
satisfactorily in previous projects. The procedures used to apply the latter methodology
are slated for a major review and update during the period of tfie project. Details of
current approaches and methodologies follow below. At negotiatons agreement was
reached on improvemets and refiements to be applied in the preparon of future years'
programs under the project (para. 3.9).
5.4         Road Maintece and Betterment Works.  The maintenance and
betterment works are idenified and evaluated through the applicaton of the nterurban
Road Management Sytm (IRMS) to the 52,000 km of the existing national and provincial
road network (Annex 5) and will be extended during the project to the newly classified
network. Based on current data from an annual survey of road conditions and traffic
volumes, and a life-cycle analysis of several technical alternatives, the IRMS identifies the
most economically viable works based on the net present value (NPV) of total road costs
at a discount rate of 15 perent. The preferred alternative is identified by the highest NPV
of the Berment or Periodic Maintenance options in any year of the S-year period,
relative to the fixed reference case of Routine Maintenance. The unit costs of works used
in the analysis are updated periodically in the IRMS database from contract bid prices of
the previous year, including factor adjusutents for individual provinces. Road user costs,
net of taxe, are esimated using an HDM-M based algorithm which relates unit vehicle
operadng costs (VOC) for a vehicle class to road roughness, and current unit costs. The
tming of the works in the three-year progran takes into account the financing and budget
constraints and ongoing projects in each year, and ensures that projects deferred into
succeeding years do not cause economic loss (as indicated by a negative incremental
NPV). This approach ensures that the net economic benefit at the adopted discount rate
will be maximized within budgetary constrints. The rates of return for the works in the
program are thus all higher than 15 percent and range between 15 and > 100 percent. The
overall ERR for the first year road maintenance and betterment works program (Trable 4.1)
is estimated at 32 percent (with supervision costs-which add 7 percent to the costs of the
works-included in the cost estimates). It is expected that e programs under subsequent
years will have comparable rates of return.
5.5         Apects which will be improved tirough furither refuiement of the
methodology include the following: (a) the savings accruing through the marginal capacity
improvements which arise from minor widening works will be derived from new traffic
speed-flow and side-friction relations being developed under the consultancy services for
the Highway Capacity Mamual and which will be more representative of the actual flows
in urban and inter-urban roads in Indonesia (these savings are currentdy based on assumed
traffic speed-flow and side-friction relations derived from flows in industrialized counries);
(b) the idenification and opdmization of works will be improved through a wider range
of technical options (especially for poor condition, low volume roads), more accurate
estmates of strg       and sidework costs, and a better optiization procedure; and
(c) furtder improvements will be made in the quality of data for traffic volumes and
loadings and road conditions to remove anomalies and improve the accuracy of benefit
esdmates, and for road geometry to improve the identification of capacity expansion
benefits.



-44 -
5.6         Bridge Replacement Works. The program of bridge replacement works
supported by the project has been idendfied for the first time by the new Bridge
Management System (BMS). The BMS, applies a technical screening to all bridges on the
national and provincial network, based on systematic field inspections and analytical
criteria, to identify the needed rehabilitation or replacement works. The economic
evaluation is based on forecasting the point in time by which the bridge would become
functionally unsafe and untrafficable if the works were not done. The rate of return, and
NPV per meter of bridge length at a 15 percent discount rate are computed. Individual
subprojects under the first year program show ERRs from 17 percent up to 116 percent
These are used to rank the projects and schedule them under the budgetary consaints
through the the-year program. In addition, the design of bridge replacements will be
more cost-effective, because the designs will be made more on an individual basis, using
the new design manuals and the economic evaluation guide to identify the choice of
structural type, and less on the basis of standard catalogue designs. The overall ERR of
the first year program is estimated at 44 percent; it is expected that the programs under
subsequent years will have a comparable the rate of return.
5.7         The BMS in its current form provides a powerful planning tool. Further
improvement in the BMS can only be achieved progressively. A main area for future
work, for example, relates to the prediction of deterioration to an unsafe condition (i.e.,
the basis for estimating benefits). Currently this is made on the basis of informed
estimates built into the BMS, and this can only be improved after several years of
monitoring of bridges in the Indonesian climate have been completed. A prelinnary
retrospective analysis, comparing present condition with the age of the struct , was
begun under the Research Development TA of the ongoing Highway Sector Project (La
3133-IND), and further analysis would continue under the project. Such aspects remain
a largely unaddressed issue in current world knowledge, so the Indonesia development
continues to be near the forefront of implementation of such systems worldwide.
5.8         Capacity Expansion and Road Upgrading Works. The evaluation of a
first group of capacity expansion subprojects (under Phase 1) has been completed while that
of a second group (under Phase 11) will be carried out during the project. The evaluation
has been based on the feasibility study method as part of a pilot program of studies
designed to develop models of good practice for the integration of environmental and social
aspects and impacts in option fornmulation and evaluation and for environmental and socil
impact assessment and reporting in compliance with GOI and World Bank guidelines. The
study programn covered a range of situations of existing or emerging capacity constrait
representative of the capacity expansion needs on the network in general. On the lower
trafficked roads in the study program, traffic volume is typically in the 6,500 - 9000 vpd
range, on 5.5 - 6.0 meter wide roads which would be upgraded to 9.0 or 14.0 meter wide
standard. At the other end of the spectrum, traffic is on the order of 20,000 to 23,000 vpd
and the proposed works consist of upgrading to 4-lane standard or the building of a
paralle road. Projected traffic growth is typically in the 7.5 percent to 10.0 percent
range. Benefits taken into consideration are road user cost savings excluding person time
savings. Unit construction costs used are those available from DGH's data base on unit
costs which is updated routinely. The ERRs range between 20 percent and 130 percent
with an overall ERR of about 60 percent for the Phase I program. It is expected that
subprojects under the Phase II program will have a comparable overall ERR.
5.9         The evaluation of the road upgrading subproject(s) has yet to be undertaken.
A number of candidate subprojects which have already been evaluated summarily are
under con ion   A main purpose of supporting a road upgrading/new constuction



-45 -
program is to develop also for such Investm   models of good practice for the integradon
of environental aspect and impacts in project evaluation. The minmm ERR for
upgrading subprojct(s) would be 15 percent.
5.10        Equipment. The benefits to be derived from the equipment fall into four
categories, namely: (a) improved quality of the data used in formulating the expenditure
prgm; (b) improvement of qualiq  control in field engieaing and work
Implemenaton; and (c) inproved undernding and design of road mals resuing n
enhaoced road life and cos-eff; and (d) improved road and traffic safety. Of Ohm
total of $11.3 million worth of equipment, a formal analysis of benefits has been made for
$2.2 million of road montoring equpmegt (para. 4.21); the rema     iem  are also w
Jusfied and woutd provide an ERR in excess of 15 percent.
5.11        Under the Automated Road Monitoring equipment, $2.2 million is budgetd
for two advanced multi-fction road condition survey vehicles, which would be defrayed
over hee years of operation, and are intended to improve and extend the data avalble
on about 75-40 percent of the national and provincial road network. In a DGH analysis,
he cost of bad road data was eHumed to be in the order of $10 mlllion p.a., or about
0.7 percent of the program cost, based on the likely errors in program allocation of
expenditus arising from Incorrect road condition or traffic data. On the basis of a
consevative assumption that half the bad data costs would be eliminated, the net return
on the procuremet and operation of the equipment was estmated to have a benefit.cost
raio in excess of 5.
C. RisK
5.12        A risk is that there would be inadequat improvement in the qualiy of work
fiaced under the project and during the three-year period in general. The likely impact
of not achieving the qualt goal would be a reduction in the order of one tenth in the
ERR. Ibis risk is being addressed  rough several component and  n    under
the project, inclg  the improved design standards, the extension of consult
contruction spervision to the DBMs and RBOs, estab       of a unit for qualW
assurance, and the introduction of rapid on-site testing deviCes. UnSisfactory progress
in planning and progra g of works would be a second risk. However, at this point,
the ris of misidentification of projects and misalocation of expendiures are generay
minimal due to ihe use of the management support systems for the larger part of the
subsector expThese iss would be furhier reduced under the project by new
data audit procdrm , greater quality asuance of the data from the greater use of
aomated road, traffic and bridge data collection sysm, and enhancement of dte
program formulation tools for easier and more secure use at the provincil level. The risk
of mis-estimating environmental Impacts would be reduced through the application of te
methodologies developed under the program of Capacity Expansion Feasibility Studies
which aimed at integrating environmentl inpacts in option selecdon and evaluon.
Finaly, while the Stage II subsector policy Action Plan is sound there are factors which
could lead to slippages in the implementation of important parts. To help minimize dtis
risk, the plan has been carefully formulated taking into account imp aion
capabilies, and at negodations agreement was reached on the establishment of an effective
Acdon Plan implemention and monitoring mechanism.



-46 -
CHAPER 6
AGREEMENTS EACD AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1        At negotiations, agmt was reach  wih the Borrower that i will:
(a)   armually, fimdsh to the Bank for its review the stus of imlemenion of
the current year's road expentre program, the following year's work
progrm  and budget and e three-year forward road expendke plan
(paras. 1.42, 3.9, 3.10);
(b)  formuae its work programs and budgets on the basis of crfiria, principles
and procedures satsfactoy to the Bank, and talkng into account comments
by the Bank (par. 1.42, 3.9, 3.10);
(c)   establish arrangemen for coordinating and monitoring implementaton of
the Stage U Action Plan for Subsector Policies, and amnally furnsh to the
Bank for its review the stat of implemention of the Plan (aram 3.11);
(d) select, prepare and Implement subprojects financed by the Bank and prepare
and implent enviromentl action plans and/or resealement action mad
onitoring plans in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank (paras. 4.3, 4.37, 4.42, 4.45).
(e)   maintain the Project Coordination Unit to monitor and report on project
implemention (pa  4.45);
(f)   carry out the technal assisnce and training according to a schedule and
in a mamer satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.45);
6.2        Approval of subprojes (icluding the arange   for the appoinmnt of
consuln  for construction supervision, and as required, an environment action plan
an/or resettement action and monitoring plan) will be a condition of disbursement of each
civil wor subproject (pas. 4.3, 4.37, 4.42, 4.45).
6.3        Subject to the above agreements, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$350.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia for 20 years, including 5 years
of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



-47-                           ANNEX I
INDONESIA
SECOND HTGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
TRANPORT SECTOR SETENG
A. EcNOrliC AND SECINR SNG
1.        Since the mid-1980s the Indonesian econoy has grown at mowe dm
6 percen per annum with the ipets coming from the non-oil sector and mAing
exports. Transport has coped well with the rapidly growing demands of a fast e
and divesfyi  economy. This is due mainly to GO1's expenditure poicies which
consistently emphuized developm, rebiliion and maitaance of the transport
infrastrur.  During te ret of the decade GDP is projected to grow at about
6 - 7 percent per annum with  nuf ng production and exports again functioning as
a main engn of growth. If Wansport is to continue playing its supporting role to the
emnomy, it will need to grow in both capacity and efficiency. Thus, the challenge for the
road sectr-which is by far the dominant nwde-will be to confinue advancing in throe
broad areas: in the judicious allocation of budgetary funds between the various parts of
the network and work activities, in the quality of execudon of road works, and in hie
efficient use of the tansport infrastructure and facilities.
2.        All transport modes-road, rail, shipping, civil aviation, inld wtrway,
and pipelines-play a role in Indonesia's transport system. The modes tend to complement
one another with each serving specific mat needs. Interurban freight is moved minly
by coastal shipping, but when both long and short distance transport is taken into account,
ten road is the dominant mode (Table 1.1). Interurban passenger tasport is also
predominantly by road C(able 1.2). Only in Java and in a few corridors in other regions
i there a limited measure of intodal competition. Java also has th most developed
and best integrated transport system where congestion and capacity constraints are
emerging in heavily trafficked corridors. In other regions such as Kalimantn and hrian
Jaya, by contrast, accesiblity and services are stil poor in certain ar.
3.         he transport system has been shaped by the different resource endowments
of the islands and the distribution of population and economic acivity. While exports of
primary products have tradonally been moved directly from producing areas to export
markets, m     t     exports in conta originate in the main cides which are also the
destination of imported capital and most consumer goods. lhe changing structre of the
economy has thus led to rapid traffic growth in a number of transport corridors and
through the principal ports. The predominant interisland transport flows are between Java
and the Outer Islands with Jakarta and Surabaya as the focal points.
B. SECroR ORGANZAnoN AND PLAtIG
4.        Government Structure. Te government has a functional (line Mnistries)
and a regional scture. Being a ut   state, however, all levels of government are
brance of the Central Govermnt. The main line ministries and agencies which have
ponsibiliies in trasport inchlde:  the National Development Planning Agency
(BAPPENAS); the Mistry of Com cations (MOC); the Minstry of Public Worb



-48-                          ANNEX 1
(MPW), through its Directorate General of Highways (DGH) (for national and provincial
roads); and the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), through Its Directorate General of
Regional Development (DGRD) (for district and municipal roads and for the annua vehicle
rogitraion tax and the vehicle ownership transfer tax). These ministries and agencies ae
active at both the cental and regional level and several mechanisms are used for devolving
reonsibilties from the cener to the regional level. In addition, the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) has a role in tariff seng for te state transport enterprises and in the taxtion and
priig of fuels used in transport, and the Kmistry of Industry (MOI) has a rok in the
fuation of policies for motor vehicle import, manufactre and assembly.
S.        The MOC is reponsible for all government functions in air and sea transport,
and In land trasport, for rail ad ilWand waterway and ferry transport. In road transport
it has responsibility for eulain road traffic and the road transport industry and for the
related implementation and enforcement. MOC's responsibilities also include supervision
of 20 stateoned enterprises engaged in the provision of transport and terminal services.
It ex    s its duties through three directorates general concerned with land
uications (DGLC), sea com(muications (DGSC) and air comnications (DGAC)
repectively.
6.        The highway network is administered by the public works agencies of the
vaous tiers of government. At the central level, the Directorate General of Highways
(3GH has prmary responsibility for national roads and for setting expenditure policies
and operational guidelines. The provincial and district/municipality public works
departm-nts have responsibility for provincial and district/municipal roads respectively.
A public toll roads corporation, PT Jasa Marga, was established in 1978 to construct and
opferate toll roads.
7.        Planning. The Directorate of Planning of DGH is responsible for overall
planing in the highway sector and for programming of national and provincial roads. The
mual planin and programming of district road invesunents is the responsibility of the
distict authoriies within the framework of overall guidelines and a funding envelope set
by the Centl Government. MOC's Secrtaia General, through its Bureau of Planing
plays a crucial role in the planing for air, maritime, rail, inland waterways, and ferr
tansport as well as for road traffic and transport activities by guiding and coordinag the
prearation of inputs by the planning divisions of each of the three modal Directorates
General of MOC.
8.        The transport sector planning process is governed by the national planning,
programming and budgeting procedures. Medium-tenn planning focuses on the national
five-year development plans (tepelita). BAPPENAS manages the process by guiding ad
coordinating the preparation of inputs by sectoral ministries, regional governments and
othr agencs. The sixth plan will cover the period 1994/95 to 1998/99. These plans
defe broad development objecties and over time have become more explicit in tm of
pysicda targets for new hnestments.  Short-term planning is tied into the annual
development budget cycle and has benefited from substantial assistance provided by past
and ongoing Bank supported project which aimed at improving procedures and practices
and in the highway sector significant achievements have been made. For example,
expendite programs on national and provincial roads are now being formulaed through
an advanced road maagement system based on economic criteria (Annex 3) while
investment under distict road programs supported by development agencies are carefully
evaluted and priorized.



-49-                           ANNEX 1
C. GOVERNmEN  OBjE(mS AD PoLCEs iN TRNspoRT
9.        Role of Transport. Successive five-year development plans have stressed
tha the transport system as a whole should foster personal mobility and the smooth flow
of goods and that transport services should also be affordable, fast, regular, safe and
reliable. In practice, emphasis is given to the key roles of serving the productive sectors.
opening up remote areas and providing access to isolated conununities. Efficiency in the
provision of infrastructure and services has been given less attention.
10.       Role of the GovernmenLt To achieve its sectoral goals, the Govermnent used
to rely heavily on public involvement, eifter directly or through state enterprises, ard
exercised extensive control over both public and private sector transport operators. During
the 1980s, however, the Government started a process of deregulation, decentralization and
encouragement of greater private sector involvement. These changes have greatly altered
the roles of the central government departments and necessitate organizational and
'culural' V'- -ges within these departnents and state enterprises.
11.       Infrastructure Development. In its successive five-year development plans
fte govermment has devoted considerable resources to improve transport infucte.
The first five-year development plan (1969/70 - 1973/74) made the rehabilitation of the
transport system one of the highest priorities. While rehabilitation continued to receive
atention in the two subsequent plans, the main focus changed to the expansion of transport
capacity and service improvement. Since the start of the fourth plan (1984185 - 1988/89)
anual development spending on trasport increased from Rp 1,442 billion to Rp 5,531
bilion. As a percentage of GDP, transport sector spending fluctuated between 1.4 percent
in 1986/87 and 2.5 percent in 1991/92, with an average level over the past five years of
2.3 percent. The heavy emphasis on transport, and on roads in particular, was part of the
Government's strategy of suppordng growth in the private sector by providing adequate
infisructure. In parallel, oudays for maintenance were increased in order to mahitain
and improve the quality and productivity of the sizeable invesunents in transport
infrastructure made in the past. Annual expenditures on road infrastructure have grown
consistently and accounted for 60 percent of total spending on transport during the period.
12.       Regulatory Policies. Until the mid-1980s the Government relied heavily on
extensive regulation and central control of investmnents and operations of both public and
private enterprises. This approach, particularly pronounced in the maritime subsector, had
a detrimental effect on the use of resources available to the sector and stifled competition
and innovation. In 1985, when the government realized that its transport policies were
severely impeding the development of non-oil exports, sweeping deregulation measures
were taken in international marime transport. These were followed by further substantial
deregulation of domestic shipping in November 1988. The segmentation of the shipping
industy in separate categories was abandoned, restrictions to entry and route licensing
were eliminated while procedures were simplified. Since then work has been ongoing on
the modernization of the legal and regulatory framework for road transport.
13.       Pricing. Til the mid-1980s, the Govermnent was heavily involved in pricing
of transport services but also in this area contrcl has been relaxed and prices for freight
services by road and sea are now set by the market. However, the railway company is
not yet fully empowered to negoiate prices with its major (state enterprise) clients. With
respect to cost recovery of infrastructure in the roads and ports subsectors, progress has
been slower. In general, pricing has not been used as a major tool towards efficient
resource allocation in transport In the case of state-owned facilities (roads, ports), pricing



-SO-                           ANNEX I
decisions are sill Influenced by objectives such as general resource mobilization, inflation
abatement, trade promotion or protection, perceived ability to pay and by equity
considerations.
14.       Policy Action Pi_ for the Road Subsector. To address policy issues in the
road sector in a coordinated and systemaic m er, the Government adopted in October
1989 a Policy Statement and Short Term Action Plan for Road infrastructure and Road
Trasport (PSAP).  'he Action Plan has provided an effective framework for
Prrssively improving the efficiency and performance of the subsector. The Policy
Statement continues to remain appropriat for the medium-term and a Second Stage Action
Plan has been prepared for the period 1993/1995 (Chapter II-).
D. TaANspoRT SECOR PERFORMANCE AM  CHALLEGES
is.       Owing to the high priority given by government to tasport, the sector has
on the whole been able to meet the rapidly growing needs of the economy. The
geographical coverage and availability of services has improved considerably over time and
the road transport industry is relatively efficient considering that freight rates and
passenger fares are generally low by intenational standards. The sector, however, is
facing major challenges in terms of capacity, efficiency and quality.
16.       In the recent past, growing transport demand has largely been met by spare
cpacity and improvement of existing infrasructure. But capacity constraints are emerging
on various parts of the transport system and there will be much less spare capacity to
accoodate future transport demand resulting from continuing economic growth. The
lenge will be to develop appropriate strategies for addressing the rapidly growing needs
in particular corridors or at points in the system, taking into account the comparative
advantage of the various modes as well as the environmental impacts of transport
infrasructure investments.
17.       A second challenge will be to continue reducing transport costs to the
economy through improvements in: (i) the provision of transport services, i.e., mainly
the quality of         of inucure works; and Ci) the way the road, maritime
and air trsport systems and intmodal transport function as a whole. Steps towards
greater efficiency in the transport system as a whole have already been made in the case
of road transport through better coordination of policies on infrastructure developmer.t and
mantenance (e.g., road design standards) on the one hand and policies governing the use
of the infrastructure by transport operators (e.g., road user charges and vehicle weight and
dimension limits) on the other.
18.       A third challenge will be to continue improving the quality of transport
servi  and the responsiveness of the sector to evolving demands. Quality aspects which
merit particular attention are the safety of passengers in general and the quality of urban
passenger transport services. Also, in view of the Government's policy of industrial
diversification and export-led growth the tranport industry will need to stay attentive to and
cater for newly emerging traffics and serve the requirements of overseas clients in a cost
effective manmer.



-51-                    ANNEX2
Government of the Republic of Indonesia
POLICIES ON ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ROAD TRAFFIC AN TRANSPORT
l. XNTRODUCTION
Transport plays a crucial role in Indonesia's national
development by supporting and promoting the realisation of
the Development Trilogy (Trilogi Pembangunan) and Archipe-
lagic Principle (Wawasan Nusantara), two concepts which
together embody the goals of rapid and sustainable
economic growth, social equity, and national economic
integration, unity and stability. In addition to serving
the evolving needs of other sectors of the economy, devel-
opment of the transport system supports the opening up of
remote areas, provides access to otherwise isolated
communities and, more generally, permits increased per-
sonal mobility. While all modes contribute to the proper
functioning of the country's transport-system, road
occupies a particularly important position as is reflected
by its dominant share of total transport activity and
spending.
The Government's successive five-year plans have stressed
that transport services should be capable of satisfying
demand in an efficient, safe, fast, reliable, orderly and
affordable manner and have allocated the large public
expenditures needed for the pursuit of these goals. The
first four plans placed heavy emphasis on the rehabilita-
tion and expansion of transport infrastructure and fleets,
with increased attention being directed to their
maintenance during the latter part of REPELITA IV. The
transport component of REPELITA V provides for the con-
tinuation of these programs but accords highest priority
to the refinement and better integration policies and the
optimisation of public sector investment and operational
planning with the goal of improving efficiency and thereby
reducing overall transport system costs. With major
changes already implemente"- in the maritime transport sub-
sector, attention in the coming years will be ccncentrated
increasingly on land transport and, in particular, roads
and road traffic and transport.
This document elaborates the key policies which will shape
the development of the road system and road traffic and
transport during the REPELITA V period and beyond. It
focuses especially on inter-urban (national and provin-
cial) roads and their usage and also references, where
applicable, complementary policies relating to other
modes. The Government's program for implementing these
policies up until mid-1992 is set out in a separate docu-
ment.



-52-                     ANNEX 2
2. BACXGROUND
Considerable progress and achievements have been recorded
in the land transport subsector during the last 20 years.
Yet for various interrelated reasons the costs of road
transportation remain significantly higher than they need
be. Vehicle operating costs are raised by the poor stan-
dard and condition of much of the road network, while com-
paratively few arterial links have been designed and
constructed to the structural and geometric standards
needed to permit the use of the most efficient multi-axled
truck-trailer combinations. Overly restrictive and
unevenly applied road traffic and transport regulations
have militated against the introduction of new technol-
ogies; for example, the present vehicle height limit means
that standard containers may only be transported on public
roads by special dispensation. In some instances, these
regulations have also served to protect inefficient and
unresponsive public transport operators from healthy
competition.
The present structure and level of road user taxes also
serves to promote inefficiency. While total receipts from
road users are now at a level comparable with total public
spending on the road network, operators of large trucks
are required to pay little if any of the infrastructure
costs attributable to them. Consequently the pattern of
demand between modes tends to be distorted, with road
carrying some traffics for which other modes - such as
rail - are inherently better suited. Equally importantly,
the structure of road user taxes provides no incentive for
truck operators to invest in the types of multi-axled
vehicles which reduce road pavement damage.
Major advances have been made in the planning, program-
ming, budgeting and execution of works on the national and
provincial road networks during the 1980s. In particular,
the increased level of expenditures now being allocated to
road maintenance is better matched to needs while the
switch to contract maintenance has resulted in the avail-
able resources being used more effectively. Further work
is still needed to refine and consolidate the use of these
new systems and procedures, however, and to supplement
them with improved methods for planning major new invest-
ment projects - particularly in densely trafficked corri-
dors - and for deciding between alternative road pavement
and bridge materials and technologies.
While the development and maintenance of the road network
is handled mainly by the public sector, most road trans-
port services are provided by the private sector. In the
more developed regions, operators of road freight
transport services and inter-urban passenger transport
services are reasonably efficient, competitive, and
responsive to their users' requirements. The larger firms



-53-                     ANNEX2
tend to be financially sound and competent in managing
their businesses and maintaining and operating their
vehicles. Many smaller operators, however, which lack the
skills and other resources neede4 to compete suCcessfully
with their more efficient counterparts, neglect vehicle
maintenance or resort to heavy overloading in their
strugqle to stay in business.
High road traffic accident rates, which impose high human
and material costs, are attributable in large measure to
inadequacies in safety-related regulations and their lax
administration and enforcement. Poor driver behaviour and
inadequately equipped and maintained vehicles are visible
symptoms of these problems, with poor vehicle maintenance
also contributing significantly to atmospheric pollution
in the major cities. Other important causes of road acci-
dents include poor road conditions and markings, the mix-
ing of fast and slow moving vehicles in the traffic
stream, and vehicle overloading. Ineffective enforcement
of vehicle loading regulations has also resulted in
excessive damage to road pavements, hence adding to main-
tenance costs and, in the interim, raising vehicle operat-
ing costs.
3. POLICY STATEMEN?
The Government is committed to the adoption of policies
which will permit and promote the development of a trans-
port system capable of responding quickly and efficiently
to the nation's growing and increasingly sophisticated
transport needs. In the land transport subsector, the
basic objective is to move towards situation characterised
by: (a) a neutral and well administered regulatory regime
under which operators will be able - subject to compliance
with appropriate safety and environmental standards - to
tailor their facilities and services to users' require-
ments without the distortions imposed by subsidies and
unnecessary quantitative restrictions on entry, routes,
fleet sizes, and service frequencies; and (b) effective
and efficient programs of public spending on infrastruc-
ture and services in those fields which properly remain
within the public domain.
In order to achieve these goals - and thereby contribute
significantly to the reduction of overall transport system
costs - the Government has formulated a carefully con-
ceived and integrated set of policies covering seven key
areas. The three fundamental policies concern
improvements to the basic framework and mechanisms through
which the Government plans, administers, participates in
and influences the development and use of the road system.
They involve:



-54-                     ANNEX 2
(a) finalising and implementing a modern and coherent
legal and regulatory framework for road traffic and
transport in place of the outdated and fragmented body
of regulations which now applies;
(b) strengthening the capabilities and improving the effi-
ciency and effectiveness of the central and regional
government departments and agencies responsible. for
the development and maintenance of the road network
and for the implementation and enforcement of road
traffic and transport regulations;
(c) improving coordination and integration of transport
sector policy formulation and planning, particularly
in respect of competing land transport modes.
The other four policies relate to specific areas where
improvements in current arrangements and practices are
expected to yield major increases in efficiency and/or
reductions in economic and social costs. They involve:
(a) continuing to refine and consolidate the implementa-
tion of recently developed systems and procedures for
the planning, programming and budgeting of road
expenditures and the execution and supervision of road
works;
(b) revising progressively the structure and level of road
user taxes;
(c) amending and simplifying vehicle weight and dimensions
limits and the road load-bearing classification; and
(d) improving road traffic safety.
Policy I: Legal and Regulatory Reform
A comprehensive and integrated body of laws and regula-
tions, covering Road Vehicles, Road Traffic and Road
Transport, will be introduced in place of the outdated and
fragmented regulations which now apply. The aims and
principles will be to:
(a) create a sound and coherent legal and regulatory basis
for administering and controlling the use of the
public road network;
(b) delineate clearly and appropriately, in accordance
with the Government's policies on decentralisation,
the roles and functions of the central and regional
government agencies involved in these matters;
(c) incorporate into the regulatory framework such provi-
sions - concerning vehicles, their operation, and the
provision of public transport services - as are needed
to preserve public infrastructure, ensure adequate
standards of safety, safeguard users' interests and
protect the environment and the community in general;



-SS-                     ANNEX 2
(d) eliminate or relax controls which protect inefficient
and unresponsive road transport operators or promote
inefficient operations, and thereby create an environ-
ment conducive to the development of an efficient and
professional road transport industry.
Policy 2s Institutional Development and Coordination
The execution of government functions will be made more
efficient and effective. This will involve:
(a) creating a competent, professional and streamlined
administration within which each agency, whether at
the central or regional level, has clearly defined
duties, is appropriately organised to perform them, is
accountable for its performance and is equipped with
appropriate management information systems and tech-
niques;
(b) ensuring more effective coordination between the vari-
ous institutions involved in road infrastructure and
road traffic and transport matters.
The structure of institutions, whether at central or
regional levels, will be made compatible with a rational
and streamlined division of responsibilities. measures
will be taken to refine job descriptions, to provide
appropriate job-oriented training, to improve manpower
planning, to introduce and implement better information
systems and management methods, and to strengthen channels
for coordination.
Policy 3: integration of Transport Sector Policy Formula-
tion and Planning
The formulation and execution of regulatory, pricing,
investment and operational policies for the respective
transport modes will be more closely integrated. Public
sector investment planning will be carried out using sound
economic criteria and with improved coordination between
the relevant government agencies, particularly for key
corridors in which alternative modes can or could compete.
Where appropriate, private-sector participation in the   -
provision of transport services and facilities will be
facilitated. The aims of these improvements will be to:
(a) ensure that optimal use is made of existing transport
infrastructure and facilities before undertaking major
new investments:
(b) ensure that each mode is allowed to play its proper
role within the transport system as a whole, with
account taken of its comparative economic advantages;



-56                      ANNEX 2
(c) ensure that investments in new infrastructure and
facilities represent the most efficient means of pro-
viding needed additional capacity when viewed in the
context of the transport system as a whole:
(d) promote and facilitate the development of intermo-
dal/multimodal door-to-door transport operations and
the introduction of improved cargo handling and
transhipment arrangements.
Policy 4: Planning, Programming and nzecution of Road
Works
Resources for road maintenance and development will be
allocated so as to maximise their overall economic and
social benefits and minimise environmental damage. In
particular:
(a) adequate resources will be allocated for the rout.ne
and periodic maintenance of the existing road network,
including newly constructed and upgraded links;
(b) decisions concerning investments in additional road
capacity in heavily trafficked corridors will be based
on a rigourous economic and environmental appraisal of
possible alternative options;
(c) the geometry and pavements of key road links will be
upgraded when economically appropriate so as to permit
them to carry more economical multi-axle vehicles;
(d) works will be carried out in compliance with specifi-
cations, with management, administrative and supervis-
ory arrangements appropriate to the circumstances.
The efficiency and effectiveness of expenditure on road
infrastructure by all levels of government will be
improved by the continuing development of planning, pro-
graming and budgeting methods (including methods for
evaluating the environmental impact of major projects), by
the further refinement of technical standards and arrange-
ments for the execution of road works, and by the
strengthening of procedures for supervision and quality
control.
Policy 5: Road User Taxation
The Government will progressively implement an integrated
and soundly based "user pays" approach to road user tax-
ation, with particular attention being given to the pric-
ing and taxation of petroleum fuels and to the structure
and rates of vehicle registration charges. This will be
designed to:



-57-                     ANNEX 2
(a) ensure that road user tax payments by the operators of
different categories of vehicle at least cover the
road infrastructure costs which they respectively
impose;
(b) eliminate subsidies or cross-subsidies, particularly
to users of heavy commercial vehicles, which may dis-
tort patterns of demand for road and competing trans-
port modes;
(C) induce road users to make vehicle investment and oper-
ating decisions which are economically optimal;
(d) mobilise increased resources for financing the main-
tenance and development of the road network.
Policy 6: Vehicle Weight and Dimensions Limits
Existing weight and dimension limits for road vehicles
will be revised and better and more closely integrated
arrangements introduced for vehicle "plating" and for road
load-bearing classificatioa and signing. These changes
will be designed to:
(a) permit the operation of more economical vehicle types,
particularly larger multi-axle trucks, on key trunk
routes with suitably constructed pavements and
geometry;
(b) establish appropriate vehicle weight and dimension
limits for other lower-standard roads so as to contain
damage to pavements, improve safety and protect the
interests of adjacent communities;
(c) facilitate improved compliance with, and more effec-
tive enforcement of, applicable limits.
Policy 7:  Traffic Safety
The Government will prepare and implement an integrated
program of measures designed to bring about a rapid and
significant reduction in accident rates.  Particular
attention will be given to securing the active participa-
tion of, and improved coordination between, all relevant
government and non-government agencies, and to raising the
public's safety awareness and consciousness.



W!:E~  ~ ~~ .  .,  ROA g E A            P                            iS .  .                      -.PW     . NTATIO W 
Ief No.         P1lsy Area I Actin Doeition            AgendI      |             -omnmINot
_-     ~ _EPORM                     ________________                      _____________________Ron sd blb  1 t_t_By  I F idshSBy
N' 'LEG-AL ND.UStEfT________ 
* A.1   Finaize and enact Government Regulations to  MOC            Ongoing   Jul 93      4 Government Regulations on road transport, on-thawroad
Impermnnt the 1992 Law on Road Traffic and                                       veicle Investigations, Infrastructure end traffic end
Transport fLaw 14 / 1992).                                                       vehicle and driver he" been sianed
^ A.2   Finds.li and Issue key Ministerial and other decrees DGLC I MOC  Ongoing    Sep 93  Part of Task A.4 in Stage I Action Plan.
essential for the initbi imnplementation of Law 14/  coordinating                6 Drafts (traffic signals, road marking, helmet, road
1992.                                                                            sgns, windshid, and freight transport) out of the 29
_____________                         key KM's aready prepared DOGLC.
* A.3   Finalize and issue subsidisry Ministerial and other  DOGLC I MOC  Ongoing    Mar 94  Part of Task A.4 of Stago I Action Plan.
Decras required for the full implementation of  coordinating
- Law 14J1992                                                              -
A.4   Prepare and conduct Initia awareness campaigns   DGLC / POLRI    Ongoing    Mar 94    Intenive cign undferwa for Jun* Sap 93. Follow-
to inform road users and genera pubic of the                                     up campaigns panned for Dec.03 to Mar.94 (budget
provisions and requirenents of the new road traffic                              hInuded in 93194 P3D budget) . Activity t* be
and transport regulations.                                                       coordinated with specaiised campaigns Inaiuded In F and
-                                                                    -G  Tasks
B~ INSTITUTIONAL DEVELf3MENT. AND COORDINATION          .-                            -- 
^ B.1   Reviow land transport agencies tasks and    MOC I DGLC       OngoIng    Dec 93    ConsuLtant review completed in May 93 Indicates that
functions within the framework provided by the                                   present DGLC organization requires amendrnent Ifina1
now transport laws (road tratffic end transport, rail,                           report is avaiable). Outputs from this activity will serve
and navigation) and identify desirable changos to                                as input to 0.2
current organizstion structures of DGLC and MOC
Kanwils.
B.2   Review MOC's role. organization, and operating    MOC Setjen  Apr 94   Dec 94     To take account of Impacts of decentralization
procedures within the context of the new transpon                                deregulation, corporatuzation of state enterpdrses,
laws and ongoing changes In the environment in                                   increasin private participstion, and Increasing
which it operates, and devoeop recommendstions                                   globalizaton of transpott I logistics systoms.
for reform.                                                   . -          -
8.3   nimdement agreed changes to present DGLC and    MOC/DGLC    Continuing  Mar 95    Awaiting for 8.2 is firnUsed and agreed
MOCKanwil organization structures.                                                               _,,
' B.4   Finalize organization structures of Level I end Level MHA / DGLC  Ongoing   Jun 93    Completed iKM 61/1 993 signed by MHA ln'June. 30,
11 Road Traffic and Transport Agencios (Dinas                                    1993).
LLAJR Tk-I and TkWilO                                                           _                ___
B.5   Establish Municipal Road Traffic an Transport  MHA I PEMDAs I Jun 94   Jan 95     Pilot cities (Surabsya. Surakertao and Bogod will require
Agancios (Dinas LLAJR Tk 11) on a pilot basis in    DOGLC                        TA during the initial stages of implementation (to be
thre large I medium cities,                                                      combined with B6 and 89 and will use local budgot
-   - -  -     throuah DIP 94/961
8.6   Progran and implement priority nodules of   DGLC            Jun 94     Jan 95     Priority modules to be identibd andi dotailed work  
improved DGLC tochnieal I statistical database and                               prograrm to be produced following reviow of IDTA
nitorino system.                                                                 Consultant's proposals. MOC Doc  setting out the
technical team to prepare MiS has boen isSUed In April
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _  93.



|GHiWAY AND ROAD TRAFFIC AND TRANSPORT POUCIES IMPLEMENTATION
STAGE II ACTION PLAN
Aorit 1993 * March 1998          ____
Planned
Rof No.          Policy Area I Action Description       Agencies                                            ComnmentaiNotes
Responsible    Start By    Finish By
8.7   Complete training needs assessment for road  DGLC I MOC I    Feb 94     Feb 96     To be undertaken in parallel with 8l.2
traffic and transport agency (DGLC. Kanwil. Dines) MHA
personn_l.
8.8   Review existing arrangements for training for MOC  MOC SETJENt   Feb 94  Feb 95    Review will cover all transport subsectors, and will result
and other transport sector personnel, and identify   MOC                           in preparation of an outline masterplan for improving
and evaluate options for enhancing effectiveness   DIKLATtDITJEN                  training in MOC subsectors over the medium term.
-   and sustainability.                                          -
8.9   Package and deliver training courses for Dines  DGLC/        Jun 94     Jan 95     Courses will employ training modules already developed
LLAJR Tkc-li staff for cities Included In initial pilot   PUSDIKLAT               by RTTC J Satlantas.
Implerentation of PP22t90.
8.10  Implement proposed DGH reorganization       MPW              Jul 94     Dec 94     Proposal currently being reviewed by Menpan.
8.1 1  Prepare and conduct National and Provincial Roeds  MPW      Jan 94     Mar 98
Master Training Program. including the
continuation of ITB Malaster Prograrn (Stage tI  __ 
8.12  Implement Stage II (Stage I Extension) of Traffic   DGH I    May 93     May 94    Consultant already selected by competitive bidding.
Police training improvement program.        SATLANTAS                             Course development will support effective
implementation of Law 1411992 and be coordinated with
Tasks F and G.
B.13  Implement Stage III (Stage 11 Extension) of Traffic  DGH J   May 94    May 95
I Police training improvement program.       SATLANTAS            -                - 
C.   INTEGRATION OF TRANSPORT SECTOR POUCY F(mMULATION AND  IANNGNQ               -
C.t   Conduct inter-agency workshop to disserninate  DGLC / MOC    Nov 93     Nov 93     Studies Include LTDP-11, North Java Corridor, Highway
and evaluate outputs of recent land transpon  DGH /                               Capacity Expansion FeasibilitV StudV etc.
policy and strategy studies and to formulate  BAPPENAS
follow-uD actions tor the REPELITA Vi period.
C,2   Formuiate transport sector policy, strategy and  MOC / DGH I    Ongoing    Dec 93  Underway
plans and programs for REPEUTA VI.          Bappenas                      -__ _
C.3   Review current status of intermodal transport in    MOC I DGSC I   Jan 94  Aug 94  MOC and BAPPENAS to teview and discuss the
Indonesia and identify factors Impeding further  DGLC /                           recommendations made by LTDP-11, HCE, and North Java
development.                                MOC LITBANG                           Corridor and other Studies
. -     NN     iPROGRAMMINGAND EXECUTION OF ROAD WORKS                 -
D.1   Extend integration, development and          DGH             Apr 94     Mar 96 and
Implementation of Integrated Road Management                           Continuing
System (IRMSs) to cover National, Provincial,
Urban. Local. Toll Roads and Bridges.
0.2   irntovemnt of the quality of IRMS database,  DGH             Apr 94     Mar 96 and Utilisation of Automatic Road Monitoring fot N&P Road
especially road condition and traffic data, to                         Continuing  Survey Program, RoadfTesting Equiprnent. Trafflo
- improve IRMS result.                                            _               Monitorina Egnipment and Road Management Eqcismnt.
0.3   Provide suppott for the prograrn of road apacity   DGH       Apr 94     Continuing  Feasibility studies and fnal engiering design of road
expansion.                                                                        ¢apity expansion project.
D.4   Conduct and Improve Quaity Control procedures   DGH          Apr 94     Mar 90 and TA for the strengthening of ReO Core teams
and implmetntation by providing supervision for                        Continuing  TA  for quality assuterne Iriuding sttoning of Bins
civil wotk proleot.                        IMrge Q.A unit operation.                                                              it



H-iHWAY AND ROAD TRAFFIC AND TRANSPORT POUCIES IMPLEMENTATION
STAGE iiACTION PLAN
:_______I_______:.______                         Atrti 1993 * March 1996          ___________________________
Planned
Rof No.         Pd1e Area I Action Description         Agencies                                           Conmenu lrtiotes
R"oonsibbe    stale BV    Fhh By.,__
0.5   Preparo PiL and ANDAL with RKL and RPL for now  DGH         April 94    Mat 96 and
construcdon Include preparation guidelines for                        Continuing
Standard Operating Procedure ISOP) for
Management Plan (RKL) and Monitoring Plan (RPU
of the Prellminarv Informadon Environment (PIEI. 
D.6   Conduct the appliatton of the manual and    DGH             April 94    Dec 95    Related to the TA on HighwaV Capacity Manued phase 1
furnamental traffio engineering characteristic,                                  and 2 which have been undertaken through loan HSL-1
develop/review traffic engineering guidelines and
manuals.
Research and Deveopment on Road and Road Traffi Enalneedng_                                                _ -
D.7   Continue and complete R&D In road strengthoning  IRE I GH  April 94    March 98   The result will also be used for tho development of IRMS
and rehabilitaion, and in road deterioration                                     and HDM Ill.
studies.                                                                                  ,, _  _
D.8   Continue and complete R&D in road material  IRE J DGH       April 94    March 96   The result wil also be used for the development of IRMS
inventorV and database management, in terrain                                    and HDM Ill.
slope stabiiltV studies, and In providing advices for
-       GH                                                              _____ _ _ __ _ ___  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _   _  _  _ _
0.9  Initiate studies in road Investment to support  IRE I DGH    April 94    March 96
DGH's IRMS                                  _
0.10  Continue R&D in priority research area in bridge   IRE I OGH  April 94    March 96
- enineerina.                               _
D.11  Continue the strengthening of in-house training on  IRE I DGH  April 94    March 96
research method, and staff development
Proararnrne
D.12  Conduct the strengthening of technical support   IRE I DGH  Apdl 94    March 96
capability of IRE in road investigaiton, in the
introduction and adoption of road technology, and
in the utilisation of natural asphalt material.  _
0.13  Incorporate the latest research findings into a  IRE 0 DGH  April 94    March 96
series of legal and guidelines documents to be
used for In the hichway sector    -                        -           -
E.    ROAD  AER C         ITATiON         _                           -
* E.    Implernent first revision of Motor Vehicle Tax IPKB) MHA    Ongoing    Sep 93     Draft MHA decree already prepared by inter-dep working
structure and level for commercial vehicles.  __rout .
E.2   Establish Inter-Departmental Oversight Commttee  MOC I MHA             Jul 93     Completed.
and Technical Teem to gde, manage and monitor
the cotinuing impletation of adopted road
use? chares J taxtion policy.              _
E.3   Conduct compart  study of road user charges   DGH           Sep 93     Dec 93     To include visits to ¢ountrbes that have or are currentiy
- neolwids i se ected oversea countries.       _                                 about to Introduce sound oad user charem  aoles.
* E.4   Exhans the nure and lbvel of formal nd       MHA / MOC      1PMI       (PM         Essentialy Task E.7 from the Stage I Action Phl
informal churgs levied on road users by Tk I and 11
au_horie an ethr agenieis.



Put N~~~~~~- o                                                 A           1_AOmeo._1
Plof tEe        PolicyArea/  tin Deeso4pnAienin                                                             Comem,ntaffiots
l                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R"oronmb  Rr s Pnih Dv 
E.5   Delogp deted pln nd progra for  letn    MHA I MOC           (PM)       De 94      Some Inputs alredy availabe but in need of updating.
theoImpl      n h_-of the adopted road user                                       Further  yan    of road eVendlturas and posble
haroes policy, Iluding for the futher reision of                                  es-m vr optons roqred.
the PItB rates structure end levdl and for the
rolna I taxation of fuob.       . 
E.    Develop detid proposs for the s-ond stwae    MHA I MOC       Jan 95     Jun 95     Key determinants of PKB rtes for commercial vehicles
restrcturng of the Motor Voehicle Tax (P1(BI for                                        mnty ongiro sze and o. Under now strueturo,
comwrciad vehiles.                                                                rnun deterndmt w  be road dznior poten"l
. (function of loaded wobht NW exle400dl 
E.7   Implnt second stage resion of PBK structure  MHA                        Jan 98     To establish  poed cacuton bis fow  commeri
and lewis for commercial vehioles                                                 V       GVW +      eon00rati and ctFeve St    I
I                                                             rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~inimiumoost reovr!tamt
E.8   Evaluat options for hmposing feos read  to  MHA I MOC        Jan 94     Jud 94     TO be closely oordinated with VWD (Task F) atvities.
pavement damag oost for tho Issue of                                              Intended to promote comlnce with new VWD imits.
dipensatons to operat vehicles that exced
pemittod GVW I axle load lmits and identifv
epDrosrlte cheraina moehaniws.        _
E.9   Introduce cost-baed VWD Dispenstion Fee/    MOC I MOFI                  Jan 96
Charao.                                     MHA                 -
F.    }NEI-iODiM                 oNLIMi             :--                   -      .
.L...VEHKCLE WEIGT ADDMNIN   MT                         .      
F.1   Enhance enforcement of regulations relating to the  DGLC I Traffic    Apr 93  Continuing  Ministerial decree KM 74190 of July 90 provides legal
transport of ISO containers by road.        Police / DLLAJRs                      basis, which wil be retained under Law 1411992.
DOGH                                  Effective implemontation of the enforcenent (starting
from Jul 92) Is carried out in stages (awareness
canpaign followed by persuasive, preventive and
repressive enforcement)
F.2   Design and conduct awareness campaigns to    DGLC I Traffic    May 93    Mar 94    Activity to be ooordinated also with road traffic safety
inform conmerciai vehicle operators of the private  Police                        TA consultants. Local budget for pampnets included In
and pubic costs of vehicle overloading, and of the                                P3D DIP.
provisions of Law 14192 and the plans for its
enforcemo nt.                ._._ ,________
F.3   Develop ad deiver pilot training courses for Road  DGLC      Apr 93     Doc 94     RTOT consultant commenced work In April 93. Interim
transport Operators and formnulate arrangoemnts                                   Report submitted. Work proceeding as scheduled
for the future delivery of theeo courses byV
-   oaancios other than government               _______             -
FA    Commence phasod implementation of new road    DGLC I DGH I    (PM)      Apr 94     To be initintod In conjundtion with the phased
load-bearing classification and signing system.  DLLAJRsfTrafflb                  implernentational route numbering system and Low
Police                     _          No.1411992 *JTJU concept.
F.6    Desin, plan and budget for 3 initial VWD pilot  DGLC I Traffic    On-going   Aug 93  Looal budget for ilot proloets (West Jawa. Bongkulu and
onfor¢mont improvement projects (mobile.    Police I DLLAJR                       East Jawsl iniudad In P3D 9314 DIP. To inciude pilot
roadside and auto.enforomsnt) .                                                   scheme at CUumpek entran to Jakarta  Cikampek tol
road.
fA    Cond_ training fot first plot VWOnfoo   nt   OGLC _Traffic    Aug 93   _ISep 93    Traiing the trainer for 2 wtstwl  on A. 2i
pPonrott an tabin h bfor s for is ontio ng imDa¢tf Poole  D   DLLAJR              1993a with ftrainers frn 2 t Cste in
-        of improved onforcement.                    ___ p   a  b b



_Phoned
Ral No.         Plsy At" I Actlon Decpton               Argnda                   -i                         Com,nenteMNee
R"?)l  -Start By   ±*h B
* F.7   Conduct Nd evaluate first pilot VWD onforoonmet DGLC I Traff  Oct 93     Mar 94     2 month tial . Will tequir  omo reedial works and
pet  - Improved rodoe units 12 Clkampak     Police I DLLAJR                       equipment pior to trdal. Operational budget Includod in
-   dlbldaes and toll road entrance)-                                             P30 DIP.
f.8    Conduct and evaluate first pilot VWD onforconont DGLC I Traffic    Nov 93  Mar 94  2 month tria poriod. Operationai budget includod In P3D
proleota - mobile wlaiNno units             Polic I DLLAJR                        DIP.
F.9    Conduct training for sooond pilot VWD      DGLC I Traffic    Oat 93    Deo 93     To be hold In Surabay.
-   enforcemrent oolct                         Polioo I DLLAJR     -
f.10   Conduot ond piot VWD onforement projet    DGLC I TrafoIc    Nov 93    Mar 94     2 month tril poeiod. OperationWa budget Inoludd In P3D
- lEast Joa)                                Police I DLLAJR                       DIP.
f.11   Conduct third piot VWD enforcemoen project  DGLC I Traffic    Deoc 93  Mr 94      2 month tdal peiod. OperationsI budget to be Included
(B-enkutu)                                  Polio I DLLAJR     -_                In P3D DIP.
F.12  Prparo phased proan mand budgets for        DGLC I Traffic    Oct 93    Mar 94     Objective wil be to maximise returns fromn onfornemnt
ImpleroMntinr  epoved VWD enforcement       Poico                                 expendus by concoent     nidtilly on roads where
practices, includi   for works, equiprent and                                     costs of overoading we grotst.
- tranirn. on a srOnoe-brovinCe basis.
F.13   Commence Implmntation of improved VWD       DOLC I Traffic    Apr 94   Mar 96 and
enforcemet progrm                           Police I DLLAJRS           continuing
Neaton I Road Traffic Safety Workshop                                        ,          ,__ _
G.1a  Proparo progran snd budget for second national   DGLC I MOC  On-going   MId-Apr 93 Compieted. Program preparod and budget vailaMbe iP30
workshop on road traffic safety.            BAPPEliAS     1                       DIP). Workshop will Involve + I 150 attendoos and
I               4                      topics will be related to dllot proiects.
G.lb  Conveno mecond national workshop on road traffic  DGLC I MOC  Dec 93    Jan 94     Workshop will be oriented towards rooching expanded
safety.             workdl~op             I               I                     I awareness and consensus on actions needed to improve
-   _                                                 I traffic road safety.
Accldnrit Beck-Spots Prograrm                                                                          _ _
0.2a  Plan Phaso I pilot prograrn of remedial measures    DGLC I DGH I    Ongoing    Aug 94  Sites already Identified. Budget available
for 5 serious accident Wblack-spote on inter-urban  IRE I Traffic
routes In Jawa I 3all.                     Police I Other
G.2b  Design remedial nmeasures and establish monitoring DGLC I DGH I    Sep 93  Jan 94  P3D Projet Tearn. Tho design works wilbe directed
IRE I Traffic                         toward better traffic management practice at identified
Police I Other                         bleak-spots. it ts acknowledged thwt traftic accident
reduction program will be undertaken once the databasos
are available.
G.2c  Continue R&D In accident counter measures and   IRE I D3H1>LC   Apri 94    Maroh 98   To be cioeWy aoordinted wih DGLC'c Road Trffic
mdl teatnmnt studies, and provsion of       /DITLANTAS                            Saftty Study and the aocdent data colloction in
iinteim guidelines for back spots and route                                       DiTLANTAS
treatment                                   _                                                                                  _           I
G.2d  Undeake physical works for Phse I "blackspotsw  DGLC / DGH I            Nov 93     Budget In P30. Phcal works to be contracted nd
plot program                                Traffic Polie I                       supoervisd by P3D Project Teem.
I________________________________           DLLLAJR 



*    V    <|B          S ..... ..;. *. .*. .'0 1......     A      C N
Rat No.         Po1lt ALie I otn Desciption            A-Com_                                                       ote
-ibb       I~~ttfft Byt  Finih ISy
6.20  Undt;e lood enforcement campaigns for drding  06LC I Traffic    Ooc 93  Apr 94    Budgot in P30 for two-month proect. Approach will
behaviour I roadworthin  at selected sibs.  Polio. IDLLAJR                       empl  roadide counselling. Noed to extend the advise
contract uAnti the and of March 1994.
G.2f  Undrtake Initi evaluation of Phaso I        DGLC I OGH I    Feb 94     Apr 94     Reiow will assist In finizing Phasc l progmn and
ImplementatIon expediencs and inpacts.     IRE I Traffic                         arrangements for its implementation.
Poio. I Other
G.3a  Prepare and submit indatiw  plan and 1994195    DGLC I MOC  Oct 93     Nov 93     To provide basis for P3D budet for 1994195 and for
-     ztbudJs for Phe 11 rorarn.                 BAPPENAS                              Reodita VI. To Include Sumbamne
G.3b  Formal Institutional arrangemonts for Phase II   DGLC I MOC  Jan 94    Apr 94     it Is expected that for the initial phase institutiond
program based on experience gained under pilot   /Traffic Polioe I               arrangenent will be done at the nationl level. To be
-    orohlot                                    DGH                                   inooporated under KM.
G.3c  Finalke plan and budget for Phase If pilot program   DGC C/ OGH I    Jan 94  Mar 94
of emedial measures (1 S serious accident black-  IRE I Traffic
spots on lnter-usban routes) and for provincewide  Police I Other
-    imnlementatlon of rrocedures.
G.3d  Establish road trafflo safetyrelated inatitutsons I   DGiC I Traffic    Apr 94  Mar8s5  Specific proposals wili be submitted and reviewed.
bodies In two provinces in Jawa I Bali.    Police / DGH     _
G.3e  Implmnt remedial measures for Phase II      DGLC I WH I    July 94    Mar 9S    In conjunction with Satiantas and DLLAJR Tk I I U
bls¢icspots pilot programn and monitor impacts.   Traffic Police I               training.
and Introduce province level standard procedures  IRE I Other
-   In the two Pilot provinces.
G.3f  Prepar plan and budget for 1995196 program (to  DGLC I GH i/   Sep 94  Mar 95
extend impiementation to remainder of Java I Ball). Traffic Poliee I
Other            _
G.3g  inplement 1995196 pogranm and establish      GLOLC I DGH I    Apr 95   Mar 96
apptopdate hstitutionra and monitoting     Traffic Polic I
arrangements. Continue monitodng of previous    Other
veasw Droarsms.              ._.__                                        -
G.3h  Prepare plan and progran for 1996/7 (to extend    9GLC I OGH I    Sep 9S  Mar 96  Program to be continued under Stage III Action Plan.
Implementation to parts of Sumatera and    Traffic Police /
Sulawesi).                                 Other
Vehici Inspection Services Imorovement                                       _ __ ___
G.4a  Review exising voelhce teitlng facilities and  DGLC/ Traffic    On-oIng   July 93  nitial working paper aliready submitted by consultant to
procedures and ovaluats the effectiveness with    Police                         DGLC detaiing problems and outlining shqrt-tersn actions
whioh these are emDloved.                                      -eouired.
G.4b  Prparoe strategy and program for iniprovinf the    DG6C I Traffic    Aug 93  Sep 93  Woking paper setting out long-tm neds and phased
effectiveness of vhic inspection services (on-    Police                         action program now in preopnar .
snd off-road).                              _                        2_a
G.4c  Conduot piot pro  to improve the effetiveness  OGLC I Traffic    Nov93  Jun 94   The pilotaohemwlllbedo       tosorotbateOlting
of three major   in     sction stations (Soreang  Poli                          facilities e used as inten   and proper proedures ae
I   ond 30004.   i   __                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fobwod.                            W



..HGWAYANDROAD TRAFFIC ANDRNSPORT  P               IMPLEMENTAT91N  .
ST'AGENACONPN
Planned
Ref No.          Polky Arm I Ac0en Desapt                Agenc          twt-                                 ComnmentsiNhB
G.4d  Conduct pilot on-road vehole inspection program    DGLC I Traffic    Apr 94  Dec 94  Ainod at major defects which can be readily identified
for commercIal I pubic service vehices in Java I   Police                          (tyres, lack of Ughts eto). Part of Task G4b.
G.4  Prepare plan and budget for 1994/95 program to   DGLC I Traffic    Sep 93  Feb 94    Improved technical guidelinos I operating procedures to
extend Drooram to other provinces in Java 1 Bali.   Police       -                 be introduced where a!mrorilate.
G.4f  implement 1994195 program.                   DGLC I Traffic    Apr 94    Mar 9S
-     ______________________ ____ _ __ ,_______    Police                  -
.4g  Evaluate results of pilot projects and prepare  OGLC ( Traffic    Apr 94  May 95
D rogren for nationwide implerentation of   Polie
mrove procedures for 1995/98 and remainder
I-of Renelita VI.                                                                            _ -
Traffic Accidnt Reportina and Analysis
G.5a  FinaGze improved Traffic Accident Report Forn  Traffio Poice I    On-going   Apr 94  Draft KM finaized, awaiting for Minister to sign.
- TARFi.                                    DGH I DGLC IE        -
G.5b  Agree arrangements for procesing and distribution Traffic Police I    On-going   Aug 93  Wil be arranged under the coming KM.
of dam.                                     DGH I DGLC I
IRE
G.5c  Adopt TARF and tornalize reporting procedures    MOC I DGLC   On-going   Feb 94     Form approved by Sekien MOC In May 92. Awaiting
throuch Minister of Comnunications Decree.                                         decree.
G.5d  Monitor Surabaya and Bandung pilot           DGLC / Traffic    On-going   Apr 94    Proposals to be reviewed end agreed for further support
Implementation of TARF end finalize guidelines for  Police I IRE                   on its expansion.
_Its routine use bv Poice Officers
G.Se  implement data processing arrangements for TARF  Traffic Police I   Sep 93  Apr 94  Computer for Sursbays inclutded in P3D DIP
on pilot basis In SurabayV and Bandung and  DGH I DGLC I
evaluate.                                   IRE_
G.5f  Extend inpleomentation of TARF throughout Java,  Traffic Police I    Apr 94  Mar 96 and Subsequent extension of implementation to other islands
Bali and Sumatra.                           DGH I DGLC I                continuing  to be included In Stage III Action Plan
IRE       .     .  .    ._._                                         ,
G.5g  Development and Implementation of accident                   (PM)        (PM)
investigation and analysis system                                                     __-
Driver Behaviour Improvement end Public Awareness
Cent sins 
G.6a  Design, plan and budget for inidal pilot program of  DGLC / Traffic    On-going   Dec 93    Initiate the Involvement of other related institutions, e.g..
inproved public awareness campaigns on road  Police / Other                        Ministry of Education.
traffic safety and explore options for securing
-   sponsorship.                                                  _ _ _ _  __              _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
G.6b  implement initial pflot program of improved public   DGLC I Traffi    Dec 93  Apr 94  Depending on Wsonsorship. to be coordinatod closely I
awareness campaigns on road traffic safetv.  Police I Other                        combined,with Task A4.
0.60  Conduct revw  of driver behaviour, driver training  DGLC I Traffic    On-going   Apr 94  Wil draw also on results of work carrid out with TA
D¢cies,aend drivor testing procedures end   Police                                 financed uncet previous Wll lons.
actions eroded to irprove drTivng



HIGHW*AY AND ROAD TRAFFIC AND TRANSPORT POUCIES IMPLEMENTATION
STAGE 1I ACTION PLAN
__________________________               _April lB193.MarcS  1996                   ___--___99_g_s
Planned
Ref No.          PoiW Are I Action Deschilon             Aes-on        Start By  F|nish By                   Comm__No_    e
R-                           -
G.6d  Prepare first draft of Indonedan 'Kighway Code    DGLC I Traffic    Apr 93  Dec 93  First draft subintted.
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ Po nice   _ _ _ _ _
G.Se  Fbiaize HighwaV Code and prepare plan and    DGLC I Traffic    Sep 93    Mar 94     Prepare budget for 94195 implementation
budgets for second program ot road traffic safety   Police
camalans.                                                   I          I___                                                _
G.6f  Publish Highway Code and implement second (two  DGLC I Traffic    Apr 94  Mar 96 and
vearl rogramn of road traffic safety campaigns.    Police               continuin_
List of Abbriation
IDTA            Instituto   Dcvelopment Technidal Advisers
RTSTA           Road Traffic Safety Techtical Advisers
VWDTA           Vehicle Weight and Dinension Technicai Advisors
RTOTTA          Road Transport Operator Tralning Techniea Advisers
P3D             Proyek Pembinean Penngkatan Transportasi Derat
RUCTA           Road User Charge Technical Advisors
Ma.A



-66-                           ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
SECOND HGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
LEGAL AND ADmeSTAIE FRAmEWoRK OF RoAD TRANSPORT
1.           Preparatory work for te modernization of the legal and regulatory
framework for road transport, vehicle weights and dimensions and road mffic and safety
has been ongoing for several years. While this work was ongoing, Law 3 of 1965
continued to apply, but-because the envisaged implementing GRs for this law were not
issued-many of the basic echnical regulations in the subsector dated back to the mid-
1930s while responsibilities for their administration and enforcement were not precisely
defined. The enactment in May 1992 of a modern Road Traffic and Transport Law
represented a major nilestone and the process came to completion by end- Septemnber 1993
with the issuing of the most important of the implementing regulations and instructions for
the new Law. These regulations wil resolve the uncerinty and ambiguity regarding the
respective roles of central and regional road traffic and transport agencies vis-a-vis the
traffic police for the enforcement of road traffic and transport regulations. Differences of
view concerning the division of responsibilities among these agencies had been a main
cause for the slow progress in the modernization of the legal and administrative
framework. By end November 1993, eighteen of the new law's implementing Government
Regulations (GRs) had been issued and a further sixteen were being processed.
Subordinate Ministerial Decrees were being prepared/finalized.
2.           During the last decade, efforts have also been made-through the issue of
Decrees by the Minister of Commuicatons-to update and sengthe safety and other
technical regulations and, more importantly-through the issue of two GRs-to rationalize
and clarify responsibilities for their admhinis on and enforcement. Within MOC, the
Duirectorate General of Land Transport and nland Waterways (DGLT) has overall
responsibility for road traffic and transport matters, although its role has been diminished
and altered by GR 38/1985-which assigned primary responsibility for on-the-road
enforcement to the police-and by GR 22/1990-which rationalized and extended the
decentralization of DGLT functions to regional govermnents. DGLT was reorganized in
1989, with its first level technical units now comprising directorates of Infrastructure,
Traffic and Transport, and Safety and Vehicles.l/ Each of these three directorates
includes at least one sub-directorate dealing with road-related matters; thus there are
sub-directorates of Road Infrastructure, Road Traffic and Transport, and Road Vehicle
Technical Affairs. Safety and environmental matters for all land transport modes are
handled by a single sub-directorate of safety.
3.           MOC's regional organization has also been changed in recent years. Up
until 1988, each of the three Directorates General had their own Regional Offices
(Kanwils), with each handling one or more provinces. In the case of DGLT, there were
11 Previously, its tBre dir_ctates aded highway Traffic and Transport. Urban Traffic and
Transport, and Tland Watenwy Traffic and Transport There was no diuectorat for railways as
PJKA, as a Depatmtl Agec (Pe), was considered part of DGLT as well as being a
busins entity.



-67-                            ANNEX 3
16 Kanwils and-with only around half of the provinces having their own Road Traffic and
Transport Agencies-these were in many instances directly responsible for activities such
as the management of weighbr.dges, vehicle inspection stations, and bus terminals. In late
1989, the Directorate General Kanwils were replaced by a single MOC Kanwil in each
province. Five different basic organization types were defuned for these Kanwils,
reflecting the considerable Inter-provincial differences in the scope of Kanwil
responsibilities and workloads. Each Kanwil has at least one section handling land
transport matters, and some of these retained management responsibilities formerly
discharged by the DOLT Kanwils.2I
4.           Prior to 1990, dealizon of road traffic and transport govermment
fimctions was restricted to the larger and more developed provinces, principally those in
Java and Sumatra, and was limited in its scope. Provincial Road Traffic and Transport
units (Dinas LLAJR Ik 1) were established in these provinces under the umbrella of a GR
issued in 1958; thi was intended as a stop-gap measure, but the failure to issue
inplementing GRs for Law 3/1965-coupled with the enactment of new laws on regional
govemment-created unertainties regarding the role aiid authority on the Dinas LLAJR
units and precluded further decentralization. GR 22/1990 was designed to resolve this
problem, but had not been fully implemented when Law 14/1992 was enacted.
S.           The failure to implement Law 3/1965 also resulted in uncertainty regarding
the respective roles of DGLT and Dinas LLAJRs vis-a-vis the police for the enforcement
of road traffic and transport regulations. In consequence, the former agencies evolved into
a second traffic police force, wearing police-style uniforms, carrying firearms, and
authorized to stop road users. GR 38/1985 rationalized the situation by assigning the
police primary responsibilit for on-the-road enforcement while leaving MOC and the
Dinas LLAJRs with responsibility for off-road functions such as vehicle inspection and
operation of roadside weibridges.
I/ Ih  argea category of Kanwil bas two sections (Bidang) handling land twisport mattes. r he
organiationstm  of the Kmnwil land anspoit sections is broadly similar to that of DOLT in
ih the sivisions mb type of acivity or fitction raher than by trasoirt mode.



- 68-                         ANNEX 4
DONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR RiVESTMNUT PROJECT
W-XHWAY ADMIISTRATION
A. ORGANIIoNAL RESpONSmILTrES
1.        The highway network is administered by the public works agencies at the
dhree tiers of government (national, provincial and district) whose responsibilities were
broadly defied in the Road Law of 1980 and in implementation regulations of 1985.
DGH is the highway agency at the central level 1/ (Chart 1.1), while agencies at lower
levels are, respectively, the provincial public works departments (Dinas Pekerjaan Umum
Propinsi-DPUP) and the district/municipality public works departnents (Dinas Pekerjaan
Unumu Kabupaten/Kotamadya-DPUK) (Chart 1.2). Toll roads are developed and operated
by P.T. Jasa Marga.
2.        The DGH is responsible for the design and execution of most major road
works in Indonesia.  It also coordinates the betterment, maintenance and minor
construction programs which are carried out by the DPUPs and it operates a national
highway equipment pool. In the last few years, DGH has become increasingly involved
in providing assistance for the management of the district road programs.
3.        Provincial and district road agencies are administratively under the Ministry
of Home Affairs (MHA) (Chart 1.3), which is responsible, through the Governor, for
regulating and monitoring the performance of local authorities.  It also controls
appontments of their senior officials, regulates staffing and salaries, reviews their
development plans, budgets and financial performance. On technical matters, these road
agencies receive guidance from DGH.
4.        In principle, the various provincial public works functions are handled by
separate units within the DPUPs. For roads these are the Sub-Dinas Bina Marga (DBM)
which are fully operational in provinces where administrative capabilities are well
developed. In other provinces staff and equipment for the various DPUP functions are still
being shared until managerial skills are sufficiently developed for effective provincial
highway management. DPUPs report directly to the governor of the province but the
MPW provides the DPUPs with technical guidance and some administrative support and
they act as the implemening agencies for many of the Ministry's functions. The DBMs
prepare the rolling annual roadworks program and budget interactively with DGH, using
the IRMS computerized management system. However, most design engineering and
contract prepaaion activities are done by the Regional Betterment Offices (RBOs), which
design and supervise bettrment works under the direct management of central Bina
Marga. The RBOs perform essential functions and while not being structural units, are
unlikely to be phased out in the near to medium term. In some provinces, a Provincial
Betternent Office (PBO) has been established to assume the roles of the RBOs. So far the
1/  MOC has ova rem pnsibility for regulating road trffic and the road tanort industy and is
involved in  d  implemaetation and enforcement (para. 1.5 and 2.6).



-69 -                         ANNEX 4
PBOs are few and need substantial DGH support provided through the RBOs. Assistance
in developing highway management skills at the provincial level has been provided under
successive Highway Projects.
5.        Responsibility for the development and maintenance of district roads lies with
the DPUKs in conjunction with the Regional Development Bureas (Biro Bangda) and the
District Planning Boards (BAPPEDA II) of the District Secretariats. The DPUKs report
directly to the head of the district (Bupati). Despite weak capabilities, the districts have
virtual control over their roads. Technical support is provided by the DPUPs and DGH.
6.        GOT has started to decentralize many of DGH's functions, including transfer
of appropriate staff, to the DBMs. The latter will eventually have responsibility for the
programniing, budgeting, design, execution, supervision and monitoring of all programs
for the provincial roads network within each province, while DGH would retain the
responsibility for nationwide planning and monitoring, overall quality control, economic
criteria, technical standards and specifications and appropriate manuals. The DBMs are
to comprise four units covering: (i) planning and design; (ii) betterment; (iii) bridge
replacement; and (iv) road maintenance. The proposed project would continue to provide
assistance to DGH and the DBMs for strengthening the capabilities of the provincial roads
agencies.
7.        P.T. Jasa Marga's responsibilities cover the construction, operation and
maintenance of toll roads and bridges. Although its charter provides for it to handle also
the development of the toll road network, planning and design functions have remained
with DGH. Partly as a result of GOI's policy to develop toil roads through public/private
joint ventures of the build-operate-transfer (BOT) type, there is currently no agency which
is assuning clear leadership in the broad area of toll road development.
8.        In addition to the agencies mentioned above, other institutions are involved
in road development in the rural areas, particularly those concerned with agricultural and
transmigraton schemes. In the past the road components under these schemes were not
adequately coordinated with the road authorities, and their planning and implementation
has suffered from many weaknesses. A study was carried out under the Second Rural
Roads Development Project (Ln 2881-IND) to analyze and make recommendations on:
(a)design, construction, and maintenance standards for road components of development
schemes; (b)institutional responsibilities and processes for programming, budgeting and
implementing the road programs of development schemes (including their maintenance);
and (c)the process of transferring these roads to district and provincial authorities, to
ensure, inter alia, that adequate funds would be budgeted for their maintenance and
rehabilitation, and that the capabilities of local authorities would be upgraded as required
for their additional responsibilities. The study's recommendations are being implemented,
as appropriate, under agriculture and district road projects.
B. IfGHWAY DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
9.        Design of highways and bridges for the national roads and major works for
the provincial roads network is the responsibility of the engineering sections of DGHs
Direcorate of Planing, including the eight RBOs. The DBMs are responsible for fte
design of lesser works on provincial roads and the DPUKs for all design for district roads,
while DGH, upon request, provides technical assistance to both for the design of roads and



-70 -                          ANNEX 4
bridges in their programs. Most of the work is done by consultants and increasingly by
local consultants. Initial road design is simplified in order to cope with the large
bettrment programs of recent years through a computerized design system and limited
field data. Ihese designs are then checked, updated and refined by the supervisory
consultants prior to construction, taking advantage of fte contractor's mobilizaion period
to cay out more complete and updated surveys. However, for more complex works
(e.g., capacity expansion and new construction), final engineering designs are prepared
prior to tendering. As part of the decentralization inidatives, most routine design
responsibilities have been transferred to the DBMs and PBOs. To strengthen existg
capabilities, the proposed project provides assistance for design to DGH and to the
decentralized units.
10.       Overall, the quality of roadworks has been progressively improving due to
more appropriate specifications, contractor capabilities and better supervision but te
quality remains variable. Discontinuation by DGH of the central quality control and
monitoring unit supported under previous Highway Projects resulted in an increased
incidence of quality and contract variation problems. The proposed project will support
the establ        and strengthening of a central quality assurance unit in DGH, and the
implementation of the construction monitoring subsystem being developed under the
ongoing Highway Sector Project (LI 3133-IND). While the design and construction
stdards and specifications used for national and provincial roads are generally adequate
for the class of road, terrain and volume of traffic (Table 2.11) they have been developed
over a long period of time and may require updating. Ln 3133-IND provides assistance
to review, update, and revise the existing standards in their entirety to provide state-of-the-
art standards and specifications and to ensure uniformity and compatibility within and
between all road classes. (For district roads new technical guidelines were developed
under the Second Rural Roads Project, and standards are being updated under the follow-
up district roads projects). Also, to improve quality and reduce cost of construction and
maintenance through improved specifications, increased use of local materials and faster
transfer of technology, DGH has contracted with the Institute of Road Engineering (IRE)
In Bandung (one of three institutes of MPW's Agency for Research and Development) and
independent consultants to carry out various studies and testing programs. The proposed
project provides assistance to continue this important work while at the same time
strengthening IRE's own capabilities in road research.
11.       Responsibility for highway construction lies with DGHs three Regional
Implementation Directorates for the national roads and some of the major works on
provincial highways; wih DBMs for the provincW roads and some of the minor works
on national roads; and with DPUKs for the district roads.  Under the ongoing
decentalization, the DBMs are taking over more of DGH's responsibilities. The works
are executed under a variety of arrangements. Execution by force account was the most
common arrangement a few years ago but has by now nearly disappeared and been
replaced by contracting arrangements which have proven considerably more cost-effective
and are now the rule except for very limited emergency situations in the outer islands.
Stil common for minor construction is, however, the use of small contractors who supply
labor and local materials but use equipment and sometimes manufactred materials
supplied by the respective road authority. Some ten years ago Indonesia had a relatively
smll number of experienced contracting firms capable of executing major road works, and
therefore DGH used mainly foreign contractors for such jobs. Since then local capability
has developed so that ther are now about 500 'A' class (with no upper limit of contma



-71-                          ANNEX4
price) and severa thoawd 'B" class eligble to bid on contracts up to Rp 500 mllion
(US$300,000) local conacing firms registed in Indonesia. In addition, there are many
tousands of Usal conactrs, registered as cls 'C' (eligibility ceiling of Rp 100 million
(US$60,000)) carrying out smial contracts but also providing unskiLUed labor and
production and transportion of maerials for larger contractors, government agencies and
the private sector.
12.       GOI has long recognized the need to improve the capabilities of local
contractors. Several studies carred out in recen years have highlighted the sectors main
weakesses: (i) inalequae selection and conta  administio procedur  and poor
contract docunments; () weak support insiutons; Dii) lack of a supportve business
environment (particularly In the areas of finance, inrnce, equipment supply and
standards); and Oiv) shortage of skills and insufficient organition and technical
capabilides. GOI has taken actions to address some of these problems such as setting up
and delivering taining programs for contcors' personnel, providing technical assistance
to contractrs under several foreign fuided projec, including road projecs, and
improving the system for licensing contractors. However, a more comprehensive approah
is needed to promote faster devopment of dte industry, and GOI is considering fi^ber
actions to address some of the industries' major weaknesses.
C. H[GHWAY MAWTENANCE
13.       Since the mid-1980 highway expenditure programs have shifted in a
significant way towards more and inmproved maintenance carried out by contract Also,
state-of-the-art progai   and budgedng systems for road maintece and berment
works are now being used for the entire national and provincial network and growing paru
of the district network During the first three years (1984/85-1986/87) of Repelita IV
(Table 1.10) road maintenance expenditures for national and provincial roads increased by
about 10 percent amually. The amounts were, however, insufficiert to adequaWely
mantain te growing network until 1987/88 when allocations were increased to cover
estmated requiremens. Plamed maintenance expenditures under the three-year forward
plan are adequate.
14.       The DBMs (i.e., their road ntnance units when decer          Ion is
complete) and the DPUKs are responsible for all aspects of road maintenance on the
provincial and district road networks respectively and the operational responsibility for the
maiten ce of national roads has been delegated to the DBMs. DGH, however, retains
responsibility for national planing of maintenance and, in practice, has a strong hand in
the planning and upkeep of all road classes though the issLue of technical staudards and
gUidelines and the channeling of funds for road programs.
is.       Until 1987, road maintenance was mainly exeted by force account with a
major shif towards contractingin 1988 as a means of handling fte much larger volume
of work sring in that year. Although the quality of works is still vaiable, the shift to
contracted works has been accompanied by improved quality. The most common
exection problems have been  (i) lack of adherence to local procuremnt guidelines;
(ii) poor supervision of contcors In part due to lack of qualified personnel but also due
to lack of budget and equipment to carry out supervision properly; (iii) shortage of
sufficient qualified conrars; (iv) somewhat inadequate implementation of standards and
specificatons for mainnmance works; and (v) inflexible budgets.



-72 -                         ANNEX 4
16.       Measures taken for improving general execution of works are benefitting
maintenance implementation. These include training of staff, including supervisots and
project managers as well as contractor's staff, improved procmelnt procedures and
improved budgeting and monitoring. The proposed project will continue support to
activiies such as planning, programming, budgeting and design, improved standards and
specifications, contract packaging and furter staff training. The use of multi-year
contracts, even for annual prograns like those for maintenance, has now been accepted
by GOI.
17.       The expanding toil road network needs improved management systems. The
Highway Sector Project has supported the developmnft of a maintenance m
system (MMS) to acconmodate the specific needs of hes limited access, high volume,
high speed roads. However, only the first stage, i.e., a prototype management system has
been implemented. it will, therefore, be important that Jasa Marga proceeds with the
development and implementation of the complete system.
D. STAn AND TRANIG
18.       The steadily increasing volume of work and the requirement for higher quality
of engieering imposes strais on DGH as well as on the DBMs and DPUKs. The DGH
permanent staff has increased by some 10 percent annually over the last five years while
the number of nonpermanent employees has more than doubled over this period. Total
DOH staff now exceeds 8,000, of which 4,000 are permanents About 1,500 are
professionals (about 1,000 engineers). Many of DGH's staff are located in the provinces.
Despite substantial efforts to expand and upgrade staff, the shortage of qualified personnel
remains an important problem for road authorities at all levels. The situation has become
more acute with t'.e change in skills mix required when force account works were replaced
by contract works.
19.       Traning continues to be a major element in DGH human resources
management through both MPW's overall training activities and specific DGH programs.
The MRA also has traiing programs for administrative functions, and it occasionally
conducts traning in development planning for provincial and district staff. Ongoing
highway projects are providing for both classroom and on-the-job training of DGH, IRE,
DPUP and DPUK staff. There is, however, a need for a more systematic and coordinated
approach to the whole problem of human resource planning and training. A   ining needs
analysis is being undertaken under Ln 3133-IND with the view of formulating a draft
Master Training Plan for National and Provincial Roads Staff.
E. AccouNTNG AM AUDITING
20.       DGN's accounting procedures are adequate. Accounts are audited both
internally and externally. The MPW's Inspectorate General, which reports directly to the
Minister, carries out internal audits of DGH. The State Auditors (BPKP) is in charge of
externf' auditing. The Regional and Provincial Inspectorate of MHA audit the district and
provincal accounts internally; the BPKP does the external auditing.



-73 -                         ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTENT PROJECT
INAGAI1 ROAD MANAGEMENT SYS=E  (RMS-92) oF DGH
1.          Over a period of about 15 years, the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH) has developed and implemented a progressively advanced system for fte planning
and progrmming of road expenditures on a fully economic and rational basis. The
inificant starting point was the GENMERRI model, developed in the late 1970s using
tabulaed vehicle operating costs and road deterioration based on the early results of the
British and World Bank studies. From 1985-87, four different computer tools were
developed: a rapid pavement rehabilitation design model (RDS) to expedite the large road
tltemet  program of IBRD Projects 2404 and 2717, a routine maintenance management
system (RMMS) for Provincial budget programming, improved transport demand
modelling under the TPU, and the application of the 11DM-M model in a matrix format
on an aggregated National and Provincial network in the TAPL model. The RMMS
development was the basis for the first network-wide road survey conducted in 1986-87,
and conducted annually with progressive improvements since. The data and TAPL were
a prinary basis for the preparation of Repelita V in 1988.
2.          Under IBRD Project 2717, these four strands were integrated into a linked
decision-support system, the Interurban Road Management System (IRMS-89) and
imlIemened in all Provinces with extensive training. In response to field problems,
advancing computer technology, and needs for improved logic and processing speed, the
system was revised and renamed under IBRD Project 3133 to the current version,
Integrated Road Management System (IRMS-92). Significant changes in this revision,
made under the Planning and Programming Services II technical assistance, include:
(i) The initial program identification, or 'screening' is performed by some Provincial
DBM/PBOs and otherwise by Bipran; (ii) Use of the same criteria for network-planning
and project-design so as to minimize changes to the program at the implementation stage;
(iii) Inclusion of economic evaluation of road widening works; and (iv) Software
enhancements to improve user-friendliness and speed.
Scope and Utiization of the IRMS
3.          The current version of the IRMS (IRMS-92) (1) prepares a rolling 5-year
expenditure plan and detailed one-year and three-year programs for all Betterment (B),
Periodic Maintenance (P), Routine Maintenance (R) and Holding Maintenance (H) works
on the National and Provincial road network, comprising 51,783 kn in length (1991). The
physical needs, cost and quantities estimates, and pre-tender documents are all prepared
automatically by the system, with some allowance for manual interaction for fme-tuning
of the program within specified guidelines. Ongoing and committed projects retain their
program status, and the system can now prioritize widening projects in the Betterment
program on the same economic basis as the entire program. Project identification and
program allocation are based on standardized engineering design, and selected and
priorized to optimize economic benefits at the current official discount rate of 15 percent
p.a. Detailed budget allocations, contract packaging and bidding documents are prepared



- 74-                          ANNEX S
for the first year of the plan (including commencing multi-year projects such as
betterment), and dhe system can account for other expenditure programs (bridge works and
capacity expansion) which are prepared outside IRMS-92. When budgeting constraints are
applied, typically to redistribute projects evenly across a 3-to 5-year period, this is done
in the order of priority of the incremental economic benefit of not deferring a project for
a year. The economic return (EIRR) and pre-tender quantity and cost estimates are
determnined for each contract package to meet donor requirements.
4.          The system is capable of producing the program for the entire road network
through central DGH, but in practice the fine-tuning and fmnalization of the programs are
made with close consultation and participation of the Provincial DBMs. For the FY93194
program and the FY93/94 to FY97/98 plan, IRMS-92 was implemented in the preparation
of the entire B-P-R-H program on National and Provincial roads, which comprised 60
percent of the FY93/94 total program. The system was installed on a multi-user network
in central DGH and on PC-386 computers in all DBMs.
Outline of the IRMS
5.          The IRMS (1) comprises a central database and currently five applications
modules, each of which undertakes a phase of the process of program and project
preparation for all roadworks on existing National and Provincial roads. These comprise
the following, which are illustrated functionally in Figure 1 and in general detail in Figure
2:
(a)   Planning: Segments the network into design-level homogeneous sublinks,
and identifies, designs and evaluates treatment options for a six-year period
for use in developing a five-year expenditure plan;
(b)   Programming: Produces 5-year expenditure plan and detailed first-year
roadworks program for a network, applies any budgetary constraints,
facilitates manual refinement of program, and groups projects into pre-
tender packages;
(c)   Road Design:  Performs pre-bid design of works and estimation of
quandties and costs, and prepares bid documents;
(d)   Economic Review: Makes formal economic evaluation of each contract
package to meet requirements of funding agencies; and
(e)   Budgeting: Prepares budget reports from the work program, assigning
estimated costs to relevant budget categories.
6.          A  remaining module, yet to be developed, is the Construction
lmplementation module which would manage contract procurement, provide for detailed
engineering and design review under contract, monitor and manage routine maintenance,
assist contract supervision, monitor progress and assist quality assurance.
Planing Module
7.          The Planning Module (2) provides four primary functions (Fig. 2), two of
which are dormant or support functions used only as the need arises (the Policy Standards
and Feasibility Studies Submodules) and two (Segmentation and Network Screening
Submodules) which perform the major roles in the preparation of work programs.



-75.                      ANNEX S
r----   ---- -   ---   - -- - -- - 
I                  Ii      II"        II
~I                I'



Fgure 2: SmFID SmucTnm  or TE ITGRTD RoAD MANAGEMEN SwF  (IRKS)
I~~~~~~ f
I  .           I         |"t"A~~~l "|WH^v DATA^^A                                                     . 
.~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~ .~,iOI1                                                    ioo_    _  _  _  _  _
*I              "a"                     e rog                    ato m"
C.Olk"X  *D_ I                                          -!^!;!E I
D..t.9wv6.ft ~ ~ ~   ~      ~       ~     ~       O..
go" ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~        
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~_    __                                                                                                 Iwt.enx 
MOGULSt
r1~~~~~~~~~ ,*p -cmo .0 3o ._                             o:                              _2
2 l *- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~COOIC   -Z_i _ l
"~~~~~~LINM    MOUL _       .O........ |ib_ ,LIZD                                                       z|      " -  
1 t_-1  | L    I*          -                            14_ 
I 9_ I _l | * *___ I I t I X -'' - a I 6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vi
I>j_ I IH e_ F - I I I -- ............... I I 
1                                    X b__            L _  |    ~             ~ ~~~~~~~~~OD| _L*|_



-77-                           ANNEXS
8.           In the Segmetatlon Suhmodud, the entie network being sreened Is
semted in to  sublinks' which are homogeneous in respect of 10 paate  ad
constaned to meet user-spified miimum and nuaxhmm lengt     ts which define the
practical and desired sizes of work treatments. The basic road unit is a 'record' (named
*pece) of about 1 km length or pat (up to a boundry). A sublink is built up by
scanning successve piecesm  and evaluadng the simiaty of the nex piece wit Xh
crrt sublink for all ten parm s.  These are:  (i) Administrative bounday
(iR) Ongoing project; (iii) Commited project; (iv) Link bounary; (v) Annual averagedil
traffic (AADT) in 6 ranges; (v) Roughnes in 6 rnes with 10 percen buffer zms; (v1l)
Pavement sengh (deflection or CR); (viii) Surface distress indx (SDI) In 2 ranes wi
+30 buffer zone; (ix) Surface type in 3 categories; and (x) Carriageway width in ran ges
with 10 percent buffer zones. Ihe parameter values for the sublink are deveoped by
compx in  [tem  (i) to (v)l, weighted average (roughness, srength and diste), or
iumdnwawe (surface and width).
9.           The Network Screening Submodue  (NSSM) performs the major task of
identification, prelimnary design, evaluation, and selection of the treatment opons for
each homogeneous sublink in the network for each year of a 5-year plan period. Using
the cumnt road data from the Central Database, the NSSM  (i) designs a Perio
Maintenance (P) and a Betenrment (B) option for each sublink (about 6,000 sublinb) tha
is neither on-going or committed (OC) nor a candidate for upgrading (about 2,000
sublinks) and for each of the 6 analyzed years of the plan (assuming no previous
teatment); (ii) quantifies and costs the twelve options, the routine mainuoten     default
opton, and fte associated vehicle operating costs (VOC); (iii) makes a 23-year economic
analysis of each option for each of the first 6 years; and (iv) generates a 5-year program
of works require eats, costs and net economic benefits (NPV) by sublink. Each sublink
Is aalyzed ir about 20 seconds on a 386 microcomputer in a local newk, so ihe
compfete network progrm is generated in about 33 hours, or from 25 to 160 nin. per
province.
10.                     Treatent Design. The design of the P ad B apdons s
made using the Calultn (Major Works) Model (RD4) copied from the RDM (Road
Desig Module). This applies the HRODI deflection-based method for asphalt overlay
design of paved roads, which was developed under IBRD Highways VI and Betement
projects and is now Indonesian sandard practice; and the TRL Road Note 31 CBR-based
thickns design method for paved roads rougher than 12 m/kn IRI (usually disintegrated
macadam) and the upgrading of unpaved roads to paved roads. The  rface types [AC,
HRS, DBST (in Nusa Tenggara) or Lasbutag (in Sulawesi and Timor Timur)J are
deermined by Province, localit (urbm or mountainous terrain have higher requieme)
and mid-life traffic volume. It determines levelling course and camber correction
requirements and applies standard width requirements based on mid-life AADT. Design
decisions for widening (BeCttrent options) are therefore made on the basis of predicted
mid-life AADT. The design life standards specified by DGH are 10 years for Betement
and S years for Periodic Maintenance. Currently, pavement strength data are lacking for
significant lengths of the network and default values are used.
11.         The Economic Analysis Model (E4M) performs the economic analysis,
selection and timin  of works in the progran. It is an Indonesian adaptaton and
simplificaion of te HDM-l  model, operating on the same principles of life-ccle
simlation and economic analysis. It employs simplified road deterioration and
maneanc  effect reaionships (to speed up the calculations compared with HDM-f),
and modifiations which make it applicable for peneation macadan pavements, local



- 78 -                        ANNEX S
overlay consouctior quity, co sted trffic flow, and carriageway and  ounlder width
impacs inchlding non-motorized vehicls (NMVs). The deterioration model operAtes
solely in teru of rog s, predicted fom traffic loading, pavemae  strength, age and
a national-average enmental effect Surfa  distrss is not considered either in the
rate of deterioration or seloction of treatment. Routine mantemnce, which comprises
pavemen patchmg and non-pavemnt works is deemed to have no impact on he roughnes
detrioration (unlk   DM-IIl). Holdig maintence is more intensive surface and
drainage repair works, triggered when rughne  reaches a high threshold [from 6 to 12
m/km MII, implying a notidonal acceptabilty stdard for eac range of trffic vohme,
c£ Table 4.16 in (2)1, which is deemed to hold the roughes constat, withot
degrdation or improvement.
12.         The economic anlysis determ   the NPV of each opton relative to a
wMhozprojea case which Itself compres minimm standards [set out in Fig. 4.13 in (2)1
of a maxim   roughness at which Holding Treatent (H) for 2 years then Betterment (B)
are required, followed by Periodic M nance (F) at economically-opmal inrvenion
levels, as swn in Table 1.
Table 1: INFRVENO  ThIW Ws FOR M          AMWNA    AND BENr WORK
AADT Range (vehJd)      H and B ntrventon        P Intervention
(r/km MD)             (mnkm IR1)
> 10,000               6.0                   3.5
3,000 - 10,000              8.0                   4.0
1,000 - 3,000             10.0                   4.5
< 1,000               12.0                   5.0
13.         Ihe NPV detmie  for a project etent thlerebre has this spc
conotation that it is relative to tie scenario of least tolerabkl road condition standard,
with the tact amion of prompt and fll rehabilitation or reconstruction to opdmal
standard once that condition was rached, and continued periodic maenance at optimal
stdard. Thus, the withut project reference is the deferral of the project to the latest
occasion complying wit the zleas tolerable condition stadard. [A problem with d*s
approach Is dw repairng rads whih are at hs iiting conditon has apparenly nil
bent by dftion, and are due being fgnored by dte system) NPV is determined at the
BAPPENAS disount rate of 15 percent EIRR I not calculated at this stage becaue it
slows the computaon emosy and is not relevant to the optmization-int   it is
Calculated for final contract packages by the Economic Review Module (ERM) at a later
stage.
14.         Ihe ouWut of the EAM and the NSSM i a set of B, P and R/H options
deermind for each of the 5 years of the work program period, i.e., 15 treaten-year
opdons, ad te NPV and the inc ental NPV (INPV) (of not defering the project by
one year) for eadh atnent-year option. Note that the option in each year is designed and
evahated as if nothn other th  routne maintenance had been done in the previous years,
so that it effetively rerset successive deferrals. Ihus, if B is indicated for sy
srengtening in Year 1, the analysis might also show that a higher standard B with



-79-                          ANNEXS
widening would be economic in say Year 4, with Holding Treatnent being r
in between.
15.         Polc and Standards Submodule (PSSM). Ihis provides built-in access
to the HDM-II and EBM models, and facility to add other policy analysis tools In the
future. It gives an anaycal capability to evaluate: (i) Treatmt irvetion lvel
design stdards and width stds; (ii) Axle load and vehicle weight and dimesion
limi; and (iii) Feedback from field monitoring and reseach. However, its use is not
required for normal program preparation.
16.         Feasbility Studies. This provides a port in which the reslts of off-line
feasibility studies of new construction or major reconstruction can be introduced so that
the allocation of expenditres to construction and mantnce can be optimied on an
equivalent basis. The input data would include the work program category, length,
duration, cost, NPV and INPV of each project. Such studies are unlkely to be fully
aomated, but a submodule producing an outline road capacity expansion program is a
potential option for the upgrade of IRMS being proposed in the project.
Progamming Module
17.         The Progrnming Module (3) produces muli-year roadworks programs for
a network, apples any budgetary constraints, and growps project into pre-tener packages.
It is used in a Province to program works for the Provincial road network, and in  tal
DGH to program works for both the National and optionally for the Provincial road
networks. In this process, various DGH policy criteria are applied to the optmal ublink
freatment options obtained from the Planning Module, including: (i) the criteria for
gruoping sublink treaments into link-level projects; and (ii) the criteria for allocating
Periodic maintnce and betternent project costs over defined project imple ntI
peiods. The production of the unadjusted multi-year program is automatic. That progran
can ten be adjusted by the user (either compute-.'sisted or manually within defined
limits) to reflect local priorities and to take accw.,' of budget limits. The pre-tender
packaging is a user-ontrolled activity, with computer-assistance.
18.         Sublink Tretment Selection. The treatment and timing selected for a
sublink from the Planning Module output is the treatment-year option having the highest
NPV/km within the S-year plan pet iod, for which the INPV/In (for not deferring) is also
positive. Ongoing, Betterment aid Periodic Maintenance project are followed by one
year under waranty (when there are no costs to DGH) and subsequently by routine
maintnance. Holding treament is applied untii Betterment becomes feasible.
19.         program Selection Criteria. The allocation of a link to a funding program
is based on the amount of sublink works in each program category through a series of
formulae devised by Bina Marga [cf. Fig. 3.4 in (3)], as follows:
(a)   Betterment program- either if the amount of B and P in the frst throe
years exceeds 50 percent of the link and the B length exceeds 15 bn, or
if the amount of B and P in the first tree years exceeds 80 percent of the
link and the B length exceeds the P length;
(b)   Perodic maintenance program-if the B and P length in the first two years
exceed either 20 percent of the total link length or 5 km, or the P leng
in the first two years exceeds 1 kn;



- 80-                          ANNEX 5
(c)   Holding teatment prograTm-if H exceeds R in the first year; and
(4)   Routine maintenance program-if R exceeds H in the first year.
Athough the sublink teatm   need was identified for a single year, the implementat
of the link-project may be scheduled over a longer period to gain economies of scale. To
meet DGH's implementation policy, P projects are currently 1-year projects, and Core B
projects are converted into 2-year projects (50-0 percent). The yearly imesplit is user-
defied in each case. The output is the unconstrained multi-year progm  for all
roadworks, atl prduced autmatcally without the imposition of any user-prefeences.
20.         Progra  Modification. Projects wihin -the program are ranked by the
INPV/km, i.e., the bnaefit of not deferring by one year. The Provincial user is given a
strictly lmited fatcility to modify the priority ranking to meet special objectives of the
DBM. These limits allow negative-INPV projects in to a program only with lower priority
than positive-INPVs; up to 20 percent of the B and P program to comprise special projects
for which no feasibility study has been undertaken; deferment or advance of positive-INPV
projects; certain changes of budget source; and reallocation of P or B projects between B
and P programs.
21.         Budgetary Constraints can be applied through three budgets, the APBN
(all programs on National roads), APBD-I (P and R programs on Provincial roads), and
IPJP (President's budget for B projects on Provincial roads), though in practice only the
APBD-I constraints are likely to be known at the Programming stage. In each budget, first
priority is given to R, H, Ongoing and the user's Special projects (e.g., Progran Khusus).
In the P budget, priorities are assigned in the descending order of INPV, projects below
the budget ctoff are deferred to the following year, and the process is repeated for the 5
yems of the plan. Deferred projects are assigned Holding Treatment so long as they are
dferred. The process for the B budget is similar. The impact of deferment on the
network-average roughness can be displayed graphically. This process allows the size of
he program to be balanced over the 5-year plan period.
22.         Pre-Tender Packaging of Projects. The user is able to select and group
projects into a contract package so as to meet minimum contract size requirements, e.g.,
US$3.0 million for IBRD, and US$2.0 million for ADB, financing of Betterment.
23.         Report. Many report formats in differing details are available. The
following are most useful for financing agency review:
#4:   Multi-year constrained program, project details by sublink and Province,
see Table 2;
#11: Multi-year unconstrained program, program lengths by FY, road class and
Province for each sub-program (#11 a-I); and
#12:  Multi-year unconstrained program, cost summary by program and FY, see
Table 3.
24.         Reports of interest for a more detailed review include:
#3:   Multi-year unconstrained program, project details by sublink and Province;



Table 2: 3-YEAR CON SMANE PROGRAM REPORT WiT PtOJEr DiTAIu
TWZ
&e   to                       199W                                        ________ 19 I   101 .
thk  PFm   To  Zmr4. AA1  f W   WWM          SDIIg Pr   Tf ff fR C4  Rev ku   Pt          Ft can   W  C        Pt Fr TM      Cat  14WM  O m=t      Om
bi                 a                      km b P                          km  RP                            km  Rt
l 4 1 STABJLO.AISA
0  M137.   0    2 .71  206    PM2 45   7.4 I    A   PA7 A1  M17   0    go   a  *.01 on0    0   R               P,O1  0     a       0         7JI 417
U1                                       la hmQ0F2w
L& a K TABUL04A
01 I*  t161D  2.n71  30     nfa 4&5   1   IX7    B   PA30 OMII       0   33    a  P.010    *0    01            tDt  0 OID   3    0           OAR  It
0 13740  *iAD 2.71 20Df       2 4J   1.         1120    P130.3   42    0   3133   a  P,10   O.mD0   0  R       t   0    *AD   a    aU       Q 0
03 Is?=    t=  2s.71 76    PWa 4J   lA tZ    I   PA30 23I    a   sot3s   a  P!  040                  0o         P,t1a1 O     O tO           0.79  a
NOW t J_ Cal:  PAl R          _
P112 Ht_bs Mabi
PM.1 sbigh ug0 #"  m(1 tu
P.t2 Ad ht  3  sdamA
P.2 Am*A bt  *uuiSt  AC)
PM  Asrp t     e 6 am e     or S.xA
P.30 Mnh    _~s1 etta
P31 M,*cwm eaglalm    410 =a MIIS t AT41
P32    1fm uphk tV ly flam HRS +AT114 + ATSLl
PAlI Roomm"m v4ib qb"gf N ba 30  11S + 10 mm AA
P.42  _suibi sB apb bow kte tRS + All, +130.. AgE)
P?.I CaCwbu    " & - 44 to 4 (O aIRS + ISO am Ate)
P.52 Casseibr*  uI0., e4.5w 6.(10 haS 154ATE. 4159mAsS)
P.53 Ck_an q    1 C6tt6.0S        8 + XAT0, + Is)    Ag)
P.4 CaeapW   14  470 w 7.00  lo MS + AMD, + 13 m )
P.A   5   0 JIt a" p0 ts Km + Is AA
PAZ  dhGt o(Gm RAt 1W 1 (li; w  3 + ATh, t1   AgIS
tA



- 82 -                               ANNEX S
#7:    Multi-year untained program, total lengths by treatment and road class
(RC); and
Y9:    Multi-year unconstined program, program costs by FY, RC and Province
for each sub-program (A9 a-l);
Road Design Module
25.            The Road Design System  (RDS), an automated pre-contract detailed
engineering design tool for betterment and maimenance works, has been incorporated into
IRMS as fte Road Design Module (RDM) (4) for the primary purpose of producing bid
documents. As with the parent RDS, the RDM is able to perform pre-tender detailed
engmneering and post-mobilization design review, but these functions will be a primary role
of the CIM module when it is added. RDM determines the physical and pay quantities for
the mjor pay items of each contract, generally the pavement items. Ancillary works are
estimated by RDM but need to be re-assessed and refined by the supervision team at the
tme of the contractor's mobilization.
Table 3: FIFV-YEAR UNCONsmA1E EXPENDITURE PLAN SUmmARY REPORT
RAd    ROA  1W   Fedsd _ Bam      ROOMt IvA WuitBCd_W ,UIR   Bcn_mw &&low   a  TOW
s      tomb 01C4      la%*£ cm  WV ia louhc 4 JW_ R Lag& C IRVNMW Rp 1_ Cu1 4 MMNWp Cm pR
FpM Ye(    Um=   () Mm=  3m3Dtm (a)  Mm=ll  (ha)  Mm  Mm   Gus bIie biOli  bumO
IM19    4   12.9 IV1II5 ZA  444  35  MT7      A   as 1.9  11.1  2.10  A9J  .8   0.9
mss  301.9310 3.1   4"   O 0S 9"37 n2    0.            I      0.1 I 18S59.  0.   33174
10W16 1164x  27.6   334  276  0I    W   V.4  04.  79  13    0.2  1.43  215.1  0.3    MA
19911196 IS,138 4D.1   SSD  35.1  0.2  143  166  0Q   790 12.7  0.2   932 1393  03   214,5
1896V07l 1427  WA    4fl  41.1  0.1  126  14.5  0D   60 1883   0.1   806 It"  0.1  23D5
12119936 A   12.8  3.73  2722  7.5  4.30  5525  23.5  1.784 265A  52Si  6.134 617.8  76.0  1.1t.
111904 33,0 19.7   230  16.7  0.1  S.465 4.   0.4  .94S 289.2  0.9  5.410 7413  12   mn.7
19941995 14M13 48.7   38D0  2    0.1  2.S6 336.1  03  1W15 271V   0.4  4.,12 07.i  OA    M9
9931t196 27.34 6.9   54  47A  0.1  1.1#8 148.2  0.2  644  95.1  0S   1.832 2433  0.7  3554
199Io191w7a" 75 141.1   483  47.1  0.2  1,141 14.   0.0  489  73.9  0.2  3,630 212.  0.2  407J
N1m ad 1si Ron
1399 318I*  25.7 4.611 55.  52.1  50  833.1  39.1  2,439 3743  75.6  .744 3.47 114.7  3.768.7
1931N1994  24,#  s  644  57.5  0.4  4.402 5X4.7  0.6  2,76 416*   0.9  7.108 1,10.7  I.5  .M095*
101199s3 2.=  86.3   714  54*  0.2  3.,21 418.3  0.4  2.614 403.7  0.5   5"835 822.2  0.9  953
39881156 43,06 1MA    974  ILS  03  1.330 164.S  03  1.434 217S   0.7  2744 38i2.6  ID   57D2
19W1897 406145 2887   944  83.2  0.3  1.20 ISS.2  0.0  1.30  176.2  03   2,436 331A  03   68.3
26.            For the contract packages from  the Programming Module, a Datascan
finction in RDM identifies the data available in the daabase for use in detailed
engineering design and, for B and P projects, the lacking data (typically strength data)
which are needed firn a field investigation. A Data Entry facility allows input of
additional field data, and the Segmentation submodule allows the user to determine new
homogeneous section limits for overlay design purposes.  The Design and Quand
Submodule calculates pay item quantities and cost estimates using the same Major Works
tm  function as for the Planning Module, a Road Widening Submodule and otier Works
Rem functions. An Adjust Submodule has been developed to facilitate the review and
revision of a Work Program in the case where a major cost adjustment arises from this
design phase, and will be introduced in FY94. A Report Submodule prints reports for
complee tender documents, including bid schedule, engineer's estimates, quantities and
costs for al pay items.



-83 -                         ANNEX S
Economic Review Module
27.         The Economic Review Module (ERM) (5) applies an economic evaluation
to the contract packaged projects to verify and review the economic benefits which may
have changed from the original levels on which the priorities were based in the
development of the program in the Plamning Module. The ERM is simila and
quantitatively equivalent to the EAM used in the Planning Module, with the exception tht
it also includes (i) generated traffic, in the case where thre is substantial roughns
improvement such as from 10 to 3 mrln /kRI; and (ii) calculation of the economic iternal
rate of return (EIRR) directly- from the data in the Database.
Budgeting Module
28.         The Budgeting Module (6) produces the annual roadworks program budget
under the various budget categories, and produces several standard budget reports, e.g.,
Satan-3 and DIP. The work packages are grouped under headings of Ongoing Periodic
Maintenance, Ongoing Betterment, Routine Maintenance, New Periodic Maintenance and
New Betterment. The budgeting process also requires data input regarding bridge, urban
road, nural road, special project (PK), and other expenditure categories. The costs are
then applied to the budget categories (APBN, APBD, IPJP, BLN, RBLN) in accordance
with the criteria, and budget breakdown reports such as the 11 categories of the DIP are
produced.
IRMS Databases
29.         The Central RMS Database (7) is the core resource of the IRMS, storing
all the data on which the application modules operate and the output from those modules.
The Database also provides the basis for preparing road network statistics and management
reports. Similar but smaller daabas  reside in each Provincial DBM containing all road,
traffic and program data collected for the Province. The database is now strucured in
seven data groups, as follows:
(a)   Admnistative Data: identifying the Regional, Province, Wilayah and
Seksi jurisdictions;
(b)   Road Data: inventory attributes (link description, location reference, road
descriptdon, road geometry, etc.); pavement strength (strucure, CBR, BB
deflections, FWD deflections, etc.); road condition (roughness, distress,
minor structures and sideworks condition); materials sources (quarry, soil
cement zone, etc.); and project data (committed and ongoing projects);
(c)   Bridge Data: inventory and condition data for bridges longer than 6m
(maintained in the Bridge Management System);
(d)   TraWic Data: traffic volume, classification and loading data;
(e)   Budget Data: annual budgets and Repelita (five-year plan) budget for
National and Provincial roads;
(f)    Cost Data. unit road works costs and road user cost pameters; and



-84-                          ANNEX S
(g)   History Data:  historical record of date, type and costs of works
performed on the network.
30.         A majority of these data are available or are collected on a regular basis.
The Adminisrative data, much of the road inventory data, bridge inventory data and
supplied budget data are complete, Road roughness (calibrated to IRI), pavement
condition, and traffic volume data are supplied annually by the Provinces. These data are
subjected to a quality assurance process, commencing with a data audit and correction in
the province, followed by a central audit by DGH, correction by the Province and
checking by DGH, before entry to the Central IRMS Database. Higher quality control and
sricter audit procedures are necessary in general, and on traffic volume data in particular.
Currenty, there is a significant lack of the following data: (a) terrain and roadside
development inventory data; road geometry data; (b) pavement strength data; (c) traffic
lbatding data; materials source data; and (d) historical data on works perfonned. Ihis lack
has been identified for some years and is now to be addressed under the proposed Second
Highway Sector project. One year's data occupy about 50 Mb of storage. Currently, each
year's data are stored separately so th  automatic comparisons for the purposes of
validation or trend determination are difficult and must be handled manually. This has
proved to be a significant constraint on improving both data quality and programn quality.
Construction Implementation Module
31.         A major module intended for the IRMS, but delayed now until the new
project, is the Construction Inplementation Module. This is intended to comprise the
following six submodules or functions:
(a)   Procurement Management: monitoring the bidding process activities,
including pre-bid conference, bidders' questions, addenda, bid evaluations,
contract negodation and award, notice issuance, control of performance and
advance payment bonds, preparation of terms of reference, evaluation of
supervision proposals, etc.;
(b)   Detailed Engineering: Under present practice, detailed engineering is
undertaken by the supervising consultants to fmalize all contract quantities
and prepare an addendum if necessary (this would be a version of the
RDM module);
(c)   Design Review: A mid-contract review of quantties has to be supported
by a design review to justify an addendum (this would be another version
of the RDM);
(d)   Routine Maintenance Monitoring: Feedback j required on the actal
needs for routine and holding treatment maintenance, the physical progress,
actal resource inputs, and the imnpact of the expenditures so tgat the
maintenance estmates and performance can be improved;
(e)   Construction Supervision: standard procedures on contract adminstra-
tion, monitoring of administrative correspondence, etc.;
(I)   Progress Monitoring  Physical and fiancial disbursement progress data
providing a complete record of quantities, disbursements, claims, etc.; and



*e8s-                        sANNE  5
(g)   Quat  Assunce: standard procedures for quality assurance, data from
quality control tests, and as-built data, suitable for a technical audit.
32.         This module should grealy improve the ability of the IRMS to detct and
control waseful overlap or premature repetition of works in the program, improve the
efficiency and effectveness of supervision control of costs and progress, improve feedbac
into the IRMS so that predictions of performance and needs becomes more reliale, and
improve the quality of data.
33.         A further function which could be included to meet a need of die fding
stitutions is an Er-post Economic Revkw of the project following i ntatin, which
would recalculate the economic returns based on the as-built characteristics iacudi 
quality of works, actal costs, etc. The results would form a basis for te Project
Completion Report.
EvauSloQ and Further Development
34.         The system is comprehensive and powerful in its ability to develop an
economically optimal annual works progran and 5-year plan, including preliminary
engneering design, contract packaging and document preparation for over 6,000 subllnus
and 200 contacts annually. With full implementation in central DGH and most Provincial
DBMs, and coverage of over 95 percent of the National and Provincial ntwork, It Is
among the most advanced filly implemented systems in the world.
35.         Development and refinement of the system will continue however In the
tght of eprince. Based on this detailed review of IRMS-92 and experience wih its
operation, a munber of feaues to enhance Its performance have been identified. A
preliminary schedule of actions is shown in Table 4, subject to annual review.
36.         Extension of the IRMS under the Project TA is Intended to icrporae
capacity expansion projects more explicitly, and link with companion systems for bridges,
urban roads, district roads, and possibly toll roads. Considerable development in
technology is also being plamed, both in data collection and in the system archtecte.
Source Documents
37.         Hoff and Overgaard a/s and Pt Multi Phi Beta.  Intemrban Road
Management System. Series of reports from Second Technical Advisory Services on
Planning and Programming to the Directorate of Planning. Directorate Gener  of
HIways, Ministry of Public Works: Jakarta, Idonesia, July 1992. Volumes as follows
(Numbeing only for reference purposes):
1.    Overview of the IRMS
2.    Planing Module
3.    Prograng Module
4.    Road Design Module
5.    Economic Review Module
6.    Budgedng Module
7.    IRMS Data Base
8.    The Road User Cost Model
9.    The Economic Evaluation Model



- 86-                              ANNEX 5
10. Developing and Updating Generalized Forecasts of Normal Traffic Growth
Rates
There is also a set of User Manuals for the IRMS Applicadons Modules and Databas.
Tabb 4: M[ODIFICATONS TO INTEIGATD ROAD MANAGMENT SYSTM IRMS)
AMD BUDGE MANAGEMENT SYSEEM (BMS):
rIAL ScHEDULE NOVEMER 1993
Ttot Dsle    No.                          Desiption of Modificatioa
Oct 93       1.1    Revidon of the null stategies defined in the NSSM, replacisg te wbw
B       _tterment/Pariodic Mainteac stra   componet by a "Holding Treame
which prevents frther deterioation, ad retaning the four traffic-based
Maximum Tolerable Roughness levels of 6, 8, 10, and 12 MI for AADTs of
> 10,000, 3,000-10,000, 1,000-3,000, and > 1,000 veh/day respectively.
Inoduction of initial set of low cost periodic maintence options in Planming
1.2    module, dedgued as non-structur resurfacing for low-volume poor conaon
rads, including rads with roughness exceeding 12 rnmkm IML
Oct.94       2.1   Inchlde systematically-surveyed pavement strength data (deflection.) for the
entire nwork i the database and all relevant IRMS anlyss, to eace desig
and coat estimtes and program alocatwo.
2.2    Iiclude pavement age and matance histoy data in the datab   and
analysoe, to idetify and assess prects pre_uly re-entering a propm
cowmpaed with the applied desgn Lfe standa
2.3    Updat Vehicle Damage Factors (VDP) througout, usinget of CWU TA
(1993), applied aon basis of region, road class and traffic leve.
2.4    Colect and enter sdwoks data for all roads in annual suvey.
2.5    Update conract bid item cost dda in database through results of BED TA, etc.
2.6   Incoporati  of upgraded RDM fm  BED TA into all rlevt modules, eg.,
Planig, Programming, etc.
2.7    Extd the inrmntai NPV (INPV) analysis used in the Planning and
Programming Modules for selection of optmal treatnts to a bweet-progrm
INPV and a user-specified limit on the minimum acceptable incrmntal benefit-
cost rio (ths would reduce the selection of betterment tetments if the
increase in benefit were small relatve to the increased expenditures).
2.8    Upgrade taffic flow and vehicle-PCU coefficients in relevant modules based an
th Highway Capacity Study (HCM-I, and HCM-II).
2.9   hItroduoe fder lowe-cost aintenace and road upgrading solutions and
review all standard design configurations and program policy standards.
2.10  Intduce a relaiondsp between routine (R) or holdmg (H) main=ae mputu
and surdce distress, and show improvement of extreme condition when H is
lied, rp      tig for xamlO improvement due to paching or levWling
couo  correctio
2.11   Reduce extent of maunl modificatian of the program (uHlized at DBM level) to
not eed   5 percent of roawos program expendi.



-87-                              ANNEX 5
Tagt Date   No.                                    of Modification
2.12   Enc   edo d     xks estmaton utiazg te ew survy data paameers (rf;
2.4).
2.13   Add interna rat of retun (ER) to the report of tdo Contained Mainteaunce
Program Otepo Type #4, Budgeting Module).
Oct 95       3.1    Iclud   ad gemefty data, to enhnce,      of c£gested adfic flow
occu_ReNg              paveme deeg cosdeato, vehcl operating
costs and       beneft
3.2  Utpdae VDF nd _8amt to road link using ldat  avey data.
3.3   improved  lhbilit of taffic voluwa cout and composition, thou
improvd  aditing and extne maoniting technology.
3.4    Ioved qualiy of rough     and pavement condition data.
3.5    Colleton of sufac distre  data and rieetion of SD.
3.6   Imprved coobat bid item cost das based on rcent prQects in rlevant
vicinity.
3.7    Modi1jr analyses of capet analysis, width effects, VOC, and sdewrb
estimat to ue road gemetry and terInp--  data
Oct. 96      4.1   Impoved reliabiliy of traffic volume counts and compston, ftahr
-    audiing and exteded mitorng eehnolk.
4.2   Imoed quality of   r          and pvemot condition data
4.3    Sidw  daa (drnag, dinaestmtures nd fritr) for imprved
p-j  quantosz and om estimates.
4.4    Imped contra bid item cost dat based on recnt piects in relvat
vicinity.
4.S    Enhao th sidews estimation with dt  aid of the new suvey dat
-     paramees  (ef. 2.4).



-88 -                         ANNEX 6
EKDONESIA
SECOND HGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
CunrzA AND PRICILS FoR FomauLN
TBREFPYEAR ExFENIMMRE PLAN
AND ANNUAL WoRK PrOGRAM Foa NAIMONAL AND) PRtovICAL ROADS
The-Year   Pire a
1.Ihe roling te-year expendre plan for National and Provincl roads
will be prepared in accordance with the following c:ritera and principles for dhe respective
catgories of works:
(a)   For routine manane, penodic maintenance and bettmnt works on
exitng National and Provinc  roads, using the Intrated Road
Management System, version 1992 (IRMS-92) (or such subsequent
acceptble upgrade), and valid road, traffic and cost data for the current
year collected in accordance wih the procedures of the IRMS and validated
in accordance wit thde addWonal prnciples set out below;
(b)   For routine maintennc, rehailition and replacement works on existing
bridges on National and Provincial roads, using the Bridge Management
System (BMS) of 1992 (BMS-92) or subsequent acceptable version, and
bridge and cost data collected in accordance with the procedures of the
BMS; and
(c)   For all work comprising road capacity expansion (widening by one or
more lan  or realignment) and new constucton, using fte feasibility
analysis metod developed under the progrm of Pilot Feaibity Studies
and docmiented in the Methodology Manul includg the assocted
environmental impact asessment method, and valid data collected in
accordance wih the methods outlined in the Methodology Manual.
2.          In addtion, the following principles wlll apply:
(a)   For all road Ilin  proposed for Beterment, addidonal data shall be
colleted and be available for review includig: (i) a 5-year history of
traffic data indicating a verified trend; (ii) capital expendiu  history
indicating ddat the link had not been betered whin the previous 8 years;
(Il) verificadon that the link is not a candidate for capacity expansion or
capital project within a forward 10-year horizon; and (iv) for projects
involving widening, an assessmen of enviromnal and relocation impacts
in the immediae vicinty of the roadway;
(b)   A systematic auditng of the validity of road, traffic, bridge and cost data
wiUl be established and applied regularly on a random sample basis for the
whole network, and on a constructed bash for provinces In which
brregritie are Idfie;



-89 -                         ANNEX 6
(c)   To optimize the use of uncommited foreign funds, the "Ongoing Project'
file will include only subprojects for which there is a contract under
execution or a committed foreign project;
(d)   Consistent with the objectives of Repelita V and VI, priority will be given
to identifying cost-effective economic options for the maintenance,
rehabilitation or betterment of the remaining roads which are in very poor
condition, and incorporating the options in the IRMS so these works are
included in the Three-Year Plans from 1994/95 onwards; and
(e)   To ensure a cost-effective use and equitable availability of fimds, periodic
maintenance work sh  not be programmed on a sublik where eite
periodic maintenance or betterment has been applied within the previous
four years.
Annuull Work Program
3.          An indicative work progrm and budget for national and provincial roads
will be prepared anmally on the basis of the most likely available budget and through
discussion of the Three-Year Expenditure Plan between the Central and Provincal
authorities. It will provide a list of all subprojects to be continued or undertaken during
the year. The list will include information for each subproject on (i) the treatment; (di) the
esimated cost based on preliminary design; and (iii) the NPV, INPV and EIRR; and
'iv) for subprojects which have EIRR of less than 25 percent, the sensitivity of the EIMR
to cost or benefit changes of +/- 10 percent. It will also include information for the whole
program on: (v) NPV and EIRR; and vi) percent of subprojects and of funds on
subprojects having EIRR of less than 15 percent.
4.          The follow    criteria will be used in formulating the indicative work
progran and budget:
(a)   The economic data (NPA, INPV and EIRR) provided for each subproject
and the program will be an update of the original estimate contained in the
Three-year Plan, based on preliminary engineering design using the IRMS
Road Design Module;
(b)   Subprojects will be packaged in such a way that subprojects with the lowest
and marginal NPV/km can be cut if budget costs are made after
preparation of the program;
(c)   When further cuts are made in the budget after preparation of the program,
subprojects having the lowest INPV will be deferred and replaced by
routine manenance, and priority will be given to routine maintnance and
periodic maintenance subprojects; and
(d)   The total value of all subprojects with a negative NPV at 15 percent
discount rate will be less than 5 percent of the funds allocated to all road
works.



-90-                         ANNEX 6
FORMAT AND CoNTNr FOR PRuESENTAnON oF
TIR-YEAR  EXR  !LAN AND ANNUAL WORKS PIOGRAM
FOR NAIONAL AND PROVNCNAL ROAM
Three-Year Expenditure Plan
S.         hne report to be submitted by November 15 and fhnalized by January 6
each fiscal year will show the Three-year Expenditure Plan for the following three fiscal
years. compising the foilowig information, which is subject to review annualy in
conjunction with the review of the road and bridge management systems:
(a)   Esmatd  eitures in each category for the Plan period, budgeted
expenditu for the current fiscal year, nd actual expendiures for the
preceding three years. The format shown overleaf should be adopted from
FY94/95 onwards for presentation of the plan, with the exception that the
presentation of subitem detail for current and previous years may be phased
in from PY94/95 onwards;
(b)   E         physical work quantities in each category for the Pln period,
comprising the total length of works planned;
(c)   Estimated impacts of the Plan on the physical ane functional performance
of the road systm   he performance indicator to be used will develop
during the course of the project and are to be identified during the annual
review. For the preparation made in PY94/95, the indicators shoud
include:
(i) incidence of physical road condiion, in terms of lengths (%) in
various roughness classes;
i)  incidence of user riding quality, in terms of vehicle utlizaion
(veh-km/yr) traveled on various roughness classes;
(iii) incidence of congestion risk, in terms of vehicle utilization
(veh-kmlyr) in various volume-capacity rado classes; and
(iv) incidence of physical bridge condidon, in terms of number of bridges
in various condition classes.
Annual Works Program
6.          The report to be submitted by November 15 and finalized by January 6
each fiscal year wil provide a summary of the Anmual Program of all road and bridge
expendtures for the subsequent fiscal year, and dsoul comprise the following information,
which is subject to review amnually in conjunction with the review of the road and bridge
management sysems.
(a)   Budgeted expendures for each subprogram;



-91-                           ANNEX 6
(b)   Breakdown of each subprogram expenditure by standard work treatment
code from IRMS and BMS;
(c)   Works quantities.
Format for Presentatin of the Three-Year    eniture Pba
Work -                     Epenffitures (l               Work
Category              Past FYs      FY   FY2 FY3  Treatment Codes La
Road Maintenance            -  - 
Routine and holding   -  -  -  -    -    -   -    P Ox
Resurfacing           -  -  -  -    -    -   -    Pjlx, P 2x
Rehabilitation        -  -  -  -    -    -   -    P_3x, P_4x
Road Betterment             -  -  -  -    -    -   -
Core:                 -  -  -  -    -    '   -
Structural            -  -  -  -    -    -   -    P 3x, P 4x
Geometric improvement -  -  -  -    -    -   -    P_Sx, P_6x
Special:              -  -  -
Structural            -  -  -  -    -    -   -    P_3x, P_4x
Geometric improvement -  -  -  -    -    -   -    P_Sx, P 6x
Bridge                      -  -  -  -    -    -   -
Rehabilitation        -  -  -  -    -    -   -
Replacement           -  -  -  -    -    -
Network Development         -  -  -  -    -    -   -
Capacity expansion    -  -  -  -    -    -   -
Road upgaditg         -  -  -  -    -    -   -
Services and Equipment      -  -  -  -
Grand Total                 -  -  -
Funding Source
GOI                   -  -  -  -    -    -   -
Foreign               -  -      -
To be identified      -  -  -  -
La Treatment codes as defined in IRMS-92, where lx denotes 10, 11, etc. This basis for
computation shown on this page for information only, actual basis to be referenced in
presented report.



-92                            ANNEX 6
FORmAT ANP CoNTEF FoR PESENrAION OF
ANNUAL WORKS TO BE RNANCED BY TME BANK
7.           The reports to be submitted by November 15 and finalized by lamnaiy 6
each fiscal year comprise:
(a)   Summary of subprojects to be financed by the Bank, including te
following data for in each subprogram: number of subprojects, total cost,
total effective length, cost per effective kn (avg, mi, max), total NPV
(15%), NPV per effective Ian (avg, min, max), EIRR (of Bank-financed
subprogram), sublink EIRR range (median, minhmum) for each
subprogrm.
(b)   For each subprogram, contract packaging infornation: percentage of
ICB/LCB in value and in number of contracts.
(c)   Lists for each subprogram of subprojects to be financed by the Bank, i.e.:
(i) Periodic maintenance subprojects for FY_;
Cii) Betterment subprojects for FY;
(iii) Road upgrading subprojects for FY;
(iv) Bridge works subprojects for FY_.
The information in each list is to comprise: contract package identification, Province, link
number, name, administrative classification, functonal classification, link length (km),
effective design length, type of works, design estimated cost, design-estimated unit cost
per effective km, EIRR, and NPV per effective design mn.
8.          In addition, Supporting Technical Infonnation for the subprojects, in
accordance with the items Usted in Annex 6.A, should be on file in Bipran, and made
available to the Bank upon request.



-93 -                        ANNEXEA
SUPPORiNG INFOIRMAUON VOR LIwr OF
ROADWORM SUB?ROJBC1is To sE FANczD BY BIRD
Project Description
1.      LnkNo.
2.      Link Name
3.      Functional Class
4.      Leng (Effective design)
5.      Traffic volume (AADT, veh/day)
6 *     Traffic loading (ESAAlane-yr)
7.      Width (without project)
8.      Width (with project)
9.      Pavement Modified Stuctural Number (without project)
10.     Pavement Mndified Structurl Number (with project)
it.     Date of Road Survey (#II - 19)
12.     Surface tpe
13.     Rougne  (IR) before
14.*    Surface distress (SDI) before
15.*    Geometry Code
16.*    Environment Code
17.*    Last PM Year (P20 or greater)
Is.*    Lat PM Code (P20 or greater)
19.*    Last B year (P.40 or greater)
20.*    Lat B code (P 40 or greater)
21.     Design and cost base
22.     Works code
23.     Pavement works - brief description
24.     Other works - brief description
25.     Pavement costs/kn
26.     Other works cost/km
27.     Overall cost/in
28.     Total cost
29.     EIRR %
30.     FYR %
31.     NPV/km at 15%
Additionally for Bettrent Projects:
32.     5-year history of traffic AADT data (for BMernt projects)
33.     Note of pottal candidacy for capacity expansion, etc. in 10-year horizon
34.     Assesment of             and resettlement impacts in immdiate vicinity.
* Paramets  required to be available from FY95/96 program onwards.



Tabl 1: PLO  CAFACITY EXPANION FALITY STnrn
SUMMARY OF EN0MONMM AL IeACT
Land       Resettle-Tyeo   A
Link/            Type of     Legtth     Acqui*on        mnt       PIL +                      Pfoposed
Segmet          Enionent   (km)             (ha)       (Rouses)  RKLIRP         Exempt         Works
Cileunyi-Nagreg
A            Semi-urban      8.5          3.2          83        X                      Wien to 4 lanes
Gempol-Prum
A            Semi-urban      7.8          0             0                      X        Widen to 10.5 m
C            Urban           9.9          0             0                      X        Widento 10.5m
Pandaan                                                                                                             U
A            Semi-urban      4.5          5.5          72        X                      Widen from 2 to
4 lanes + bypass
Gempol-Mojosari
A            Semi-urban      1.1          1.3           0        X                      Widen to 4 lanes
B            Rural           9.9          0             0        X                      Widen to 7 m
Sidoardjo-epol
A            Urban           4.6          4.0          19        X                      Wieing



-96-                           ANNEX 7
of tie fina detiled engineering, and when applicable, the site specific PIL, RKL and RPL
satisfactory to the Bank.
Land Acquiou ad andt
4.          While the works will be arried out on exist  alignments, about 40%
would involve extension of the right of way and some land acquisition and resettlement.
Of th seven subprojects, three (which account for 65% of the total length) require no land
acquisition with minr land acquisition involved for four. In the four cases with land
acquistion, three involve reslementrelocation of households. The land acquisition
requirments range from 1.3 ha to 5.5 ha, and are not concentaed in any one location.
The number of households affected range between 19 and 83. The natue of the
surrounding rural environment will enable replaceme  plots to be found in the vicinity.
5.          To address the impacts of land acquisition and resettlement, plans for
consultation, survey of properties, building demolition and restoration, land acquisition,
compensation, resetlment/relocation, and street amenity enhancement will be prepared
during the detailed engeer   phase in accordamce with Bank requirements under OD
4.30. These requirements are reflected in the TOR of the consultancy services for
preparation of the deailed engineering, the final assessment of social impacts, and the
action and monitoring plans for the subprojects. Based on the findings of the feasibility
stage studies and experience under recent road projects, it is expected that most of the
resettlement will be voluntary and wiR be handled based on GOI procedures and guidelines
for land acqusition and compensation.  For situations where there is involuntary
resettlement (mostly people without any formal type of land title) appropriate conpensation
for assets, if necessary logistical support for moving and a relocation grant, in accordance
with OD 4.30, would be provided. Resettlement costs estimated on this basis have been
included in the preliminary cost esmaes. These estimates will be fmed up during fte
detailed enginering based on more accurae informaion on land acquisition and
resetlement costs.
6.          Becase of the sectoral nature of the component, action plans will be
prepared for each subproject involving land acquisition and resettement/relocaton and will
be reviewed by the Bank before project funds are committed. For subprojects to be
eligible for financing, hes action plans will be prepared in accordance with the following
requirements agreed at negotiations:
(a)   Subprojects will be designed and selected in a manner which will help
mnmze displacemet and adverse effect on incomes of affected people.
(1)   All subprojects requiring resetement/relocation, even of e few people, will
provide for appropriate compensation for assets based on market value
(including logistical support for moving, and relocation as required).
(c)   Action plans will provide for all meaures and compensation required to
restore the sandard of living of all affected people, as fairly and equally
as possible, whether their land rights are customary or formal.



-97-                           ANNEX 7
(d)   Preparation of these action plans will be based, inter ala, on consulation
of affected people, surveys of land titles and ownership of dwellings and
of affected residents.
(e)   The acdon plans will have a clear implention timeframe and
constuction works will not start within or adjacent to the relocation area
before required resettlement has been completed.
(f)   The process will be trasparent.  Information relating to the people
affected, the compensation they we entiled to, the available options or
alternatives and the grievance and appeals procedure will be provided by
the project manager and made readily available to the exeating agency and
the World Bank.
(g)   The action plans will specify the organizational responsibilities for
implementation and supervision and measures needed to stregthen the
capabilities of agencies involved in accordance with the requirements of the
prevailing GOI laws and regulations.
(h)   The fmal subproject cost estimates will include all costs required for the
satisfactory implementation, and the management and monitoring of the
land acquisition and resettlement/relocation plans and World Bank approval
w.il be subject to all necessary funds having been budgeted for.
7.          With regard to the question of appropriate compensation based on market
value (iem b above), before developing methodologies to be used for establishing market
vale of properties, DGH will seek relevant information from the Bureau of Statistics, the
txaton authorities and the Land Agency, and will exchange views with the Bank on the
fmdings and proposals developed based on these findings.
B. SUBPRoJEC PROIPOSAL DOCUMENrATION
Mie do aion/information package to be prepared as a basis for final subproject
proposals will comprise the following:
1.          Summary Subproject Sheet providing, inter alia, the followirg : location
of segment, length, scope of proposed works, type of environmental impacts, cost of
works, ERR based on detailed engineering cost estimate including cost of supervision,
sensitivity tests;
2.          Feasibility Study Report (if this report is communicated earlier, refer to the
relevant correspondence);
3.          Environmental Assessment and Impact Mitigation Action Plan (the
documentation would vary according to the type and significance of the impacts):
-     for subprojects involving only minor impacts: evidence that the
recommendation wno PIL reqired" has been formally approved by the
authorities concerned;



-98 -                          ANNEX 7
-     for subprojects involving some physical impacts: the PIL, RKL and RPL
reports
-     for subprojects involving some social impact: the PIL, RKL, RPL for land
acquisition/ resettlement;
4.          Detailed Engineering Report (Executve Sunnwy and detailed report,
including sandard drawings);
5.          Description of the proposed supervision arrangemen, includig where
applicable, those for supervision of the RKL for physical impacts or for land
acquisition/resettlement.
6.          Where applicable, the description of the implementation arrgens and
responsibilities for land acquisition/resetflement.



Proje  inplementuaion Schedule
1993    1994    1996    1996    1 997_19             199      2
ID   Name                                                            Stan
1    SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT                          319
2        Bank Project Processing                                      4eDn3
3           Appraisal4289
4           Negotiaions                                              11ilt93_
6           Board                                                     1118194
6           Loan Signing2189
7       GOI ProJect Start-Up Activitieos                              Btl6t93          I
a           Inital Restructuring of RUC                                /59
9           Appoint Project Coordinator                              10I6193_
10           inalization of SBDs                                     10t1593.
11      Project ImplementatIon                                        31t93
12           Action Plan Stage It                                      4/1t93
13           Component A. Road Network Improvemen 8t2--3
14              ProgramYear 1                                          8293i
15                  identification of Sub-project                      829
22                  Design & Tendering Does Preparation               9/27t93
26                  Tendering                                           1J3194
36                  Construction                                      712194
37               Program Year 26309
38                  IdentIfication of Sub-project                     6130194
45                  Design & Tendering Docs Preparation                91194
49                   Prequalfication                                   91t94
56                  Tendering                                        121t594
65                  Construction                                      6126/95
66               Part 1 SupervisIon hfor Years 1 and 2 Programs)  917/93
67                  Selection of Consultants           9J7193
90                  Supervision Services                              7t12194
91               Program Year 3                                       6130195
92                  Identification of Sub-project                     6/30/95
99                  Design & Tendering Docs Preparation      91_ _ _-   -f9]                                          -- !
Project, Indonesia 2nd Highway Sector Investment    Critical  '            Progress                     Summary
Date: 12116193    -   Page:1 -I               Noncrilical                  Milestone *                  Rolled Up O



Preoect lmplmetton Scedule
1993    1994    1995    1996   1997         998        9991 2
ID   Name                                                           Start
103                  Prequallfication                                  911/96
109                  Tendering                                       12/15195
119                  ConsttuctTon                                     5/24/96
120              Part 2 Supervision (Year 3)                          61S0/95_
121                 Selection of Consultant                           630/95
144                 Supervision Services                              6/24/96
145          Component B. Road Network Expansion                       3/1/93
146              Capacity Expansion                                    31/93
147                  Phase 8                                           31/93
140                     Feasibility StudV                              3/1/93 w _-[    ___77...........__----      -   -[      
157                     Final Engineering Design                      3/31/93
166                     Prequalification                               4/5/94
172                     Land Aoquisition                              7/19/94
173                     Tender Process                                7/19/94
183                     Construction                                 1/79
184                  Phase It                                         12i1193
185                     TA for FS1 A FED                              12                                       _ ._                     .
186                         Selection of Consultants                  1/2193
209                         TA Services                              10/26/94
210                      Data Acquisition                             1/26/94
21146                       Land                                      7/27/94
212                             Direct Contracting7279
213                             Delivery                             1/39
214                         Aerial Photography12'9
215                             Seiection of Consultants1269                           p
238                             TA Services                          1/19
239                     Civil Works Year 23295
240                         Prequalification3299
248                         Land Acquisition5179
247                         Tender Process            5117/95
Project: Indonesia 2nd Highway Sector Investment    Critical   I  ';  S" W "   Progress               Sunmary
Date: 12/16593    --  Page: 2   -            Noncritical                  Milestone *                 Rolled Up  O



Proijct mnhmnt.don Sdmh*i
19931994    1996    199            1997   -958    1999 -
ID   NaRme                                                          Start
259                         Constrvcton                              12/20/95
260                    Cavi Works Year 3                              12/6/95
261                         Prequallficatlon                          12/619
267                         Tender Process                            1/24/96
279                         Land Acquisition                          1124/96
280                         Constrction                               8128196
281              Road Upgrading                                        4     411t94
282                  SubnmIssion of Candidate Subprojects from FS Unit  4t1194
283                  Bank Review & Approval                            414/94
284                  TA for EIA and detailed angirieerin               512194              _ *_    *                  
285                     Selection of Consultant                        5/2/94
308                     TA Services                                    36/695
309                  Submission FED and PIL +RKL +RPL                  7/9__5
310                  Bank Review and Approval                          714195
311                  Prequalficatlon                                   5)2/95
317                  Land Acquisition                                  8/11/956
318                  Tendering                                         8(l(95
330                  Construction                                     2120/96
331          Component C. lnstiwtlonal Strengthening                   9_7/93
332              Strengthenintg DGH                                   1211193       --   -114
333                  Extension of Road Management Systems             12/1/93
334                     Selection of Consultants                      1211t93
357                     TA Services                                  10126194    .          i I             *
358                  QualIy Assurance                                 12(1 (93
359                     Selection of Consultants                      12/1/93
382                     TA Services                                  10126(94
383                  Implementation of HCM                             114/94
384                     Direct Contracting                             1/4/94
385                     TA Services                                   5/31/94
386                  Urban Road Managemenit System                    12/1/03
Project: Indonesia 2nd Highway Sector tnvestment    Critical  F      i    Progress                    Summary
Data: 12/15(93       Page: 3                 Noncritical                  Milestone *                 Rolled Up  O



-    k pkiwidon Smd e
1993 1994    1995    1996  1997 1   1998    19 1    2
ID    aname                                                           Stant
387                      Selection of Consultant                        1211193
411                      TA Services                                     1/4/96
412                  Equipment                                           1/3/94
413                      Equtpment for Road Monitoring                   1/3/94
414                          Tender Process                              1/3/94 _
422                          Delvery of Goods and Services              8/29194
423                      EquIpment for Traffic Monitoring              12/24194
424                          Tender Process                            12/24194
432                          DelIvery of Goods                           8/7/95
433              Strengthening DiMs/RB30                                 9.7/93
434                  SelectIon of Consultants                            9/7/93
457                  TA Services                                        7112/94
468               Strenghening IRE                                      121193
459                  Road Research                                       113/94
460                      Direct Contractfng                                13194
461                      TA Services                                     61/194
462                  Technology Transfe & Standards Developmen          1211193
463                      Selection of Consultant                        12/1193
486                      TA Services                                   10/26/94
487                  Pavement Testing Faciity Assessment                3131194
488                      Direct Contracting                             3/31194
489                      TA Services and Fellowships                     911/94
490                  Equipment                                           7/1_94
491                      Tender Process                                  711i94
499                      Delivery of Goods                              2/1 0/95
50o           Component P. Human Resources Development                   1/3/94         1   1
501              National/Provincal Roads Master Training Plan           4/1/94 _   r
502                  Submssion of Draft MTP                              4/11/94
503                  Bank Review & Approval                              4/4194
504                  Preparation os Trainrng Program                     7/4194
Project: inemsIa 2nd HIghway Sector Investment    Critical      _           Progress                     Sununw V
Date: 12/161/93    -      :4 |                 Noncritical                  Milstone -                   Rolied Up 



ProJec Implementaon Schedtde
1993    199      1S96    16    1007    108   0t99            Z _
ID   Name                                                           Start
S                    ImpementatIon of Trainin Program                 1013/94
506              rTB Magister Program                                  113J94
507                  Direct Contracting                                113/94
50 .      :          TA Services                                      1131t94
609          Component E. Support MOC for Action Plan Implementation   111194
S10              Advisor, Services and RUT Reform                      111/94 _ _                I
511                  Selecton of Consultant                            l1/194
534                  TA Services                                     11/28/94
535              Pilot DLLAJ and RTTC                                   M/94
538                  Selecion of Consultant           111194
559                  TA Services                                     1/89
560              Traffic Safety & VWDL Advisory Services               31t94
561                  Selecton of Consultants                           3194
584                  TA Servks                                        1124196
585              Satdantas TrainingI 39
586                  Direct Contracting                                11 _
587                  TA Services521
688              EquIpmnt for MOC                                    12124/94
589                  Tender Procs                                    12124194
597                  Delhy of Goods                  8m95
598      Supervision and Reporting1159                                                                                             %
599          DIsbursements                                             41/94
600          Reporting on 3-yar Program, Budget. Action Plan  1116/94                      -4-1
605          Annual Review Completed                                  1i31i94 _._t                                          t
610          MkI-Term Review                                           919
611          Supervision                                               21194
623          Project Completion                                       6130199
624          Project Closure                                         1231/99
625          Project Completion Reporting                              611100
626     -                                ,         ..   _                    _ _  1  _ _  l l _ _ _ _ _  1   1   1  _  l l _ ^  1   1.
Propect Indonesia 2nd Highway Sector Investment    Critical               Ptogress                    Sunmary
DPo: 12/15193    -   Page: 5                 Noncritical                  Miestone *                  Floted Up O



-104-                          ANNEX9
INDONESI
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
SmvBoN ARD RUIRm
1.          Baok Supewvon Input into Key Actvie
1.1          he staff hnu indicated In the table overf is In addito  to regular
evison needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, co ence,
etc. (estmated for this project to require six staff weeks per year).
1.2        Eacb of h eight regins Should be visid at east once during project
supervision and two of three selected regions should be visited twice. Given the
geographic dispersion of the project, supervision missions should focus in each field visit
on only one or two provinces which would be deemed typical because of their geogrphical
charactristics and their performace, as dsown by the progress reports.
1.3         Staff from the Resident Mission will be Involved to a large extent in the
upervion of this project, in particar (a) in the EA reviews and (b) in the random ex-
post review of the large amount of LCB-poaured civil works onracts and SOB
domnain.
1.4         To get the expected benefits from the larWge Technical Assistance component
under the project, a special emphasis will be placed on TA supervision to ensure hat the
assistan  is worthwhile. Each assignment will be closely monitored regarding is
effectiveness, and random audis will be performed to check the quality of output (be it a
fial study report, a number of trained staff, or a newly improved pavement).
2.                  's Cto Supv
2.1         Project coordination will be the responsibility of the Project Coordtion
Unit (PCU). In particular the PCU will be responsible for coordinating arrangements and
providing information required by Bank missions.
2.2         The use of cpeed project management will be encouraged under the
project. In particular, the project implemenaion schedule (Annex 6) will be installed in
the PCU, to be used as a plaming, monitoring and management tool.
2.3         Review meetings with the participation of the various project agencies will
be held normally in February of each year, to discuss the previous year's performance and
the current year program. A mid-term Project Iplementation Review would be held in
May-June 1995.
2.4         Progress reports are to be submitted quarterly, and their content should meet
the reoiements set fort below.



-105-                            ANNEX9
Dates                                                Skill      Staff Input
(month/year)              Activity                     Needs      (staff-weeks)
01402/94     Supevision Miuson
(to review initial project arrangements, first   HE, TE    4
year works contracts, and briefing of
consultants)
05-06194     Supervion Mission
(to review  start-up of civil works and   HE, TE           6
consultancy  services,  organizational   TR
arrangemens, progress in preparation of
training master plan)
10-11/94     SuprvIsion Mission                       HE, TE)           8
(review preparation of 1995/96 program on   ENV, TR)
the basis of experience of 1994/95 program)
02-03/95     Supervision Mission                       HE, TE           6
(to discuss 1995/96 program proposals and   ENV
review first year works contracts and
progress in program of studies)
09-10/95     Supervision Mission                       HE, TE)          8
(mid-term PIR to review all aspects of the   ENV, TR)
project, especially performance under loan
conditions, adequacy of project organizational
arrangements, quality of consultancy services
and impact of the project on the performance
of road agencies)
1996         Two Supervision Missions                 id.              14
1997         Two Supervison Missions                  id.              14
1998         Two Supervision Missions                 id.              10
1999         Two Supervision Mission                  id.               8
2000         One Supervision Mision                   HE, TE            5
(preparation of PCR)
HE=Highway Engineig, TE=Transport Economics, ENV=Enviromnent, TR=Training



-106-                          ANNEX 9
3.          Reportig Requirements
3.1         Various types of reports will be generated under the project to meet GOI's
repordng requiremts and feed into its monitoring system:
*     monthly reports produced by the supervision consultants and RBOs' Core
Teams, providing details on the project, the contracts, implementaton
progress, and payments.
*     quarterly reports prepared by the same consulan  and giving, in addition
to a progress summary, an evaluation of proble    encountred and
proposed soludons.
3.2         The Bank's reporting requirements will be a subset of the above
information, in the form of a quarterly package to be assembled by the PCU and including:
(i) the PCU quarterly report prepared in accordance with the subparas. below, and (ii) the
other quarterly reports as annexes to the PCU's one. This package should be sent to the
Bank by the last day of the month following the concerned quarter. The specific
equiremens are as follows:
(a)   Eah report should not only record progress in project impiemenation, but
also identify emerging problems and suggest solutions to achieve project
ob!ectives. Special attention should be devoted to the aspects of
construction quality.
(b)   The PCU report should cover all aspects of project components. It should
consolidate and suariz the supervision and core teams reports, and
elaborate more on the other aspects: engineering, planning, environment,
and sPecial studies. The information should be given in such detail as to
permit an assessment of the perfonrance of each assignment.
(c)   The basic data for the project, contracts, implementation progress and
payments details are the same as the ones used for reporting on on-going
projects, especially the Highway Sector Project.
(d)   The consolidation of the supervision and core teams reports will be done
easily if all consultants are using the same formats. It is proposed that these
formats be defmied by PCU as one of their first tasks. This will facilitate
the timely reease of the periodic reports.
3.3         In addition to the above reporting requirements, a set of performance
indicators has been defined in the Stage II Action Plan (Annex 2). These indicators,
togeher with the physical achievements compared to the targets, will be monitored
throughout project superision to allow for periodic assessment of project performance.



-107-                         ANNEX 10
KWONEMA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTNT PROJECT
Docums  Am DATA IN THE PRwr Fax
1.   Generl Reports and Sudies
la   Indonsia Highway Siics, Hoff & Overgaard, July 1992.
lb    MHA Deee on Araual Motor Vehicle Tax - Septmber 10, 1993.
2.    Project-relatd documents
2a    ntgrated Road Management System, Final Report, Second Technical
Advisory Sevices on Planning and Programming, 10 vohlmes, Hoff &
Ov'gaard, July 1992.
2b    Intgrated Road Management System, User Manual, 10 volumes, Hoff &
Overgrd, July 1993.
2c    Plot Feasibility  Suxdies for Road Capacity  Expansion Project,
Methodology Mnal, Hoff & Overgaard, July 1993.
2d    Pilot Fibility Studies for Road Capacity Expansion Projects, Link
Reports: Link No. 28-017, Sidoarjo-Genpol, July 1993; ink No. 28-018,
Cenpol-Pasurun June 1993; Link No. 28-O26J027, Pandaan, June 1993;
Link No. 28-081, Gempol- Mojosari, June 1993; Link No. 22-049,
Cileunyi-Nagreg, May 1993, Hoff & Overgaard.
2e    Pilot Feasibility Stdis for Road Capacity Expansion Projects; Road
Caacity Overview, Hoff & Overgaard, November 1992.
2f   Review of Road User Reveuues and Expenditdures in Indonesia, HIlcrow
Fox, June 1992.
2g    Urban Road Construction Manement Advisor, Final Report, September
1992, T.P. OSulivan & Partners, Ltd.
2h    Ihe Developmeat of Computerized Road Planing System Module and
Road Design System Module in Establishing Urban Road Programmes,
Fmal Report, 1993, PT. Wiratnan & Associates/Pf. Pamintori Cipta.
2i    Urban Transportation Plaming and Management, Final Report, Excoutive
Summary, Septmber i993, BCEOM and Ingeroute.
2g    ProJect Implementaeon Schedule (Detailed).



- 108 -                       ANNEX 10
2k   Interim Standard Environmental Migation Measures, September 1993.
3.    Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance, Drafts current at December 15, 1993,
viz:
3a    T.A. for Support Project
a.1   Regional Betterment Office (RBO) Core Teams
a.2   F.S. and F.E.D. of Road Capacity Expansion Project
a.3   Environmental Impact Assessme  and Preparadon of RK}JRPL of
Road Upgrading Projects
a.4   Data Acquisition for Road Capacity Expansion Feaibility Sudies
(SPOT and SFAP)
3b    DGHl Capacity Building
b.l  Integration , Development and Iplemeation of Intgrated Road
Management Systems (IRMSs).
b.2   T.A. for Quality Assurance (Q.A.).
b.3   Highway Capacity Manal Phase 3.
b.4  Joint Research in Appraising Pavement Test Faciiies.
b.5   Road Research Development Project
b.6 Technology Transfer and Standard Development Project.
b.7   Addendum to the S2 Programme in Highway Engineering and
Development.
3c    MOC Capacity Building
c.1   Traffic Safety/VWD
c.2   Road User Taxaion
c.3   Training Management (DLLAJ Pilot and RTTC)
c.4   TA for Indonesian Nadonal Traffic Police, Satlantas Training
Project (xnsion - Stage I).



-109-                         Table 1.1
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECIOR INVEST IM PROJECT
IxmRRUANDoMsc FWGHr MOVEMENS
(bllon tonfiumn)
X 1991
1982       1991        Java        Sumat_
Road Java                   18.9        27.6        39.0
Sumatra                7.9        15.0                     58.6
Rail  Java                   0.7         1.1         1.5
Sumata                 0.3         2.3                      9.0
Sea  Java                    n.a.       42.1       59.5
Sumata                 U.a.        8.3                     32.4
Total Java                   o.a        70.8       100.0
Sumatra                n.a.       25.6                     100.0
Source: LTDP I Study 1992.



-110-                         Tab 1.2
INDONES
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR                    PROJEM
JmmuuAwDoNIc PASuS  MovEMrm
(biglb  mag rlk.a)
-    ,1991
1982       1991       Java        Sa
Road Java                  70.4       133.1       93.5
Sumata               30.3        67.6                     99.0
Rail  Java                  5.8         9.2        6.5
Sumatra               0.6         0.5                      1.0
Sea  Java                    -          0.2         -
Sumatra                -          0.2         -
Totad Java                 76.2       142.5       10.0            -
S&u_tra              30.9        683          -          100.0
Source: LTDP II Study, 1992.



-111-                                    Table 13
DWONF~
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
ROAD Ntrwovx LENG  BY ROAD CLA  AM ISLAND Gour
(kilomters)
Java/     Kal-        Sula-    Nun         m       Mob"       TOa for
Road CGb                Suax    Dai          mutan       wea      T=ga        Jap     Tbd%       IdWonesi
Naiounak  Adal           4,901    3,094       1,931      2,426     1,369       434      273        14,428
Coletor        1,524      223        140        295        389      182       538         3,291
Sub                    6,42      3,317     2,07        2,721     1,758       616      811        17,719
ProvinciAk tAtria          120        11        1S         176         0       191       22           535
Provincil     10,223    7,083      3,754      5,311      1,906     1,466    1,924        31,667
Locl            S11       445        100        289        337        0       181         1863
Subtoal               10,354    7,59       3869        5,776     2,24      1,657    2,127        34,065
ToR RoadB                   3S      339          0           0         0         0        0           374
Distrit Roads L1        57,22    55,738      16,93S     27,265    12,324    2,360    4,830        176,677
Municial roads           5,337    14,001      1,502      2,130     1,172       488      801        2S,431
Tansniatim  Reads        3,564       130       860         734         0        S8         0        5,346
TotalLI   HII   mmI~    am                                                 LoZZ J    Lo2   aMa
Icluding koaady  oads.
Sour.: DOH: 1991/92, mept dstrit roads 1990 and uansigption oa  1988.



-112 -                          Tabl 1.4
IDONESIA
SECOND hIGH WAY SECTOR INVESIMEWF PROJECT
ROAD NEIwo]K DENIT  BY ROAD CLASS MM JSA    GROUW
Road Dnitand Am aO00 k
Land area     National
Island2Goup             (000 km')     & Prov.   Distict   Municp    Totl
S _matm                    481.78       35.9      123.3       11.1   170.3
JmAi la                    135.93       79.9      419.5      102.6   604.2
N _   Xk        82.16       64.1      178.3        17.0   259.5
549.03       10.8       31.3        2.7    44.8
Swlawasi                   194.44       43.7      140.7       11.0   195.3
Other                      505.39        7.8       11.2        2.1    21.2
Indoamla              1,919.5       26.6       93.0        13.0   132.8
Road Densiy/Populaion
Esimated              (km/million nopulaton)
1990        National
Ilad Group              population     & Prov.   Disrict   Municipa   Total
(mulion)
Sumatra                     36.42       474       1,631        147    2,253
lavaftli La                110.30        98         517        127      745
&-Q              7.39       714        1,984        190    2,887
Kdimantal                    9.10       652        1,886       165    2,704
Sulaned                     12.51       679       2,186        170    3,035
Odler                        3.48     1,133       1,633        307    3,072
Indoneds                 179.20       289       1,012        142    1,444
La Incuding DI JakartL
&  Incuding 71mor nmnr.
Source DGH, May 1993.
Road Network Denlsty In Select Countries
Total                    Tota
COnrY                           knI/1,000 sq m         kn/I,000 population
Indonesia                              130                       1.50
Mtalaysa                               220                       2.72
PhiUppines                             520                       2.91
IndIa                                  488                       2.43
Brazo                                  200                      11.82
USA                                    673                      28.02
Source: IBID.



I         j1as an to tX~~.
a  i   IE      g ws
II     Ig}awR
I..3    ];o t
d X      al  i Ses0 g
I j3floW"^
| .|  }  X
a I      



-114 -                           Table 1.6
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTM:NT PROJECT
CommoNW  oi  THEm NATIOaL, PRoVmcIL AND DMIsICr ROAD NErwoRS
IulmdiSroi: Pdmtage of the Read Nework In Indicated Condiin
Natfonal and Provinal Roads
Good     =  bQC    h
nRu        ml          MIE       xTR
<6         6-8        8-12      > 12
Sumatra                                50          10          22        18
Java/Bali                              65          19          14         2
K iantan                               32          8           16        44
Oher lands                             32          14          28       26
Jadouia                             45         U           22        20
DIstict Roads
fmd   Elk   rQ  ft
hJdzua                              27         12                    21
Source: DGH, 1991 national and provincial roads condition survey.
1990 district roads inventory (adjusted on basis of planning surveys).



-115S -                     Tabk 1.7
]DONES4
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
REGISTeRED MOTOR VuiCizs (198C0-990
Cars &
Year        Pickups         Buses         Trucks           Total
(nuInmber Of veniCles)          -
1980        639,464         86,284        473,832       1,199,579
1981        710,937        110,103        575,426       1,396,466
1982        791,019        134,430        657,104       1,582,553
1983        865,940        160,260        713,873       1,740,073
1984        927,148        191,654        790,881       1,909,683
1985        989,158        227,304        845,338       2,061,800
1986       1,063,958       256,574        882,331       2,202,863
1987       1,170,103       303,378        953,694       2,427,175
1988       1,073,106       385,731        892,581       2,351,418
1989       1,182,253       434,903        952,461       2,569,617
1990       1,313,210       468,550       1,024,296      2,806,056
Gowth Rat (%)
1980/81        11.2           27.6           21.4            16.4
1981/82        11.3           22.1           14.2            13.3
1982/83         9.5           19.2            8.6             9.9
1983/84         7.1           19.6           10.8             9.7
1984/85         6.7           18.6            6.9             8.0
1985/86         7.6           12.9            4.4             6.8
1986/87        10.0           18.2            8.1            10.2
1987/88        -8.3           27.1           -6.4            -3.1
1988/89        10.2           12.7            6.7             9.2
1989/90        11.1           7.7             7.5             9.2
SourCe: Biro Pusat Stusas-Figures are based on new vehicle registmtons
(without systematic alklance for scmppings).



9DONESU
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMEN PROJECT
DIWTRIDUION OF ANNUAL VzICL-KfLOf zTxR sDy ROAD CLAS AND IsLAND GRouP
(Vel4nkm millie.)
Island                             Total                            Total      Naoal &      %Vehrm
Group          NA     NK   NL    National   PA       PK      PL  Provincial    Provici    Total   per capita
Sumatra        7,308  877   0.0      8,185     74  3,937    93       4,103       12,289     26.2     337
Java/Bai      13,593  398   0.0    13,991      33  9,734   311    10,079         24,069     S1.3     218
KaUlmantan      876  127   0.0       1,003      7    855      3        866        1,869      4.0     205
Sulawesi       2,464  126   0.0      2,590    382  2,490    76       2,948        5,S38     11.8     481
Nusa Tenggara    697  100   0.0       798       0    537    93         630        1,428      3.0     193
Other           437  256   0.0        693      86    876    85       1,046        1,739      3.7     499
Indonesia     25,376 1,884   0.0    27,250    S82  18,430   661    19,673        46,932    100.0     262
% Total      54.14  4.0   0.0       58.1     1.2   393    1.4        41.9
Note:  Java excludes DKI Jakarta         NA: National Arterial        PA: Provincial Arterial
Other includes Maluku, Irian Jaya  NK: Nadonal Collector       PK: Provincial Collector
NL: Naional Local            PL: Provincil Local
Source: DOH, 1992.



INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECIOR INVESTM[Er PROJECr
MEMI TRAmFc PIC SY ROAD CLAus AND IswID GRouW
Totd                                    Total     Natonal &
Wdand Group          NA      NK        NL          National      PA       PK       pi     Prvinci    Provincial
Sumatra             2,473    1,046      484         2,283         582     743      869        708         1,275
Java/Bali           7,121   3,744     5,527         6,783       2,790   2,633   2,043       2,599         3,858
Kalimantan          1,335     170         -         1,181       1,069     404      ISO        433          689
Sulawesi            1,950     549         -         1,887       1,953     740      646        909         1I2M0
Nusawngpara          938      640         -          888        3,469     442      766        519          676
Other Islands       1,708     100       128          377          958      187      74        157           210             '4
Indonesia         2,94       006      279         2,656        1j352    1,089     567      1,053         1,595
Source: DG*H, February 1989.



-118-                         Tabl 1.10
MONESA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECIOR INVESTMENr PROJECr
ROAD TIMNSORT INDUSTRY INDICATORS
Tridiag Industry Statis, 1985 and 1989
Java: for-hre trucks, interprovd
1985              1989
No. of firs                                   418               313
No. of trucks                               5,821             5,039
Averae no. of tuck per fim                   13.9              16.1
Avage carying capacity/truck (tonmes)         6.3               7.0
Totalcargig capacity (tomes)               36,672            35,273
% of fma owning:        1 - 10 trucks        58.6              57.9
11-20trucks          23.6              18.5
21 - 30 trucks       10.6               11.0
31 - 60 trucks        5.1               9.3
61 - 90 trucks        0.8                2.0
over 90 trucks        1.1                1.2
99.8              "99
Bus Industry Stadstics: 1985 and 1988
(interdty bus cempanies, Java and Sumatra)
1985              1988
No. of fim                                    452               444
No. of buses                                6,167             6,562
Avage no. of buses per firm                  13.6              14.7
Avge carying capacity/bus (pa)               44.9              45.9
Total carying capacity (000 paz)            276.9             299.5
% of fms owning:        1 - 10 buses         60.2              54.5
11 - 20 buses        22.0              26.3
21 - 30 buses         9.2                7.5
31 - 60 buses         6.8               9.2
61 - 90 buses         1.3                2.1
over 90 buses         0.4                0.6
9".9             100.2



-119-                           TAble 1.11
SECOND [IGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
ROAD US= CARG:AS AND ToTAL RoA _
(Rp bMo)
8687  87/88  8889   899    90/91   91192   923     93/94
Charges i
Annl Vehicd
Regttio  Tax   209.8  229.8  258.7   285.3   316.3   372.4    GM         640
VdHicle Owne_ip
Transfer Tax     213.6  288.1  331.4   446.1   528.6   671.6    775    890
Fue Taxes
- Diesel        -280.8  -927.7  40.7 -1,326.2 -2,001.0 -1,173.6    496      0
- Petol          712.7  446.1  589.3   423.3   293.8  1,128.9   1,605  2,488
Totl                          ta      12U    MLd -7 3              i  £911
Expeditures      940.9 1,35S.7 1,157.1  1,879.6  2,417.0  3,799.2   4,618  4,845
La Ezxcludig Impoit Dti and VAT.
&  Excludhg   _edtus on Toll Rods.
Source:   1986/87 - 199192: LTDP U Study.
1992Q93 - 1993/94: _in   Esimates.



INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR INVISTfIT PROJECT
HIGHWAY SwCam  -IN4ISS 1996/97
Road Olm MS*iws  ,ss   nw18Bi,s mf                                                       i, t~           nsim
A. Natimi & FnNiosh1 Roads
Mameo"a                        141.0   154.1    16.7   258.7    187.7   313.0   448.7   563.4   614.9   76535    M57A   1I293.8   1,0819
DmoremAM                       218.0   176.0   146.9   380.1    210.7   558.0   650.7  1,140.4  141281,467 1338 108                         .5.
NM CoasIacw6o                  101.0     8.5    99.9    34.1        8.*    20.0    78*    157.0  I290.    337.47    661.    985*.A         17578 .00
DddgeRepla    t N$230.9    40.4    19.9    63.2                    38.5    158.0   14046   280.7   2376    499.7    440.0    440.           260.0
TAIbUpEqUIpJI  b1bd.            69.0   125.4   133.6   234.9   175.4    181.0   205.0   410.7   370.3   425.6    489.7    563.1             617.0
Told                            5593    481A4   S65JO    971*    620   I,20.  I,23*M  2552*B  ,926.3  3,S43    3,633    4,29A4   4,013
tICPOIEkuibC^ElIN)              349.6   3061    164.0   140.0   100.6   361.9   675.5  1,176A6  11392.0  1,826          1,5013    1,773*    2,599.2
AMKD I            U.0   100.2    97.0   ~~121.3    48.5    119.3    117*    168.6  I2 86        323so2222           2283      521.0
MPJ                                        -                 -               73.8   205.6   289.7   346.    405.6    500.2    592.           644.7
oreigp                          1213    173.2   304.0   709.7    471.8   675.0   524.9   917.9   901.5   879.0   1,629.2   1,69I             727.0
559J    581MJ    566.0   971.0  6aO3   1,230*   1,523A   2,M552    2,9263  3434    35.J          4,29A1    44913
3. DbWAti Roads
IPII                            80.1    87.    130.0    130.0   222.4   294.2   4S3.7   667.1   826.5   967.0   1,076.0   1,141.0 
Iqpte DadE                155.1   174.1    194.9   200.1    262.5   269.2   390.8   557.6   £25.1    612.5    6212           622 
1caPwada                         9.5     7.8      2.0      0.6      4.1      3.2      5.5      73       2.2                -         -
oebn                            22.1    22.3    49.0      54.0    47.2    83.0    43.2    89.5    7S.5    130.0    190.0    201.0
Tetd                           2C6A    291.7   3759    384.7   5362    649A    8932   131    1,73   1,t7095    187.    1,7.2
Gimj Teed (N+P+D)                  826.7    83.    9403   137   1l57.1  1,79   2,417.0  3,874.3  4,6S    5,144   5,7390    621*8
Dome_d                          6123    677.7   587.9   592.0   638.1  1,121A   1,848.9  2,8f6.9  3678   4,135.         , 3,.7   4,33A
Foreig                          144A    1953    353.0   763.6   519.0   758.0   568.1  1,007A    977.0  1009.0   1,819.2   1 .4
C. Togl Roash lb
Ce.Tall  GOls                   38.7    7?5       0.2      0.4    309.5    167.0   235.    139.0   102.4   249.2    427.7    354.5
J Mqp                           45.1    40.0    88A       112.4    82.6    100.9   114.1   123.5    1503    170.9    2083         253.4
F _rin                          36.1    28.2    46.0    121.4   109.5    117.8    66.7    IOA           5.7     Il        8.9       06
Ttd                             1193   I7S.7    134       2342      0A4   385.7   416A    2723    25.    414             64         08
Grad Ted (N+P+D+TeI)               9U64    9483  1,8.   1,59   1,637   2,23   2,8              4,147.   4,9140  5,576      63       6,803
Damui                           766.1   725.2    676.5   704.1  1,030.2  1,389I   2,198.   3,129.4  3,313   4,S5S.5   4,56.7   4,9713                    3
PFoeg                           1803    223.7   399.0    38S.1   628.5    875.    634.8  1,017.*   982.7  1,020.5   1,2.1   1,899.0                     r
Te  GO Dew. Eqdm                 9,210, 1733. 0  2    9             12,2I.0 1384   1,42.0 1,.  22,92 
S  Iwayseor                          9.0     8.2     12.2     1.1      12.7     15A      13.5    20.0    21.0
& As GO1!S         md      nh Sudlzj~C. phea d dolb. hel 5-yearhighwa  sb4 b   develonaeore p lan Z ( par of lmVl, eowf P FY.1994V$-199 )ws mt _be
&l    b      _t ,   -I  o-g-d at          plakn ny be Aeelv to mm zido.



VDONESA
SECOND HiGHWAY SCOR INVESIM PROJWCT
DGH GEOMErIR  DESIGN STANDARDS LA
ftim*7 HWMYB                              3000"Um~ecnday  frhav
Mg-n                       oun- n                  NB n                        11UR  C   M '-
Terrain                 Flat    Roing       ainous    Fat    Rolling   t us        Flat    Rolling   taious    Flt    Roing   tais
tAff(26 ilk                    20,000                     6,000-20,000                  1,5004,000                    <2,000
passeer ca units
Desip speed (0n=h)      120        100        80      100       s0       60        80        SO      40        60        40       30
Mhr  dghtof way (m) 60              60        60       40       40       40        30        30      30        30        30       30
No. oflanes x
pavamnt widh [m)         Minimom 4 x 3.75              2 x 3.50 or 4 x 3.50              2 x 3.50                     2 x 3.50
Minimun  modin width (M)    10% of  dway                       1.5 /b                        -                            -
Shoulder width (m)     3.50        3.00      3.00      3.00    2.50-     2.50     3.00      2.50     2.50     2.50      1.50      1.50
Pavana* cross sle                   2%                         2%                            2%                          3%
ShoWderas emsk 94%                                             4%                            6%                          6%
Surldrg                    Asphaltic Conre  (AC)               AX                            Z                           Id
(hot mix)
Maximum                            10%                         10%                          10%                         10%
Mminim  Shorirntal     S60          350      210      350      210       115       210      115       SO       115       SO        30
radius (m)
Maximum grade          3%           5%        6%      4%       6%        7%        5%        7%      8%        6%        8%      10%
is  Pavant sutvru  is desigod for a design life of about ten years, unless another design lfe wol be warrnted. Bridges are deged in accordance with DWHs
Standard Loadiap Specian for Highway Bridges*, 1211970.
fo nbIr 4-lane hagwas.
a4  Surfacing selected can vaiy flora ainglebitwo  surface treatment to asphakic concte on the basis of economic considerations. Generly roads with the above
design standards can be vard e ily to sui special conditions of traic, lad use or terrain.
Sourc: D tte Geneal of Righways, Sandrd Doumnt No. 13/1970.
t3



INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECFOR INVESTMENT PROJECI
THREE-YAR EXNDITURE PAN FOR NATIoNAL AnPDtovxcuL RoAD
FYs 199419 - 199697
(Rp billon)
Actul                  let              l Mu                    Total
89190     90/91     91/92     92        93/94                               93/94-9S/96
Mainteniance and Rehadiitation   313.0      448.      563.4     614.8    765.5      9.57.8   1,293.8   1,061!   3,017.1
RouWw nmhde a= _47.0                       52.S      97.0      152.5     36.9       86.4     10S.2    629.0    228.5
Paiodic nu intwre               155.0   348.8      466.4     431.1    640.9      798.1   1,117.9    379.0  2,556.9
Holding beatment                111.0      11.4       0.0       31.2     87.7       73.3      70.7      73.9    231.7
Betterment                       558.0      OM5.7   1,140.4   1,412.8   1,4067    1,30.8   1,008.8   1,955.0   3,719.3
Cowr                            558.0     650.7   1,140.4   1,036.8    973.9       819.6     381.5   1,288.0   2,175.0
SpeOci                            0.0       0.0       0.0      376.0    432.8      484.2     627.3    667.0   1,544.3
Eridge RIeplacment & Materias    158.O      140.6     280.7     237.6    499.7      440.0     440.0    260.0   1,379.7
Upgrading/New Costusoction        20.0       78.8     157.0     290.8    337.4      66L6      985.8   S5E70   1,9"4.8
COnsuultancy/SupeYsidon/Equipment   181.0   205.0     410.7     370.3    425.6      489.7     S63.2    617.0   1,478S
(hnud To                      1.M3.0    IM53.8   2.552=    2.926.3  3.434.9    3&U8S92        jM&1s     j^jJi    11 
Financing
Got Funds%                       45        66        63         60       S9         S8        60                  S9
foran  Fbmds *5                            44        47         40       37         28        23                  28
To be lIdentified %                                                       4         14        17                  13
Source: DGH May and December 1993.                                                                                           9
LS As 001's budgetar proectios and the funding eanveope for tbe nex S-year highwy sctor dewvohpmn plan (as part of Rifta VI, covering
F       Ws 1994J95-1998799)Ibave not been finalied ye, tbe overall sv  of thie threyear forwLrd plahn may be iud$et to soms Mn.



- 123 -                                    Tabe 4.1
KUT LIS Or aNB FzNNr SUU175
A. ROAD BETrSRMRWr
Pabg*.                                                            L"k         E-R
,wisa.            N..         N                      Lh*                           (K..
N.Ib8~a          Al          035        N itNJAU PARAPAT-AEK NAEARA                19.5         1
060        N AMK NABARA.PNAW                         33.0          1011
A2         084         N KWAN04SJtU                              3a3           33
Subto ta
We su_zs         A3          017 1      P PADAN-KAWBANG                           23.0           26
Subtoe8                                2U
ii                gA4        05t K4      N JLN.RAYA MENGANn                        9.1          106
lava                                        Subotal 
west              Afi       002 1        N SE PWMIUSEBADU                         27.7           37
K14_Um                                      Subotl                                27.7
Caetl            A7          0113       P SAM BARUP.UN                            44.2           24
Kwalimga                                    Subtotal                              4"
Cdral            AS          010 I       P PANrOLOAN-TOPE                          6"            19
Siiwa            A9          010 2       P TOMPe-TAMBU                             27.           28
AIO        013 I       P BMAIK.BOBAKAL                           63.0          17
All        013 2       P S0NBBOBAKAL-BALANTAK                    59.1          32
Subtotal                              212.7
SQU             MA12        034         P WATAIPONI.PAMPANUA                      230            61
Smld                         035         P PMPAANUATAWANOMJ                        13.8          89
AIS       011          N PAXKA-PANGKAJ                           408           46
A14        051.3       P AJBNEMAMU                               43.2          19
subt*al                               I2
saghat           At5        009          N AM13IITUUANOCEA                        45.2           43
=dwas                                       Subal                                  4S2
Mahhu             A16        017         P BETPIRU                                 48 31
047        P AI]RATUWM                               39.5           s0
A17        034         P PODIWANG-TGBELO                         48.0          a
AM8        022 1       P AMAAI-TAMMLOU   A40)                    53.3          33
Subtotal                              12S
Total
B. PfMODIC MAINEANCE
ACEBH             D           010             P UULABOR-TtTrUr                      19.4       20
Subtotal                      l94
Noath             B2          007          N PERBAUNGAN4EJ RAMPH                    26.0       161
Swnatm                                               Subtotal                       26.8
fw                 3          Ms23             N PALUR-SRAGEN                       24.5       216
Java                          024           N SRAGEN-MAINTINGAN                     17.1        79
B4        098 1             P WIROSARICEPU                       23.8       72
098 2             P WIROSAPR}CEPU                     44.5        50
DS         010             N SEMARANG4BAVBN                      16.5        48
56        009 Ki       JLIMAM BONOL, SEMARANG                     2.0        121
009 K3         JLJENDERAL SUDWMAN                      2.5         64
010 K4            JLLr.ARYONO                          0.9         65
010                JLDR.WAHIDIN                        2.3         63
010 K6             JLTEUKU UMAR                         .2         64
010 V               JLtLMETLABUDtI                      .          61



-124 -                                   Table 4.1
TabI. 4.1                       D. 1riodic Ma _itenn   (cont'd)
Phip                                                            L$*  BIR
PM               pft N.     N                     Lisk                           )        (S)
012 Xl     JL.DIPIBOORO SALA                        3.2         33
17        005 Xi     JLWAH MADA PEKALONON                     la           92
OOS IU     LDRWA D PEKALONGAN                       13 
006 X1     JL.DOKTER SUTW PBKALOMWAN               0.4         109
006 X3     JLJEND.SUDDM     PEKALONGAN             1.          Ito
006 X4     XJLLMAS MANSYUR PEKALOKO2 LI                         105
Subtdtl                            t1433
Wi           '  B9         014        P BANGKAYAN W.ANGGULBDO                 2B3          a2
Kai.aa         89         011        P SINGKAWANG-ENGKAYANG                   3.4          so
Sbtotd                              81J
Sob             B310       001 K      BLABS&L.ANOGANG                          63           25
KasUmitm                   601 K      IL SoKO S.                               3.           42
Subal                               10
Numb            Bll        003 K      GALALA-PASSO                             7.8          45
Subta                                7a
C. BRIDGE REPIAcFMN
Pamialo               P*ag            Nam of _ige                  Locatiom
Nmau                   Cl              AIK SULUM                    89 136.0               20
AEX TARTUVNG4/PGR PSG        8BG 37.8               25
AEt RIA                      SB 195.9               25
IAUBETDUSISEMDAHE            MDN 34.8               40
Subtotl                                         us
Beabla                 C2              GO ABANG H                   fL 36.3                30
DURIAN                       BXL 41.6               25
GELWMBANG I                  BIUL 71.0              20
IPUHIBKL 88.7                                       25
Subtotal                                        t
Soudh                  C3              A. TERUSN MENANG             PLO S5.1               25
Sut                                    A. IAAGUN JAYA               PLO 56"                25
A. BULANG                    SKY 107.0              20
A. TIMBUK                    PLO 38l.               25
A. KEM                       PLO 233.               35
A. HNGU                      PLO 2512               30
Subtota                                         le
LaWma                  C4              W. SESAH I                   TB 113 S               25
W. SEMANOKA                  TlB 267.6              30
Subtota                                          85
Wed                    CS              TEMPRUKAN KECIL              XTP 27.9               25
Kaimiaa                                PENYEKAMU                    KTP 11148              20
PESAGUAN                     KIT 190.2              70
Subtld                                          Jj
Noth
s&bwes                 C6              TOMBULIATO                   CW.T 2!*1 *  
TALUDAA                      GMll 28.3              70
Subto                                           140



- 125 -                                     Tabl 4.1
Tab  4.1                           C. Bridge Replacuent (cont'd)
Pt"ias.                Peking.             a f BddMg                     Locadon (wf)
Cointn Sulbweui                           KG.IbO                         PLU 262.                   20
ON=O                           PLU268.6                   35
s$ta1m                         FLU 288.8                  20
TOWOU> m                       PLU 309.9                  20
BANAGAN rv                     FLU 322.9                  20
BANAGAN                        PLU 324.7                  55
DAMBAPULA U                    FLU 337.0                  20
TINABOOAN I                    LU 351.9                   20
Co              SMDERA                          PLU 12.5                   20
WUNO                           PLU 18.9                   30
RANONrIIC                      FLU 32.0                  46
PATDMBE                        PLU 39.0                   25
SLUPI                          PLU 39.3                   40
CIO              LONOGR                          PLU 420.8                  20
BAt1OJCMEA I                   PLU 438.1                  55
BEELLJ                         PLU 464.7                  35
BOROTOKONG                     FLU 465.9                  20
ABASOIN                        PLU 514.6                  25
SwJi                    eCll              8. MIALANGO                    UPY 384.6                  20
s8_ee                                     S. PALILU                      UEPi 370.9                 35
a PFAREDEAN I                  U1P4 368.4                 25
SL SARAIJHU                    UFO 339.8                  30
8. MANIDE=EK                   UPO 314.4                  35
S. BDAAKANAAN                  UPO 305.7                  20
S. TARRAK                      UPO 215.3                  25
8. BONTOAI                     UPG 42.7                   40
S. PADDATU                     UPO 147.3                  55
9. LA1KANG                     UPO 271.S                  30
8. KARItANGO                   UPO 172.1                  35
Su!!                                                  350
C1               WA! ALO                         KIT 86.9                   50
AE SOM"MY                      SDO 73.0                   30
WAISANTOSO                     SDO 31.9                   35
KAIU lKUlNG                    M8H 59.4                   20
KALI SUNM I                    IMH 59.S                   30
WAI MUSIIA                     MSH 71.0                   40
KALI IGAPUUN                   SDW 119.9                  25
KllI DOIN                      SW  124.8                  35
Subtotl                                               26S
Man Jay.                Cis               SAWTTAM V                      ABR  77.2                  20
SAWIAAM VI                     SRG 21.0                   20
SAWlrAMI VI                    SRO 19.6                   20
SAW!AI DX                     AMNS 0.9                    20
Sobgad                                                 so
Totldm
D. ROAD CAPACITY EXANSION
P**Vic                                         SWI_          WoiFSMw opoged             Length 0cm
Wcag aa            alwai-Nqr                     A           Wdca to.4 to                 8.5
Bu"hla             Geo"wium                      A           W%den to10.5o                7.8
C           Woo to 10.uiO                9.9
P-aste                        A           Wdn to 4 auw                 43
uolm4oud                      A           Widen to 4 laoo              1.1
B           Wide to7m                    9.9
Sidn4joGao                    A           Widen to 4 laws              4.6
TOA L



nrCHNcAL ASSTANcE
Ust of TA                                        u     -     Umded Cost                                    Savic
lsSACOt         4      e     OMNOO          Z USSM                MM       Z    OW                 TMb       DentWit TMe lt Slsl D
A. JayJmsnbdtoua&qwM
1. RB DwSvppodt&           nakoe  of DM              BRIM               81'0          216       864                  36   10/9         11/91        7194
2. RoadCapacityluaaa    FSsadFEDofCap. Ex                               1,'0           52       120                  IS   11/3         12M    : 10/94
3. Dat Acquado.           1. SOF  han & Anylyi La                       1,100           0        72                       1193         D           11t94
far cop. EL             D. A1a  pOpda0y            DIRAN              1                                                  193 2I9I                12/94
4. Now Road Ca_uco        PIJANDAL & FED fwr m                            750          17   S     4           1194                      2/94        3/9S
D. DO C_Ity Odig
1.  E_mmlaio of Road       IudaP a P Capt              mmN              3,000          62       268                  36    2094         2194       1004
2. Uama Ras MuugaW                                                     100            78       129                        4/94         4/94        I/95
Syatim                                                                                                                                                        -
3. Qlty Alowamce          byov QA nd  Wio             BIEPRAN            ,500          84       208     1,000        24    2/94         2/94       10/4
4.             of Im aImo dICM    Tri    in ca   nyis   INW             1,200          39       129                  21    1/94          DA         6/94
5. FPwsnai Testing 1Facit    hodo   u    ca    i      IB                  350           6        Is        10        18    2/94          DA         9/94
6. Road R_uh              Inp      sah c        t    ItE                2,400          108      108                  24    2/94          DA         6194
7. Tdamlow T    &         bnUno  ofnw                 DIMANRE           1,450          66        60                  24    2/94         2/94        10/94
7. NstlProv. Roadste r    Trg                         D AT              2,750                           2,000              3/94         4/94       10194
Trainin Plan
9. WI1 Magter Pm1g        Trinig                      DIIAT               700           15       30                  12    6/93          DA         2194
C. MOC Cpecitly lhadg
1. Trffic Sa VWD          Imploa tafic saft          DOLC               1,440          48        96                       1293          1/94        1/95
a VWDL
anforoomag
2. Advoy Servi  to MOC  lmsoverodwu :rtz              MOC/DOLC            600           16       32                        12/93         194        11/94
3.1 MLA  PIlet &          l' Trning Managsul         MOCIDGLC             700          21        55                        2/94         2194       11/94
4. MOCHRD B=              Ov aTrnh                    MOC/DGLC            80                                              2/94                    11/94
S. SATLAINIAS Tri         Traff  b. Tring            MOCPIl             1,S00          30        75                  12   11/93          DA         5194
LgDA-1zopsa4uctd poaim.L 
& 2a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L



- 127 -                            Table 43
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECIOR INVESTM IPRtOJECr 
LLBr OF EQUPMENT
Equipment                            Quantity      Ulit PriO   Total Price
T,SS)      (USS)
L Road TEq_
1.  M _                                    6            19,000       114,000
2. Glohe Posi      StemS                   6             4,000        24,000
3. Electrnic Distkcse Mr (BDM)             6            13,000        78,000
4. Electronic Total Station                6            45,000       270,000
clw Da Collection + Softwate +
Reflcor Systm + atif
S. One Second Theodolite                   6            12,S00        7S,000
6. Preisin Lev                             10            2,850        28,00
7.  legg InmaCt Soil TeSter                2             3,500         7,000
S. Potao iPbe                              2            18,000        36,000
9. Gwmmo_raph                              3            37,500       112,500
10. PoIBlbCam DZilli08MaCIe                 1            11,S00        11,500
11. Portalile Dn;li}g Mwldw                 1            41,800        41,800
Subtal A                                                          79M,3=
B. Subdirector_t of Bridge Engineering
1. Foudaion Pile D5iaostc System           2           245,000       490,000
Pi Driving Andalys System
2. Consuction Faiure and Evironmenta        1          190,000       190,000
Problm Tracer Set:
- ReSssty Meter (aeo Electri)
- Prt    Core Drll Electric
(a- ne Drffl clne)
- WaDep          t(Edw Sounding)
- Watr Curent Mter
Suto  B                                                           1t m,m
C. LR.E.
1.  Oy     Co or                                                      20,000
2. &Gwo7m'mw'dPe=0M=a0g"]Radr s,ystem                                125,000
3. Al ITufS         i
I ~;=                                                60,000
b. DynamiC  S    1 _                                           40,000
c. V   _somet for Contoling Asphalt Mix                            15,000
Handig and Workabity
d. Shear Devi1e Equipment for                                     215,000
Testig Mix Ruttng and Fatilue
4. Conce Portland Cement Testng Equpment
a. Porable Device for   surng40,000
Concteto Pameaiity n the Field
b. Etw'pmot for D     ipm" Pcdbortnan_cc                           20,000
Of Cbbv
c. CoacrebO, COX0o;dati0n Tester                                   20,000
S. Polisd Stone Vaue (PSV)                                            30,000
6. Portable We; g MacInes                                             45,0OO
7. TRRL Mili eXtUre  eter                                             30,000
Subtota C                                                         661,0W
TOWal I                                                              2X38M



- 128 -                            Table 4.3
Equipme                              Quantity      Unit Price   Tot Piee
(USS)       (US )
IL Auto_mted Road Monioring and Road Management Equipment
1. Puchas on unit of Pavement Road                                 1,785000
Monir    quipm
2. Conract for SuTIly Daft                                          4,01,0
Pavement Cc  lm and Strengh Dat
HL Tra  ME  A>"
IL Subdiroctoo f1   en4 Ldger
a. Automated Taffic Countere
1. Classifiers
1.1 Automaic Traffic Countr            35            11,000       385,000
and Cla_fier
1.2 Retrievaland Procesing Unit         4            10,600        42,400
for Traffic Counter and Claswsifier
System including Softwae for
AlyBi8 ad P       _eetto
1.3 Sparepas for automatc traffic       1            85,000        85,000
counter and classifier system
for2 years operaion
1.4 Hnd Held TafficData                 1            14,000        14,000
Collection System
1.5 Softwarm for Hand Held Traffic Data  1           13,500        13,500
Corection System
2. Counters
2.1 Automatic Traffic Counter          60            5S00        330,000
2.2       adUnit for                    4            10,600        42,400
T.raff Coute System including
Softwar for analysis and  esentation
2.3    S     for Automatic Tfic         1            87,500        87,500
X3wnternd Clasifier System for
b. Weigh-in motion
Golden River Weight Mat Model          23            12,528       288,144
GR-3052
Golden River Retreiver Elite            6             2,613        15,678
Model GR-3084
Golden River Weigbman Classifier wfith  12           18,436       221,232
128 KB memoy and comlete widu
Golden River a"r pak Model 0R-3019    12                448         5,376
Golden River Adhesve Surfaces Loop     30               284         8,520
Sets Model GR-2038
Golden River Weigman Fng Kit           10             1,045        10,450
Model GR-3053
Total m                                                         LOmm
IV. MOCMDGLC Equipment Requirments
1. RTS Black Spots                                                   350,000
2. VWD Weigh Staions                                                 700,000
3. RTSNVWD Mobile hIspection                                         750,000
Todal IV                                                        i.m
Ta I + it +      m  + I1V17.O



INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECrOR PROJECI
EXINITV  AccoUNT BY CoaoNas
(US$ Mio)
Road Netwoik                Road NOIWock                                    HuMAn Rmna           Anion Pha
Road        io         Bt34     Capaciq     Nehroik  S8eUen  Strhe  St_engtdi   Taift    Magit   S_ensthn  Road
BDet       Matenta c  Repboc_ t EqmHmlon Upgraing   DOB  DMtRBO    M                   Pin   PA        m  MOC    Sdy    Tota
hebo cogs
A. Civil wors
Roa works           204.8       110.9        43.2     130i2      21.2         -         -         - St03
Road desip and
ipervwison          14.3         7.8         3.0       9.1       1S         -         -         -         -        -          .       -      35.7       i0
Subtotal Civil Work  a           118.7                                                                                -                        Ij il ;  m
S. Equipment                          -           -         -         -         9.7        -        0.7        -        -        2.0       -      12.4
C. Consulta soices        -           -           -        2.9       0.8        9.4       8.9       4.6        I.S     0.8       2.2      2.5    33A
D. Prosonal tin           -           -           -            -                                              0.7       -        0.9       -       1.6
Tola Base Cos*S    a2i1          2           462                  ?M JL  12                      1         U        U QI                M    WA
Phydsd Codoiecies  21.9          11.9         4.6      14.2       2.4        1.9       0.9       0S        0.2      0.1       0.5      03     S9.4
Puce Connenies        83          6.8         1.7       7.2       1.6        0.8       0.4       0.2       0.1      0.0       0.2      0.1    175
ToetaProject Ceus  3                         au   LW             IZI   311   1012    1a1    u    P                            U    a  lM
Tas                  22.7        12.5         4.8      14.9       2.5        2.0       0.9       0.6       0.2      0.1       0.5      0.3    61.9        5
Pous Exdange        112.6        62.0        32.6      7S.0       12.7      18.6       8.2       5.0       2.0      0.7       4.8      2.3   336.6        r
.  _  .  -  -  -  -  -  ,^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41



-130-                           Tabe 45
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESENW  PROJECr
EmIIMA        _          SCHEDUIZ La
(US$ Omiin)
MMD fiscal year                             . Cumulave         Cumuladve
and smester         Disbursemets          disbursements       pcentae
vs4
JAw30, 1994                S                 S                  1
V9S
December 31, 1994         35                40                 11
June 30, 1995             40                80                23
196
December 31, 1995         50               130                37
June 30, 1996             50               180                 51
1997
December 31, 1996         50               230                66
June 30, 1997             40               270                77
1998                    -
December 31, 1997         30               300                 86
June30, 1998              25               325                93
1999
December31, 1998           1S               340                97
June30, 1999                7               347                 99
2000
Decenber 31, 1999           3               350                100
La Assumes loan signing in February 1994 and use of retroactive fmnaniDg.



INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTNEN PROJECI
ORGANIZATION OF TM
DUIRoCRATE GImAL OF HIGHWAYS (DGH)
MU        a0r eOI
vw 
Director Gnral             KDretor               Director            O       ral
of Re"earc% a &rlo
(3eflitb")               tp.girm)             (Sie   s)               outa0a)
Secretory of
Dlirector
Less Setion Afttkotrotion   4ditteiu         ftgeoCnrl 1             n.rta 
section         Sot1.              SBootime           S6cei
IRCTM of                  PDI       OP                  DiRO X)                      DIRICTI Of                   DIRECTR or
DglLAnW                      UI       I      IA ITI           I
Aft.      8Fir;rrL      |              ertarIat.   Rucra l     ertroe           Rra    l oa    $  rtrae       Rral   le       c           l Loger    err
Plnnn      load      Equipet        Keeia          od           oic  od     F R-A -I-                u Ragicm I  R4a:     Rgla  I    West RaLa   Otri   aga
Rural        Iridga      Productionl Itwonrorp   Fegion I         Regins         Region t       Region tit    Ragt la II       ee
mouo G. October 1992 



INDONESUi
SECOND HGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMEN PROJECr
ORGANIZTON OF TE
PROVINCIAL PUC WORK AGENCIS (DFUP
AMAMEISTRATIOU_
I            I                             I
I      IE-IIPMENT                                                                -
_  _:OADS                MJIDINOS   _
SUPPLIEIS
'IRRIOATION                       N               ROAD                                 IRRIGATION
PR01:RJ4MlE-                                 CONSTRUCTION          REGIONLD           EQUIMIEN     l
RIVER                BRDG                UILDNS              ROAD
l   l     SIS  l  l             l {  HROUSING      l     &  SUPPLIES
BUILDINGS               OPRTOSROAD
PitOGRAMM      pLl                                                SNAINTENANCE |  j  SANITATION  WORKSHOP|
DESIGN
DES1¢N         _          ROAD
INVENTORY
Sources  Mlinster of HRoe Affairs Ilstruction                                                                                       f
No. 14 of 1986, Dated 20 October 1986
h~



INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECITOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
ORGANZATION OF TE
DwCTORATE GENERAL OF REGIONAL DEVELOpmT (DGRD)
LIJI- O12C I
Directr General  PDieetort Genral    iDirector Geneal                                      Director General of General Afti,trat
of Social &           of Land*          of Viiqe Delope t   Rol De _lopent                     amd Rgional Ante_, (PM)D
Political Affair.
Se"rtarc   of
DSrsetor Gneral             
Documentation  |                    e            A aratic#         I   rPi3ni       I
A Repair.                        Affair 
Dlre!tor of       |                        Director of t  O                         Director                         oDiret  of Entvreo.snt
Regfonl Development                        Regional Development                          Affair D   obtS Denelopment
IglauslADevol                           fDban Development              _. C                ltoper.t_
Secretariat.     lgitonl                Sertra.Scretar iat.
Growth ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~fwromna
Rooncuic  Social S  Development                                                ~~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~Urban  Aneal si&  NMan"ed
Dev.lotment          DCvltualg              Corporaton            Critical Areac       P1a S |i g         Potential   | Ident b        ncs        Kinviront    l
|   lCoDoder  l    Fifreetruetur  |   |   kaSds S                  remote m         r    Urban              Urban            Matural         Dr wel
economi              I     truturel        1"1:tdtot                 Bor      "'r Ae     ironment         reructure rrvro t                      Ad.itt ! n
Sources 8fnieter of  am Afftir.' Dectee No. 22 of 1986.



OM 25056
-- - 1aD.'I. Art'VlkcMcCEH
-SI                                           SI-                      t4, W
s A _a_ -z _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N  D    O NS  i A I 
SW~~~lIO
INDIAN 9 ~~~~~~~~~Java Sea|
NAflONAL AND ROVINCIAL BEULMAAYSIA
SUMAFTR
Nalion HiST
PmS *  w Roiaods                                                   Sea
o    cie 4Rdr town
S       kibrt S                                               JAWA
----ProvinraBondr8
O       1A      20N 30D          hUW KRK       cff_s
lW0                                105.
AUGUSr 199~3



IBRD 2505
INDONESIA
I  SUMATERA                                                                                                                             NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROAD NETWORK
JAWA
- -     Toll Roas          o    cities ndTowns
Jav a                   S e a                                                      N-  nci Hlwys    *    Pince capls
ik      /  MCD K.L JAKARTA                                                         -r- PreRoads Rivs
I'-------- Railroads            Povince Boundaine
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lffo vf~IneTsionr&1Bwedms
SP. L6,&,
JAWA BARAT,                                                                             -P.,, -   6
--5~, cGb.6e               o9Gw           ou O o             ,p,!                                                ,         ,
s ., _ A =~~sr    r  Ho...
>;b ^' O, \£1,, GAH,  JAWA liJ; AY'=M
-V  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-A$ M&IASlA,   - 
bo    -   4    1  2  0  N  E S I A  0__________O____ tO
sfi-.M                                                                                                       0    20W*q*  diopt.N.A40               1993OS
AUGAM 1993



-                                              .                                                                                      IBRD 25058
'., >MAL  tA,      N~d Mp                                        <-.  7                                                                     INDONESIA
2 'l  Mi,,,             WBRUNE 7 t                                  NATiONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROAD NEORKW5
-        8  r>  on Wf/ iatX            t                                                                                                 IWKAUMANTAN AND SULAWESI
.~~~ ~~       Nav De    0 E     S I A     ..............   ,    J j   -'_ -          _
'QE>'5>°t a! L/                      C IAAJAA  /    \                           ,  .
/<rOcean   4   p  ,g,,_b    _   /   i  sy--  Cw -                        °    GIesandTowns
'. - 4/  u                              _                                    ,-^- wPrnceCols
Riws
M  A L A Y S I A ^'f  --PicBe
> _ N\ TF              *                       -                      q i    nl Boundwies
\j                KAi   A TNI A  /  T  R
~~~~~Ma.Woi~~~~~~~~au ~~~SUIAWES  TARZA
K A LV K t I M A N T A N                k;)                                  S _=> p< I
NL   A  PiW  E     -                                                                      "  "      S AWS
SeMoP   ~ ~~KLIATAN..o \>          KAIMANA                                    GSA.A
BARAT                              Nmkd.o,~ 
ndoE" j        ws\  i
K<~~~~~~ ~KAUMANTT ~ AH 
S.~~~~~~ 5Aj                                                           AILAEES
JAVA   SE A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SL
0  SD     SD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lSL
Fbm      X Pb4W--
,                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~ A V A  S E  A                                            3                       \      5                                                 5°
.... gI< dm"*#.i.--&awss* 1S.eloU ..... .       ..        ..        ..        .. ...... . M E    I   W    In|,d0C
40     50      100     iS0    2S        2b                             _
10'                                                 I15'                                                    120'   >,   e                                         125U
AUaGUTI 993



IBRD 25059R
NUSA  TENGGARA  BARAT
Floar     Sea                                                                     /
&u    k                - Lo mbo
NLISA TENGGARA W1
Sawu      Sea
Swr"b                                                                                             TIMOR TZMUR
INDONESIA                                                                                                                                                      l0/
NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROAD NETWORK                                                                      p, SAw
NUSATENGGARAANDTIMR                                                                                                                                   Trimol
-      Natioal Highways                                                                                                                          Sec
-      Province Roads                                                                                            P        RhS
o Cities and Towns
*    Pvirnce Capitls
.  -Rivemrs3 NCM
ProvinceBoundaries            0 °                               200              3COERS
Injationd Baundw'             0      -                   100            '            XOMS
12-                INDIAN   OCEAN                                                                                                                                 sz2
*   11161-                        111                                                                                                                  15°-  142 ~- ~~ ~ ~w ~ 0 w   r   1S9



PAPUA NEW GUINEA                  ]
..    . . .  . . ..  . .  .      - --  - - -  -   
oa    w                           '      v                       -
11 '.i                                                                   X



