Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25235-IND
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37120; SCL-3712A; SCPD-3712S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$350 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
December 30, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective SAR: May 1993 & Closing: December 2001)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1 million = US$ 482 at SAR (97.7 at Closing)
US$ 1.0 = Rp 2,075 at SAR (10,236 at Closing)
Government of Indonesia
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31 (until December 2000)
January 1 - December 31 (from January 2001)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APBN          Annual National Development Budget
ARMS          Automated Road Monitoring Services
DBM           Provincial Roads Department (Dinas Bina Marga)
DGH           Directorate General of Highways (MPW)
DGLC          Directorate General of Land Communications (MOC)
DGRI          Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure
EIRMS         Extension of Integrated Road Management System
EIRR          Economic Internal Rate of Retum
EIRTP         Eastern Indonesia Road Transport Project
GOI           Government of Indonesia
HSIP2         Second Highway Sector Investment Project
IGMCG         Indonesia Geotechnical Materials and Construction Guides
IRE           Institute of Road Engineering
IRMS          DGH's Indonesia Road Management System
MOC           Ministry of Communications
MPW           Ministry of Public Works
MSRI          Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure
NPRMTP        National and Provincial Roads Master Training Program
QA            Quality Assurance
QAU           Quality Assurance Unit
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
RBO           Regional Betterment Office
Repelita      National Five Year Development Plan
RRDP          Road Research and Development Project
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
STJR          Highway Engineering and Development Master's Degree Program
at the Institute of Technology, Bandung
SURIP         Strategic Urban Road Improvement Project
TA            Technical Assistance
TTSD          Technology Transfer and Standards Development
URMS          Urban Road Management System
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:   Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:  Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    William D.O. Paterson



INDONESIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR II
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratmgs                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               13
6. Sustainability                                                                   14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  17
9. Partner Comments                                                                 18
10. Additional Information                                                          20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                22
Annex 3. Econornic Costs and Benefits                                               24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                27
Annex 5. Ratmgs for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               31






Project ID: P003945                                      Project Name: Second Highway Sector Investment
Project
Team Leader: William D. 0. Paterson                      TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type- Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Second Highway Sector Investment Project      L/C/TFNumber: CPL-37120;
SCL-3712A;
SCPD-3712S
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (93%); Central government
administration (4%); Sub-national government
administration (3%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/15/1992                             Effective: 06/21/1994        06/21/1994
Appraisal:  04/15/1993                               MTR: 04/15/1996            11/30/1998
Approval:  03/10/1994                             Closing: 12/31/1999          12/31/2001
Borrower/ImplementingAgency:  RepublicofIndonesia/MPW/MOC
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                      Russell Cheetham
Country Manager:     Andrew D. Steer                           Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      Jitendra N.Bajpai                         Anupam Khanna
Team Leader at ICR.  William D. 0 Paterson                     Jons Van der Ven
ICR Primary Author:  William D. 0 Paterson; Ephrem
Asebe
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome. S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact M
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background
The Second Highway Sector Investment Project (HSIP 2) closed on December 31, 2001 after two one-year
extensions. The project was identified in November 1991 and appraised in April 1993, and the loan was
signed on 26 April 1994 and became effective on June 21, 1994. Project activities were eligible for
financing from June 1993, making a total implementation period of 8.7 years. Initially the total project cost
was estimated at US$680.5 million (Rp 1,461 billion): the Bank's contribution was US$350 million and the
balance, US$330.5 million, was the contribution of the Central and Provincial Governments. Over the
second half of the implementation period, the project passed through the major financial crisis of 1997 to
1999, major political changes in May 2000, and major institutional changes in the implementing agencies in
2000 and 2001, including a split and re-merger of the Ministry of Public Works and numerous changes
among the government staff responsible for its implementation. After two restructuring steps and
substantial devaluation of the Rupiah, the project exceeded its physical scope, and reduced the loan
commitment by 13% to US$304 million, the Government's portion by 40% to US$137 million, and the
total project cost by 36% to US$437 million (or Rp 2,285 billion in current Rupiah).
Context
In the early 1990's, during the preparation of the project, the outlook for Indonesian economic development
was bright. The Government had been stable for 25 years, and the Gross Domestic Product was projected
to grow during the rest of the decade at about 6-7 percent per annum with manufacturing production and
export functioning as the main engine of growth. The provision of improved transport services in terms of
capacity, efficiency, and quality was identified as the main potential brake on economic growth. The
Second Highway Sector Investment Project (Loan 3712-IND), a follow-on of the Highway Sector
Investment Project (Loan 3133-IND), was thus designed to mitigate the transport constraints on the
anticipated rapid economic growth.
Objective
As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the overall project objectives were to help Government of
Indonesia (GOI) meet the rapid growth in road traffic from sustained economic growth and to reduce the
road transport system costs. The project aimed specifically at:
a. Inprovements in the service quality of the road network;
b. Developing effective approaches, with due regard to environmental and social impacts, for
increasing road network capacity;
c. Improvements in the quality of execution of road works;
d. Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) in
planning, programming and execution of road works; and
e. Improvements in road sector policies and strengthening of the capacity of Ministry of
Communication (MOC) and Directorate General of Land Communications.
Based on the development scenario of Indonesia at the time of project design, the project objectives were
clear and realistic. They were closely aligned with both the Government's current infrastructure
development plans and the sectoral policies, and extended previous Bank support in both areas. Under the
-2-



sixth Five-Year Plan (Repelita VI: 1994/95 to 1998/99) GOI planned to continue to devote a large share of
its development expenditure towards improving and upgrading its national and provincial interurban road
network. The Government's sectoral policies focused principally on (a) a neutral and well administered
regulatory regime under which operators would be able - subject to the compliance with the appropriate
safety and environmental standards - to tailor their facilities and services to users requirement without
distortions imposed by subsidies and unnecessary qualitative restrictions on entry, routes, fleet sizes and
services frequencies; and (b) effective and effici6'nt programs of public spending on infrastructure and
services in those fields which properly remain in the public domain.
The seven-point Statement of Policies on Road Infrastructure and Road Traffic was adopted by GOI in
1989 and it and the associated initial three-year action plan formed a basis for Highway Sector I. The
seven policy areas were: Legal and Regulatory Reform; Coordination of Transport Sector Policy
Formulation and Planning; Institutional Development; Planning, Programrnming and Execution of Road
Works; Road User Charges; Vehicle Weights and Dimensions; and Road Traffic Safety. While there was
significant progress under the Stage I Action Plan in some areas (including issue of a new Road Traffic and
Transport Law, improvements in capabilities and implementation of IRMS, and implementation of
international standards on the movement of containers by road), overall performance has been generally
disappointing (particularly on coordination of policy and planning, the broader problems of VWD
enforcement, traffic safety). The Stage II action plan accordingly incorporated many uncompleted actions
from Stage I. Bank support under HSIP2 focused on areas that were considered to be of high priority and
to have reasonable prospects for timely implementation.
The project design generally minimized project risks, with the exception of foreseeing a national financial
crisis. The main anticipated risks were inadequate improvement in the quality of works, and weak
implementation of sector policy reforms in Road Traffic Transport. These were addressed through the
various components and arrangements, resulting in a comprehensive and moderately complex project. The
components included an agreed Stage II Policy Action Plan which was the primary instrument for
achieving agreed targets, and built on the experience learned from implementing the Stage I Policy Action
Plan. Improvements to the road infastructure were managed through a Three-year Expenditure Plan which
allowed for a rolling forecast approach to meet the Five-Year Plan targets and budgets. This took into
account and built on the lessons from six previous Bank-financed projects in the sector, including the first
Highway Sector Investrnent Sector Project (Loan 3313-IND), which had progressively introduced a
sustainable programmatic approach to road preservation works.
3.2 Revised Objective:
In response to the 1997 financial crisis, the Project was restructured on August 26, 1998 with the
cancellation of US$40 million from the loan, and an increase in the Bank's disbursement share from 45% to
80%, cancellation of the remaining road development activities (half of the capacity expansion and all the
roads upgrading sub-component), and some adjustment in the loan categories. During the first extension of
the closing date in December 1999, a further US$6.0 million was cancelled, leaving a final loan of US$304
million. Changes in the exchange rate from IDR 2,000 to over IDR 10,000 to the US dollar during the
period after 1997 generated substantial dollar savings in the loan, and an additional Phase IV was added to
the road preservation program and was incrementally extended twice in order to support preservation of the
road networks during the period of severe national budget reduction from 1998 to 2001. Priority aspects of
institutional and human resource development were also extended, especially in support of the evolving
decentralization program. These adjustments were made in the context of adjustments to the Banks overall
Indonesia lending portfolio considered by the Board. Since the Project was programmatic in structure, the
changes in scope were consistent with the original objectives.
- 3-



3.3 Original Components:
The main components of the project as presented in the SAR were:
A. Road Network ImprovementlPreservation: 2,000 km of periodic maintenance; 2,200 km of road
betterment; and 5,300 m of bridge replacement, on the National and Provincial primary road networks
(Appraisal costs: US$384 million).
B. Road Network Expansion: 150 km of road capacity expansion; and 60 km of road upgrading, on
the National and Provincial primary road networks (US$165.7 million);
C. Institutional Strengthening of Highway Agencies: at the central and provincial levels (US$33.3
million)
D. Human Resource Development (US$3.0 million); and
E. Support to MOC for Stage II Action Plan Implementation: for further progress in (i) road user
charges; (ii) vehicle weights and dimensions (VWD) regulation and enforcement; and (iii) road traffic
and transport safety (US$7 million).
The five components were clearly related to achieving the five objectives of the project described above.
The loan focused on improving and expanding the road subsector to meet the continued rapid growth in
demand resulting from sustained economic growth; reducing its transport system costs; and on improving
road traffic safety, which were then the Government's highest priorities. The design builds on successive
achievements of lending activities in the sector and on the policy and institutional framework designed to
achieve the Government's five-year program.
3.4 Revised Components:
The restructuring of civil works in August 1998, based on assumption of the increased disbursement ratio
of 80% continuing until completion of project, gave priority to road preservation works and essentially
discontinued the road capacity expansion program. The five ongoing capacity expansion subprojects
would be completed (about 45 kin), but the remaining program (about 105 km) was deferred and the whole
road upgrading program (60 km) was cancelled. A Phase IV Maintenance and Rehabilitation program was
agreed (comprising about 840 km effective road length and 610 m bridge length), and was later extended
further. The agreement also pernitted other investments yielding a very high rate of return, such as high
priority capacity expansion cases. Under this option, the project financed portions of capacity expansion
subprojects under the Strategic Urban Road Improvement Project (SURIP). In order to support
sustainability of institutional development, high priority TA and training activities were extended. The
revised components were as follows:
A. Road Network Improvement/Preservation: 2,100 km of periodic maintenance; 3,000 km of road
betterment; and 6,000 m of bridge replacement (up by 100 km, 800 km and 700 m respectively).
B. Road Network Expansion: 45 km of road capacity expansion; and nil road upgrading (down 105
km, 60 km respectively);
C. Institutional Strengthening of Highway Agencies: Existing technical assistance, plus extension of
road management procedures, quality assurance, soft soil construction guides, and automated road
monitoring.
D. Human Resource Development: extension of professional education and construction industry
training; and
E. Support to MOC for Stage H Action Plan Implementation: No change.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
-4-



Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. This assessment is reached based on (i) the consistency of project
objectives with the government's sector priorities and policies; (ii) the government's maintenance first policy
which provided guidance in prioritizing expenditure on preservation of existing road assets during the
financial crisis; (iii) the importance given to Bank safeguard policies related to environment, resettlement
and road safety; (iv) the focus on ownership through institutional strengthening and human resource
development, (v) the focus on assuring sustainability of the investment in the road sector, and (vi) a
concerted effort to build on the achievements of prior projects. Moreover, the design of the Project
incorporated the lessons of experience gained from implementation of prior transport sector projects, i.e.
the importance of quality of construction for sustainability, and the Bank's 1988 Highway Maintenance
Review.
The SAR documented the project and its background well. It provided a review of the transport and the
road sector, reviewed past Bank involvement in the road subsector and lessons learned. A key lesson
highlighted in the SAR related to implementation. It stated that when the scope of works was well defined
and the procurement process was well advanced by the time of the loan approval, works can be completed
on schedule. The design provided monitoring indicators for physical targets and performance indicators for
impacts that were to be measured in termns of EIRR estimates. The project was prepared at a time when
implementing agencies and political structures had been stable for 25 years. The design therefore does not
reflect much expectation of either the national financial crisis, or the major institutional changes which
occurred in the period of "Reformasi" which followed in 1999-2001. The programrmatic structure of the
civil works proved robust during this period, and the Project fared better that other donors' projects with a
specific project structure. The institutional development aspects however, suffered because continuity was,
broken and it proved difficult to achieve sustainable changes.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overview. Notwithstanding the economic and financial crises that led to loan restructuring, the project has
satisfactorily achieved its overall objectives, as evidenced below:
The original physical objectives relating to asset preservation were exceeded by 20-100% among the
various subcomponents. However, the objective of expanding road system capacity to relieve bottlenecks
was revised downward because of the mutual agreement to give priority to preservation of road assets due
to budgetary constraints. Moreover, the forecast traffic growth did not materialize due to the crisis, and has
only recently recovered to pre-crisis level. The quality of civil works improved little in a supervision
structure that was more decentralized and had less intemational consultant support than previous projects.
The TA for institutional strengthening produced excellent outputs but relatively moderate outcomes.
Progress has been made in institutionalization of decentralization of planning, programming, and budgeting
functions and quality assurance. The structures of institutions at various levels in the center and the regions
were strengthened, but achievements are muted by the changes now arising from decentralization.
A. Improving Service Quality of the Road Network. Overall achievement of this objective was
satisfactory. The extension and continuation of the preservation program have helped to maintain and
improve the condition of the National and Provincial road networks. At project closing, about 66% of the
national roads (27,317 kIn) and 56 % of the provincial roads (37,715 kim) were in good condition; with
overall 92% in good/fair condition and only 8% in poor/bad condition. This is a strong improvement from
the SAR (1993) conditions of 54% good and 72% good/fair (although this is partly due to improved data
- 5 -



and survey methods). To ensure sustainability, under the loan extension, further investments were made to
support transfer of the road management system (EIRMS) and to improve monitoring of road conditions to
the Eastern Regions. Further, the extension period helped to compensate for continued reductions in the
road preservation budget, potential erosion of allocative efficiency, and full adoption of the IIRMS in the
Provinces under decentralization. The priority given to preservation works in the allocation of resources
since the first sector project (HSIP) has helped to offset the asset deterioration arising from budget
reductions and weak implementation quality. However, the betterment program increased more than
expected and it appears that minor widening and strengthening are receiving too much priority over
upgrading of the remaining unpaved network.
B. Expanding Capacity of the Network. The achievement of this objective was satisfactory in line with
the restructuring, but far short of the original objective. The restructuring cancelled 70% of the original
road expansion target and all of the 60 km road upgrading. The cancellation impacted the very important
objective of reducing the high levels of traffic congestion and its related costs and impedance to trade.
While the Bank supported the priority the Government gave to asset preservation, this was at the cost of
activities with higher rates of return in several cases. With traffic volumes since returned to the 1997
pre-crisis level, congestion and bottlenecks in the network are anticipated. This will increasingly constrain
the economic recovery, especially in Java, where a rapid escalation of capacity extension investment is
most needed and from where development funds are being diverted to other more remote regions. A large
investment program was identified under the Java Arterial Road Network Study (JARNS) in 2001 (using
HSIP2 methods and financed through the TAP4I-2 loan), which provides a sound basis for future lending.
In this respect, the lending pipeline includes a Strategic Road Infrastructure Project for addressing capacity
expansion needs.
C. Improvements in the Quality of Implementation. There were only modest improvements evident
despite a well-designed supervision structure that emphasized institutionalization and decentralization.
Where the regional offices utilized the consultant support, quality was generally satisfactory, but in some
instances accountability for poor quality and remedial actions was weak and this remains a top priority for
attention. Specific cases investigated showed weak performance of project managers in requiring remedial
works, inadequate site instruction records, inadequate control of quantities and costs, inadequate knowledge
and use of contract provisions for handling contractor infractions, etc. Analysis of the deterioration of a
sample of Project contracts showed that 25% performed worse than designed and reached critical condition
30% earlier than expected. The execution of routine maintenance was improved with the improvement of
tender documents based on Keppres 16/1994 and modified in Keppres 18/2000.
D. Institutional Strengthening of DGH. Overall, achievement of this objective was satisfactory. A
major achievement was the further deepening of the decentralization of planning, programming, and
budgeting functions and quality assurance. Practically all of the Technical Assistance (TA) for DGH had
excellent outputs, however, the outcomes were more variable. Capacity building included provincial
training and system software support for IIRMS, quality assurance for Automated Road Monitoring
Services (ARMS), including - Integration of Road Management System (EIRMS), Urban Road
Management System (URMS) for Strategic Urban Road Investment Project (SURIP) support for Quality
Assurance Unit. Since the new management is well committed to the key objectives and exercise good
judgement on cost application, the potential outcome of the outputs of the studies is likely to be realized.
On-the-job training was achieved with some shortcomings. Because of multiple agencies involved at
different levels and the large number of provinces involved, it was not possible to deepen the knowledge of
the participants to the desired level. Staff trained under the National/Provincial Roads Master Plan
(NPRMTP) and the Masters and Doctoral programs played key roles in project management positions.
-6-



E. Improved Road Sector Policies, and Strengthening of MOC and DGLT. The impacts were uneven
and limited following reasonable success in the early phases with passage of legislation. Through the
legislation of Laws 22 and 25/1999, the transport sector is being decentralized, reducing the role of
MOC/DGLC and increasing regional autonomy over road traffic issues. Efforts to achieve better
intermodal balance in transport planning and effective interaction between MOC and DGRI have had
limited success. On road user taxation, legislation achieved a shift towards a "user-pays" approach, with
changes that related the vehicle tax to the price and road damaging potential of the vehicle, and to road
usage through the introduction of an ad valorem tax on fuel - further restructuring is needed however, to
make the user charges more progressive in relation to road usage and damage. On vehicle weights and
dimensions limits, there was little evidence of improvement in enforcement despite improved legislation,
and a refocused approach is needed for the decentralized oversight of road transport. In road traffic safety,
only minimal progress was made in the monitoring and understanding of road traffic safety issues, and the
only field trials of physical mitigation measures were transferred to other projects because of delays and
inaction.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Overview. Overall the outputs of the project components are rated satisfactory. The civil works
components were executed through four phases of preservation works (I, IIA & B, IH, and IV & IV-A) and
two phases of capacity expansion, all within the framework of three-year rolling expenditure plans which
covered all program budgets. The institutional strengthening was sequenced in phases under Stage IlAction
Plan for Road Infrastructure and Road Traffic and Transport. All of the original technical assistance for
capacity-building was completed within the original period of the Project, except for traffic safety under
DGLC, and three priority activities in DGRI were extended under the loan extensions (road management,
quality assurance and soft soil construction). With the severe reductions of GOI road budget in
1999-2000, to less than 50% in real terms of pre-crisis levels, the annual Govemment road preservation
program was heavily dependent on HSIP2, which supported about 60% of the preservation program
during the 2-year extension period.
A. Road Network Improvement/Preservation (Appraisal costs US$384 million; ICR US$353.43
million). Overall output of this component is rated as highly satisfactory. The output targets in the SAR
consisted of: 2000 km of periodic maintenance, 2,200 km of road betterment and 5,300 m of bridge
replacement. With two years of extensions, the project exceeded the physical targets in civil works at a
reduced cost: road betterment ( by 97%), periodic maintenance (by +21%), bridge replacement (by +45%),
and an additional 111 meters of bridges not originally targeted (Annex 1). The supervision of works was
executed through the eight existing Regional Betterment Offices (RBO) (which were later integrated into
the provincial offices as National road engineering units) with a reduced level of support from foreign
consultants compared with previous projects. Based on the lessons learned from past Bank-financed
projects, special attention was given to advance contracting before project effectiveness, and all programs
were rolling and overlapping. Later in the first extension of closing date in December 1999, savings due to
the major changes in exchange rates were utilized to finance Phase IV to offset large national budget
reductions. Due to difficulties in assessing the financial commitments - on account of works which had
been postponed; price adjustment and price variation on ongoing contracts; and the short fiscal year in
FY2000 - the Phase IV program was prepared conservatively, and eventually was extended for a further
year as Phase IV-A in 2001. After a slow-down in Phase IH in 1998-99, directly linked to the restructuring
of contracts during the crisis, the implementation progress on Phase IV was again strong. A related output
of this component was a simple tender document for routine maintenance small works, authorized under
Keppres 18/2000.
-7 -



B. Road Network Expansion (US$165.7 million; ICR US$33.58 million). The output targets for this
component were: 150 km of road capacity expansion and 60 km of upgrading, or a total of 210 km. All
feasibility studies and most detailed engineering studies for the above two programs were completed, a
sound methodology was established, and valuable land and mapping data were obtained. However, only
about 30% of the 150 km Road Capacity Expansion target, and none of the 60 km of road upgrading
component, were achieved, due to cancellation of these subprograms during restructuring. It was expected
that the completed studies, designs and documents would facilitate future implementation, however, only
one capacity expansion package has since been programmed for implementation.
C. Institutional Strengthening of lHighway Agencies (US$33.3 million; ICR US$ 41.29 million).
Overall, the outputs was satisfactory. This component was designed to ensure high quality planning,
programming, budgeting, implementation and monitoring of road assets, while at the same time reducing
the need for foreign technical guidance. Of the eight Technical Assistance (TA) activities directed towards
institutional strengthening in the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) (later, Directorate General of
Regional Infrastructure, DGRI), all except one were completed satisfactorily, though with some shift of
focus and varying effectiveness and impact. The exception was the part relating to monitoring of traffic
which was cancelled during the restructuring after lengthy delays in procurement. One was replaced
(Pavement Testing Facilities by Soft Soil Construction guides), two were extended to a second procured
stage (Quality Assurance and Soft Soils), and one was extended over the majority of the Project period
(Integrated Road Management System). A large portion of the equipment component for monitoring was
converted into an outsourcing of road monitoring services, in a move that increased private sector
participation and reduced the delivery of services by Government. The aims were grouped around three
focuises - (i) strengthening the capabilities of DGH/DGRI; (ii) strengthening the capabilities of
deconcentrated implementation offices (RBO and DBM); and (iii) improving road technology through
strengthening of the Institute of Road Engineering (IRE).
Planning, programming and budgeting: The key focus was enhancement of the road management system
(IRMS) which was already in place for programming interurban road preservation works, and expanding
this to cover all the primary road assets by integrating the existing or new management systems (for
national/provincial, urban, kabupaten roads and for bridges) with required upgrading or development of
those systems. TA for Integration, Development, Implementation of Integrated Road Management Systems
(IIRMS) began with a 36 month 402 person-month implementation, and through four addenda was
extended by about 70% to 60 months 694 person-months (of which less than 20% foreign) ending in
December 2001. The work upgraded parts of the software to current Windows-based technology for
user-friendliness, added several new functions intended to support the needs of managers, and modified
existing systems to be compatible for national planning purposes. The extensions increased effort on the
strategic expenditure planning capability (this proved especially useful in the wake of the financial crisis),
intensified central and provincial training efforts, and added responsibility for quality assurance of the
outsourced road monitoring services. The services were generally successful in meeting these challenges.
The strategic expenditure planning tool (which optimizes allocation of funds under various constraints and
estimated performance outcomes is unique among developing countries) is especially useful and well
intemalized, providing extensive guidance through Bappenas on budget planning during and after the crisis.
In the latter stage, added effort that was required to download the automated road survey had delayed field
verification, and at closure, some practical aspects of the program results were still being fine-tuned. The
achievement of decentralized capability was limited by the political uncertainties surrounding the specifics
of decentralization during the past two years, right at the time in which the dissemination and training were
due to take place. DGRI recognize the importance of the IRMS tool, and now have a strong concem to
ensure the quality and reliability of its output, and to see its use by Provincial authorities.
- 8 -



Urban Road Management System: Urban primary roads were not covered by ERMS because of key
differences in characteristics and analysis. The services developed a coherent modem software tool, based
on the same principles as IRMS to ensure compatibility. While many aspects were very good, the
perfonnance of the URMS output was inefficient because of excessive detail in the planning and data
analysis. Correction of that weakness is currently underway as part of the implementation phase which is
financed under the SURIP, and supports roll-out for pilot implementation in ten cities of varying sizes.
Continued direction of that effort will be needed to ensure that a sustainable implementation capacity is
developed within the urban administrations, also under the decentralized structure.
Quality Assurance and Engineering Development: The Quality Assurance (QA) activity was designed to
strengthen the overall institutional approach to quality, in addition to the direct, on-the-job approach to
strengthening implementation quality in the regional and provincial offices. The first QA services
introduced a QA framework for DGH, both across functions and services, and vertically through the
hierarchy of management. The initial focus was on a QA Unit (QAU) to be established in each functional
and Provincial office, and chose technical implementation as the priority function for pilot work. When the
loan was extended, QA was counted a priority and a second stage (QAU-2) was procured with a new firm,
with a focus on producing an operational manual, specific provisions for use in the field and providing
training to a sample of 11 Provinces - constrained by the time of the loan period. QAU-2 produced good
products but had limited effectiveness in the field because it coincided with the political decentralization
process and no staff. Some equipment was also procured to maintain laboratory capability in the field
offices. These activities provide platform for future implementation, which is continuing under EIRTP I
(Loan 4643-lND).
Road and Traffic Monitoring: The road condition monitoring system which has been in place since 1989,
involving province-level, partly equipment-based, surveys had been unreliable in quality, and a more
efficient automated survey was introduced using outsourced services under Automated Road Monitoring
Services (ARMS). Tendered in two packages because it was a pilot - on 37,000 km of Sumatra, Java and
Sulawesi - both were won by the same firm, with different local partners, so it was operated as a coherent
activity. Despite an initial delay due to national political disruption, the services were completed on time in
2000, and then were extended in 2001 to 16,300 km in seven Provinces in the eastern region. Thus, 53,300
km or 80% of the National/Provincial network, has accurate benchmark condition data - the remaining
network includes more remote parts with more difficult access (islands) and unpaved roads where modified
methods are appropriate. The value of high quality data is appreciated; however, the surveys suffered two
limitations - (i) the unit cost was higher than expected from international benchmarks and than the former
method, and (ii) the benefit of computerized data was partly nullified by an administrative decision not to
upgrade the location reference system in the IRMS database. The future survey method is under review,
and a draft position paper was prepared.
The automated traffic monitoring, which was specified under the Highway Capacity studies, suffered
inordinate delays prior to procurement and was cancelled at loan restructuring. This was an appropriate
action given the weak management at the time, but in development respects it is considered unfortunate
since the quality of traffic data remains very unreliable, and the traffic data is such an important variable in
planning and programming decisions.
Road Technology and Research Capability: Three TA activities were financed in IRE with the dual aims
of improving road technology in Indonesia and of strengthening the research capability, and thus
collectively to encourage a sustainable local knowledge base. The Road Research and Development
Project (RRDP) proved to be an effective twining with the British research institution, and interviews with
the previous Director and subsequent Director-General of DGRI indicated that greater sustainable benefit
-9-



was gained through the mutual objectives of the research focus of the two institutions than from the other
contracts with engineering consultants. The RRDP produced valuable research on pavement performance
(for programming and design applications), quarry materials inventory, bridge corrosion, vehicle operating
costs and travel time. It also strengthened research skills through intemal training and enhanced library and
training facilities.
The Technology Transfer and Standards Development (TTSD) project was intended to mainstream
previous local technical advances, but rather poor consultant performance limited the initial impact.
Specifications were produced for hot-mix asphalt (updating with good use of related research), natural
asphalt ("asbuton", but with ineffective use of prior research), soil stabilization, etc.
The original task on Pavement Testing Facilities was found on review to be infeasible, and was replaced
by preparation of practical guides for design and construction on the soft soils which are prevalent in
central and westem parts of the country, involve high costs of construction, and have proven to be of high
failure risk. The Indonesia Geotechnical Materials and Construction Guides (IGMC) study was very
successful and was extended to a second stage, resulting in the production of four GeoGuides on
construction on soft soils. The Guides will ultimately be expanded to a 9-volume set, and are currently
under review to become a national standard. Under parallel bilateral grant aid, the Netherlands supported
development of a volume on organic and peat soils, and propose support further volcanos. The IGMC
program was supplemented by financing construction of full-scale field trial embankments in two different
soft soil areas - Berengbengkel and Semarang. Monitoring of these sites will extend beyond 2002 and
provide information for updating the Guides. The results are being applied directly in betterment and road
upgrading works at Berengbengkel-Banjamarsin (Central Kalimantan) and Wirosari-Cepu (Central Java),
and experience from the SURIP implementation in Central Java was incorporated.
For all these technical activities, the process of introducing the outputs into official specifications and as
national standards is well advanced - particularly for asphalt mixes and for the soft soils. Also, the outputs
are being disseminated through the Master Training Plan. Thus, DGRI have been making strong efforts
centrally to ensure their sustainability and is likely to succeed. Their major challenge will be sustaining this
under decentralization.
D. Human Resource Development (SAR: US$3.0 million; ICR: US$5.20 million). The National and
Provincial Roads Master Training Program (NPRMTP) was prepared under the early part of HSIP, in
combination with the Kabupaten Roads MTP, to provide continuous strengthening of DGRI staff. The
training material comprises a total of 53 modules of Competency-Based Training (CBT) plus a further 11
non-technical modules (computer, English language, etc.) and are continually under review - of these, about
31 are current, 26 need updating and 7 need development. Included is a course on Project Manager
Training aimed at strengthening field contract management, one of the crucial implementation quality
issues. The latest 7 modules were developed internally by DGRI staff trained under the Program, with a
consultant financed under the Project. This year (2002) it is expected that there will be 3,640 trainees,
mostly under loan financing (SRRP, and EIRTP, and OECF). The annual APBN and counterpart budget
was IDR 700 million in 2001 - this is 25% of the sustainable annual need of about IDR 3,000 million
(based on training 135 trainees, revising 20 modules and funding 5 Masters degree (S2) candidates). The
MTP has therefore been a very successful component, but requires continued budget allocation to be
effective. It is successfully disseminating key technical outputs of HSIP2 and previous loans, including the
materials design for asphalt and soil stabilization, the highway capacity manual, and others.
A comprehensive training program for strengthening the road construction industry (Puslatjakons),
continued from HSIP, has produced about 100 modules and trained many mandors (field supervisors).
- 10 -



With improved focus under HSIP2, this has been successful and has increased demand, and support is
being continued under EIRTP-1. The program now needs to establish the credibility of the certification in
the industry and become financially self-sustaining through recovering the ongoing costs of delivering and
updating training.
The STJR Masters Program (S2) was developed and supported under the two previous loans to provide an
Indonesian engineering program at Masters level and extend the opportunity further than was possible with
foreign-based education. A total of 297 have graduated in the program since 1982, of which 77 were
financed under HSIP2 entering 1995 to 1997, of which 6 studied abroad. A review of their careers indicate
that most are now in Project Manager positions, and more than 6 have risen to senior level, Echelon m or
IV management levels. However, the intake quality has dropped, with only 44% graduating in the standard
time of 2 years, and 60% of graduates achieving a minimum pass. The Project also supported a short S3
Doctoral program, sending 10 students abroad, of whom 7 graduated and 2 will graduate after 2002 - the
efficacy of this program for strengthening infrastructure research needs to be evaluated, and alternative
more appropriate sources of funding to be considered.
Overall, the achievement of the Human Resource Development output is assessed as satisfactory.
E. Support for Stage II Action Plan Implementation (SAR: US$7.6 million; ICR: US$3.41 million).
Overall output of this component is satisfactory.
Human Resource Development. The quality of human resources in Land Communications (DGLC) has
been improved under the project. A total of 210 staff graduated - 120 from a four-year Degree Program,
and the balance from a three-year Diploma Program from Road Transport and Traffic College at Bekasi.
Another 20 staff have graduated with MSc. Degrees, 11 from abroad and 9 from Gaja Mada University in
Indonesia. Practically all the graduates are now employed at national or provincial level. Under Laws 13
(1992, Road Traffic and Transport) and 22 (1999) the regional institutions have more autonomy and
authority over road traffic and transport so that a greater depth of skills is being required in the sector.
Integration of Transport Sector Policy Formulation and Planning. As a basis for the optimum use of
existing transport infrastructure and facilities before undertaking major new investments in any one mode, a
framework for national Transport System development has been formulated under MOC decree No.
KM.15/1997. Over the period, progress was made on a Transport Sector Strategy and major documents
were issued, such as a National Plan for the Primary Transport Network (Sistranas) in 199?, and General
Planning on Land Transport Development. However, implementation was overtaken by the financial crisis.
An ADB-financed transport sector study was completed in 2000.
Planning, Programming and Execution of Road Works. Major progress has been made in developing
planning and programming modules for efficient and effective use of resources on road infrastructure. In
this respect, the development of a Strategic Expenditure Planning Module (SEPM) for estimating and
optimizing resource needs and allocation across all road networks, assets and regions, was a singular
achievement, recognized by an intemational award, very timely for forecasting the performance and
financial impacts of reduced resources after the crisis, and extensively used by both national planning
(Bappenas) and DGRI. The integration of road management systems for all assets (national, provincial,
district and urban roads, and bridges) was also vital progress, but needs continuing development and strong
follow-up to ensure smooth operation at subnational levels. On execution, the preparation of the Project
Quality and Site Supervision Manual, Training for Implementing Quality Assurance of Highway and
Bridges projects; the Indonesian Geotechnical Materials and Construction Guides, and various technical
standards, lay a strong foundation for future improvements in quality.
- 1 1 -



Road User Taxation. The objective was to progressively implement an integrated and soundly based "user
pays" approach to road user taxation. Through MHA Decree No. 1/2000 on Motor Vehicle Taxes, changes
were made to base the tax on vehicle price instead of size, and partly on road damaging potential, although
a cap relating to book value has limited its usefulness. An ad valorem Regional Motor Vehicle Fuel Tax
was introduced. However, there is continuing resistance in some quarters to dedicating or earmarking the
taxes to road maintenance. Recent national discussions on establishing a dedicated road fund for road
maintenance (partly funded under TAP4I-2) have revived this issue, and the present deficit conditions are a
prime opportunity for a balanced approach on both dedicating sustainable cost recovery needs and meeting
general taxation needs.
Vehicle Weights and Dimensions. Progress in this area was limited to the production of study reports and
absorbing results from the weigh-in-motion surveys by DGH under HSIP which graphically highlighted the
severity of overloading. However, little has been achieved in strengthening the enforcement of VWD limits.
Authority for enforement has shifted to the provinces, and roadside weighing stations are open but
ineffective due to corruption (overloaded vehicles often operating under protection of police and army). To
provide more focus and continuity (since the HSIP2 loan was due to close), some pilot initiatives are being
financed now under the Sumatra Region and Eastem Indonesia Road Transport Projects (SRRP and
EIRTP- 1).
Road Traffic Safety Improvement. The institutional and legal framework for transport safety improvement
has been put in place, but little has been implemented for road traffic and transport. The National
Transport Safety comrnmittee, formed under Presidential Decree No. 105/1999, has focused on aviation and
rail safety. Trial programs of road safety improvements had been proposed on roads in the provinces of
Bali and North Sumatra, and some work was begun on accident blackspot remediation. Although the
"Triple-L" traffic accident reporting form was adopted as a national standard under the Project, there were
lengthy delays in procuring the accident reporting and analysis software so that little progress has been
achieved on monitoring and analysing traffic safety issues.
Safeguard Policies (environment, land acquisition/ resettlement, indigenous people)
Both Bank Environmental Safeguard Policies and the GOI regulations, especially those of the
MSRI/DGRI, call for full application of the relevant regulations on land acquisition, resettlement,
environmental assessment, and indigenous people. Out of 183 civil works subprojects financed, 11 required
land acquisition, 3 subprojects required land acquisition and relocation of a total of 425 people, and no
indigenous people issues applied. The project affected 16,229 persons, and a total of Rp 35,150 billion has
been provided in compensation, in addition to land. No major issues are known to be outstanding. The final
results were generally satisfactory, however, a number of subprojects suffered inordinate delays because
land acquisition was not completed before site possession. It is recommended that current Bank procedures
which require the completion of acquisition before contractor site possession be adopted in national
procedures and enforced.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Road Maintenance and Betterment Works. Assessment was based primarily on the first year projects,
for which sample EIRR estimates were provided in the SAR. The SAR estimates for the rates of return for
the works in the program were all higher than 15% and ranged between 15% and over 100%. The SAR
estimate of overall EIRR for the first year road maintenance and betterment works program (Annex 3) was
32%, including supervision cost which added 7% to the cost of works. EIRR values were estimated using
- 12 -



the economic evaluation module included in the IRMS. For the sample of Phase I subprojects evaluated at
closing, the EIRR estirates had a weighted average of 59% for periodic maintenance, 45% for betterment,
and 49% overall, indicating a higher overall return than at appraisal. In a sample of subsequent phases, the
rates of return diminished significantly: the overall EIRR was 33% for Phase ILB and 23% for Phase IV,
with some individual subproject EIRR barely exceeding 15%. This supports the observations that the
primary network was in generally improved condition and that capacity expansion needs with much higher
rates of return were being excluded by extension of the preservation-only policy.
Bridge Replacement Works. The rate of return, and NPV per meter of bridge length at a 15% discount
rate were computed. These were used to rank the projects and schedule them under the budgetary
constraints through three-year program. The SAR overall EIRR of the first year program was estimated at
44%; it was expected that the programs under the subsequent years would have comparable rates of return.
The actual estimated overall EIRR of a sample of the implemented program in Phase IV was 36%.
Capacity Expansion Works. The economic evaluation was based on economic feasibility. Project traffic
annual growth was typically in the 7.5% to 10% ranges. Unit construction costs used were those available
from DGH's data base on unit costs which is updated routinely. The EIRRs estimates in the SAR ranged
between 20% and 130% with an overall EIRR of about 60% for Phase I program. It was expected that the
subprojects under phase II program would have a comparable overall EIRR. The minimum EIRR for
upgrading subproject(s) would be 15% at appraisal. The actual overall ERR for the implemented capacity
expansion subprojects was 86%, ranging from 43% to 164%. Some reductions were evident when full
environmental and safety costs were added without evaluation of concomitant benefits, resulting in adjusted
EIRR in the order of 40 to 60%.
4.4 Financial rate of return
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact.
Substantial inputs were made into human resource development and business process tools through the TA
for DGRI and MOC and DGLT (as detailed in para. 4.1 and 4.2). However, in the case of DGRI, the
continual changes in the staff and organizational structure of the Ministry limited the potential impact of
the outputs. Also, in DGH and DGLT, senior management was not effective in applying the results, and
achieving meaningful impact. This led the Bank to rate the performance unsatisfactory in 1995-96, and
then the financial crisis of 1997-99 and political changes of 1999-2001 with the frequent (annual)
organization and management changes made it very difficult even for well-motivated staff. With respect to
MOC and DGLT, staff trained in institutions of higher learning are posted in key senior position with
satisfactory results. In the area of sector policy, little institutional impact was achieved also because the
implementation period coincided with decentralization and changes in government at the end of the loan
period. However, the Project was unable to play much role in decentralization of either the transport or the
road management subsectors because many of the political decisions on structures had not been made by
the close of the Project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Financial crisis, which developed into economic and political crises, partially affected the objectives
and output. The crisis led to the depreciation of the Rupiah and adversely impacted the govermment budget.
-13 -



As a result, progress in both the civil works component as well as the TA component was delayed.
Subsequent budget cuts.required prioritizing the scope of project objectives. The project was extended for a
second time to provide budgetary support during the period of strong budgetary contraction following the
financial crisis. Bridging finance was essential at the national level while the next regional based operation
in the Eastern Indonesia region was being prepared.
Adverse security situations affected and delayed implementation of several packages specially in Aceh,
Maluku, Papua (Irian Jaya), and near Poso in Central Sulawesi.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Land acquisition/resettlements delays. A few packages experienced substantial delays. Local
governments were generally not being given enough advance notice or details of the required land
acquisition to make adequate and timely budget provision. As a result of the prolonged implementation, the
consultant supervision of land acquisition was under-resourced and more facilitation would have been
desirable. In particular, following the crisis, market rates for land rose and compensation demands
outstripped available budgets. Consequently, some project designs (e.g. BG-29 in South Kalimantan) were
modified to reduce or eliminate the need for land acquisition and/or resettlement. Others were teriinated
prior to completion.
Start-up Delays. Weak internal coordination between directorates during the pre-mid-term period was
responsible for the delays experienced in the civil works execution. This accounts for the unsatisfactory
rating for implementation progress. Following re-organization in August 1994, it was anticipated that the
delays and implementation experienced in the past would be eliminated. However, the causes of the delays
appeared to be deep-seated. The fact that the position of the Director of Planning was vacant might have
also contributed to the start-up delays.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Rapid personnel changes following the crisis. The financial crisis required a pro-active stance from
DGH. However, the resulting organizational changes led to a weak focus on strategic issues and serious
delays were incurred in the processing of the loan amendments and program preparation. This was mainly
due to successive changes in DGH management during the crisis years and due to delays in the appointment
of key new officials (five Director-Generals, eight Directors of Planning, and five Ministers in the eight
years of the Project). The utilization of the loan was also low during the initial financial crisis period,
although the share of the loan for civil works from Bank financing was increased from 45% to 80%. At the
same time the contracting industry was facing bankruptcy for lack of a steady flow of works.
Phase IV-A experienced delays due to late budget release and other factors. As a result activities with
the loan value of about USD 10 million would have been outstanding by the loan closing date. Many
Packages in Phase IVA experienced a late start because the program was approved in May after the FY
2000 DIP had been approved, so that a supplementary DIP was required which in many cases was released
only in August or September. The delays experienced in capacity expansion Phase II and road upgrading
components, were in part the result of weak coordination of activities between the various Directorates
dealing with the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing-
- 14 -



The total project cost is currently estimated at US$436.91 million, which is US$243.59 million or 36% less
than the SAR estimate of US$680.5 million. In current Rupiah, the Project cost nearly doubled from Rp
1.4 tnllion to Rp 2.4 trillion. About one-third of the works were financed at the higher 80% disbursement
rate under the restructured program. The IBRD loan of US$304 million was fully disbursed, except for a
small balance of US$ 42,512.07 cancelled on October 18, 2002.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability, the probability of maintaining the achievements generated or expected in
relation to its objectives over the economic life of the project, is rated as likely for the following reasons.
Government commitment to its "maintenance first" policy followed during the project implementation
increased the relative share of the fair/good condition of the road network (para. 4.1) The budgetary
situation of GOI is likely to improve. Mechanisms for effective and efficient use of available resources
have been put in place. Considerable progress in the planning and programming process has been achieved.
Further, refinement in the planning models has been attained. Better trained staff are being assigned at
lower levels of Government. The major risks to sustainability lie in: (i) the degree to which the improved
programming tools, quality assurance and transport policy would be adopted at the regional and
sub-national level: and (ii) allocation of adequate budgets at various level of governments to "maintenance
and rehabilitation."
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The effectiveness of transition will depend largely on the effectiveness of the central DGRI and DGLT
teams in transferring knowledge and processes to the provincial level. Follow-up support is programmed
under the Eastem Indonesia Region Transport Project (EIRTP-1) and ADB projects. The initial central
applications of the enhanced IRMS planning and programming tool included fine-tuning responding to
client needs and special efforts to provide a province-level tool and training, which was achieved to the
degree possible during the ongoing decentralization reorganization. A successor TA under EIRTP-1
includes specific province-level implementation and institutionalizes the road and traffic survey methods.
Decentralization of the Quality Assurance framework proved almost impossible as the host structure had
not been decided. However, the implementation of this framework, the soft soil construction guidelines,
and support on road safety and vehicle load enforcement, will also be supported by the SRRP and the two
EIRTP projects. The adoption of technical standards and continuation of the Master Training Program
hold strong promise of transferring the technology to staff in the new structure. Understanding was
reached that DGRI would monitor the dissemination of the outputs and their incorporation into
professional practice, including use in specif cations and standards. With respect to performance
indicators, quality of national andprovincial roads in good andfair condition could serve as overall
indicators of the sustainability of the operation life of the project. With the shift in management of the
road sector to a decentralized arrangement, sustainability will depend on institutional strengthening
and dissemination of the outputs of the various road asset management mechanisms at subnational
levels.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
- 15 -



Identification. Identification was highly satisfactory. The project built on the achievements of the first
Highway Sector Investment Project and detailed assessment of the lessons learned from past Bank-financed
projects on civil works implementation; institutional strengthening and road subsector policies. In
particular, in following a programmatic approach and strengthening planning and management procedures,
it aimed to make road management more self-sustaining, to initiate more robust appraisal methods for road
development programs, and to raise the participation of domestic finns. In the policy area, it aimed to
consolidate the gains in implementing actions within a coordinated sector policy framework for road
transport and infrastructure.
Preparation. Assistance to the borrower is assessed as highly satisfactory. Through the preparation
exercises, the borrower's implementing agencies were guided through every aspect of the planning process -
technical, financial, economic and institutional as well as environmental and other safeguard policies.
Appraisal. Overall appraisal was also highly satisfactory. Appraisal was undertaken by highly
experienced staff with appropriate mix. The project design and complexity were within the management
capability of the implementation agencies as evidenced from the implementation experience of the first
HSLP. Three areas of risks were identified at appraisal: the likely impact of not achieving the economic
return estimates; unsatisfactory progress in planning and programming; and risks of misestimating
environmental impacts. Appropriate risk mitigating measures were provided in each of the above areas. In
retrospect, the traffic projections proved to be optimistic due to the occurrence of the 1997 financial crisis
which had adverse impact on traffic growth.
Overall, Bank performance in lending was highly satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was highly satisfactory. The supervision team had a broad skill base very appropriate to
supervision needs, with three to four highly qualified staff covering civil works implementation, technical
assistance, and transport policy respectively. Safeguards and some sector specialists were sourced from
the country office. Supervision reports were clear, detailed, focussed on quality assurance, effective
resource utilization and timely meeting planned targets. Supervision included field inspections which
covered all regions of the country and required remedial measures for issues noted in the field. Technical
audits were recommended and followed up, and there was strong oversight of procurement and contract
administration, especially in regard to terminations and escalation during and after the crisis period, and to
variation orders. Specialist supervision was provided on the large TA component and was continuous
throughout the life of the Project. On overall project performance, when implementation progress was slow
in the 1995-96 period, the supervision staff downgraded the implementation progress rating to
"Unsatisfactory", identified the causes and required interventions and strengthening of DGH senior
management. Through the mid-term review of November 1998, the Bank team identified options for
restructuring, including cancellation (because the physical scope could be achieved for lower dollar cost),
reduction of physical scope to accommodate the slow-down during the crisis, and extension to provide
support during the post-crisis adjustrnent period. The result was a balanced mix of cancellation and
extension of support, with a revision of the implementation schedule, including a revised Stage m Policy
and Sector Action Plan issued to cover the last two years of Repelita VI. The Bank missions followed up
the revised Project Implementation Schedule systematically to track progress against the planned activity
targets and the outputs of the Stage III Plan.
With the economic and financial crisis, the Bank team took a strategic view of the challenges facing the
sector and project, and developed an early cogent response. This aligned with but went somewhat further
- 16 -



than the Govemrnment's and management's restructuring of the Bank's portfolio. A Japanese grant was
obtained for the development of the Road Transport Industry. In the context of extreme budget reductions,
staff pressed for more efficient national allocation to those subprojects providing the highest rates of return.
Staff also gave intensive attention to the financial status of the project, assisting DGH reconcile the loan
balance with the contract commitments amid rapidly fluctuating exchange rates - this was necessary to
ensure full use of the loan without over-commitment.
In regard to the sustainability of the project, Bank staff had more limited impact. While considerable
attention was focused on DGH/DGRI and road management aspects, there was less attention to the
transport and sector policy aspects in the wake of the crisis and in the face of persistent delays in the
DGLT components. The economic and transport policy skills in the supervision team had been reduced by
that time and this limited the attention to those aspects. Nevertheless, staff provided continuity in the
dialog on transport policy, and increased the oversight on training and capacity building.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
For all the reasons cited above, despite the difficult socioeconomic environment, the overall Bank
performance is rated as highly satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's preparation was highly satisfactory. Borrower commitment was strong. In partnership with
the Bank, the Borrower played an active role in the development of the project. The design covered
adequate consideration of technical, financial, economic and institutional aspects. Environmental aspects,
including land acquisition and resettlement, were addressed in the design of the project. The project
framework was also well focused. The Borrower prepared the National and Provincial Road Expenditure
and Road Sector Policies which provided the framework for the project. Expectation was tempered by
shared lessons of experience of project implementation in civil works, institutional development and road
sector policies in prior Bank financed projects. The latter provided parameters for what is achievable
during a given phase of the project. Policies were phased as were civil works. For example the 1989 Road
sector policy was sequenced in Stage I Action Plan followed by 1993 Policies on Road Infrastructure and
Road Traffic and Transport sequenced under Stage II Action Plan.
7.5 Gov'ernment implementation performance:
Considering the difficult macroeconornic situation the government faced, and the era of Reformasi, which
saw rapid turnover of key staff, the government remained committed to the overall objective of the project,
and its overall performance was satisfactory. The Government worked effectively with the Bank in
restructuring the portfolio and the rather modest size of the cancellation reflected both a reasonable share in
reducing the national debt burden but also the confidence in the performance of the Project and a
recognition of the employment generation the highway sector would provide. In the post-crisis period,
when the rupiah had depreciated 4-fold, the GOI budget for roads was only 50% of the pre-crisis budget in
real terms and borrowing comprised about 60% of the national program, GOI gave priority to counterpart
funding. At the national planning level, Bappenas embraced the new strategic expenditure planning tool
(SEPM) as a basis for informing the national debate over forecasting the impacts of steep budget cuts on
the performnance and needs of the road assets, and on the reallocation of funds to remote areas, especially
Eastern Indonesia.
7.6 Irnplementing Agency:
- 17 -



The performance of the implementing agencies was uneven. DGH/DGRI performed generally well with
implementing the large civil works program, except in three respects, i.e. (i) the administration of contract
terminations was satisfactory only when the contractors wanted to terminate for financial reasons during
the financial crisis, but it was poor and slow in several cases where contractor performance was poor or the
contracts were in default; (ii) the management of quality was generally weak, in the handling of issues
raised by the supervision core team, weak project managers or collusive activities; and (iii) there was little
control to improve design detailing and limit variations orders which ballooned in Phase IV, often
exceeding 15% by large margins. Both DGHIDGRI and IRE performed well in managing the TA
contracts, with generally technically competent management. DGLT/MOC did not perform so well in most
of the Project - procurement actions were very slow, administration of the TA was weak and policy actions
were not followed through effectively.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory. Despite a slow-down of implementation during the crisis,
and some slow management decisions at the central level during 2000, the implementation of the works
program proceeded well at the provincial level. In particular, DGRID demonstrated with Phase IV which
its ability to approach previous rates of implementation once the budget was made available.
8. Lessons Learned
The following lessons derive from the cumulative experience of the two sector investment projects.
Work Program Policy: The switch of the work program to a maintenance-first policy, which focused
entirely on maintenance and rehabilitation works, including 'betterment' (structural rehabilitation and
minor improvements) was in principle a sound response during the crisis to seek the highest return on the
allocation of resources in a time of restricted budget. It also simplified the preparation of the work
programs, and spread resources across most provinces. However, in practice, this caused many works to
be implemented which were viable but had lower rates of return than many of the capacity expansion
subprojects that had been dropped, most of which had returns in the range of 30-60%. The economy,
especially in Java, therefore would have been better served by a balanced program that retained a small
high priority congestion-relief program, with high returns. The delay will cause some constraint to
economic growth until new investment programs (such as the proposed Strategic Roads Infrastructure
Project) are implemented.
Improving Quality: In the current practices in the road sector, there are few incentives for either the
contractors or the client to achieve good quality. The uneven and poor quality of both construction and
maintenance causes losses estimated in the order of 30-50% of the budget The potential for remedies is
complex, as shown by the limited impacts of the substantial amount of past technical assistance inputs.
The application of a quality assurance approach is effective only so far as it is applied consistently by
management and accompanied by personal accountability, especially at the project level. Techniques for
increasing the incentives for contractors to improve quality (such as a more stringent pre-qualification
process, and performance-based and output-based forms of contract) are also dependent on a rigorous
quality assurance and accountability environment in which performance standards are enforced equitably
and consistently. These techniques are worth trial in the sector, provided that the dual incentives of
competition and risk are properly in place. It is recommended that output-based andperformance-based
contracts be implemented on a trial basis for maintenance and rehabilitation works.
Road Finance and Allocation of Funds: Improvements to the financing of the road sector need to focus
- 18 -



both on savings in implementation costs (for example extending service life through improving quality, and
better prioritization of works) and on relating revenues more closely to the recovery of costs incurred
through road usage (environmental and structural damage, and extemalities of congestion and safety).
Thus, the high priority dialog on road financing (undertaken in conjunction with this Project, including
improving the revenues through road user taxation, and managing revenues through a dedicated road fund),
needs to be accompanied by continuing efforts to improve the allocation mechanisms and the efficiency of
program expenditures. The use of powerful allocation tools such as SEPM and IRMS will be valuable in
providing a fi-amework within which the decentralization of programming and implementation can operate
effectively, without too much loss of economic efficiency at the national level. An appropriate road fund
structure could expedite this improvement in allocation and implementation in a decentralized environment,
through establishing an active buyer-supplier relationship in the sector - between central and regional units
in the distribution of funds, in the delivery of construction and maintenance works and services, and in
establishing standards.
Management and Information Technology: The road sector in Indonesia has made relatively limited use
of information technology in recent years. As more management decisions are based on asset information
and analysis, there is a need for DGRI and MOC to have clear comprehensive policies on information
management, data collection and analysis, quality assurance, protocols and data security. The pilot of
out-sourcing road condition surveys immediately showed the benefit of controlled automated technology by
demonstrating that the condition of the network was better than previously thought and giving a reliable
benchmark against which changes can be evaluated - previous analyses had appeared contradictory. The
traditional traffic monitoring was found to be highly unreliable, and a nationwide program to upgrade the
survey methods and technology has a high priority and needs to be mainstreamed. Key issues which need
attention in the near future include: affordability and sustainability of the surveys; accuracy and reliability
in a decentralized environment; conversion of the database to a geo-referenced location referencing system;
networking of communications; adjustment of management processes, etc.
Programmatic Lending: The programmatic structure of the Project under a sector investment loan
proved to be particularly flexible and appropriate for the sector and for navigating through the financial
crisis. The preparation of the preservation works in overlapping phases that was ongoing throughout the
implementation period using established institutionalized methods and systems, meant that new programs
could be and were prepared with very little consultant assistance. While the phasing of the programs was
partly synchronized with the Govemrnment's budget cycle, it is recommended that the programmatic
approach in future adhere more closely to the annual budget cycle while integrating the multi-year program
and projects into the process. In addition however, stronger intemal controls are required to ensure more
rigorous preparation and implementation of projects by DGRI in order to reduce opportunities for
corruption and avoid rampant cost increases within the budgeted programs.
Sector Strategy and Policy Actions: The importance of enabling legislation for achieving policy changes
was underscored, but the effectiveness of the Sector Policy Action Plan is highly dependent on the
continuity and effectiveness of dialog between the Bank and Govemment counterparts. Future sector
dialog should build on the progress made on improving cost recovery in road transport, improving the
progressive structure and implementation of road user charges, including a fuel levy now that fuel subsidies
are being eliminated. The dialog on vehicle weights and dimensions and road traffic safety needs to
develop a stronger regional dimension because the primary focus should be on effective implementation and
performance - in this respect the regional road projects promise to be an effective means for practical
inputs and achievements. A national, sector-level dialog will still be important, as the sector adjusts to the
decentralized structure.
-19 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/limplementing agency:
Below is the Borrower's assessment of its performance and the conclusions that the Borrower drew based
on its implementation experience. The Borrower does not provide an assessment of the Bank's perfornance.
The full text, which is more than 15 pages, is in the project file.
Borrower Performance
The Government agrees there is a continuing need for management upgrading within the subproject, and
would welcome the Bank's advice on how the problem might be tackled more effectively in future. The
Government wishes to avoid establishment of the organization units for particular projects, even if they
produce the required results. Such units often confuse agencies at lower levels. Unfortunately, management
upgrading has been limited in scope to contract management and financial management, with very little
emphasis on principles of organization, office management or behavioral aspects of personnel management
and communications.
Conclusions
The economic re-evaluation of the parallel and similar projects suggested that the investmnent in road
betterment and maintenance yielded a sound return averaging about 30%, but the returns could be higher if
the quality had improved. Although difficult to measure objectively, the quality of works supported by the
Project was likely to have been higher than would otherwise have been the case, because of the substantial
investment in TA for implementation support.
The Government feels that the maintenance strategy aspect of HSIP2 was very successful. However, good
maintenance cannot overcome poor construction quality, and much more discipline is needed in the
provinces selecting contractors and in applying supervision and quality control during construction. Within
the road planning process, tangible advances have been achieved in consolidating rational sub-project
selection procedures and disseminating them to a foreign loan administration.
A set of performance indicators was developed in the final year of the project to measure the Project
achievements in a tangible manner. The main lessons of HSIP2 are that:
* Construction quality has a greater effect on works lifetime than betterment and maintenance quality,
therefore, procurement of good contractors and blacklisting of bad contractors, and the application of
good supervision are major determinants. The structure of incentives in procurement and supervision
have a direct impact on these issues.
* A privatization agenda and faith in large contractors impeded the Project objective of "enhancing the
planning and implementation capacity of GOI agencies in charge of national and provincial roads".
*   The Govemment's objective of strengthening decentralization, to make provinces more responsible
while at the same time helping provincial and central governments to play a more effective role, was
not expressed clearly enough in the project design.
* Effective decentralization requires a strong monitoring system, including performance indicators, as
well as clear mechanism for communicating this infornation. Local parliaments and other local
- 20 -



stakeholders need to be activated and trained in this task as they have more direct control. Central
agencies or their consultants cannot assist without adequate staffing and contracts with the
implementing agencies.
*   There was no system of direct accountability for poor quality work, as the subnational implementing
agencies were not accountable to the Executing Agency. Indirect channels through Field Consultants
should not be relied upon in future. In future projects, the Executing Agency should be made
responsible for implementing the essential project components.
* The Govemrnment's objective of having 60% of the national and provincial road networks in good or fair
condition is at risk while the local authorities give priority to expanding their networks. In future, if a
central agency is accountable they should also be responsible for the specific road links which are
targeted.
*   Too few real resources were devoted to practical training in the Project with the supposed objective of
"enhancing the planning and irnplementation capacity of GOI agencies in charge of national and
provincial roads". In future, training should be implemented by the main techmcal line agencies. If
counterpart teams are trained, they should be given some responsibility, and not all of the works
allocated to consultants.
*   Initiatives to encourage equipment ownership by contractors were fairly successful, mainly because the
banking sector supported lending for movable assets during this time.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
Not Available.
10. Additional Information
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
,l   Indlcator/Matrix                            a lPrcted in last PS;tua               test Estimate
% of national and provnaal roads in good/fair National and Provincial roads: 72%  National and Provincal roads 92%,
condition                                                                     (National 97%; Provincial 87%)
annual number of feasibility/detaDed   n a.                                   Most
engineeding studies which integrate
environmental and social impacts with
technical and economic aspects
average life of periodic maintenance works  n.a                               4.8 yr
% of annual budget for road works developed n a.                              >60%
based on needs
road user charges levied on representative  n.a.                              approx. 30%
commeroal vehiles as % of road use cost
imposed by such commercial vehicles
Output Indicators:
n _' U-~ Indicator,,Matrlx  r      K 1 .,   PrQjectrid,in lastPSR              Actu-alAc Ltest stniate-
Penodic Road Maintenance               2,000 km                               2,404 km (+22%)
Road Betterment                        2,200 km                               4,323 kn (+97%)
Road Capacity Expanson                 150 km                                 43km of roads (-70%)
New Road construction                  60 km                                  0km
Bridge capacity expansion              0 m                                    111 m
Bridge Replacement                     5,300 m                                7,668 m (+45%)
Technical Assistance output
A. Imp umenta  rion SUpport            - Completion 4 Phases of road preservation  - 4 Phases of roadworks completed
-ad   CapaitM Expeasion  sibilit        Feasibility studies of 9 subprojects  - Completed
and engineenng design                  - EnvironmentaV/resettiement planis    - Completed for first batch
- Data acquistion far Capacity Expansition  -spot image analysis aerial photography  -Completed
- Road Upgrading feasibility and design  -Feasibility studies of program      -Completed
B. Institubonal Strengthening of the Highway
Agencies at the Central and Provincial levels:
Strengthening DGH:
-Integraton of Road Management System  - IRMS 2000 software operatonal        - IRMS 2001 installed, training delivered
-Urban Road Management System          - URMS software handover to DGRI       - Software being upgraded under SURIP
-Quality Assuranoe                     - QA operational manual in DGRI        - Manual completed, training could not be
delivered in provinces
- Implementation of Highway Capacity   - Training In Capacity Analysis        - Completed by 1997
Manual (HCM)                           - 4 volumes of Guide produced          - 4 volumes of Guide completed
- Road Research Development            - Enhanced road research capacity      - Achieved and competencies measured
-Technolgy Transfer & Sandand Develp.  - Standards approved far new technology  - 4 standards completed
-      Nat. Prov. Roads Master Training Pbln  -Training improved and delvered  - 64 modules completed, 3640 trainees/yr
- Masters Program (ITB Magister)       - Graduates trained                    - 77 trained, entering 1995-97, completed.
-     Strengthening DBM/RBOs           - Knowledge transfer on supervision    - 8 RBO's received on-thejob guidance
Strengthening the Ministry of Com far the
implementation of its policies on      -Implementation traffic safety & VWDL  - Completed
- Traffic SafetyIVWD                   -Improve road user taxation            - Completed
- Advisory services to MOC             -Training management                   - Completed
- Traffic safety pilot & RTTC          -Overseas Training                     - Completed
- MOC HRD training
- SATLANTAS traffic police training    -Traffic PoUce Training                - Completed
End of project
-22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
'  Appraisal.  ActualfLatest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
-'Project Cost By Component           US$ million -  IS$ million
A. Road Network Improvement and Preservation      384.00         353.43          92.04
B. Road Network Expansion                         165.70          33.58          20.26
C. Institutional Strengthening                     33.30          41.29         123.99
D. Human Resource development                       3.00           5.20         173.33
E. Action Plan Implementation/Surveys               7.60           3.41          44.86
Total Baseline Cost                               593.60         436.91
Physical Contingencies                            59.40
Price Contingencies                               27.50
Total Project Costs           680.50         436.91
Total Financing Required            680.50         436.91
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
~~ ~ICB      ProcureMqnt ,Method'.T1aIost
Expenditure, Categor                   NCB         Other                      n--,' 
1. Works                    374.10       211.10        0.00          0.00       585.20
(168.30)      (95.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)     (263.30)
2. Goods                     13.20        0.80         0.20          0.00        14.20
(12.00)       (0.70)       (0.20)       (0.00)      (12.90)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         79.30         0.00        79.30
Works Supervisionlimpl.     (0.00)        (0.00)      (72.10)       (0.00)      (72.10)
support/capacity building                                                     _
4. Professional Training     0.00         0.00          1.80         0.00         1.80
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.70)       (0.00)      (1.70)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6.Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     387.30       211.90        81.30        0.00        680.50
(180.30)      (95.70)      (74.00)      (0.00)      (350.00)
-23-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
r n i 1 o '          1F1 s t ~ tz i I ~P,rocurement Method,
-rpenditurt C-ategoryp       ICB             C        -    her
*   -I,                                 - '- _  , ,,2'            -               Tot-,  al Co,s 'Os
1. Works                       100.44        269.42         0.00          0.00        369.86
(67.38)       (175.49)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (242.87)
2. Goods                        0.00          0.00          2.50          0.00         2.50
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.25)        (0.00)        (2.25)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00         62.32          0.00         62.32
Works Supervisionlimpl.        (0.00)        (0.00)        (56.77)       (0.00)       (56.77)
support/capacity building
4. Professional Training        0.00          0.00          2.22          0.00          2.22
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.10)        (0.00)        (2.10)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6.Miscellaneous                 0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                       100.44        269.42         67.04         0.00         436.90
(67.38)       (175.49)       (61.12)       (0.00)       (303.99)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, t-aining, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I            if:                  __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  i~eofAprasl
A.|~ Cot poiineiit-  [-,--.-AppraisaiEstifmate  , . ~Actual/Latest Esfmate
,Bank,' -,--Govt  _twoK. -    Bak,'i    Govt, K  GC-of.  _,Bank`  Govt. -CoF.
A. Civil Works
Betterment              104.90    128.10    0.00     156.17     80.22     0.00    148.9   62.6   0.0
Periodic Maintenence    57.80     70.50     0.00      41.89     25.07     0.00    72.5   35 6    0.0
Bridge replacement      22.10     27.00     0.00      17.60     10.60     0.00    79.6   39.3    0.0
Capacity Expansion      67.40     82.50     0.00      11.21     9.98      0.00     16.6  12.1    0.0
EIRTP-Phase IVC          0.00      0.00     0.00      4.50       1.13     0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
Road Upgrading          11.20     13.60     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
SURIP                    0.00      0.00     0.00      11.50     0.00      0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
B. Goods                12.90      1.30     0.00      2.25      0.25      0.00     17.4   19.2   0 0
C. Consultants
Works Supervision       37.30      3.70     0.00      17.19      1.70     0.00    46.1   45.9    0.0
Implementation Support  13.50      1.30     0.00      33.89     2.47      0.00    251.0  190.0   0.0
Capacity Building       21.30     21.30     0.00      5.69      0.56      0.00    26 7    2.6    0.0
D. Professional Training  1.70     1.80     0.00      2.10      0.94      0.00    123.5  52.2    0 0
-24 -



- 25 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Road Maintenance and Betterment Works -At appraisal, the IRMS was used to identify the most
economically viable works based on the net present value of the road costs at discount rate of 15%. The
preferred alternative was identified by the highest NPV of the Betterment or Periodic Maintenance in any of
the 5-year period, relative to the fixed reference case of Routine Maintenance. The unit costs of works used
in the analysis were updated periodically in the IRMS database from contract bid prices of the previous
year including factor adjustment for individual provinces. Road user costs, net of taxes, were estimated
using an HDM-HI-based algorithm which rates unit vehicle operating costs (VOC) for vehicle class to road
roughness and volume-capacity ratio, and current unit costs. The timning of the works in the three-year
program took into account the financing, budget constraints and ongoing projects in each year, and ensured
the projects deferred into succeeding years did not cause economic loss (as indicated by negative
incremental NPV). The approach ensured that the net economic benefit at the adopted discount rate would
be maximized within the budgetary constraints.
The rates of return for the works in the program were thus all higher than 15% and ranged between 15 and
over 100 percent. The overall EIRR for the first year road maintenance and betterment works program
(Annex 3) was estimated at 32% (including supervision cost which added 7% to the cost of works) at
appraisal.
For the sample of 29 Phase I subprojects evaluated at closing, the EIRR estimates had a weighted average
of 59% for periodic maintenance, 45% for betterment, and 49% overall, indicating a higher overall return
than at appraisal. In a sample of subsequent phases, the rates of return diminished significantly: the overall
EIRR was 33% for 62 subprojects in Phase IIB, and 23% for 45 subprojects in Phase IV, with some
individual subproject EIRRs barely exceeding 15%.
- 26-



First List of Bank Financed Subprojects
A. Road Periodic Maintainance
SAR        SAR    Actual Actual
SAR     Contract            Road        Link        Length     EIRR    Length EIRR
Province    Package Package No. Link No. Status                    (km)      (%)     (kn)    %
No.
D.I. Aceh      B1       AJ-I       010     P     Meulaboh-Tutut     19.4      20      19 4   42.5
North Sumatera    B2       AJ-2       007     N    Perbaungan-Sei       26       161      26    44.6
RamphnI
Central Java    B3        AJ-3      023      N   Palur-Sragen        24.5       216     41.6   64.5
24      N    Sragen-Minitingan   17.1       79            45 3
B4       AJ-4      098.1     P   Wirosari-Cepu       23.8       72     58.6    76.7
098.2     P   Wirosari-Cepu       44.5       50             74.8
B5       AJ-5       010      N   Semarang-Bawen      16.5       48      16.5  94.2
B6       AJ-10    009 KI     N   J1 Imam Bonjol,      2.0       121     21    113.6
.____________    ________  ______  Sem arang
009 K3    N    n. Jenderal         2.5        64            433.4
Sudirman
010 K4    N    J1. Mt. Haryono     0.9        65            316.3
010 K5    N    JI. Dr. Wahidin     2.3        63            45.7
.__________             010 K6    N    JI. Teuku Umar      1.2        64            56.6
010 K7    N    JI. Setiabudi       8.9        61            129 6
012 Kl    N    JI. Diponegoro      3.2        33            69.4
Salatiga
B7       AJ-11    005 Kl     N   Jl.Gajah Mada        1.2       92      5.6     -
_Pekalongan
005 K4    N    Ji Dr. Wahidin       1.3       98
Pekalongan
005 KI    N    JI. Dokter Sutomo   0.4       109            69 4
Pekalongan
005 K3    N    Jl.Jend. Sudirman    1.6       110
_Pekalongan
005 K4    N    JI.Kh.Mas Mansyu     1.2       105            79.6
._______  ______Pekalongan
West         B8       AJ-6       014      P   Bankkayang-Sangg    28.5       52      28.5   28 8
Kalimantan                                       auledo
B9       AJ-7       011      P   Singkawang-Beng     53.4       50      53.4
layang
South        BlO      AJ-8      00IK           B.Masin-L.Anggan    6.3       25      10.1
Kalimantan                                       g
601 K         JI.Soetoyo S.        3.8       42
Bll       AJ-9      003           Galala-Passo         7.8       45      7.8
Weifhted                                     59.3
Average
Note: - = missing data.
-27 -



FIRST LIST OF BANK FINANCED SUBPROJECTS
B. ROAD BETTERMENT
SAR       SAR EIRR    Actual Actual
Province     SAR           Contract              Road          Link         Length        (%)      Length  EIRR
Package No. Package No.    Link    Status                       (km)                   (ki)     %
No.     __
North            Al         AH-I         058      N      Rantau              19.5         168       52.5    48.6
Parapat-Aek
Sumatera                                                   Nabara
060       N    Aek Babara-K.         33.0         108       33.0    51.9
______________               Pmang
A2         AH-2        084       N    K.Pinang-Bts. Riau    38.5         38        38.5    64.4
West              A3         AH-3       017.1      P   Painan-Kambang          23          26        23     38 2
Sumatera           ___
East Java        A4          AH-4      059 K4      N   Jln. Raya Menganti     9 1          108       9.1     500
West             A6          AH-5       002.1      N   Sei Pinyuh-Sebadu      27.7         37       27 7    34.9
Kalimantan                                           _
Central           A7         AH-6       011.3      P   Asam Baru-P.Bun        42.2         24       44 2    37.8
Kalimantan
Central           A8         AH-7       010 1      P   Pantoloan-Tompe        62 8         19       62.8
Sulawesi
AH-8       010.2      P   Tompe-Tambu            27.8         28       27.8     49.6
AH-9       013.1      P   Biak-Bonebobakal        63          17        63      42.3
AH-10      013.2      P    Bonebobakal-Balanta    59.1         32       59.1    35.5
South            A12        AH-11        034       P   Watampone-Paampanu     28.0         61        41.8    81.3
Sulawesi                                                a
035       P    Pampanua-Tampange      13.8         89       13.8    48.4
____ ___  ng
A13        AH-12        011       N   Pakkae-Pangkajene      40.8         46        40.8    468
A14        AH-13       051.3      P    Majene-Mamuju         43.2         19        43.2     52
Southeast         A15        AH-14       009       N    Ambesia-Tinangsea      45.2         43       45.2     45
Sulawesi                                                                  _
Maluku            A16        AH-15       017       P    Eti-Piru               4.8          31       44.3
047       P    Kairatu-Eti            39.5         30
A17        AH-16        034       P    Podiwang-Tobelo        48          69        48      31.6
A18        AH-17       022.1      P    Amahai-Tamilou        33 3         33        33.3    474
_ _ _ _                             __~~~~~~~~~~~(KnL40)
Program                                                                       32                    49.5
Average                                                                  .                                 _
-28 -



Bridge Replacement Works. The new Bridge Management System (BMS) was used in identifying the
Bridge Program. The economic evaluation was based on forecasting the points in time by which the bridge
would become functionally unsafe and un- trafficable if the works were not done. The rate of return, and
NPV per meter of bridge length at a 15% discount rate were computed. Individual subproject under the
first year program showed ERRs from 17% up to 116%. These were used to rank the projects and
scheduled them under the budgetary constraints through three year program.
The overall ERR of the first year program was estimated at 44%; it was expected that the programs under
the subsequent years would have a comparable rates of return. The actual estimated overall EIRR of a
sample of 15 subprojects in the implemented program in Phase IV was 36%.
Capacity Expansion and Road Upgrading Works. The economic evaluation was based on feasibility
study method economic feasibility method. Project traffic growth was typically in the 7.5% to 10% ranges.
Unit construction costs used were those available from DGH's data base on unit costs which is updated
routinely. The EIRRs range between 20% and 130% with an overall EIRR of about 60% for Phase I
program. It was expected that the subprojects under phase n program would have a comparable overall
EIRR. The minimum EIRR for Road Upgrading subproject(s) from the feasibility studies was 15%.
The actual overall EIRR for the implemented capacity expansion subprojects was 86%, ranging from 43%
to 164%. Some reductions were evident when full environmental and safety costs were added without
evaluation of concomitant benefits, resulting in adjusted ERR in the order of 40 to 60%.
FIRST LIST OF BANK FINANCED SUBPROJECTS
C. CAPACITY EXPANSION
SAR    SAR Actual Actual
Province         Link        Segment   Work Purpose  Effective EIRR Effectiv EIRR
Length   %      e      %
(km)        Length
_ _ _ _ _                                            ~~~~~~ ~  ~~~~~~~~(kmn) 
West Java    Cileunyi-Nagreg    A     Widen To 4 Lanes   8.5          6.1    60 5
East Java   Gempol-Pasuruan     A     Widen To 10.5 M   7.8    _       0      0
C     Widen To 10.5 M   9.9            7     164
Pandaan         A     Widen To 4 Lanes   4.5        _         0
Gempol-Mojosari     A     Widen To 4 Lanes   1.1          7.9   43.1
B      Widen To 7 M     9.9
Sidoaqo-Gempol      A     Widen To 4 Lanes  4.6           4     55 9
Average
86.3
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
-11.13/91                    5   Transport Economist (3),
Transport Officer, Highway
Engineer
02/19/92                    5   Transport Economist (3),
Highway Engineer (2)
07/07/92                    4    Transport Economist (2)
Highway Engineer (2)
Appraisal/Negotiation
03/14/93                    7    Highway Engineer,
Environmental specialist (2),
Transport Economist,
Operation Officer,
Information Technology
Specialist, Training
Specialist
S upervsionII
06/29/94                     6  Highway Engineer (2),              S            HS
Transport Economist (2),
Environmental Specialist
11/17/94                    5   Highway Engineer (2),              S            HS
Transport Economist (2),
Transport Operation Officer,
02/10/95                     5  Highway Engineer (2),              S            HS
Transport Economist (2),
Transport Operation Officer,
11/16/95                    4   Highway Engineer (2), Transport    U             S
Operation Officer, Transport
Specialist
04/27/96                    5   Transport Economist, Highway       U             S
Engineer (2), Transport
Operation Officer,
07/26/96                    5   Transport Economist, Highway       U             S
Engineer (2), Transport
Operation Officer, Transport
Specialist
10/24196 (limited)          5   Transport Economist, Highway
Engineer (2), Transport
Operation Officer, Transport
Specialist
03/12197                    5    Sector Representative, Transport  S             S
Economist, Highway Engineer
(2), Transport Operation Officer,
07/16/97 (limited)          6    Sector Representative, Transport  S             S
-30 -



Economist, Highway Engineer
(2), Transport Operation Officer,
Consultant
11/06/97                    4  Transport Economist, Highway      S            S
Engineer, Transport Specialist
Operation Officer
05/01/98                    5   Transport Economist, Highway     S            S
Engineer (2), Transport
Specialist Operation Officer
11/30/98                    5  Transport Economist, Highway      S            S
Engineer (3), Operation Officer
03/12/99                    4   Transport Economist, Highway     S            S
Engineer (2), Operation Officer
07/21/99                    5   Highway Engineer(2) Operation    S            S
Officer, Transport Specialist,
Construction Engineer
11/19/99                    5   Highway Engineer(2) Operation    S            S
Officer, Transport Specialist,
Construction Engineer
02/15/00                    3   Highway Engineer, Construction   S            S
Engineer, Transport Specialist
05/01/00                    5   Highway Engineer (2),            S             S
Construction Engineer,
Transport Specialist, Transport
Coordinator
10/04/00                    5  Highway Engineer (2),             S            S
Construction Engineer,
Transport Specialist, Transport
Coordinator
04/05/01                    4   Highway engineer (2) Transport   S             S
Spcialist, Sector Coordinator
11/06/01                    2   Highway Engineer (2)             S             S
ICR
02/18/02                   2    Highway Engineer,
Transport Economist
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             61.7                      278.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                  82.3                      178.4
Supervision                           221.1                      760.2
ICR
Total                                 365.1                     1217.3
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies                       O H  OSU*M      O N  O NA
O Sector Policies                      OH   OSU*M      ON   O NA
O Physical                             O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
E Financial                            O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
I Institutional Development            0 H O SU * M    0 N  0 NA
E Environmental                        O H  * SU O M   O N  O NA
Social
Ei Poverty Reduction             O H OSUOM       O N  O NA
L Gender                         OH OSUOM ON *NA
Il Other (Please specify)        OH OSUOM        ON   O NA
III Private sector development         0 H  O SU *M    0 N  0 NA
OI Public sector management            0 H  O SU *M    0 N  0 NA
LI Other (Please specify)              O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
F Lending                                          *HS OS       Ou    OHU
F Supervision                                      OHS OS       O U   O HU
3 Overall                                          A HS Os      O u   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
 Preparation                                      O HS OS      O u   O HU
F Government implementation performance            O HS 0 S     0 U   0 HU
FZ Implementation agency performance               OHS OS       O u   O HU
F Overall                                          OHS OS       O u   O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report Indonesia Second Highway Investment Projects, February 7,
1994.
The World Bank, Meorandum and Recommendation of the President, February 7, 1994.
The Word Bank, Project Status Reports, 06/21/1994 to 12/31/2001
- 34 -



IBRD 25056
95.;                                                                J r r X ao'4= 1 -'  HIUPPINE,S
95 a T a lu'                anl                  O  B ,)ffta n a         tingsa -  -  100  -   t Asaoo  BRUNEI  -P.C.IC  D oA)n
Banda                                           MAua IAcer  MaLAV
Rondo Aceh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    N~~IGAPORE  -:
fROODJI. ACEH
| X '--9 t:' * 9 AX :.~~~~~~~~~ -        -    KALI  '54 TA|
Ct0',   t    Lh k;  W,S                       
mo5ec5bk       a                        -           o~QCCZ                  RAJAYA
pa. NATrIONAL AND                                              DOVECIAIE
Takeng fl g   a                                 JAW  BAS
B TaIuO  NLokd                             - A-,,
M  oa  ~ 1Peut  PUSuso                Ir'n--.l                          lAl.
09tO                                    - A  N E  K --- n ,-C
J_icisr  nratarf  0  Hl gh*nggi  ;\
Tapaktu  \ T,mb  loman
S>J  ;  r  q3 nPoinab o o d S,~ngki ,a Xekuagng'  . Ps  ra  L  ulsa
nTRdda eMALAYSI
L,         a    -in   anmero
IN,Sbt- ,        ,       s .                 K in SPuoSanknis   n -g,A
-E,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ G.                     ateb   b ,Rvrs  ' .- , ~ ';~,- J'  Gudan' g <
in'b =    - '    '              ? ;> ; -Setenangl  our  onb - i  Pangkolpinan
Gar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n~npr.s 
La       (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ArIuITuiuoa au
h       a          D~~~~~~~~~~-  Soo. 
'                                             P qqang Tmpa -  4, ', 20 MLES ungst  t  -S-uand
T    CitesantTwn
r Proviilce Capitals                         JAWA~~~~~~~~~~~~nj.q,.,n
Riversr
Provine Bounaries        -    -      -     .RIA
950  -  -  - - .  100 -- >~~~~~  100'  30~0  AALSacptnefusbudns 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uu       e e
-~~~~~~~~~~~~g
I T  k I ~ ~ ~ ~ UUS 19






IBRD 25057
10'13                                                 INDONESIA
) SUMATERA                                                                                                       NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROAD NETWORK
JAWA
Toll Roads     o    Cities and Towns
Java                S e a                                          National Highways    Province Capitols
MeokQD mDKLJAKARTA                                                                                                - Province Roads  _   Rivers
Railroads           Province Boundaries
Lob h ndwIons  13 ncromoyu - -                                                                                                         Internaionaol Boundaries
SP L.b6h.nW           &-p
@       )t'ad_d,r,lJ,.WA BAfi= Boso C \  s,oPko C,TnkO000n00    rg)~   ong              oU     Blr u  
Gno I                         o
P,                                     C.tM A L A S  g}  \ R4 LnPRNES
URNI.           ol w.o
X~~~~~ID @,  ..  aXoD          >4-- . ,on. -ro-it rr.o .I 1,_i,.                                                                0 L2060 600 ClYLOMETERS
,Awa'-----  iD  D                                                                                                                0D  12 kkn(yu3=:Hfga   f0S R os ec   0  A0  60 lTALES
728Y R                                                                                                                                                                72TA  rJ)  L7'  Boot G_ R  ,o00,odeo oo R  oh  on1
0005  ~~~~~~~non~~~  oon~~~~ro,mnoot ~ ~ ~ K
p                                 n'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGS19






HIUPPINES  Il5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  25~~~~~~~~~ ~~IBRD 25058
989 \ HPHI~~~~~~~~~UPPINES                             z15/ i20                                                                 1125'  lMXiO
B         aUNE       ,                                                                                 N -  INDOVNESIA
ALSIA                               BRNI 7
\UNEI                             n                              \= 5dAS o s \ /   /KALIMANTAN AND SULAWESI
J.- s-       EIAI'National Highways
o4WA  <_SsO  (Jov5or                              E                                                    S I A o  /  _ _ / Province Roads
ndion  Ococn                                                                                                    ------- - /  Local Roads
,~~~~~~~~~~~LIA  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~~~~o         Cifies and Towns
1 soU  \\W/                                                            Province Capitols
-CRivers
Son1 ,gooIoe                                 -  -  Province Boundaries
M A L A Y   S I A                                                                 * - - Inteemational Boundaries
To l B.  r
MSerbw                                            KALIMANTAN TIMUR )>~ AAOembg
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oleo                      g = l orr                              Korondong  Koiyo /  il-I . .-';,
N.                                                               P.ld.h  Pel.~~~*5 PJOADogg  Aopo
B.~>x f B a k o n   .    .r "Lng,,r.         ntoo \O                   4on0  P Sobon
s6lk.ktty                      K A L I d!A N T A N                   S| Ir Se Ulu                 n,rt brAESt
,~~~~~Nn.   Pi.                   JlkSLALWESI t0 
i  ^ %  0  g   ' Ponob /4 TOOl,i *P LN KARAT '! )0         S Li L A W/ ES I Kolk   Tood **i   .--                                 t
KA-oMANTAN  6.ru                                          L k_ ek o no
doAoneo Pogooirgo             Mojene P   Eroong    Web       ,.   Nid    
nd.i     IT n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o~                        ~   Bo     Po ~
TobsongL   }7ngos            p 4lpO$mUp krne       >p~~~~~~O,  T
-5                                    J A VA     S E  A                                  P,,,, ghono  on     S     lo i  'J Eco                           5t
-; _-   0. ; -   -                    5   r   120     20              400        du i= SWroO r
.  ''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  MILES I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.%hy
oooorrdno otroni, EOOOO&OOO                                                                     Bornoo
.   O!                                    115                                        1200  1I5oKongborong                      125
AUGUSTI 993






IBRD 25059R
'1                         I00                       1l220                    SIA         UP
N  MALASIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~SRAI
/      ~~NUSA TENGGARA BARAT
bII  P ula u  L o m b o kKPv la u  S u m b a w a                                                    c        j
N- S - EGGR BARAT           /   =/>NSATNGR TMRXemebXa
Lumb ngL..      F are   Sea
Pulau Lombok~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    lae        W2,boKoo
Moloil            t     -                      Sumba T  Ig   a  )                                   I/      Rsono  /0M   I U
NATiONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROAD NORK R Sawu LlEold/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ti-nr 
NUSA TENGGARA AND TIMOR                           ,                 ,,USA :ENGARATTmMU
Donnnps  Robo    Lob2hon                       do  N-,
NATIONAL  --- AN  P rOVillCIA ROAD NETWORK    P0t0       20          30KLOE
NUn5 PIp SA TFNGGARA~ AN   TMO                                                                        Timorboo~s  20005  ogeL,  gpn
do  Nogno     ~Tnn~oo Notion0, loHighwadoysb                                                        Sea
0000  -05Intem tionol Boundaries  0         ioo               200oMILES
-12'         INDIAN    OCEAN                                                                                                   12.s ;~ : ^- ........  :, .. r
-  .   |   .  ..  .  ..   R i 8          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 20'  1 22A                   1 24
JANUJARY I199






IBRD 25060
125  a                                         130-                                            135                                           140O'
(?                          gSMorotai                                                                          INDONESIA
~Ioaruso /7uBomb-are                                            NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROAD NETWORK
Sulawesi  z                          pTedbanq                                                                      IRIAN JAYA AND MAWKU
Utara,,D                       4 S(oI,Io
,/    Go.al                                                                                     _____   Nalional Highways
Joilo  K / Hom.hero                                                                                Province Roads
~/  / :/'  Iv  4) tkil30 Cg                                                                             !  o   | CiiiesandTowns
.J                                                                  0 0 (; Bobonego~2a   I  1  6) ProvinceCapials
0                                 i '   Waigeo                                                              Rivers
-0                             ao     e                   Q)                                                                    Province Boundaries
-   intenational Boundaries
Lava                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Biak
Mokdeun          - Prt eokwor;    Wa a    ar ei
Ayomaku -_ --- _      >            Adoki        :
Sula  OC   I-                                                  Ransiki                    Sumb rbobo
l>oO                                  200 300 O.|(lLOMErERisoom                                  Jer6i eapen
,,,,., . . -,                                             ,                                                  F i ,-. en- il'.i.1-.
orr.ne          MALUKU                       Ceram Sea                                                                      nym               JAYAPURA
Kkoks                                                              Yomb Kemi H
haiFk 
Ai rb    en,  \a,)                                ToTirr                                                      Kelila  D.iar
~~~~~~~~~~~~a          M.w  I                                                               No  ir NESIA  
Marios     We-. -LA  A   -
Bur.'     eke      Ki                                                                                                                                        19eSggi e
CQ Lore UihhoIe
I            ~~~~~~~~Banda  SeaK
o       100     200      300      400 rCLOMErERS                                 Dra 
o            100           200           300 MILES
acc~~~,Iaacaafsad, boandona,  C21~~imbo
M ALA sIA                                                                                                                                            SO~r-IPtE  o~  oisas
J~~~~~~~~ae Sss   0  o                                                                                                       I _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rauaSe  eo
~~ ,~~~,~ IN DO0N E S I A 
Ier~O...                       CD, "" , AuST IJA      130'                                            135'                                           140'
AUGUST 1993









Report No.:        25235
Type:    ICR



