Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
<~~ iS07- rcs N
Report No. 6588-CiA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
January 5, 1988
Transport and Energy Operations Division
Country Department 3
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribu'ion and mas be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1987)
Currency name        =   Renminbi
Currency unit        =   Yuan (Y)
US$1.00              =   Y 3.70
US$0.27              =   Y 1.00
US$270,270           =   Y 1,000,000
FISCAL YEtR
January 1 to December 31
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALENTS
MeLric System                    British/US system
1 meter (m)              =       3.281 feet
1 square meter ( 2)      =       10.764 square feet
! cubic meter (m )       =       35.315 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)         =       0.621 mile
1 ton-km                 =       0.621 ton-mile
1 ton                    =       2,208 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AAPRC      -  Audit Administration of the Peoples Republic.
of China
CHC        -  Cargo Handling Corpora:ion
cif        -  Cost, insurance and freight
COS';O     -  China Ocean Shipping Corporation
dwt        -  Dead weight tons
ERR        -  Economic Rate of Return
fob        -  Free on board
FYP        -  Five Year Plan
GOC        -  Government of China
MLW        -  Mean Low Water
MOC        -  Ministry of Communications
MOF        -  Ministry of Finance
MR         -  Ministry of Railways
DM         -  Dalian Municipality
PDA        -  Port of Dalian Authority
nrt        -  Net registered ton
SPC        -  State Planning Commission
USCD       -  United Stevedoring Company of Dalian



CHINA                     FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
OALIAN PORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...................... ...............               1
A.*  Traffic ..........    ~ ..c..ec. c ............* * *.... .........  1
B .  Investment.......................................,..                1
D.  Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s .........               3
II.   THE PORTS SUBSECTOR .....................................                 4
A.  Port Facilities4............ .....cge                                4
B.  Traffic .. ....... ...cc.ee...~.. ..................g.e cc . ..... 4
C.  Investment Priorities and Technology  .............. .    4
D.  Organization and Man agementin..............ent....                  4
E.  Operations and Maintenance..o..................ss....                5
FC.  Tarfsar                         i      f       fs.......  ..  .....eec.  ..  6
G.  The Role of the Bank Groupo.. o.....................                 7
H.  Experience in Past Lending ...........................               8
III.   DALIAN PORT..  . ...... e e e e e e c c c e c e...............            8
A.  Facilities ............................... 8
C.  Operat ions ...............................                          9
D.  Organization and Management ... ..................                  10
E.  Planning, Budgeting, Accounting and Auditing .........              l
F.  Port and Hinterland Connections o0000969600664*6.....               11
iV.   THE PROJECT..                                .........                   12
A.  Project Objectives.  s......e.e.....          ...... cc........... .o  12
B.  Description of the Main Project Item s c.. ..cc                     12
C.  Cost Estimates  .       .      .......       ..c..c ..ec            14
D.  Financing Plan. ccc..cc...c....c..c.c............c.cc..c.c......cc..c15
E.  Status of Preparation. c cc c cccc      . .......................   16
F.  Implementation.                                                     16
G.  Procurement . . ee e e e  e ce e  c c  e c c. c e e e c e e c c     c   17
H.  Disbursement ......                c                                18
I.  Ecology and Environment...o ............ .... o.......              18
Jo.  Reporting...    ......       ...... .                              19
This report was written by Ismail Mobarek, Keith Thomas and Supee
Teravaninthorn, who appraised thi project in November 1986.
This document has a restricted distributiou and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page iO,
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION.    .      ....**....... o....               20
A.  Economic Evaluation... ............................o.         20
B.  Overall Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis.......o..         20
C.  Risks. ........ e,e o eo g eeoooeoe eg ..ee.e.o.eo......      21
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS.      AYI*oeo     e.g ooee....eeco.oo gse.o . e  21
Ao Past Results.o.o.oosu                 l      ts.... s......... oooo..o......o  21
B.  Future Financial Performanceggo .e..e.ooo..e.. o             22
VII.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED (,ND RECOHMENDATIOVNSoeoe..e....o        24
ANNEXES
1.   Documents in Project File
2.   Outline of Requirements for Technical Training
3.   Terms of Reference:  Financial Training
4.   Technical Assistance and Training:  Schedule and Estimated Costs
5.   Tarms of Reterence:  Update of the Port's Master Plan
6.   Terms of Reference:  Intermodal Container Distribution Study
7.   Terms of Reference:  Construction Supervision
TABLES
3.1     Dalian Port-Existing Terminals
4.1     Project Cost Estimates (US$)
4.2     Project Cost Estimate (RMB)
4.3     Equipment Cost Estimate
4.4     Di&,bursement Schedule
5.1     Port Traffic, 1977-2010
5.2     Cargo Handling Without and With Proposed Berths -
General Cargo Berth
5.3     Cargo Handling Without and With Proposed Berths -
Container Berth
5.4     Economic Benefits - General Cargo Berth
5.5     Economic Benefits - Container Berth
5.6     Unit Cost of Ship Waiting in Port
5.7     Economic Rate of Return (ERR) ard Sensitivity Analysis
6.1     PDA:  Income Statements, 1983-93
6.2     PDA:  Funds Flow Statements, 1983-93
6.3     PDA:  Balance Sheets, 1983-93
6.4     Anaumptions for the Financial Forecasts



- iii -
CHARTS
A. Organization Chart FDA
B. Implementation Schedule
C.  Procuremnt Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 19866



CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Sumary
Borrowert            People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:         Port of Dalian Authority (PDA)
Amount:              $96.0 million equivalent comprising a bank loan of $71.0
million and an IDA Credit of SDR 18.2 million ($25.0
million equivalent)
Terms:               For the loan, twenty years, including five years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate; for the credit,
standard with 35 years maturity.
Reiending Terms:    The proceeds of the loan and credit would be onlent from
the Government of China (GOC) to PDA under a subsidiary
loan agreement with a 20-year term, including 5 years of
grace, at an interest rate of 5X p.a. The foreign
exchange risk between the dollar and RMB and commitment
fees of three quarters of 1% would be borne by PDA.
Proiect
(objectives:       The principal objective of the project is to assist the
Government in the effort to relieve congestion and
increase the handling capacity in the ports subsector.
The project would provide for infrastructure development
in a key port in northeastern China, as well as technical
t.ssistance and training to strengthen the port's manage-
ment and improve its operating capabilities and to address
intermodal aspects of port operations.
Project
Description:      The proposed project consists of:  (a) construction of two
container berths and two general purpose berths capable of
conversion to container berths as and when needed, to-
gether with the necessary infrastructure such as dredging,
reclamation, pavement, roadways, railways, water supply
and sewerage systems; (b) provision of "ie required load-
ing/unloading eq.ipment, navigational aids and some harbor
operation equipment and boats; and (c) provision of
training and technical assistance for port planning, con-
struction supervision, financial management, and prepar-
ation of two studies, one for upddting the port's Master
Plan and the other for intermodal distribution of
containers in the hinterland of Dalian.



- ii -
Risk:                The project has no significant risks since all components
involve proven technology that has been in extended use in
China or in other parts of the world.  Additional training
will be provided to PDA's personnel to assure the proper
operation of the facilities.  The only possible risk would
be of delay in project start-up due to t.^e first-time use
of ICB procedures by PDA.  To minimize this risk, appro-
priate Bank assistance and s"pervision will be provided in
the early stages.
Estimated
Project Costs:                          Local            Foreign        Total
-------------(US$ million)-----------
Civil works                      113.9             54.6         168.5
Equipment                          1.3             26.0          27.3
Training                           1.0               1.5           2.5
Technical Assistance               2.0              2.4           4.4
Subtotal                    118.2             84.5         202.7
Contingencies
Physical                        11.3              8.5          20.3
Price                            4.6              3.0           7.6
Total Project Cost /a       134.6             96.0         230.6
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                           -              71.0          71.0
IDA                                 -              25.0          25.0
Government                       134.6                -         134.6
Total                       134.6             96.0         230.6
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Annual                 30.0    30.0    20.0    13.0        3.0
Cumulative             30.0    60.0    80.0    93.0    96.0
Economic Rate of Return: 201
Map: IBRD No. 19866
/a The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



CHIIIA
DALIAN PORT PROW'3CT
I* THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.1       Chinese policy statements repeatedly identify transportation and
enet.gy shortages as the two most critical bottlenecks in the economy.  Coal is
at the heart of both problems, because coal is simultaneously the most impor-
tant source of energy and the largest user of transport capacity. This dual
problem with coal is exacerbated by Chin&'s high level of energy consumption
per unit of CDP (about two and a half times that of other LDCs). However, the
need to ship large volumes of coal is not the sole cause of the transportation
bottleneck. The rapid growth of China's economy in recent years has stimula-
ted an increasing demand for the shipment of commodities of all sorts, and for
passenger travel as well. Efforts to reduce waste within the transport system
(for example, by eliminating cross-hauling of the same commodity, increasing
the processing of raw materials before shipment, and increasing the intensity
of road and waterway utilization) are certainly desirable. More fun-
damentally, however, the Government's strategy for solving transportation
shortages will have to rely on an expansion of the system's capacity, primar-
ily by increasing the productivity of existing facilities wherever possible,
and secondarily by building new facilities where needed.
A. Traffic
1.2       Freight Traffic.  Domestic freight transported in 1985 reached
1,276 billion ton-km, representing a 131 increase over 1984 and an average
annual growth rate since 1952 of almost 91, consistently higher than the
gtowth of domestic product. By the year 2000, domestic freigrhz traffic could
be in the range of 3,000 billion ton-km. The modal split has moved toward a
more balanced use of modes, with the railways' dominant share of 82% in 1952
reduced to 641 by 1985.
1.3       Passenger traffic reached 425 billion passenger-km (p-km) in 1985,
up 17% over 1984 and representing an average annual growth rate of 13% since
1978 and almost 9% since 1952. This illustrates the increasing demand for
travel as Income grows. It is likely that this growth would have been even
more rapid if it had not been constrained by the limited capacity of the
transport sector, particularly the railways, to offer more passenger services.
Railways are the major passenger carrier, handling 57% of the traffic in
1985. Despite the rapid growth of passenger traffic in recent years, the
mobility of the Chinese people is still much lower than that of people in
countries with comparable income levels. By tha turn of the century,
passenger traffic may well reach about 1,500 billion p-km per year.
B. Investment
1.4       Over the period 1953-85, some Y 154 billion, or 14% of all new
investments under central government control, went to transport. In
comparison with other countries, annual levels of transport investment appear



- 2 -
somewhat on the low side, a factor contributing to trarsport being a bottle-
neck to economic development. For example, by 1983, 30 million tons of coal
had accumulated in Shanxi Province for lack of transport, and some of this
stockpiled coal was destroyed by spontaneous combustion. Despite a recent
policy of curtailing production to match available transport, the volume of
coal stockpiled has increased to about 50 million tons at the end of 1987.
Rural areas are short of tvansport, both for agriculture and for other rural
eaiterprises. In the ports, lack of proper handling facilities is hampering
trade in bulk commodities such as fertilizers, cement and grain. In the
coming decades, a much larger investment effort will be needed in transport if
these bottlenecks are to be overcome.
C. Systems
1.5       The railway system consists of some 52,000 route-km, of which about
9,700 km are double or multiple-track and 3,100 km are electrified. The net-
work is served by 114100 locomotives, 291,000 freight cars and 19,600 passen-
ger coaches. At present, 68% of tractive power is still steam, 28% diesel and
4% electric. Freight traffic density averages 15 million net ton-km per
route-km which is the highest freight density in the world after the Soviet
Union, and 50% higher than freight density in the United State'. Freight
traffic reaching 812 billion t-km in 1985. Growth averaged 6.2% p.a. since
1978, and reached 9% in 1985. Three-quarters of all freight traffic involves
ten commodities including coal, iron and steel, grain and construction
materials. The passenger traffic density of 4.2 million passenger-km per
route-km also ranks second in the world, after India. In 1985 1.1 billion
passengers were carried. The average annual increase since 1978 has been
11%. Despite some possible rationalization in the transport of natural
resources and heavy industrial outputs, there is no question but that the
transport demand for the major commodities will continue to grow rapidly.
Thus, although its share of the total is expected to decrease, rail traffic
will continue to grow, requiring massive investments in linc capacity, motive
power and rolling stock well into the future.
1.6       The highway system comprised about 927,000 km in 1984, of which
about 180,000 km were asphalt paved, about 510,000 km, gravel and sand paved,
and the remainder dirt roads. Despite impressive expansion of the road net-
work since 1949, when only some 80,000 km of motorable roads existed, the
roads in China today arc inadequate because: (a) pavement strength and quality
are poor; (b) there are many thousand kilometers of extremely rough macadam-
surtaced roads with traffic in excess of 300 average daily traffic (ADT);
(c) congestion is a growing problem particularly near cities, due to the
mixing of slow and fast moving traffic; and (d) there are gaps of about 4,000
km in major national roads linking large cities and provincial capitals. The
road network and road transport in China today can therefore be characterized
as underdeveloped. Road maintenance, however, is well organized and currently
absorbs much of the attention and resources of the provincial and other local
road authorities. Except in western China, the highway network is still very
much a system of feeder roads to the railways. Nevertheless, motor traffic
has teportedly grown at a very high overall annual average of 15% on the
national highways since 1978.



-3-
D. Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s
1.7       The transport system has been severely taxed by the pace of recent
economic development and capacity constraints are evident in all mode.. Coal
transportation is a particularly serious case because of its significance for
energy supply and hence for industrial 3rowth. At preeent, transport is a
greater constraint on the sunply of energy than is coal mine development.
China also needs to substantially expand its port and waterway facilities to
relieve the growing hindranLe to external trade caused by inadequate berth
capacity and container handling capability. But the most serious need is for
dramatically expanded road transport, especially in rural areas where
increased specialization has created an urgent demand for better farm-to-
market transport services. Road transport wiil aiio be called upon to meet a
growing share of the demand for passenger transportation from the increasingly
mobile population.
1.8       China's Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90. recognizes %ll these
sectoral needs. By the end of the Plan period, freight traffic is projected
to be 45% higher than in 1985, and passenger traffic 60% higher, witis a dis-
proportionately greatei share of the increase falling on road transport. To
meet these needs, substancial investments are envisioned, especially in new
rail lines, double-tracking and electrification of existing lines, new high-
ways, and more berth3 at coastal ports. The Plan also proposes to secure
efficiency gains in transportation from operational improvements; these
include the development of integrated intermGdal transportation networks, in
particular for coal transportation and for import/export trade, and technolo-
gical improvements such as container-handling facilities and intermodal trans-
port centers. To facilitate these developments, the Plan envisions signifi-
cant institutional changes in the sector, including an extension of the policy
of separating the functions of government from those of operating enterprises
and delegating greater authority to the latter (recently begun in the ports
subsector, paras. 2.4-5).  Continuing adjustment of charges for transportation
services is expected to assist the funding of investments in the sector from
internally generated resources.
1.9       The Bank subscribes to the Government's objectives for development
of the transport sector, and is supporting its initiatives with both financial
and technical assistance. Three railway projects (Loans 2394-CHA, 2q40-CHA,
and 2678/Cr. 1680-CHA) have assisted the expansion of capacity on key routes
and the manufacture of electric locomotives, passenger coaches and signalling
equipment; two highway projects (Loan 2539/Credit 1594-CHA, and Loan
2811/Credit 1792-CHA) involves the construction or improvement of national and
rural roads. Port-related activities are described in paras 2.18-2.19.
Besides these subsector-specific operations, the Bank has recently begun to
assist the Government in the conduct of strategic studies of a wider nature:
a review of the utilization of water transport was recently completed, a
comprehensive transportation study for Guangdong Province is ir progress, and
another to cover the five provinces of the Shanghai Economic Zone has been
proposed.



- 4 -
II. THE PORTS SUBSECTOR
A.   Port Facilities
2.1       China has 15 major deep-water ports, but six of these handle over
80X of the total traffic: Shanghai, Dalian, Qingdac, Qinghuangdao, Huangpu
and Tianjin. Shanghai, with 96 berths, is one of the ten largest ports in the
world. In 1986 it handled 126 million tons of cargo and more than 10 million
passengers. There are also many minor ports along China's 2,000-km coaatline
and 110,000 km of navigable rivers.
B. Traffic
2.2       By comparison with other developing countries, China's port traffic
is low in relation to the size of its economy. However, it is now growing
rapidly following the opening of the economy to foreign trade: between 1977
and 1985 traffic at the 15 major ports almost doubled to 311 million tons.
Tonnages of domestic and foreign cargoes are in,creasing about equally but
foreign traffic is growing at a faster rate. Foreign trade is expected to
continue growing in stride with the economy as a whole; the Seventh Five-Year
Plan envisions port traffic reaching 500 million tons by 1990, over 50% higher
than the 1985 volume.
C. Investment Priorities and Technology
2.3       In the Seventh Five Year Plan, Government proposes to invest over
' 10 billion in the subsector. Major investments include 120 deep water
berths and 80 smaller ones, which together with other improvements would
increase coastal harbor capacity to handle the 500 million tons envisioned in
para. 2.2 above.
2.4       One of the Government's priorities for the Seventh Five-Year Plan is
to update technology. For :he port subsector, this will involve in
particular:
(a)  palletization and containerization facilities for break bulk cargo;
(b)  specialized handling equipment for bulk cargo, the majority of which
is now mixed with break bulk handling, resulting in unnecessariiy
low efficiency; and
(c)  computerization of documentation flow and management information at
the berths.
D. Organization and Management
2.5       The organization of the subsector is currently being changed in an
effort to cbtain greater productivity and faster development by increasing
local autonomy and accountability. Until recently, all the major ports in
China were responsible to, and closely controlled by, the Ministry of Communi-
cations (MOC). In 1985 a "pilot system refo.zm" was introduced in which the
primary leadership of one port--Tianjin--was transferred from MOC to its local



governmel1t and ax the same time considerably greater autonomy was given to
the port's management, particularly in relation to development planning and
financial control. In 1986, revised organizational arrangements were made for
the ports of Shanghai and Dalian, which were also placed under the primary
leadership of their respective local governments. All remaining ocean ports
will be transferred to local government control before ^.he end of 1988.
2.6       The objective of this program of decentralization is to develop the
capability and initiative of the ports' local managements, in the interests of
improved efficiency of operations and more effective development of the
ports. However, the details of reallocation of responsibilities differ in the
four cases so far implemented, most particularly as to the approval of long-
term development plans (delegated in the cate if Tianjin, but retained by MOC
in the case of Shanghai, Dalian and Huangpu) and the exemption of port profits
from tax (complete for Tianjin, but partial for Shanghai, Dalian and Huangpu,
although on a different basis than previously). Recent comments by Chinese
leaders have expressed satisfaction with the program in general, but it is too
early to evalliate the different organizational models, and hence to be sure
what pattern may be adopted for the ports yet to be decentralized.
2.7       Although the decentralization program confers considerably greater
authority and responsibility on port managements than hitherto--even in the
cases of more limited delegation such as Shanghai, Dalian and Huangpu--the
ports, although profitable, are still far from operating on a commercial
basis. In particular, they are not free to develop I eir own tariffs (para.
2.14), or to compete for traffic, which is allocated y MOC. But all the
ports are overloaded and would have little incentive to compete for business
at present; there is in any event no foreign port which would be vulnerable to
competition, so they could only compete amongst themselves. The gains from
competition would thus likely be modest but the risk of introducing disorder
into an already strained system could be high. In these circumstances the
retention of central government control over tariffs and traffic allocation is
prudent, and further movement towards a commercial basis is not expected until
port capacity has been substantially increased and the new organizational
models have been fully evaluated.
E. Operations and Maintenance
2.8       All the major ports operate continuously with a three-shift system,
but operations are increasingly hampered by congestion and by the fact that a
lot of the equipment is outmoded and slow. In 1985 the average waiting time
in Dalian port was 6.7 days, up from 5.7 days in 1983 and 3.6 days in 1981.
Total port time in 1985 averaged 10.4 days. In Tianjin the average in 1983
was 5.5 days; in 1984 it increased to 7 days. Other aspects of port opera-
tiLns contribute significantly to long berth times in Chinese ports. First,
documentation procedures are complicated end ponderous. Frequently this
results in port equipment not being in the right place at the right time and
sometimes in cargoes arriving before bills of lading have been received by the
port. Second, in some of the southern ports a large proportion of traffic
involves s.ip-to-ship or ship-to-barge transfers, some of which could be
avoided by direct trading between minor ports or by using modern sea-going
barges capable of operating on both coastal routes dnd inland waterways.



- 6 -
Third, not all shipping and domestic distribution is arranged as efficiently
as it might be and some transshipment cargoes could be distributed more easily
by rail from another port. MOC has begun rationalizing some traffic flows.
shanghai, for example, has already had some coal traffic directed to their
final destinations in surrounding provinces and, by the year 2000, approxi-
mately 40 million tons of other transshipment traffic is expected to be
diverted from the port.
2.9       Recently the ports of Shanghai and Dalian have each retained foreign
consultants to review their operations, identify weaknesses and recommend
improvements. The reports from these reviews have been submitted and their
conclusions and recommendations are currently under implementation as part of
the Seventh Five Year Plan.
2.10      Each major port has its own maintenance works and port equipment is
kept serviceable, although much of the equipment suffers frequent breakdowns
because of age. The most serious maintenance problem is siltation at the
estuarine ports and this requires considerable routine dredging. Some of the
dredging ma- be excessive and might be reduced as a result of survey work to
provide a better understanding of estuarine flows.
2.11      Congestion is the overriding problem affecting virtually all of
China's ports. The shortage of berths causes long waiting times; in 1985 the
average was 11.1 days, up from 8.7 days in 1984. The extent of port conges-
tion is so serious that it threatens to hold back further expansion of China's
foreign trade. Within the inadequate total berth capacity, the distribution
of dedicated facilities does not match the present pattern of traffic. In
particular, container handling capacity is well below the potential for con-
tainerized cargo, much of which therefore has to be inefficiently handled as
general cargo, Specialized equipment is similarly scLLce, and much of the
equipment that exists is old and outmoded. As a result, ships are further
delayed by slow turnaround times once they have reached a berth.
2.12      A scarcity of storage area and inadequate rail and road links hamper
the efficient turnaround of arriving cargo in a number of the ports. The pro-
per interfacing of different transportation modes is an aspect of port devel-
opment which is now receiving the urgent attention of MOC; however, only road
connections are within its own jurisdiction, while railway connections are the
responsibility of the Ministry of Railways (MR). MR is itself facing a seri-
ous shortage of capacity, and the coordination of its own priority projects
with those of MOC is important.
2.13      Port management systems need updating, particularly in the areas of
operations control, management information, and costing. Computer capacity at
most of the ports is small, and its enlargement is probably a prerequisite to
improvement in all the above areas.
F. Tariffs
2.14      The structure of port tarif.s and tariff rates are determined
jointly by the MOC and the State Price Bureau. The present tariff structure
was set up in 1978 on the basis of a somewhat arbitrary allocation of costs to



- 7 -
the different port services. The structure also reflects all the distortions
inherent in the prices of the different factor inputs. As a first step in
rationalizing tariffs, the Bank's first port project in China (Ln 2207-CHA,
October 1982) includes a study of the economic costs of providing port ser-
vices for coal and containers at the project facilities. This study is
expected to be completed in 1988, following the first complete year of project
operation. The results will be made available to Dalian port.
2.15      Foreign ships pay higher harbor dues and charges than local ships.
About 80% of all Chinese cargo is carried in vessels owned or operated by the
Chinese Ocean Shipping Company (COSCO), which is controlled directly by MOC.
In national terms, port tariffs paid by COSCO are little more than a transfer
payment between two parts of HOC. Tariff rates could be set for efficiency
objectives, but instead they seem to reflect the relative financial strengths
of COSCO and the ports and their different investment requirements. By con-
trast, rates for foreign vessels seem to he set on the basis of what the mar-
ket will bear. A 40% increase was effected in February 1985, but there was no
increase in the lower rates charged for domestis vessels, and HOC says it has
no immediate plans to increase these rates.
2.16      There are no shipping conference rates for Chinese ports and the
ports only rarely pay demurrage charges for ship waiting. Charter contracts
usually include an allowance for ship waiting time, but these charges are paid
by the cargo owner, not by the port. Recently, however, ports have been sign-
ing contracts with ship operators guaranteeing a certain turn around time,
with demurrage charges payable by the port if the time is exceeded or premiums
payable by the ship if it is handled faster. Usually the premiums far exceed
the demurrage charges.
2.17      One of the conditions precedent to rational tariff action is the
adoption of an accurate and uniform system of costing at the ports. At the
present time none such exists, but the Bank has begun discussions with MOC on
developing such a system, possibly with Bank funding.
G. Tne Role of the Bank Group
2.18      The Bank has supported, and will continue to support, the
Government's objective of expanding capacity and improving productivity in the
ports. The first lending operation in the subsector (Three Ports Project, Ln.
2207-CHA) financed additional container handling capacity in Shanghai, Huangpu
and Tianjin and a coal terminal at Huangpu. The second (Tianjin Port Project,
Ln. 2689-CHA) is financing the construction of eleven additional berths at
Tianjin for timber, construction materials and general cargo. The third
(Huangpu Port Project, not yet effective) will finance the construction of
five additional berths in the Xinsha area of Huangpu port for coal, iron ore,
bulk fertilizer and general purpose. Further operations are in preparation
for the ports of Shanghai, Xiamen and Ningbo.
2.19      The Government has already initiated new organizational models
designed to improve the productivity and efficiency of port operations
(para. 2.5). The Bank has supported management systems improvement with
project components addressing computer development, technical studies and



- 8 -
training, and containerization of cargo. The work of Bank missions has also
been instrumental in developing Chinese expertise in the economic evaluation
of investment projects, and in updating various aspects of port operation.
H. Experience in Past Lending
2.20      Construction of the Three Ports Project (Loan 2207-CHA) is
complete. Some minor equipmelit is still to be delivered before the loan
closing date of June 30, ,988 (one year behind schedule envisioned at
appraisal). There has been a considerable foreign exchange cost saving under
the project as a result of bids being lower than expected, and $55 million of
the original loan of $124 million has been cancelled. The project is problem
free. The Tianjin Port Project (Loan 2689-CHA $130 million) is proceeding on
schedule and completion is expected by December 1990.
III. DALIAN PORT
3.1       Dalian port, built in 1899, the second largest port in China after
Shanghai, is located in the northeast of China between the Yellow Sea and the
Bo Hai on the Liaodong Peninsula (Map IBRD 19866). Its economic hinterland
includes the three northeast provinces of Liaoning, Jilin and Heilongjiang and
four large districis in the eastern part of Inner Mongolia, covering an area
of 1.20 million kmi with a population of 102 million. There are no other
ports which could economically serve these areas; the other ports in the
vicinity (Yinkou at the mouth of the Liaohe river and Dandong at the mouth of
the Yalu river) are both estuarial ports with inadequate water depth.
3.2       The tide at Dalian is semi-diurnal (twice daily), with an average
range between mean high and low water springs of 2.1 m. The port has three
entrance channels: the main harbor channel is 3,500 m long and 10 m deep; the
Ganjingzi channel is 5,000 m long and 9 m deep; the Nianyu Bay Channel is
1,600 m long and 17.5 m deep. The port has nire breakwaters with a total
length of about 7 km. Ice forms in the port for about 50 days per year, but
only in shallow areaf. along the shoreline; it has little effect on ships'
navigacior and berthing. The siltation in the harbor area is very limited,
estimated at 10 cm per annum. The soil ranges from silty to silty clay to
clay, over weathered bedrock. Its depth varies from place to place. The
earthquake intensity in the Dalian region is 7 on the Richter Scale.
A. Facilities
3.3       All traffic in and out of Dalian port is handled at its 51 existing
berths located in the main harbour and five satellite harbours (Table 3.1).
These berths are functionally classified as either specialized berths (29 of
them) assigned to handle certain commodities, or broadly defined general cargo
berths handling the rest of the traffic. The specialized berths handle:
passengers (5), loose cargo on small domestic craft (6), petroleum products
(4), timber (4), crude oil (2), iron ore (2), maize exports (2), bulk grain
(2), and one each for soybean and container traffic. The container berth is a
substandard berth renovated in 1983 by combining two general cargo berths of
270 m and is partially equipped with container handling facilities. The



-9-
rema;ning 22 berths are for general cargo traffic comprising principally iron
and steel, non-metallic ores, and chemical fertilizer.
3.4       Four specialized berths to handle coal and dangerous goods are under
construction and will be completed in 1988 on a satellite harbor, Heshangdao;
an extension of the crude oil terminal is also planned. In addition, .urther
extension of several specialized berths is underway using domestic resources.
This increase in capacity will be adequate to handle the future growth of
specialized traffic, leaving container and general cargo traffic to be taken
care of under the proposed project. This traffic is now the major cause of
congestion at the port. The growth of container traffic especially, has beer
remarkable, starting with 59,000 tons in 1982 and rising to 404,000 tons in
1985. From 1984 container traffic has actually saturated the berth capacity;
in 1987 PDA completed renovation of one berth in Xianglujiao satellite harbor
to temporarily handle additional container traffic until early 1992 when the
project container berths are scheduled to be completed.
3.5       The harbor has a total of 47 warehouses with a surface area of
270,000 sq m. The land area is 4.7 sq km, which is inadequate. The city has
specified a special area for long-term storage warehouses away from the
port.
B. Traffic
3.6       Dalian's traffic has increased very rapidly and now exceeds the port
capacity by over 25%, causing heavy congestion. Total port traffic in 1985
was approximately 44 million tons, an 8% p.a. growth since 1977. PDA fore-
casts the total traffic to reach 77 million tons in 2000, an average of almost
4% p.a. growth. The traffic structure is not expected to change much. In
addition to crude oil and petroleum products which take up half of the traif-
fic, major commodities are: coal, grain, iron ores and general cargo
(Table 5.1). The share of containerized cargo in general cargo is expected to
increase very rapidly, from 4% at present to 24% in 2000. The forecast also
shows a significant growth of incoming coal (23% p.a.) due to the industriali-
zation plans for the northeastern region.
C. Operations
3.7       Pre~sently the majority of the 22 general cargo berths can only
accommodate ships of up to 10,000 DWT with an average shipment size of 5,000-
6,000 tons, which is relatively small; the existing substandard container
berth accommodates 5,000 DWT ships or 2,500 tons shipment size. Therefore the
rapid increase in traffic is boing accommodated mainly through an increase in
the number, rather than the size, of ships arriving at the port, thus greatly
adding to the congestion.
3.8       Other factors contributing to the port's congestion are the ineffi-
ciency of the handling facilities at berth, the insufficiency of storage area
and the poor hinterland transport aervices. About 30-40% of handling equip-
ment is over 20 years old, requiring frequent repair and maintenance. Some-
times ships are waiting at berth for handling equipment to be returned from
the repair shop. Likewise, some ships can not be unloaded because there is no



- 10 -
empty shed or storage area. The problem of storage area is closely related to
the condition of hinterland transport services. Since 90% of hinterland
transport to and from Dalian port has so far been by railway, it depends
largely on the railway authority allocating wagons for the wise of the port;
the allocation has not always been sufficient.
3.9       To address these problems a rehabilitation program was recently
prepared by foreign consultants. The program is now being implemented and
includes reclaiming land to increase the storage area, shortening wagon
turnaround time to make full use of the allocated wagons, and improving the
road transport facility to divert traffic from rail to road. Though such a
rehabilitation plan would increase port capacity about 5-10, it is still far
from sufficient to accommodate the rapid growth of port traffic which, by 1990
and 2000, is forecas: to be 20% and 75X greater than the 1985 volume.
3.10      Congestion on the cortainer berth is worse.  Given the present
shortage of container berth facilities, and the anticipated increase in
container traffic, without the project the port would have to convert at least
one more general cargo berth to handle container traffic. This would leave
only 21 berths for handling non-containerized general cargo and two berths for
containers.
D. Organization and Management
3.11      The Port of Dalian Authority (PDA) was formed on January 1, 1986, by
the merger of the United Stevedoring Corporation of Dalian (USCD) with part of
the Dalian Port Administration Bureau (DPA). It is an economic and adminis-
trative unit under the primary leadership of the Dalian Municipality (DM) and
the secondary leadership of the Ministry of Communications (MOC).  PDA has
responsibility for most aspects of port administration, with the main excep-
tion of harbor superintendency wnich is the responsibility of the Ocean Safety
Superintendency Bureau of Dalian, a unit under MOC, which was formed to assume
the remaining responsibilities of DPA after the merger. The details of PDA's
p,wers and duties are defined in a charter approved by the DM on August 3,
1987. The Charter is acceptable to the Bank group. The scope of its
authority represents a significant delegation from MOC, which prior to 1986
had closely controlled the port through USCD and DPA. MOC does, however,
retain control over PDA's major development plans (para. 3.13). PDA has also
been given greater control over its own financial affairs (parn.   4).  These
arrangements are consistent with the Government's policy of decentralizing
responsibility for port administration and increasing the autonomy of the
ports' local managements (para. 2.4-5).
3.12      PDA is managed by a director, appointed jointly by DM and MOC, who
reports to d Port Management Commission established by DM. The director is
supported by three deputy directors responsible for staff functions such as
planning, finance, personnel, environmeutal protection and safety, and a chief
engineer. The operations of the port are carried out by a number of self-
accounting units whose managers also report to the director of PDA. These
include seven berth district operating units, and others concerned with infra-
structure services as well as a staff hospital, college and technical
school. Construction projects at the port are managed by the Construction



- . 1 -
Comnand Department, which is a self-accounting unit reporting separately to
the director of PDA.
E. Planning, Budgeting, Accounting and Auditing
3.13      The long-term planning of Dalian port's development and the approval
of major projects (over RMB Y 30 million) remains the responsibility of MOC.
Smaller projects are within the authority of the municipality, through the
mechanism of a Port Development Leading Group chaired by the director of PDA
in the capacity uf assistant to the Mayor. The principal instrument of
control of port operations is the annual operating plan and budget which is
subject to approval by DM's Porc Management Commission.
3.14      PDA operates an accrual-based accounting system and follows account-
ing procedures laid down by the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Its chart of ac-
counts and the form of its financial statements (income statement and balance
sheet) are as prescribed by MOC. Consolidated statements are prepared
annually for the Authority and its subordinate units and, with the addition of
a funds flow statement, these will be acceptable to the Bank group for the
purposes of financial reporting.
3.15      PDA's accounts, like those of its predecessor organizations, are
nominally subject to audit by the Audit Bureaus of the Dalian Municipality and
of MOC. In fact no audit has been carried out. It is intended that the Audit
Administration of China (AAPRC) will assume responsibility for auditing when
the proposed loan is approved. AAPRC carries out the audit of most Bank proj-
ects in China and is acceptable to the Bank group as an independent external
auditor. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from PDA that it will
submit its audited financial statements to the Bank group not later than six
months after the end of each financial year.
F. Port and Hinterland Connections
3.16      The port is connected to the national rail neLioork by a major rail
line.  As for highways, the Chenda artery connects the porL to the entire
northeast. Improvements planned for the Seventh Five Year Plan oeriod are:
(a)  Highway:  By 1990 the provincial highway authority will complete
upgrading the Dalian-Shenyang road section to Class One (four-lane
center divided road). The entire road length will also be shortened
to 380 km from the existing 420 km. This is to accommodate the
increasing port traffic and the diversion of short distance traffic
from rail to road. There will also be a Class Two road extending
from the new port facilities located at Dayaowan, through the
Special Economic Development Zone, and joining with the national
road at Jin county;
(b) Railway:
(i)    a line extension from Jin counLty marshalling yard through the
economic zone to connect with the in-port rail line at
Dayaowan;



- 12 -
(ii)    an increase in motive power by replacing the existing steam
locomotives with 41 imported diesel locomotives; and
(iii)    construction of a new marshalling yard at Jin county to serve
the new line extension, and upgrading the existing marshalling
yards at Nanguanling north of Dalian, Sujiatun south of
Shenyang, Siping and Changcun of Jilin province.
3.17      Assurance was obtained at negotiation that the road and railway
connections from the new port facility at Dayaowan to the main Dalian-Shenyang
highway and railway will be completed and open to traffic on completion of the
project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives
4.1       The objectives of the proposed project are to increase Dalian port's
capacity to handle cargo flow and improve its operational procedures. The
project would: (a) assist the urgent expansion of port capacity in China,
which is in danger of becoming a constraint to economic growth; (b) facilitate
technology transfer in areas such as long term planning (ma ter planning),
financial planning and control, and improved berth management generally;
Cc) support with technical assistance the development of the research and
design capabilities of MOC; (d) facilitate the study of the present and
potential use of containers in the hinterland of Dalian to ensure adequate
coordination of transportation and storage facilities; and (e) address the
training needs of port operators, maintenance personnel and managers.
B.   Description of Main Project Items
4.2       The proposed project (Map IBRD 19866) consists of:
(a)  Construction of two container berths for 30,000 DWT ships and two
general purpose berths for 25,000 DWT ships capable of conversion to
container berths as and when needed. These berths will require:
(i)   cor.structian cf a 1,840 m long breakwater and shore protec-
tion work:;;
(ii)   dredging of about 2.5 millicn m3 of soil, backfill and
stabilization of the fill material;
(iii)   construction of two container freight stations;
(iv)   construction of necessary railway, roads, warehouses, and
storage yards;
(v)   construction of railway lines from in-port rail line of
Dayaowan to the Jin-xian marshalling yard, and an access road
from Dayaowan to the Shen-da freeway;



- 13 -
(vi)   installation of water supply, sewerage and power supply
systems;
(vii)   provision of the required loading/unloading equipment, navi-
gational aids, harbor operations equipment and boats; and
(viii)   construction of required maintenance buildings, auxilliary
buildings and others.
(b)  training of port operators and other specialists through technical
assi3tance in:
(i) port operations, design, planning and construction supervision;
(ii) financial control, including in particular capital expenditure
planning and control and operating cost monitoring.
(c)     a study of intermodal transport of containers in the port
hinterland to reduce port congestion;
(d)     reviewing and updating the port master plan which is under
preparation by the staff of PDA.
4.3           Berth Construction.  The new port facilities will be constructed
at Dayaowan, 50 km away from Dalian city and the existing port facilities.  To
protect the new berths against waves, a 1,840 m long breakwater will be
constructed, partly as a rubble mound and partly as a caisson structure. The
new berths comprise two container berths 636 meters long with 12 m depth and
two general purpose berths 480 meters long, one with 11 m depth alongside and
the other with 12 m. The quaywall is designed using reinforced concrete
caissons with an alternative design using counterfort wall. Basin dredging
amounts to 2.5 million cubic meters and will be dumped away in the sea since
the material is not suitable as fill behind the quaywall. Reclamation for a
475 m wide container yard and the rest of the area required for highway and
railway will be provided by using rock fill from a nearby mountain. Water
supply, sewerage and power supply will be provided from the mains leading to
the crude oil terminal; these have enough capacity for present needs and for
the new project as well. Two container freight stations are planned, one for
trucks and the other for the railway.
4.4          Training.  In addition to the operational training required for
the new container handling equipment which will be provided by the suppliers,
PDA will train the other personnel required for the project (Annex 2). On-
the-job training in project supervision will be provided by foreign
consultants who will also assist in the supervision. Terms of reference (TOR)
for construction supervision was discussed and agreed during negotiation
(Annex 7). Foreign consultants will also be needed to provide training in
techniques of financial control, which PDA has specifically requested in order
to equip itself to discharge the wider responsibilities it has recently
acquired for the direction of its own financial affairs (para. 6.4). During



- 14 -
negotiations TOR for financial training were discussed and agreed with PDA
(Annex 3). Foreign consultants will be recruited according to the Bank
Guidelines. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from PDA that it will
carry out the training in accordance with the program agreed with the Bank
(Annex 2).
4.5           Port Master Plan.  Under the Three Ports Project (Ln. 2207-CHA),
the Bank financed a Master Planning Course at Yantai during August 1985. With
the tools and techniques now available to the Chinese experts, PDA will update
the port's master plan. The master plan will take into consideration, as
before, the development of neighboring ports and the new economic zones. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained from PDA that it will update its master
plan on the basis of the terms of reference agreed with the Bank group (Annex
5), and wilt complete it by June 30, 1989.
4.6           Studies.  The project would include an intermodal tran.port study
for container distribution in the hinterland of Dalian port. The study would
identify the origin and destination of containerized cargo and the location
for inland collection and distribution centers. PDA will carry out this study
assisted by MOC. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOC and PDA
that PDA will carry out the study on the basis of the terms of reference
agreed with the Bank group (Annex 6), will complete it by December 31, 1989
and GOC will take the necessary steps to implement accepted recommendations.
C. Cost Estimates
4.7           The total project cost is estimated at Y 969 million or
US$231 million equivalent, with a direct and indirect foreign exchange compo-
nent of Y 402 million or US$96 million equivalent. Project cost estimates are
summarized below; details are presented in Tables 4.1, 4.2, and 4.3.



- 15 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(December 31, 1987 prices)
(US$1 * RMB Y 3.70)
Foreign
Local      Foreig.a   Total     Local   Foreign   Total         as Z
------- RMB Y '000    -         ------- US$ '000 ------        of total
Civil works           421.6    202.0    623.6        113.9      54.6    168.5         32.4
Equipment                5.0      96.4    101.4         1.3     26.0      27.3        95.2
Subtotal           426.6    298.4    725.0        115.2      80.6    195.8         41.2
Technical assist-
ance and training    11.0        14.4     25.4        3.0       3.9       6.9        56.5
Base Cost /a          437.6    312.8    750.4        118.2      84.5    202.7         41.6
Physical con-
tingencies (10%)    43.8       31.3      75.1       11.8       8.5      20.3        41.6
Price con-
tingencies           86.0      57.5    143.5         4.6       3.0       7.6        39.5
Subtotal            129.8      88.8    218.6        16.4      11.5      27.9        41.2
Total            567.4    401.6    969.0        134.6      96.0    230.6         41.6
/a   The project is exempt from taxes and duties.
4.8       Cost estimates for civil works including design and supervision are
based on completed final designs and on unit prices for ongoing similar works
in China. Equipment costs are based on the costs of similar equipment
recentlv purchased in China and in Bank-financed projects in other coun-
tries. Estimates are in constant January 1988 prices. Physical contingencies
of 10% have been included for all project components. Price contingencies for
local costs assume annual increases of 6.5% for 1988 through 1990 and 4.5%
thereafter. Price contingencieg for foreign costs assume an annual increase
of 1.0% for 1988 through 1990 and 3.5% thereafter. About 200 man-months is
estimated for technical assistance requirements. The rest of the technical
assistance will be used for training purposes.
D. Financing Plan
4.9        Financing for the project will be provided as follows:



- 16 -
(Figures in US$ million)
Source of finance                        Local            Foreign         Total
IBRD                                       0.0            71.0            71.0
IDA                                        0.0            25.0            25.0
Government                               134.6             0.0           134.6
Total                               134.6            96.0           230.6
The Bank loan/credit will be made to the People's Republic of China and will
be used to finance the foreign exchange cost of civil works and procurement of
equipment under contracts awarded mainly through international competitive
bidding (ICB) (see para. 4.14), and the costs of technical assistance and
training. The Government will finance the remaining local costs. At
negotiaticns, assurances were received that the Government will onlend the
proceeds of the loan and credit to PDA on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank group. In accordance with the Government's established procedures,
the on-lending terms between the Government and PDA for the proceeds of the
Bank loan and IDA credit will be those prescribed for enterprises in the ports
subsector; currently these are 5% p.a. over 20 years with 5 years grace
period. PDA will bear the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and the
Yuan. These terms and conditions are acceptable to the Bank group; signature
of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank group would be a
condition of effectiveness.
E. Status of Preparation
4.10      Detailed designs were completed in September 1987.  Consultants,
financed through the Technical Cooperation Credit (TCC), reviewed the designs
and prepared the bidding documents. Prequalification of contractors is
completed and the call for tenders will be issued in January 1988.
F. Implementation
4.11      Consttuction of the railway and highway connections outside the port
area (para. 3.16-17) started early in 1986 and is the responsibility of MR and
Dalian Municipality, respectively. The implementation of the remaining
physical components of the proposed project is the responsibility of PDA under
the overall supervision of the MOC Capital Conszruction Department.
Assistance is provided by the Waterway Design Institute, foreign consultants
and China National Technical Import Corporation as appropriate for project
implementation and supervision of construction. The remaining components of
the project (training, technical assistance and studies) are the
responsibility of PDA.
4.12      Land needed for the project will be reclaimed from the sea and com-
pacted under the project. Surrounding the reclamation area by dykes will be



- 17 -
carried out to prevent the spreading of turbid waters. Civil works and
equipment installation are expected to be completed by the end of 1992. The
construction and procurement schedules are shown in Charts B and C.
C. Procurement
4.13      Procurement would be carried out according to the following table:
(US$ million)
Procurement method                      Total
Project element              ICB             LCB             Other            cost
Civil works                100J.0           90.6               -            190.6
(57.0)           (5.0)                           (62.0)
Equipment                   31.0                              1.0            32.0
(29.0)                           (1.0)           (30.0)
Technical assistance
and training(including    -                 -               8.0             8.0
studies)                                                   (4.0)           (4.0)
Total                  131.0            90.6              9.0           230.6
(86.0)           (5.0)           (5.0)           (96.0)
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
the Bank loan. All figures include estimated physical and price
contingencies and are rounded.
Three civil works contracts will be awarded through ICB, one for reclamation
(US$29 million), one for breakwater and wharf construction (US$65.0 million)
and the third for the container freight station (CFS) (US$6.0 million). The
remaining civil works, including the rest of the infrastructure inside and
outside the port and not financed by the Bank group, will be carried out by
contractors chosen through LCB. Two relatively small dredging contracts
(US$2.5 million each) will be procured by LCB procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. The dredging works under the first contract are urgently needed in
order to open a channel for transport of construction equipment to the port;
and this work was scheduled to start in January 1988 and the second dredging
contract will follow thereafter. The quantities of materiaL to be dredged
under the two contracts are too small to attract the interest of international
contractors. Nevertheless, international contractors will not be precluded
from participation in LCB for Bank-financed procurement.
4.14      Prequalification of contractors will be carried out for civil works
contracts to be awarded under ICB; qualifying domestic contractors for such



- 18 -
works will receive a preference in bid evaluation of 7% of the total contract
cost. Equipment will be procured through ICB. Quialifying domestic suppliers
of goods will receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the cif price
or the import duty, whichever is lower. Some small items to be agreed with
the Bank group and amounting tc less than US$200,000 per contract, and aggre-
gating less than US$1,000,000, would be procured under contracts awarded after
evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least three quali-
fied suppliers under procedures acceptable to Lhe Bank group. Contracts in
excess of US$1 million to be awarded under ICB, and the dredging contract
under LCB, will be subject to the Bank group's prior review of procurement
documentation and of proposed contract awards. Consultants for the technical
assistance and training components will be recruited in accordance with the
Bank's guideline,.
H.   Disbursement
4.15       Disbursement from the proceeds of the loan and credit will cover:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures on equipment or 100% of the local ex-factory
cost, and 75% of the cost of other items locally procured; (b) 85% of expendi-
tures on civil works procured under ICB; (c) 95% of the total expenditure on
dredging procured under LCB; and (d) 1GO% of the costs of technical assistance
and training. Implementation of the dredging component and part of the train-
ing program m.ay begin before loan approval, so retroactive financing of up to
SDR 3.0 million ($4.2 million equivalent) may be required for expenditures in-
curred after January 1, 1988 and before loan and credit signing. Disbursement
will be made against full documentation except for reimbursement of training
and contracts for civil works, goods and services each valued at less than
US$200,000 equivalent, for which disbursements will be made against statements
of expeneiture. Supporting documents for the statements of expenditure will
be kept in the offices of PDA and will be available for inspection by Bank
group supervision missions.
4.16      On the basis of the implementation schedules shown in Charts B and
C, a schedule of estimated quarterly disbursements has been prepared
(Table 4.4). This schedule is based Dn the assumption that the proposed loan
will become effective by June 1988 and the loan closing date will be December
31, 1993. It follows the disbur.ement profiles of similar port projects in
China and in other countries. A special account will be set up and maintained
in US dollars at a ban', acceptable to the Bank, which will facilitate the
disbursement of small expenditures; the aw:horized advance allocation would be
SDR 5.0 million ($6.9 million equivalen;) representing approximately four
months' estimated eligible expenditures.
I.   Ecology and Environment
4.18       The project will not affect the existing ecology of the port of
Dalian. Dredged spoil will be disposed of at dumping sites in deep water well
away from the port area, and thus will cause minimal ecological damage and is
unlikely to redeposit on shore. Any possibility of pollution was minimized
through appropriate terminal design. Model tests were carried out to reach
the optimum plan for safety and efficiency. Dykes will be used during recla-
mation to p:event the spreading of turbid water and protect the environment.



- 19 -
J. Reporting
4.19       PDA will submit to the Bank semi-annual reports starting January 31,
1989, covering the progress of project construction and all relevant informa-
tion including actual traffic through the existing port facilities. In addi-
tion, promptly after project completion, PDA will prepare and furnish to the
Bank a completion report on the execution and initial operation of the project
and the costs and benefits derived and to be derived from it.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.;'      The project will provide four berths, two each for containers and
general cargo, the latter being convertible to container berths if needed in
the future. These four berths constitute Stage I (1988-1992) of the Phase I
development plan for Dayaowan; Stage II consists of another six berths (three
multipurpose, two iron and steel and one chemical fertilizer). The "with-
project" analysis of operations and its economic evaluation are based on both
stages of development because Stage II will follow Stage I without interrup-
lion, and also because the associated roads, railway antd other infrastructure
provided in Stage I will serve both stages. The four project berths (Stage I)
will open to trafric in 1992. The remaining six berths are expected to open
to traffic between 1993 and 1996.
5.2       With the project, the two substandard container berths will revert
to general cargo when the two project container berths are opened to traffic
in 1992, bringing the total general cargo berths to 26 (24 old facilities and
2 project berths).
5.3       The traffic forecast (Table 5.1) used for this analysis was provided
by PDA and reviewed by the Bank. The container traffic is expected to
increase by about 34% p.a. between now and th- project opening date. Non-
containerized general cargo traffic will accordingly decrease in the near
term. Howe-zer, between 1990-2000, containerization will become stabilized,
and traffic growth thereafter is forecast at 9% p.a. for containers and 4Z
p.a. for non containerized general cargo.
5.4        With the more efficient facilities provided by the project, the
forecast traffic can be handled in a shorter period of time, the berth
occupancy rate will be reduced, and ship berth time and ship waiting time will
be reduced drastically as a consequence. However, by 1993, the general cargo
traffic will be larger than can be accommodated by the two proposed general
cargo berths and congestion will develop again. There ore, the timely
construction of Stage II is essential. In the new container berths, the port
will further benefit from handling cost savings due to the use of modern and
appropriate container handling facilities. Table 5.2 and 5.3 summarize cargo
handling conditions with and without the project.



- 20 -
A. Economic Evaluation
Project Costs
5.5       For this analysis, all inputs and outputs have been evaluated in
constant January 1988 economic prices. Financial cost estimates were conver-
ted to economic costs by shadow pricing major cost components and by applying
aggregate conversion factors estimated in previous Bank atudies. Price
contingencies, taxes and duties are excluded. For traded goods, c.i.f. prices
of imports and f.o.b. prices of exports were used in estimating the cost of
material and equipment. The official exchange rate at January 1988 was used
to convert foreign currencies to RMB.
Project Benefits
5.6       The quantifiable benefits attributable to the proposed project ere
cargo handling cost savings, ship time savings and cargo time savings. Bene-
fits build up rapidly after project completion since the port is already very
congested. After the year 2000, when project facilities (Stages I and II)
will be used to their full capacity, the project benefits are assumed to be
constant.
5.7       Ship time savings account for at least two-thirds of the first year
benefits (78% for general cargo berths and 80% for container berths) and
maintain this level up to 2000 (Tables 5.4 and 5.5). They include the reduc-
tion in ship time awaiting berth, and at berth due to improved cargo handling
productivity. In the case of general cargo, cargo time savings account for
most of the remaining benefits, and cargo handling cost savings represent only
a small fraction of the total. The average daily ship cost, cargo value, and
handling cost for various ship size are summarized in Table 5.6. As about 75%
of the ships calling at Dalian are either Chinese owned or operated, most of
the project benefits will accrue to China directly.
B.   Overall Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
5.8       On the basis of the total -oject costs and the benefits described
above, the overall economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is 20%
(Table 5.7). The sensitivity of the ERR to variations in costs and benefits
is summarized below:



- 21 -
ERR (X)
Total     General Cargo    Container
Project        Berths           Berths
Base case                                     20             17               22
15% increase in costs                         18             15               20
15% reduction in benefits                     17             15               19
15% increase in costs combined with
15% reduction in benefits                15            13                17
This ERR calculation uses the annualized resale value of ships in calculating
the ship-time savings benefit; this method usually gives a lower rate of
return than using annualized replacement value of ships.
5.9       The economic benefits are calculated on the assumption that the port
could handle all the traffic without the project, by using measures such as
lightering from anchorage. This is a conservative assumption. Some traffic
might conceivably be diverted to other ports at a much higher total transport
cost, but since these other ports are themselves congested, it is more likely
that some traffic demand would simply not be satisfied. Tha economic develop-
ment of the port hinterland wouid be adversely affected; the cost is difficult
to estimate but would be substantial.
C. Risks
5.10      The project has no significant risk since all components involve
proven technology that has been in extended use in China or in other parts of
the world. Additional training will be provided to PDA's personnel to assure
the proper operation of the facilities. There is negligible risk that traffic
will fall short of the estimates and result in over-investment in berth con-
struction. The only risk would be of delay in project start-up due to the
first-time use of ICB procedures for PDA. To minimize the risk, appropriate
Bank assistance and supervision will be provided in the early stages.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Past Results
6.1       Because PDA in its present configuration represents a partial merger
of two previous organizations (para 3.11), no single set of financial
statements fully presents historical results on a basis comparable with
current and projected future ones. For this purpose, a pro-forma
consolidation has been made of information extracted from the past financial
statemeni7 of DPA and USCD. On this basis, the salient points of PDA's
results - for 1983-85 appear as follows:
1/   Subordinate enterprises consolidated.



- 22 -
1983          1984          1985
Traffic ('000 tons)                          32,783        37,535        40,465
Net Revenue (Y millions) /a                   163.2         200.1          263.7
Operating Profit (       ' F                  109.7         136.1          185.8
Net Profit        (   "   )                    11.5          20.9           37.9
Operating Ratio                                  33             32            30
Return on Assets/b                               27            28             32
/a   Excluding business tax.
/b   At historic cost.
Average revenue increased significant.y in 1985 as a result of two rounls of
tariff increases, and with unit costs per ton of cargo handled remaining
virtually constant, earnings performance--already good in 1983 and 1984--
improved still further.
6.2        PDA's pro forma opening balance sheet (as at December 31, 1985)
appears in Table 6.3. PDA's financial condition was sound. Current assets
comfortably exceeded current liabilities, with over one third in cash.
Capitalization was 95% in state funds and only 5% in long-term debt.
B.   Future Financial Performance
6.3       On the basis of the traffic forecasts (Table 5.1), and assuming that
present tariffs are maintained in real terms, PDA's net revenue is forecast to
increase by 80% by 1992, the first year of operation of the project facili-
ties. Operating profit will increase by rather less, chiefly as a result of
the depreciation charges on the new facilities; the operating ratio will
consequently increase somewhat, but will remain very satisfactory at 35.
Return on assets employed will decline as a result of the tripling in the net
asset base over the period, but will not fall below a healthy 15%.
6.4        Under financial regulations introduced from the formation of the new
Authority on January 1, 1986, PDA will retain a greater proportion of its
earnings than hitherto. Its liability to income tax (55%) and other taxes on
profit (about 24% in 1985) has been cancWed.  Instead, PDA will hand over to
the State a flat M 60 million each year - and will retain the remainder of
2/   These arrangements are officially confirmed only for the period of the
Seventh Five Year Plan (through I990) but for the purpose of the
forecasts have been assumed to continue thereafter.



- 23 -
its profits. Of this, about 15Z will be allocated to the special funds
(research and development, welfare, workers' bonuses and so forth) and the
remainder will be available to finance loan repayments and capital expendi-
tures associated with port development. Loan funds are available through the
People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) in any year in which capital
expenditures may exceed the available internal funds.
6.5        Financial projections suggest that PDA is unlikely to have recourse
to local loan funds to finance its planned capital expenditures, at least
through 1990, the last year for which detailed expenditure estimates are
available. For the period 1986-1990 (the Seventh Five Year Plan period) PDA's
financing plan is as follows:
Y billion
Internal Funds                                    1,054.2
IBRD loan/IDA credit                                270.0
1,324.2
Less:        Special Fund expenditure       91.6
Loan repayment                  3.u
Working capital increase    356.5                 451.1
Capital Experditure                                 873.1
6.6       Although the availability of adequate cash flow for capital
expenditure gives no cause for concern at this point, PDA will nevertheless
have to take responsibility for the direction of its own financial affairs to
a much greater degree than in the past, when most of the profit was handed
over to the State and capital expenditures were financed by State grants.
PDA's awareness of this responsibility, and its concern to master the relevant
techniques, is evidenced by its request for a project component to provide
training in (inter alia) capital expenditure planning and control. The
appraisal mission has also discussed the preparation of financial forecasts
and plans with PDA's financial staff and has left with them computer software
describing the projections contained in this report. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained from PDA that it will:
(a) conduct its financial affairs so as to cover all its costs of
operation (including depreciation) from operating revenue, and to
meet from internally generated funds all its financial obligations
including debt service, remittances to the State and allocations to
special funds;
(b) prepare annually, beginning in 1989, a rolling financial plan
covering the following five years.



- 24 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1       At negotiations, assurances were obtained:
(a) from PDA, that it will:
(i)   submit to the Bank group its audited financial statements
not later than 6 months after the end of each financial
year (para. 3.15);
(ii)   carry out the training in accordance with the program
agreed with the Bank group (para. 4.4);
(iii)   carry out the updating of the port master plan on the basis
of terms of reference agreed with the Bank group and
complete it by June 30, 1989 (para. 4.5);
(iv)   conduct its financial affairs so as to cover all its costs
of operation (including depreciation) from operating
revenue, and to meet from internally generated funds all
its financial obligations including debt service, remitt-
ances to the state and allocations to special funds (para.
6.6);
(v)   prepare annually, beginning in 1989, a rolling financial
plan covering the following five years (para. 6.6); and
(vi)   carry out the containerization study on the basis of terms
of reference agreed with the Bank group and complete it by
December 31, 1989 (para. 4.6).
(b) from Government, that it will
(i)   onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan/credit to PDA on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank group (para. 4.09);
(ii)   ensure that the road and railway connection from the new
port facilities at Dayaowan to the main Dalian-Shenyang
highway and railway will be open to traffic on completion
of the project (para. 3.17); and
(iii)   take the necessary steps to implement accepted recommenda-
tions of the containerization study in (a)(vi) above (para.
4.6).
7.2       Approval of the loan agreement by China's State Council, and execu-
tion of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government and PDA, satisfactory
to the Bank group, would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan.



- 25 -
7.3       With the above agreements and assurances, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of $71 million equivalent and an
IDA credit of SDR 18.2 million, (equivalent to $25.0 million) to the People's
Republic of China. The loan will be for a term of 20 years, including five
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate, and the credit at the
standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.



- 26 -                            ANNEX 1
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data in the Project File
I.   Feasibility Study of Dayaowan terminal project, 1985 - Waterway Design
Institute.
II.  Terms of reference for consultants to assist in reviewing designs and
preparing tender documents.
III. Detailed lists of equipment for container Terminal - Waterway Design
Institute, March 1986.
IV.  Dalian Port Project, update of the project brief, Jep-ary 1986.
V.   Training needs for Dayaowan terminal, PDA, March 1986
VI.  Time schedules 'or project execution, PDA, March 1986.
VII. Financial Statements, PDA, 1983/84/85.
VII. Detailed Engineering for the project, PDA, December 1987



- 27 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 1
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Outline of Requirements for Technical Training
1.        By the end of 1985 the total number of staff in PDA was 21,818.
Management constitutes about 20% of the staff (4350), while workers constitute
the rest with skilled workers about 30% of the total (about 6550). Management
staff and skilled workers are usually university, college or technical school
graduates and are distributed to the various ports by MOC. The port is
responsible for training, through its own schools (PDA owns one college, one
professional school, one technical school and one training school), and/or by
training trips to other ports in China and abroad.
2.        The proposed project will require training of 1,620 additional staff
divided as follows:
Management              269
Equipment               381
Stevedores              424
Auxiliary services      546
"Auxiliary services" cover the technicians and operators needed for power
supply, water supply, sewerage, heating.
3.        Training for the new project will be carri3d out through trips
abroad for management personnel; by equipment suppliers and other ports in
China for equipment operators; by on-the-job training for stevedores; and by
the national and local training schools for the auxiliary services. Training
at foreign ports will also be arranged for the various categories and in
particular for the management. Total training outside China is estimated at
500 man-months distributed as follows:
Equipment operators   25 persons, 3 months each:   75 m/m
Maintenance            50 persons, 6 months each:  300 m/m
Computers              10 persons, 6 months each:   60 m/m
Management              11 persons, 3 months each:   33 m/m
16 persons, 2 months each:   32 m/m
4.        Training for the proposed project will be carried out according to
the following schedule:
Staff number
1988           300
1989          400
1990           600
1991           320



ANNEX 3
- 28 -                               Page 1
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Terms of Reference and Invitation for Proposals
Financial Training
Background
1.        In accordance with the policy of the Government of PRC to decen-
tralize the administration of its major ports, the Port of Dalian Authority
(PDA) has recently been accorded responsibility for the management of various
aspects of port operations previously undertaken by the central Government,
including, in particular, financial aspects. In future, PDA will be
responsible inter alia for funding its capital expenditures either from
internally generated funds or through long-term loans. PDA at present
operates the standard financial accounting and reporting system prescribed by
MOC, and a system of budgetary control for operating costs.  Under the terms
of a World Bank loan currently being negotiated, PDA would be required to
undertake the preparation of rolling 5-year financial plans.
Objectives and Scope of Training
2.        PDA is concerned to equip itself fully to meet its new responsibili-
ties. To this end, training is required in techniques and procedures designed
to assist PDA to:
(a) control its costs of operation so as to maximize internal cash
generation;
(b) plan and control capital expenditures so as to ensure cost-effective
investments;
(c) manage the preparation, tendering and contracting for projects
financed by the World Bank and other international lenders, using
capital project evaluation, capital budgets, PERT and/or similar
techniques;
(d) manage the servicing of long term debt, including the foreign
currency risks associated with overseas loans; and
(e) utilize computers to the maximum advantage in the above applica-
t -ons.
Requirement
3.        The requirement is to train selected financial personnel of PDA in
techniques of financial control appropriate to the above objectives. The
training will be carried out in two stages. In stage 1, 30-40 middle level



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
staff are expected to be trained; additional trainees may also be invited from
cther ports facing similar needs. Training will be carried out principally in
Dalian in the premises of PDA and is expected to consist mainly of appropriate
classroom work (in Chinese). In stage 2, up to 10 trainee.3 selected from
stage 1 are to be given practical training by exposure to the relevant finan-
cial systems of a well-managed enterprise (preferably a port authority)
outside China, either by means of a study tour, by a work assignment with the
consultant's own staff, or by such other means as the consultant considers
appropriate.
Proposals
4.        Proposals (in Chinese and English), which should describe the con-
sultant's approach to the assignment- the training techniques he proposes, the
duration of the program and its detailed content and cost, should be submitted
by         to:
Ms. Gu Hong
Deputy Director
Financial Affairs Department
Port of Dalian Authority
1 Gangwan Street
Zhongshan District
Dalian



ANNEX 4
- 30 -
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training: Schedule and Estimated Costs
Date                Cost US$'000
Start    Complete    Local   Foreign   Total
Survey and design                  01/01/86  06/30/88
Review and prepare bidding
documents                        01/01/87  06/30/89        3,100     400    3,500
Construction supervision            07/01/88  12/31/90
Project organization and
management                       04/01/88  12/31/90          600   1,320    1,920
Training
Local training                   09/01/88  12/31/91
500 man-months for
training abroad                01/01/90  12/31/91       1,000   1,500    2,500
Studies
Hinterland containeri-
zation study                   01/01/88  12/31/89         200      200       400
Updating master plan             06/30/87  06/30/89          200     200       400
Financial training                 07/01/88  09/30/88          100     200       300
Grand Total                                         5,200   3,820    9,020



-31-                                  ANNEX 5
Page 1
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
UPDATING THE MASTER PLAN FOR THE PORT OF DALIAN
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.        The port of Dalian is the second largest port of the People's
Republic of China and the gateway to the industrial and consumption centers of
Manchuria with the three main northeastern provinces Liaoning, Jilin and
Heilongiang.
2.        The cargo throughput in the port has increased by 50% during the
last five years. In 198. about 40 million tons of cargo were handled, consist-
ing of approximately 24 million tons of crude oil, approximately 13 million
tons of other bulk and semi-bulk cargoes and 3.3 million tons of general cargo
i cluding containers.
3.        Due to the fast economic growth of the People's Republic of China in
the last years, the port's throughput has also increased in 1985 and in the
first half of 1986.  It is estimated that this development will continue in
the next years, in particular for general cargo and container cargo.
4.        The port of Dalian was not in a position during the last 18 months
to entirely cope with the increased cargo volume, which led to port conges-
tion.  This congestion creates direct and indirect diseconomies for the
country and it is, therefore, necessary to optimize the operation in the
existing facilities and extend the facilities/capacities of the port of
Dalian. As a planning frame the Port Master Pla:n of Dalian must be therefore
updated.
Description of the Project/Objective
5.        The Port of Dalian Authority (PDA) has established a planning scheme
for the port of Dalian with special regard to the construction of a new port
facility outside of the existing port area. This plan shall enable the port
to cope with the future requirements of the anticipated throughput.
6.        It is deemed necessary to update these plans paying attention to the
long-term-development up to the year 2005, because of the following three
reasons:
-    the increase of cargo throughput in the port of Dalian was faster
than expected during the last years and it becomes indispensable to
review the traffic forecast and the respective modal split of cargo
and inland transportation;



- 32 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 2
-    it is the aim of PDA to deal completely with all possible improve-
ments and optimization measures in the existing port area before
getting engaged in major investments in new port facilities; it is
therefore important to identify and quantify the feasible optimiza-
tions in the short- and medium term and, based on these findings,
update the plans for the long-term development of the port; and
-    one of the main reasons of existing congestion ill the port is the
bottleneck in inland transport capacities and organization; recom-
mendations in upgrading will lead to improvements in the port and
will thereby influence the contents of the port planning.
It is therefore the overall objective of the project to establish an updated
master plan for the port of Dalian on tne basis of a sound long-term traffic
forecast, dealing with tne aspects of optimization measures of existing
facilities before planning future extensions of the port.
Scope of Work
Traffic forecast
7.        According to the current 5-year plan (1986 - 1990) the traffic
forecast is only available up to the year 1990, indicating the various com-
modities separately. It is necessary to make a review of the existing traffic
forecast for the Port of Dalian and to collect necessary relevant data in
order to prepare a detailed forecast for the years up to 1995. The forecast
shall be given for each main commodity group (for e.g. oil, coal, iron-ore,
NE-ore, chemicals, salt, grain, timber, sojabean, corn, wheat, conventional
general cargo, containers and ro/ro-cargo), separated into incoming and
outgoing traffic for each of the nine years and a further indication of the
trend of each major commodity/clasc shall be given for the years 2000 and
2005.
8.        Special attention has to be paid to the trend of containerization
and possible implementation of ro/ro-services in the future as this will
affect the layout of a masterplan considerably. In this connection
investigations have to be undertaken about the development in kind and size of
ships calling most likely at the Port of Dalian in the future.
9.        As far as the modal split in landside transportation of cargoes is
concerned, investigations of the future infrastructural plans have to be made,
taking into consideration that the long-distance transportation will mainly be
made by rail, whereas the truck will dominate in the transport on medium- and
short distance.
Optimization of Existing Port facilities
10.       As Car as optimization measures for the existing port facilities are
concerned, it is necessary to consider the best allocation of the different
commodities between the existing facilities, to review the land use, suita-
bility and layout of the present area, to analyze the operational methods and
available equipment and thereafter make recommendations for any physical



- 33-                                 ANNEX5
Page 3
improvements to existing facilities and handling techniques. These analyses
shall include, among others:
-    operational investigations with regard to ship's pre planning,
ship's operation, storage, methods and procedures;
-    investigations regarding operational documentation including aspects
of use of computers;
-    investigations regarding the port equipment and cargo handling gear;
-    investigations concerning the allocation of trades/commodities
between different and specialized port areas in order to establish
special terminals which will guarantee operational improvements and
increased productivities;
-    establishment of sound operational capacity calculations;
-    analysis of tariff components with an impact on operational aspects
(e.g. free storage time, incentives for unitization of cargo);
-    investigations regarding workshop facilities, installations and
maintenance and repair performance;
-    investigations concerning rehabilitation/relocation of existing port
facilitics;
-    investigations of hinterland connections (rail/road) from the
existing port facilities and recommendations for improvements with a
special view to the urban traffic of the city of Dalian;
-    investigations concerning possible locations for future intermodal
freight terminal as cargo distribution centers outside of the port
area and identification of the effect of such terminals on the
situation in the port; and
-    investigations regarding improvements of rolling stock equipment for
inland transport (as far as ic affects the port's performance).
Special attention shall be paid to the fact that a coricentration of the
present container traffic at Dalian seems to become indispensable
(containerhandling in 1984 = about 24'000 TEU; present estimate for 1990 =
100,000 containers).
11.       All recommended measures of optimization for the existing Port of
Dalian shall be identified and quantified concerning the expected increased
throughput, timed according to priorities regarding short- and medium-term
implementation possibilities and evaluated with costs involved. They shall
also be divided into:
-    measure!s without physicel investments;



- 34 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 4
measures with minor investments; and
measures with larger investmentq.
12.       Any possible changes/rehabilitation in the design of the existing
port facilities shall be laid down in preliminary designs. Preliminary costs
shall be given for the proposals to + 15% accuracy and shall be calculated on
the basis of estimated quantities and unit prices applicable for work of a
similar nature in the People's Republic of China. Cost estimates shall be
made up of required expenditures in local and foreign currencies, which shall
be given separately.
Port extensicn
13.       On the basis of the newly established traffic forecast and the
recommended optimization measures for the existing port facilities, necessary
future port extensions have to be investigated. This may lead to a review/
updating of the planned "Da Yao Bay Port" which is designed at present for
bulk cargo, containers and conventional general cargo. Also alternative
locations for port extensions, others than Da Yao Bay-area (in particular the
areas of Yinkou and Dandong) shall be investigated and throughly analyzed
concerning their feasibility, taking into account the future industrial
planning of Dalian and the surrounding provinces, hinterland connections as
well as the draught limitations within the entire bay.
14.       These investigations shall include any necessary subsoil investiga-
tions, topographical surveys, hydrological investigations and any other
measures in order to guarantee the preparation of reliable preliminary
designs. Special attention should be paid to investigations of the hinterland
connections in order to clearly identify any restrictions for road- and rail-
access. Furthermore, the plans shall give indications of possible locations
for any intermodal freight stations outside of the port area for storage,
consolidation and distribution of cargo.
15.       All preliminary designs have to be set up and the drawings shall
show the principal dimension plans of all major structures and typical cross-
sections, indicating major features of the proposed design and shall
specifically include, where appropriate, the road- and rail-access systems
proposed.
16.       The preliminary cost estimates shall be worked out.  The proposals
for any new port extension facilities shall also include:
-    number and kind of necessary handling equipment and related workshop
facilities;
-    organizational recommendations for new terminals;
-    operational systems and procedures;
-    sound operational capacity calculations.



ANNEX 5
- 35 -                             Page 5
Cost-benefit-Analysis
17.        Finally an economic evaluation of development schemes shall be
carried out to enable the determination of optimum solution and timing of
investments in order to meet the objectives of the study. The economic
evaluai.on shall include a comparison of economic benefits and costs of each
project alternative to be presented in annual tabulations for the forecast
period or for the expected economic life of the facilities.
18.        The feasibility study shall be based on a determination of the
estimated minimum total costs of constructitlg and operating the proposed
facilities and shall include the determination of the economic return on
investment (the discount rate which equalizes the present value of the benefit
and cost streams over the life of the prsject). For thiis purpose permanent
installations shall be considered to have a life of 20 years. The sensitivity
of the economic return to changes, wit}in a feasible range, in the values of
key variables shall be tested.
19.        Benefits shall include estimates of savings in transport costs
attributable to possible project alternatives, e.g. :eductions in ship
operatir.g costs, cargo handling costs, delays and inland transportation
costs.  Other benefit- .o be considered shall include reduction in port
maintenance and equipment operating co-ts and, where appropriate, increases in
the net val,le of industrial and agricultural output.
20.        Furthermore, an analysis of prospective costs and revenues for the
developments has to be made, calculating the financial return on each of these
investments. The finalncial analysis shall include estimates of annual
capital, maintenance and operating costs and of the costs for cargo handling,
storage, vessel berthing and other port operations.
21.        These costs shall be attributed to the various serrices provided in
the port facilities. Forecasts of operating revenues and expenditures have to
be prepared as well as cash flow and pro-forma annual balance sheets for the
9-years-period (up to 1995) and finally the rate of return on net fixed assets
and the operating ratios for the port as a whole have to be caiculated.
Masterplan
22.        Based upon all the consideratioCnc previousl,s  described i;, this
section a complete master plani shall be provi.led, indi:atina:
-    a sound traffic forecast;
-    the optimum use of the existing facilities;
-    improvements in nrganizational ard operational mnethods in the port;
-    proposed changes in existing facilities with layouts and cost
estimates;



- 36 -                                ANMEX 5
Page 6
proposed additional investments in the port, their location, design
and capacities;
proposals for improved land access;
cost-benefit analysis, including the economic and financial
evaluation;
timing of the proposed work.
Sources for Important Data
23.       For the updating of the masterplan the following data have to be
made available:
-    economic development plans of Dalian and related regions;
-    all available statistics on past and present traffic through the
port;
-    any available traffic forecasts;
-    drawings of existing port facilities, prcvoui&s studies and all
relevant technical data;
-    cosl data on recent construction projects;
-    topographical, hydrographica., hydrological and subsoil information
of the Dalian port area and the entire bay;
-    plans and studies with regard to the new "Dayaowan port" and other
extension projects;
-    report "Fact Finding Mission for the Port of Dalian," undertaken by
port and Transport Consulting Bremen GmbH (this report deals with
operational impro.Fements);
-    charts of Dalian Bay; and
-    all studies/data on urban transport and hinterland traffic/cargo
distribution.
Experts' Team
24.       For the updating of the port masterplan for Dalian the following
experts should be nominaated:
-    1 Project Manager/Port Engineer
-    1 Civil Engineer
-    1 Mechanical Engineer
-    1 Structural Engineer
-    1 Traffic Engineer



- 37 -                             ANNEX 5
"age 7
-    2 Port Operation Experts
-    1 Organization/Documentation Expert
-    1 Transport Economist
-    1 Financial Economist
The team dces not necessarily need to consist of all experts throughout the
project's period, but the experts shall be assigned according to their needs
in the various stages of the project.
Time-Schedule
25.       It is estimated that the updating of the masterplan for Daliani port
can be performed within approximately 10 calendar-months, based on the fact
that many data and investigations are already available. As an estimate,
about 50 man-months should be sufficient for the a.m. experts, with a possible
allocation as follows:
-    Project Manager/Port Engineer  =  10 m/m
-    Civil Engineer                   =  2 m/m
-    Mechanical Engineer              =  3 m/m
-    Structural Engineer              =  2 m/m
-    Traffic Engineer                 =  5 m/m
-    2 Operation Experts              =  13 m/m
-    Organization/Document Expert   =   3 m/m
-    Transport Economist              =  10 m/m
-    Financial Economist              =   2 m/m
These above time-calculations are estimates only and could be adapted to
possible different requirement from the point of view of the performer.



ANNEX 6
- 38 -                                Page 1
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Intermodal Distribution of Containers
Terms of Reference
A. Introduction
1.        The port of Dalian is the second largest port of China and the gate-
way to the industrial and consumption centers of the Manchuria with the three
main northeastern provinces Liaoning, Jilin and Heilongjiang. The cargo
throughput in the port has increased by 50% during the last five years. In
1984 about 40 million tons of cargo were handled, consisting of approximately
24 million tons of crude oil, approximately 13 million tons of other bulk and
semibulk cargoes and 3.3 million tons of general cargo including containers.
Due to the fast economic growth of China in the last years, the port's
throughput has also increased in 1985 and in the first half of 1986. It is
estimated that this development will also continue in the next years, in par-
ticular for general cargo and container cargo.
2.        The number of containers handled through the port in 1984 amounted
to 24,000 TEUs only and was mostly generated out of the trade with Japanese
ports. However, a steadily increasing trend in containerization will lead to
the fact that port facilities should be extended and modernized and an effi-
cient hinterland transport system with related distribution facilities has to
be set up in order to cope with the requirements of the future.
3.        In order to be well prepared for future containerization in the port
of Dalian, a study shall be established about the intermodal distribution of
containers in the hinterland.
B. Description of the Project/Objective
4.        The economic aim of containerization is to build up a direct chain
of transport between shippers and receivers. The handling and storage of
containers in the ports, however, is only one aspect of the whole system of
transport. The introduction of an intermodal transport and distribution of
containers also requires appropriate physical infrastructure not only for the
inland carriage, but also for the handling and positioning of container at
inland points.
5.        There is a close interrelationship between the port and these hin-
terland distribution points. The better the distribution system in the inland
is organized, the easier and cheaper the handling becomes in the port. In
order to support the Master Plan Study for the port of Dalian, the overall
objective of the intermodal container distribution study shall be as follows:



ANNEX 6
- 39 -                             Page 2
(a) to elaborate an effective distribution system of containers to/from
the hinterland;
(b) to define the adequate transportation system; and
(c) to set up an efficient documentation system.
C. Scope of Work
Traffic Forecast
6.        According to the current five-year plan (1986-90), a traffic fore-
cast is only available up to the year 1990, indicating the various commodities
separately. As a basis for this study "Intermodal Distribution of Contain-
ers," the proposed traffic forecast from the port Masterplan Study, Dalian
shall be taken with special view to the data of containerization up to the
year 2005.
7.        These figures shall be analyzed in more detail in the following
fields:
(a) export and import of containers;
(b) kinds of cargo in containers;
(c) seasonal fluctuations, if any;
(d) origin and destination of containers;
(e) portion of LCL- and FCL- containers to be anticipated in the short,
medium and long run; and
(f) modal split for inland transportation in connection with the origin/
destination of containers.
These above detailed investigations shall lead to a comprehensive picture of
container development including hinterland transport aspects.
Distribution System
8.        A major element in the overall transport chain and the distribution
of containers is the concept of an inland container depot. The implementation
of such depot concepts can affect trade flows, specific routings between ports
and hinterlands and some traditional port functions.
9.        On the basis of the detailed container traffic forecast and the
analysis of the anticipated inland streams of containers, an effective con-
tainer distribution system to/from the hinterland shall be worked out.
10.       This distribution system shall deal (among others) with the follow-
ing important aspects:



ANNEX 6
- 40 -                                 Page 3
(a)  analysis of existing container handling and transport in the port of
Dalian;
(b) analysis of the existing hinterland infrastructure;
(c) analysis of any existing distribution centers, whether for contain-
ers or other purposes;
(d) setup of proposals for a network of distribution centers/inland
depots covering the main zones of trade and industry (according to
the needs out of the container streams);
(e) definition of functions of such centers/depots (for, e.g., storage,
coni'olidation, distribution, warehousing, customs clearance);
(f) definition of measures for the development of additional hinterland
infrastructure;
(g) definition of necessary corresponding takeover facilities in the
port area;
(h) capacity calculations for inland depots/distribution centers;
(i) establishing of preliminary designs for such inland depots (includ-
ing road/rail connections); and
(j) definition of necessary handling equipment, organization and opera-
tional eystem.
11.       All recommended measures of optimization of such container distribu-
tion system shall be identified, quantified conce-i.ing the expected throughput
and the facilitations in the port, timed according to priorities regarding
implementation and evaluated with costs involved. In case it turns out that
alternative concepts could apply, these concepts have to be investigated and
presented.
Transportation System
12.       The intermodal transport system of containers must guarantee a punc-
tual, reliable and economical transfer between the port and the hinterland.
The three modes of inland transport are rail, road and inland waterways, of
which the latter does not apply to Dalian. Therefore, inter-modal transport
has to deal with an optimum combination of rail and road transport. The
elaboration of such optimized transport system shall include the following
activities:
(a) analysis of existing transport capacities for containers;
(b) analysis of future plannings for extension of any transportation
infrastructure;



ANNEX 6
- 41 -                           Page 4
(c) calculation of required transport capacities according to the
detailed container forecast;
(d) investigations of the most economical mode of transport to/from the
various distribution centers in the inland;
(e) definition of an optimum transport system between the port of Dalian
and the inland distribution centers on the one hand and between the
distribution centers and the premises of the consignees/manufactur-
ers on the other hand, taking into considerati)n special container
liner trains, takeover areas between rail and truck, etc.;
(f) proposals for necessary infrastructural facilities and transport
equipment for road and rail transport; and
(g) proposals concerning the organization of the transport systems
including the companies involved.
The above transport system must be completely in line with the distribution
system.
Information System
13.       Another important component of the study is the information system
and related documentation. Effective intermodal transport can only be per-
formed if proper information between the partners is guaranteed. Therefore,
this aspect has to be thoroughly investigated, dealing with the following
aspects (among others):
(a) analysis of the present documentation for container transport and
the related flow of information;
(b) analysis of customs clearance procedures;
(c) setup of requirements of all partners in the transport chain con-
cerning flow of information and unified documentation;
(d) proposal of a comprehensive and unified information and documenta-
ton system for container transport, applicable to the port of
Dalian and the inland distribution centers, including the inland
carriers;
(e) investigations concerning any application of computer systems;
(f) setup of a system of organized cooperation between the port and the
transport companies.
This information system shall form an integral part of the overall intermodal
distribution system of containers.



ANNEX 6
-42-                                Page 5
Cost-Benefit Analysis
14.       Finally, an economic evaluation of development schemes shall be
carried out to enable the determination of optimum solution and timing of
investments in order to meet the objectives of the study. The economic evalu-
ation shall include a comparison of economic benefits and costs of each proj-
ect alternative to be presented in annual tabulations for the forecast period
or for the expected economic life of the facilities.
15.       The feasibility study shall be based on a determination of the
estimated minimum total costs of constructing and operating the proposed dis-
tribution and transport facilities and shall include the determination of the
economic return on investment (the discount rate which equalizes the present
value of the benefit and cost streams over the life of the project.) For this
purpose, permanent installations shall be considered to have a life of 20
years.  The sensitivity of the economic return to changes, within a feasible
range, in the values of key variables siall be tested. Benefits shall include
estimates of savings in transport costs attributable to possible project
alternatives, e.g., reductions in cargo handling and storage costs in thie
port, delays and improved inland transportation costs. Other benefits to be
considered shall include, where appropriate, increases in the net value of
industrial and agricultural output.
16.       Furthermore, an analysis of prospective costs and revenues for the
developments has to be madie, calculating the financial return on each of these
investments. The financial analysis shall include estimates uf annual capi-
tal, maintenance and opefaLing costs and of the costs for cargo handling,
storage and transportatior.. These costs shall be attributred to the various
services provided in Ihe di;' ributi on centers.  Forecasts of operating reve-
nues and expendit tires ha, e t.o be pp   ,d!   as we I as cash flow and pro-forma
annual ualance sheeLs- foi the niine-year period (up to 1995) and, finally, the
rate of return on net fixe$d asse's ai;d ihe operating ratios have to be calcu-
lated.
D.  Sourct3 '.t [rrportant Data
17.       For the "Interrnodal Distributicr Study of Containers," the following
data have to be made available:
(a)  econcmic de-eIoirient plans of Dalian and related regions;
(b)  all available statistics on past and present traffic through the
port and the hinterland traffic;
(c)  any available traffic forecasts:
(d)  drawings of exist.ing inland distribution centers, previous studies
and all rel rt technical data;
(e)  cost data         '   cunstrcc ;oni projects;



- 43 -                              ANNEX 6
Page 6
(f)  plans and studies with regard to the new "Da Yao Bay Port" and other
extension projects;
(g)  Report "Fact-Finding Mission for the Port of Dalian," undertaken by
Port and Transport Consulting Bremen GmbH (this report deals with
operational improvements);
(h) all studies/data on: urban transport and hinter: and traffic/cargo
distribution;
(i)  data on existing transport capacities on road and rail (number and
kind of equipment etc.); and
(j)  tariffs for inland transport of containers.
E. Experts' Team
18.       For the intermodal distribution study of containers, the following
experts should be nominated:
(a)  1 Project Manager/Transport Economist;
(b)  1 Transportation Planner/Engineer;
(c) 1 Railway Operation Expert;
(d) 1 Container Operation Expert;
(e) 1 Organization/Documentation Expert;
(f) 1 Civil Engineer;
(g) 1 Mechanical Engineer; and
(h) 1 Financial Economist.
The team does not necessarily need to consist of all experts throughout the
project's period, but the experts shall be assigned according to their needs
in the various stages of the project.
F. Time Schedule
19.       It is estimated that the intermodal distribution study of containers
can be performed within approximately nine calendar months, based on the fact
that many data and investigations are available and that there will not be the
need of having, too, an extensive number of inland distribution centers.
20.       As an estimate, about 32 man-months should be sufficient for the
a.m. experts, with a possible allocation as follows:



AOIMU 6
- 44 -                                 Page 7
(a)  Project Manager/Transport Economist                 - 9 m/m
(b)  Transportation Planner/Engineer                     - 5 m/m
(c)  Railway Operation Expert                            - 3 m/m
(d)  Container Operation Expert                          - 5 m/m
(e) Organization/Documentation Expert                    * 5 m/m
(f)  Civil Engineer                                      - 2 m/m
(g)  Mechanical Engineer                                 = 1 m/m
(h)  Financial Economist                                 a 2 m/m
These above time calculations are estimates only and could be adapted to
possible different requirement from the point of view of the performer.



AM I
- 45 -                             Pas
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Construction Supervision
1.        The Port of Dalian Authority (the Client), People's Republic of
China has applied for a loan from the International Bank of Reconstruction and
Development Bank (IBRD) for the construction of the Dayao Bay Port Project
(Phase I). Dayao Bay Port Project (Phase I) is a large scale development
project for Dalian port. The project items are listed below:
(a) Maritime Works
Si) 480 m long wharf line for multi-purpose berths;
(ii) 578 m long wharf line for container berths;
(iii) 200 m lorg pier and marine structure;
(iv) 1,420 m long of revetment walls (the cost of 940 m length wall is
to be borne by PRC); and
(v) 420 m long breakwater.
(b) Reclamation Works
Volume of excavation is about 6,660,000 cubic meters and about
700,000 square meters of reclaimed land is for the port area.
For the abovementioned item (a) and (b), the total construction
period is 30 months except for the breakwater, for which the con-
struction period is 42 months.
(c) Other Construction Works
Other construction works incliding stacking yards, roadways, opera-
tion and handling facilities, computer management system, civil con-
struction works (including two CFS's) communication, navigation and
other associated works.
2.        The construction work stated in item (a) and (b) above and procure-
ment of cargo handling equipment, two container freight stations for FCL and
LCL cargo, computer management system, communication and navigation systems
stated in the item (c) will be carried out through international competitive
bidding (ICB) methods, through the International Tendering Company of China
National Technical Import and Export Corporation.
3.        This is a large scale development project involving in every area
international competitive bidding. As the Chinese engineers are not familiar



ANNEX 7
- 46 -                               Page 2
with site supervision methods and procedures, the Port o Dalian Authority has
decided to utilize part of the loan to appoint consultants to assist Dalian
Port Construction Headquarters engineers in the execution of site supervision
work during the construction period (30 months) for item (a), (b) and the CFS
facilities mentioned in item (c). The relevant Chinese codes of practice and
other equivalent American and British or other country's codes of practice
will be adopted for the site supervision of the construction works. The work-
ing language is to be English.
4.         According to the requirements for construction works, Dalian Port
Construction Headquarters requests the consultants to assist the Chinese engi-
neering staff to carry out the following assignments:
(a)  To compile an overall planning program for construction works and
make necessary adjustment and amendment to the program as the work
progresses and to ensure that the construction work can be completed
successfully according to the planned schedules.
(b)  To propose reasonable and work ble solutions to technical problems,
as welL as unforeseen problems of work arising during the construc-
tion period.
(c)  To undertake quality control of work, including testing, inspection
and checking.
(d)  Contract Management; provide consulting services for procedures of
payment and claims to settle any dispute as well as to solve any
other problems that can arise in the international competitive bid-
ding process.
(e) To assist in preparing monthly, quarterly and yearly reports Ci) of
progress of construction; and (ii) of financial expenditure both of
which are to be submitted to IBRD.
(f)  To assist in the checking of temporary works to ensure safety of
design.
(g)  To provide principal methods and procedures fct- training in the
respect of site supervision for civil construction works for the
Chinese technical and management personnel. The consultants should
make proposals for the following:
(i) To teach the Chinese staff the actual method of site supervision
during all stages of construction.
Cii) To train 19 Chinese personnel at the Consultant's headquarters
for a period of one month. During the training period, visits to
civil engineering construction sites will be conducted for the
Chinese personnel where construction supervisory services are
provided by the Consultants.



ANNEX 7
- 47 -                             Page 3
5.        Senior Staff Training.  The consultants are required to confirm if
they can provide and carry out this training, including the arrangements for
site training. We will consider this as one of the factors in deciding the
successful consultant. The details and requirements are as shown in Appendix
to the Terms of Reference. Compensation for this part should be suibmitted
separately.
6.        According to the present construction procedures and overall con-
struction methods, the following two groups of consulting supervisory
personnel are requested by the Chinese side to participate in construction
supervision work of this project:
(a) Consultant's site supervision personnel--total 5 persons:
Chief Site Engineer
(i) The engineer concerned should have at least 15 years of actual
working experience in port construction works, such as design,
construction and project management. He should work at the con-
struction site for a period of 8 months followed by two periods
of 2 months each.
Total Per od--12 man-months
(b)  Wharf structural, geotechnical and explosive site engineers (three
persons).
The engineers concerned should have at least 10 years of actual work
experience in port construction works, such as design, planning and
construction works, supervision of wharf structures and geotechnical
experience. They should be familiar with technical problems of a
gravity type wharf structure and geotechnical works. They should
also be capable of solving any problems arising from design and con-
struction on the site.  They should work at the construction site
for a period of 8 months in the first instance, followed by two
periods of 2 months each.
Total 3 x 12 = 36 man-months
(c)  Contract Specialist
He should be familiar with the regulations for international compe-
titive bidding using FIDIC Conditions of Contract and international
contract management. He should have 10 years experience in con-
struction of' large international civil and structural engineering
projects. fie should work at the const.uction site for a period of 8
months in he first instance, followed by two periods of 2 man-
months eaci'.
Total 12 man-months



ANNEX 7
- 48 -                            Page 4
(d)  Short Term Supervision Personnel
To ensure satisfactory performance of the long term consultation
assignment, the short term senior specialists should make periodic
visits to reinforce the long-term consultants duties. The special-
ists group should include a senior wharf engineer, a senior geotech-
nical engineer, a senior contract specialist and an 'explosive"
engineer. After the periodic visits, the specialist group shouLd
submit a report to Dalian Port Construction Headquarters.
The r-port should include matters pertaining to enginecring
progress, finances, contracts, etc. and make recommendation for
improvement, and propose solutions for any site problems encoun-
tered.
Total = 6 man-months.
Senior Finance Specialist
Dalian Port Construction Headquarters also require the Consultants
to send one Senior Finance Specialist for short periods, to assist
the Chinese finance personnel to familiarize themselves with the
International Laws and Finance Reporting Systkm of payment for
International Civil and Structural projects and to visit che site
cwice at suitable intervals.
Total 1 man-month.
The short term consultants should all have at least 15 years exper-
ience in their respective fields of experiences.
The short term specialist group excluding the Finance Specialist
will, ideally comprise 4 senior specialists. During the implementa-
tion of the construction, the specialist group should go to Dayao
Bay site at least once a tear, for a period of half a month.
Total 4 x 1.5 = 6 months.
The actual time arrangement will be submitted by the Consultanc in
their proposal.
Expenditure for the Chinese personnel visiting the consultant's
Headquarters for training shall be indicated in the consultant's
fees. TEis expenditure shall include return air tickets, accomnoda-
tion, living expenses for the Chinese team for a period of one
month.
7.        Port of Daliani Authority's Obligations.  Dalian Port Construction
Headquarters will provide the following services to the consultants working on
site:
%a) Assistance in booking local hotel accommodation.



- 49 -                               ANNEX 7
Page 5
(b) Provision of office, conference room, photocopying machine and
paper, typing services, telexes and telegrams and official
overseas telephone free of charge.
(c) Transport to and from the airport and also to the project site
and back. The cost will be borne by Dalian Port Construction
Headquarters.
(d) Board and lodging expenses should be borne by the consultants
and should be included in the consultants' fees.
8.        Reporting.
The Consultant should furnish the following written reports to
Dalian Port Construction Headquarters during the period of consult-
ing services:
(a) The overall planning program for the construction of Dayao Bay
Project Phase I.
(b) Construction program for maritime works and reclamation works.
(c) Monthly, quarterly and yearly work progress reports and finance
reports.
(d) Construction materials report.



ANNEX 7
- 50 -                            APPENDIX
Page 1
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Appendix to Term of Reference
The outline trkining plan for Senior Staff Training:
Objective of Training
(a) To understand advanced project management training methods and
experience of foreign countries in utilizing World Bank loans more
effectively, and to motivate the staff in the construction and
development of ports in China.
(b) To train a team of higher level personnel in scientific project
management methods.
Content of Training
(a) Training will be divided into two stages:
Lecture stage:         mainly based on class tuition and discussion.
Site training stage: mainly based on site practice, observation and
study.
(b) Main Content of Lecture Stage
Planning and selection of project
Feasibility study
Preliminary and detailed design
Working plan for project
Management organizational structure and selection of officers for
training.
(c) International rendering Bid
Type of contracts: Bill of Quencities and Lump Sum Contract
General principles of international tendering bid
Qualification evaluation: prequalification and final evaluation
Compilation of tender documents
Contract clauses
Tender evaluation
Contract negotiation techniques
(d) Construction Management
Application of CPM



ANNEX 7
- 51 -                             APPENDIX
Page 2
Quality and quantity management
Financial management
Format and requirement for Bill of Quantities
Inspection and acceptance of construction works
Control of different types of project cost (expenses)
Main content of site training stage: site observation and study of
a selected big scale port (wharf) construction works:
(a) To understand the site organizational structure and posting of
officers.
(b)  To understand the working methods of site supervision.
(c)  Trial compilation of project tendering documents.
Training of Personnel. Personnel training mainly applies to higher
level superintending engineers, higher level designers, and higher administra-
tive personnels of relevant departments for the port project. There are 11
persons to participate in the training and one of them is a Chinese/English
interpreter. All personnel taking part in the training must be able to read
English.
Time Arrangement. Total training period is 3 months. The ratio of
lecture time to site training time can be discussed separately.  The training
plan will commence in March 1988 and end in May Lhe same year.
Costs and Expense. Round trip air tickets, air (land) transpurta-
tion fares from tuition places to construction sites, overseas board and lodg-
ing expenses and local transportation fees for the trainees will be borne by
the Chinese side.



- 52 -                            Table 3.1
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Existing Terminals
Teruinal     Name        Berths       Water depth   Length           Type of
number                  (number)         (m)          (m)       cargo handled
1.      Main harbor       15          6.9 - 12     2,416   General cargo,
grain, passengers,
bulk ores, iron and
steel
2.      Main harbor       14          9 - 10.6      2,694   General cargo, con-
tainers, bulk ores,
iron and steel,
container
3.      Xianglujiao        8/a         7 - 8          825   Iron ores, timber,
general cargo
4.         Siergou         4             10           847   Processed oil
5.       Ganjingzi         2             10           400   Maize export
6.         Xingang         2         14 - 17.5        421   Crude oil
7.        Heizuizi         6             1.7        1,290   Loose cargo (on
small coastal
craft)
8.       Heshangdao        4/b                              Coal and dangerous
goods
/a Includes 4 new general cargo berths operated since October 1985.
/b Now under construction and scheduled to complete by 1988.
Source: DPA and Bank staff.
March 1986



-53 -                                                                                                         il
COIN
main Pat ,ewrT
Project Cut latitoat
'064    I  Jawy.  "I0 photo'
1966..   m ---    -       .....  . .669#9.....               .....io    ....                 .....l           ......16------99---        lat     --.......      LoO
Local    4ue104    Tstal        Local      orie FP lp     tl     LKcal   fmtip         Total      L0001    Fvuigr    Total         LKcal    FarIcp       Total      aaaett
A. Civl Owk:
Ikha. carpo &i tro         e             204        .50        916        523        766     lii1       1,709      3,356      2,86*       2M        2,401      1,,92        733      4,754       5,46       4,754
Sten. carqIllfft'Ii:em                   214        3fl        73'        046        543        61       1,1511       753     1,941         174       6 37     1,011        441      3,374       3.623      3,370
3 frtbkeatar part 2                      '06    'W 4        3,12       i,306      1.16*.     1,172           9          9          0          0          0          0     1.05   60,792          7,65Y      *,7I43
6lkrtlh.adp ratbctiea                      0                     0        *73        962     i.A50                      0          0          u          Ii         I       424      2,216       2,a45      2,21*
kor oaoatar  w t I                    1,424        .41'    2,064      1,304         346     1*652           0                                           21               3*26            2      3*76s 
*  talatiut                              464         0)        4*0          0     3, 49      3,695           3     *,21V      9.260           *.    4.J3       4652       ,544W   I*.,t9        22,764    1*699
7 FeM#         trntaet                     0          0                    14       lWe         293     1,354          s0     tI.?       1.0*       1,144      2,709       .572           '      1.572           6
4 fraaqia                                         2*34       3,*v4          0                                v                     1'    1.150           0      M'.5         343     4,054       4, 393     4,050
9hbids  t  carte                           0          Q          0        22                    :2         763                  '8.i    1,141            0     1,141      ,,240           0      2.34o           0
6taltetl                            3,q'6  ~ 1,12    10280V          4,5*1    10.550'   13.111k.' LOG           11,571    11,564       LEV       0,85,    12.155    16,445   36,063          34.350    38,36M
10 due, etracture                           0          I'                  47a     1,306      2,264      loll       2.7,41    4,354           73       221        214        746      4,576       7,32a       .5111
It keatkater  cr2  3                      36S     ii'M        3,431     j.,o**      l,742     4,564                      2          0          2          0          2     1.002      LOS3        6,07       6,03'
12 Polat    c   ed                          v          0          1t      .1.11       474        '615    1,283         50      1,1'!      1,591      1,109      2,Soa      5,217                  3,L20           0
3S CF6                                      0          v          .II                                                14.       8.           a.        '2         791        131        TOO       1,151n     1 700
14 ft. hlaildSt                             I,                    ,                                      ,ua          6*4      301L*      .,V12      'i.1       3,72*      5,383           2       3,13           2
1561 0il   la  I                            ,                                                               13                     53        13                    131       243           9         263          0
Is "tfer  tPpIrIlearot.                     l.                    1        465          0        445       .22           0       .22        274           0       274        442           0         ?42          4
Ii sati:,,    It 1:et:aiod,                 2                     2        32.          0        32.        36           0       36          10           2       112        59,           0        598           0
IsOPwwepphr                                 2,                    2        404          0        404        43                  9"4         7n            0       75       1717            0      1,7'?           0
19 trtrastractvr  etsbide  W t            e0                    6 02     3,706          0     3,746      i ,2%4          v     .2i,    3,439              C    5,459    13,327          200      13,227         2%V
20  il 51t01dM  put                          g                    0          0          0               23,040           0    21*64      2',552           2   2',552    44,20              0     49,200           0
21 isqerri no                           1,434           ,     1,434      1.,1*                 l.77a          v          y          1'         0          3          Q     3,653           0      3.433           3
72 Lead 01a" 7iMilo                     4,531          2      eSSI       2*06                  " 2.ll       *71          0        071          0          0          0    15,7*7           0     15.767           0
2! 3tWaa                                   39                    3 9       283          0        163        49.          0        69         602          0        692     1,567           2       1,367          0
$adtetal                            0,4:            ll6  ls1,l0      7,3'3      4,574    37,947    3*0325        3.202    41,347   M.,75,         3,531    42,563    47,477    11,513    113.9T2    16.31!
otl-CIVIl OtfI                    12,124    10,210    22,31'    37,934    15,126    33.057    41 ,3SU         1i0.4      57,931    42.572    12,e67    55.230  113.442    54.04O    1*0,342    54*00
24 Roaeaeeet  of cropoter                   2          0          v          0        393        392          0        456        436          0        656       456           0     1,310       13i  1310 lo
23 C.r.a 6#60lIrt                           0                                 2         0                   34e    10,a64    11,034          344    10,4644    11,032)       .92    21,3ad       22.0*0    21.3*1
2e Corner,  I 50.1083100                    0                     2        141          0        16'        322        65       1,210         92     1,333      1,423        373      2,221       2.19e      2,221
2'Sooip,  ti"tle0                                                                      0          v         34        6'        123         40        101        141         TM        1%u         2w6        190
2  Poaw nroo at                                        2                              173         73S         v        22.        216          2         91         6i                  480          46         940
2'amite, uppl,e901root                      002*                                                  2a                    34 p       36          3         25         23                    91          9          9
32 larmic   hate  and  valticis              7         1          2          2          2                              197        J  9'                 ISO        Pov          1       387          387        IF8
lttal - Eltao,eeo                                                          Iii        39,         37        104    11.371    33,273          471   12,,2    13,3.0         1,343    20,(64       27,389    2.04,
C. Tratriot aid 7K*, *0111
31 Traio,qt aid ot0*'e                      2          0          0          0          v          9        427        *35     1,042         43*        542       63 M        31      1,3.5,"t               1,4
32 Cuostractiori  e renOin                  1.         '                   22         307        *49        39"        373       572         IS6       305        471          2,    IAI(        ~ I,00      1,804
33 Pwtade   goapeat                        2'        442        44e         97        141       2138        203         69         9          j3         53        lIe          2     1.040       I,4        1,0I0O
$4 WrvorhIanito                           32,        28'        620        474        172        *44        l1'        IrA       26           23         4*        Ti      2,345        SW0       2,645         300
15 ftaaacial saitor                         U                     1         90        M*0          `1               0               30         o               0                2       10    10       4  10      4 (O
Tota1  - Tratilee I 7.4.                  35,        ':9       .28.a       624     2.060         '03j      695        iSk       2.,01       *94        645      1,39       2,97*      3,946       *6.7e      3.64
Total idotllow  Caot                   14,643    17.639    23.*03    11.419    16.7-6    35.351   4J,939    30,357    73,297    43.'41.    21,454    70,194   116,211    64,544    262.797    64,54*
h0,S121 cOPtleqaoco  '340'              1,2,        ,094      2,3*1      1,592      1,46&      3,572     4,214      3,03*      7,330      4 , 374    2.643      ',03      11,12'      6,433      20,262      5,433
cOtal                             13,931    1;,03,   2546s4    2o,Ui1   16,476    362t1    47,233    33, 34 I io,j2T    46.12                   21,t95    77,313   1 3o,3 ON       .001    222.114    93.001
Price cotitoeaer:
AhAgo]                                1.0401      .W       1.001            1.300           1.0001,4              1.W),                 iSul       3.501
C,Opc,, #                             1.000     1.3001                2.011,    2.011                  3,v33      3.030                 *.*61      1.641
haet                                   123        102        223       Se4        31,        640      I,214        54       2,236      2,659      21,6*      4,555      .6cm       2,619       7.1        Lat
freend TeaiI                           14,052    1;,l13    2b,16       2,i'3l    l8,"2    39,965   065,50          34.,77    62,133    %.%I    30,793    Si.'*6   130,70*    *e,V40    ISO,eot    9.040
2. 6.ceae    '0141       lEe 1.04 0           3.70
3.  l 4I iawe   are '30154.
Jet-"



Promet Ca E44iumte
96040  in Oaeaarr, 396 prices
LOCAI   Foreqin   1totl    o.oai   Foreilp   Total    Local  9F033 gr    otal    LOcal   Fwitin   loati    Leo.                  Forecqa   total    adownt
A. Civil Anti
3 hr. cargo 1, irao ores             9 77    2,405    3,36       I,69      3,7*66    *,*AN     *323    4,265    10604        lot?      5,364    4,2*0    10,275   14,642    24,91?   14*642
3m".  oifargoferoiliiz.               792    3,935    2,727    3, 26       h,ate    3,i57    4,215    2,697    7,162           644    3,097      3,741    7,005    9,796       iaN0       9, 796
3Ih.a*at*itr out 2                 2*620    a,305    6,923       4,132    *904    33,73*            0                   3        3          3         0    7,452   33,241    20,*i    33,209
4 Erth heat *roOeotioe                  0                        2.490     3*33    *3323            0         0                   0         3         0    3,490     3*43        *3123    3*33
heatwakiter part I                5,2*9    2.364      7,*37    4,82h    .,266       *3113          0         y         0        0          0         0   30,394     365*       13,73*    3*5*
* Reclaaaoiao                      3,735          u      .735         0   22,i62   22,362           0   34,33*    34,33*          0   34,322   36,322       3,735   74,64 W     t.,575    74,640
7 Poandahact treat.., 3                0         0          3      a4        5 92    1,093     5,037     3,325    *.342    3,9133    *49 3" 0.0123    9,649    7,607    37,45*            7,607
hlrectogin                                  33,III335 33.33,                              ('                  v         0    4,235          0    4,355    4.255   33,335        17,594   33,333
9 Roads and tarts                       0         0         0       640         0      640    2,693                2,6413    4,222          3    9,232     7.955          0      7,955         0
toetotal                        33,393   26.346   37,743    3*6,72   39.033    55,906    36,516   42,,          *1.3.1   141331   32*693   4*624   60,94  340,920   203,634  34092
30 banv atraotret                       0          u         0    3,433     4,640    6,~453    5,957   30,v79   3*,03*          270       III    3.066      9,134   35,037    25,515   15,73?
33 hrosateater part 3               3,343   I3,42*    12,7*9      7,755   30,330   36,a6             2        0         0         3          3         0    9,0941   21.756    30,654   2i.75*s
32 Reags arl a ,ar                      0         7         0    4,353      3,754    e,605    4947    2,31*         *923    5,1*9    4,325    9,494    14,7*7    6,255    23,022    6,255
33 3F00                                      0          0        0          0         0   u        33    2,'*o      3,393       244    2*483    2,927         *77    5,445       *3124     5,443
34 Au.. bliltimes                       0         0         0          0        0          0    7,*29    3,567   13,19*    7.437    a,39    33.76*    i3,0**    9,91*    24,9412    9,91*
lStpill ineertt                                   u                    0                   0      5.           v      54        465          0      445    3,053           0      3,03i         0
3. 4i0cr s49911 * eeeraoe               0          '         0    3,a47               1 ,a4?    2.303          i    2,303     3,03           0    3.034    4,942           0      4,9*2         0
l'lwalt,rg*An.ntilatif                                       3    1 320*         3    330       3.923          0    3,425       407          3       407    3,236          0     3,0U           0
to Pair sujOir                           2         3         0    3,495          0      .495    3LA*           03 35          2,91*          3    2.93      6,0*7          0     6,0*7          0
3;1,4r' ras uraoe Duttidte part   ,23'2           v    2,22'   33,6*4            )   1331,6*    23,373        0,  23,273   29,3191           0   20,396   59,5**           0    59,5*.          0
20 Raill DtRlie Dirt                     3                   0         3         3             10,391          0 40,.096  303,942            0  303,42  362,040            0   362,040          0
!i      onr.  aor*               5392           0    5,360    4,723           0    4,733          3         u         0         3         3         0   30,303          0    30,303          0
33 Lard atuimiltien                24,279              34,33ll9  Fas             0    9*50      3.443          3    2,443          0         0         0   34.372          0    36.372          0
33Dtere                              236         3        l3       *77         0       *77    1.433          0     3,63      3,204         3    3,333k    *.030          0      A*03          0
heitotal                        30.4v7    31.42*6   44,633   a9,443    3*,t4   e*,403  133.4v3    36.542  353,96M        143,362   3*3175  337,53'  3*0.673   *t,071   423.'S0   *3,307
- Liil      air,1N,.            44,60    37.774   *2,574   so.353   35,4*0  320,3133   52,923   *3,425  214,34*  157,533   44,446  204,363   421,567  Mu,027   o23*314  2103,04
9, 3'iiaert
.4Moralistic and 1349U3cr                v                             V 0  3434       1.454         0    3*695     3,93           3    3*945      3,*9          0    4,44        4,844    4,6444
.3Largo harihiro1'                                         0         '.        3               3 .260   39,531   40,633      3,260   39,531   90,633       2.560   79,062    0i,*22   79,Di2
..Canaan. * 'wa.tioat                  3                   0       54*         Q       59*     3,193     3,216*    4,477       340    4,932    5.272    2,327    6,239         30,345    6,236
tuico. tnt.i                         0                                       3         0       333       329       4*2       146       3'R       522       263        703       944        703
.6 leor pouimaert                        3         '                           NU*4     .40          0       799       799         0      337        337         0    3,77*       3,77*    3,77*
l* ater auStin eulciat                                     0         ,'       5*        9                   44       344                  93        43         3       33         333       333
0) Oer.ice  alate *r4 vOfitiis          0                             0                   i7        0       729       729                 70        703         3    3,432       3,432    3,432
loa'  - EwoRut*                                                     5  9*   2,390    2,76.    2,w4O   4*3i3   44,337          1.7*l   47,**3    49,433    4,946   4*3*4    303.33. % *3*4
C.  'an    atch.1. Assist
33 TrainingM arteon.,                   3,                                                 v    3.54w     2,27      3,43*     3*331    3,657    3,4'0    3,347        4,1333      7,32*    4,1333
0, Caflstrctiir supr.i*ir ,                   0         0           5A9     i,16*    3,4'S          0*6    3,36%,   2,.         614    1,339    4.743        3.94     4,365      *,324    4,345
.7 Sinties *e*t**t't                   19    1.S1    3,734          359      5332       231        363      5it       730       237        19.      435     3,3*2    2*64;        5,744    2*4W2
.4  orse. * Oceria                  3,9'.    Je..       3,v34      1,754      o3*    2,70i         *55       43..    3.035        93       370      2*3     4,479     3.2*4      e.t42    2,2*6
33 Piraftial seminar.                                               333       *a3     3,45           0                   0         u         0                 333       9*2      3,295       9g3
lt     - Iraini    * I.9.        ,-vol    ,.oI7    4,754       3.,459   3,5t       7,343     0,75u     4,305    7,777    2,55130.352           5,905   33,033    34X,4'    25,441   34,430
'eta! *aseline Lest                44,16*    4X,9      a 4,07    09,i44   *0,34*   jOulE    354,61'  334,323  2'1,20v  3*3,434   97,465 39,7i94637,5*b   i31,825    73034    332.625
9n,s,ial cortingeni.  '30%          4.6*t    4,34'    6,'33    1,94    e-..    133i,23         33,446   3I.22   3',13v   3              9*3 4749   35,412   47'S5.   Oi,263      75,v39   33,363
etail                            i,54I   44,536    9*,va5   769"3    *6,036  343,354  379.'65   .33,553  296,320  1It1wi'  337,a* M 246,91  463,32 3044,106   I23,'3u   344,304
Amm,l                             6.!*1     0.530               oWI    oW5l                   *331    4.500                 4.501    4.300
lo*CtVlded                        *3500    &..3.               133*2%133.4211                2v. 790   30.790              2*.230    2*231
Amort                            2,032    2,455    3,34'    6.485    7,t04   16, r,    33,334   32.443    54,774   43,779   24,79e   66,515    *,VI0   33,495    343, 505   33,069
*1*70  eota                        54,439    4*973  303,433   45,974    7a,3*?   3e3,3*3  2~0,44  345,995  3533,24    3i9,t96  33,473, 352,3*   561.332  403*603   9*4,935  353,200
teas C, I'aim  rin  e7 7.4. * more viojuamI Are. 7ht iai,lmt,er DI  rlice coetrtngesoif
3. tzr9arge 'aici       461 3.0  * 99       7.7 3.1
A.il titure  Alt 'erase.
Dec-I7



Table 4.3
- 55 -
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Equipment Cost Estimate
(January 1, 1988 prices)
Unit cost    Total cost in US'O00
Item                              Quantity    US$'000    Local   Foreign  Total
Container Terminal
Quay gantry crane 40.5 t             3      1,900.00         -      5,700   5,700
Rubber tire transtainer              8        635.00         -      5,080   5,080
Rail trainstainer                    2        945.00         -      1,890   1,890
Tractors                            20         42.00         -        840      840
Chassis 20'                         10         10.50         -        105      105
Chassis 40'                         40         15.75         -        630      630
Forklifts 2/3 t                     15         13.13         -        197      197
Forklifts 25 t                       2        147.00         -        294      294
Vehicles                             1         32.00         -         32       32
Truck scales                         2         55.50         -        111      111
Others                               -                     542        111      1!1
Spare parts 10%                      -           -         542      1,588   1,588
Subtotal                                             542    16,457  17,009
Multipurpose Berths
Portal crane 10 t/83 m               1        500.000        -        500      500
Mobile cranes                        2      1,000.00         -      2,000   2,000
Yard mobile cranes                   7        160.70         -      1,125   1,125
Forklifts 5 t                       19         23.61         -        449      449
Tractors                             9         30.00         -        270      270
Chassis 10/20 t                     18          3.81         -         69       69
Spare parts 10%                      -           -         150          -      150
Subtotal                                             150      4,901   5,051
Total - Cargo Handling                                   692    21,368  22,060
Others
Ma.aagement and computer           L.S                       -      1,310   1,310
Communication and navigation    L.S                        575      2,221   2,796
Equipment tests                    L.S                      76        190      266
Small equipment                    L.S                     570          -      570
Power equipment                    L.S                       -        480      480
Water supply equipment             L.S                       -         90       90
Service boats and vehicles         L.S                       -         90       90
Subtotal                                             651      4,678   5,329
Total Base Cost                                    1,343    26,046  27,389



Table 4.4
- 56 -
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Cumulative Disbursement Schedule /a
Estimated           Cumulative
IBRD          cumulative      disbursement pro-
Years from                      fiscal year     disbursements       file for Korea
approval                        & quarter     US$ mln       %         and China
Year 1                           FY89
1st half                     09/30/88          6.72       7.0
12/31/88         17.28      18.0          18
2nd half                     03/31/89         24.00      25.0
06/30/89         30.72      32.0          32
Year 2                           FY90
1st half                     09/30/89         38.40      40.0
12/31/89         46.08      48.0          48
2nd half                     03/31/90         52.80      55.0
4                           06/30/90         60.48      63.0          63
Year 3                           FY91
1st half                     09/30/90         67.20      70.0
12/31/90         72.96      76.0          76
2nd half                     03/31/91         77.76      81.0
06/30/91         79.68      83.0          83
Year 4                           FY92
1st half                     09/30/91         84.48      88.0
12/31/91         89.28      93.0          93
2nd half                     03/31/92         91.20      95.0
06/30/92         93.12      97.0          97
Year 5                           F193
1st half                     09/30/92         94.08      98.0
12/31/92         96.00    100.0          100
/a  Assumptions:  Loan effectiveness 04/01/88; construction starts 03/01/88
and expected to be completed by 12/31/92; anid loan closing date is
12/31/93.



cwim
Wim Pal
...........
IATNM PMCI
pe't.; ..............
raffic 11971-2010)
.....................
I M tal
.............................................................. ..................................................................... ............ .................................................................................
---------------------------------- - ------------ ktul .. . .. . ........... . ...........................
....... ltil ....... ------- Im ....... ....... 19113 ....... .......M....... ....... 19W ...... ....... ----Ms ......
Is Out l0fl 10 out letil Is ht letal la out TstAl la bt TwUl la ftt latil Is bt lotsl Is egi Idol Is bt Total la bi Total
....            . ............................................................................................................... ...............................................................................................
wi
Fwtloa                  0       a        0      64        1      61       11    441    452         36     433      444       44     201    $21         0        0       4        t       I       0        6       I        0        1     5"      so         t    I,ob    I'so
kastic                  3     454     457        0      115     I33        0     157      13Y       0     I"       I"         0     IS2     152  4,01        150  4,150  7, no         In    TIM       11.30    30  16,01110  9,111011      6  V,w    11.30          II 11,50
1011                 3     454      $57      60      136     1%        11    3"       60        is      "?      627       40     433     473  4.40         Is   4,156  7. IN        M     1,475 16,50        311 141,1111111 11,0011,   SO  11.30  HIM          1,041,11 12,5"
..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... . ... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... . . .. .. . . . ... .
CIvir St I
Foliate                 061105  CM               09,M4  9,b4               09,70    9,70            f14,394 14,394            016,264 16,M             027,10  27,1"             0 V,w   27'sm            6X,w    H,ow                m,mit X,eb             435.00  351#1
kentic                 45  3,411  SIM           M 4,3"   4,484            74  4,2aa   4,331       310  3.121  3,43t        2%        SIVA    SIM     70    S. 4"    4,116     70    6,706  TIM          M 14,0   14,70    1,6114 11,0111 12.06  1,30    1.50  16,11"
Total               45 10,212 10,M7          b14.262 14, S"            7 414,05 14,071         sil 17,515 I I't"         2"   It'sm  19,ir        700 10,5"  SI'm           P"  3,11.2%  34,030      70  31,10  38,710  1,011 P.0   46,646  1,10  43.50  45,00
poffiew prowti "' ..... ..... ..... ..... ""' -- - - ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ---
Fwtip                   0     S36     w          03IM         I'M          0S. 2"    312"           03.04  3.04               04,05  4,"5              0        1       0        6       0       It       0       f        I       I        I       I        0       0        1
0SAD 3.60021415 2.41503,417 2,41762.207 2120)0I'm 2,6320000II6I6fIII000
lotol                041211  4101              05, 7? 05, 7 70          05.715  51?15            06,011  6,011             06,651  6,637            0        0       0        0       0        1       1        6       I        0       6        I       0        6       0
..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... -.. ..... .....
lbwal Wm
fwolp                 IID       0      lob     207        4     217    922         4     922  1,170          0 i.176   1,146          611146  1100              Ii's"    I'm             II'm        I'm          41,000  SIM             300   1. 30   3,50       50   4,01
kostic               510        0     510      212       1 6    so      303        1     311    X4           6     3%       41       23       72       0        0       4        6II"$   I'"s             I2.06  JIM             m          I     70      No       vo  1.00
letal              k"         0     6"      Mt        I I    S?  1,225           0I'm        1,5m         61,5w    1, I "         23  1,211  I'aw            0I'm        I 101  1110    I'm        I'm     I'm     3,W      3,70       30    4,"s  4,00    J."o  5,00
Iris OW stool
Fwoip                 sn       a      593    454        456     915   1,151      I"    1,267  I'm           42  1,474  2,W           21  2. Its   I'm        106  1,10    1,141    3"   2,441  2.0              Ss   2.1"   I'm          30    I'do  2.5d, I'm           3.3"
kmtke                  25  1.055   11000        36  117[q  1.755          30  1,426  1. 456         I l'o"    I^             23     IS6     961      lob   I.m      1,10      130  1,136  II 360        m     I'm     1.50       M     2,M      2,286  i,00    2,500  S. NO
Total              553  1 I t 20   1 .673    4"   2. US  21671   IIIIII  11537  Wn    1.60    1,132  2.772  Z.U4                    ?1,791  1,700   1,101  2.00  1,091  1,430  3,341  2.20    1,w                   4,w     2,M    2,"I  5,M         3,50    3,50   I,w
Costrictim 6stwiti
fwtip                   0       10      10       0        7       7        0        7       7       0        5       5        0       4        4       0        1       0        0      25      25        0      M        u         6     10      10         4     10       100
horitic               MO       44     404      134       IT     151      III      16      127     103        4     1 0 7    %         1     104      2"       50      30      351       56     "I      0         so     Is       IN       Is      "O  1,30         "I  I.os
total              360       m      414     IS4       24     ISO      III      23      134     103        t     112       96      II      Is      256       36     so       351      75     4h       50      its      am      w        no   I'm       1.50      m     2.aw
..... ..... ..... ..... -.. ..... ..... ..... ..... . ... ..... ..... ..... ..
COSMIC
Fweip                   0       is      13       9       17      %        65      Is      13       II        9      20       17       4       21       O     100      10         1     20      m          1     3"      m          I2,50   I'm               03,W        I'm
kmile                   4      a        if       0       96      %         2      77       79       0       36      so        f      25       25       0      so       59        6      61      M         I     Is       Is        II    W6       S"         0 I'M       1,00
Idol                 0       91      01        9     193     192       67              U2        11      47      51       17      29       46       4      150     Ift        0     Wi    301          0     WIS      m          13,0        3'e"         04,M        4,00
Tiow
Fortip                  0       3        3      54        a      62       30       4       34      5 1       2      53      64        2      66      I N        0     1 "     I 0        0     IN       10        6      in    I'll"        0 1.00    1150            01,50
kmtic                   0     "3      n 5         i     112     I"         3     I69     172        S     72      M          1     705     706        v     sw       w          0     90      "I         s 1,106  1.10            II,W         1, O"        0I've  1.3m
Total                0     rA       9%       6 1     7W      121       33     7 73     06       54      774    021        85     7 07     792     100      in      "O       I 0     gm    I'm        Is    1,106  1.20    I'm        I'mo  I'm        1.50    1, S"    3,0"
bpwilltc wn ..... ..... ..... -----
Fortiqs                35     177    212        71    5H        571    114       W       576      IP      4"       W?       57    414       471      I"      MIS    60        125      S%      675      IN      7"       M       No  3,op   3,30           MO  3, 90  4,000
bottle                137    231    la          a       243     311       4 1    130     379       54     sm       4"        n      2"      329      150     2-A      40      we       m       m     1, is      I"    I'mi  I'M          30    1,740   I'mo        so   Z,od
total              02   4"   so   139   743   U2 M                            no   "S   243   M3 1, 0%    ts   764   7"   rA   7%  I'm    7a   -Om  1,03 I'm    "I I'm   I'S"  S'so SIM   2,00  4,M   i'm
Ckoical Wilstors
Fortip                          0       5q     05         I     "b       706       2     7"    1.016         I1.016        774        0     774    "O           0     9%      9n         0     in       9%         6     9a    I'M          I I'M       2'e"          02, "O
bmtic                   0      R        34       0      107     107       1 6    I P     I n       61       4 7     "       N        92      156       0     Is       I 0        0     1 n     I n        I     Is       IN         1     30      396        4     3"       5"
lotal               59       34      93     w        too      773     722      161    U3  1.064          4 71.111    132          92      924     "O       100  1,00        "S      125  1,0116      9%       Ift   1. NO   1,200      30    1.30   2,011        No  2,50
..... ..... ..... ..... .....
w t
fwtiqs                  0     Igo      100       0      102     102        4     III      102       0       7 1     7 1       0      77       7 7      0      100     I Of       6     125     In         4     136      IN         I     20      2"         0     340      S"
kmtlc                m          0     50       40         0     0       271        0     278      III        0     12i    402         0     402      400        0     4"      567        It    367    6m          1     0        IN         6     m     I'm          0I'm
tdil               W5       100     615     0        102    S"        271     102      390     121       71     192      402      77      479     4"       100     S"       307     In      62       0        to      m       I"       m     I'm      1,7"      30    2,M
Fwngs              ]'Su       III  21015  313%          m     316115  31511.   94  41645  2.1115  ilns  410"    11111  $1326  5,101  1.40    1,30    2'"s  1,ow   I'm                        I'M     1,40   2,4w, $,me  2,5"   :.wo  6,1"   3,sw   4,00  7'so
kmtic                  90     2"       S49      a       I611    214       44     149     lr        73     643      766      61      265     U3    of         S"    IIIN,    11%        0     1140    III*       "I  1.10         st      S"    I'do  I,ow    I'M         2's"
letsi            1,926     4M   2 W       1.3"       503  3,101  3,551    603  4,2114  1,931   1,910  4,06   1,149  3,WI  5, 40   2,00    III"   4's"   2,2w    2.3"   4. rA   2,310  I'm    3"90   I'm                             4,00  I'M        4,W      S,w     9,M
..... ..... ..... ..... .....
etwi
Fwoila               354      3h      140      U3  1.296  2, I?9  1,160   1,181  2, 30            912  1,200  2,152   1,190  1,236  I'm           1,7W   2,6111  3.10    2,20   2,41111  5,0115  I.9111  4,000  i,"S  3,380  5,0010  1.50    4,011  S,W                  f,WI,
kmtic                 S21    351      079      313     557    9%        $71    532       931    416       32       "4      4b       53  1,039        WO      700  I,W0    70           7W    1,411    80        06  1,614        10    I.M      1, 390  1,5111  1,001  2,30
Total              675     144  1,114  1,276  1,053  3,121  1,547  1,?33  3,20    1,3611  1, IN    3.106  1,676  I,M    3,41111 2, NO  2. NO  5,0141  2,9011  3,60   6,535  S,M    4,11106  11,11111  4,091, 4,0"  it,$"   5,5"   4,30   12,060
Fwmgo              3,142  1,216 11.464  5,631 15,"2 21,7101  7,W5 15,01111 23,50    ?.921 ll.alll 29,04  7,191 25,60  13,546  6,1110 31,40   NINO  7^    33,0                                  41,116  11,1110 36,301 44,00  14,01, 43,640 07,W1, 17,00 53,9b  70,"o
kmtic              21076 10,123 1211"    1,542 10,6"  12.237  1,271 16,333 11,612  1,5111  9,010 10,59    1,522   1.747 10,269  *,*                          7,06 13,06 11.14  I 1, 769 22,1177 13.60  14,60   12,20  15.50   16,9011 U,444 21,700 17,40  n, in
Total           5,261 19.0"  24,367  1.30  26,637 34,017  1,%2 26,2S3 35,1"   9,40! 31,713 0,162  9,420 34,M                              43,815 13,60  31,."   52,M   10,991 45,304 63.991 24,10   U.90   n,W                P.W      40.30   410,011 S. 7%  71,300  lin"
Costaiwtiabio Carlo
Fweip                 177     IN      335      458      363     121    3%        354     705      M       420      M       417    431    147    IN    1, NO   I,IM    1,210  1,W             2,797  1.10   2,40   4,10   ?,M           3,2%    5,25  2,910  3, IN   6,654
kmtic                  42   6 1 W              I 04   so  134  114  IN   219  146   1 M                            Su   IN    I "           M4   3M    No   6W                M        411 M            40      0       90   Sn   60              M IJX    I"  1, 73o
Total              219     210      434     567      393     960      464    520      904      4 M      6"    1,017    507    624  1,211  1,156   1,350  2,501  I,M               1,909  3,304  2.2211  2,111111  5,110  2,60   3,90111, 4,3*    $,no  4, 3%   11,400
Cotaiwiiw car"
fortip                  I       0        0      $3       26      p        41      93     124       47     105      202     I"       161    267       IM      IN    1,60    I,PS  1.425  2,111   1,10   2,01111  340   2,110   2,810  3,6111  S. 7"    SIM    7,406
kmitc                   I       0        0       0        0       0       1 1 1 1         35       0        34    7 4        7 1 66  137   50   I "                   I 9     135  IM M                 M       I"   40          M       M        do   S"          M        60
Total                0        0       0       33      26      59       M      M        159     137      139     276      237     147    444       0       9%    IJ*    1,411  I.In   2,913  2,0111 2,W              4,20   3,00   I,M        6,M     4.m      4,M     1. an
.. . . ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..
.............................................................. ....................................................... . .............................. . .... . .....
wwcfst klin 04wt Abtbwlty. POC, hot mo#$.
Joe 19%



- be8 -
Table 5,2
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Cargo Handling lithout And With ProVosed Befths
(Beneral Cargo Berth)
19S3    1984   1985            1990   1941   1492    1993   1994    1995               2000
A. TRAPfIC  NOW   i 000 T06) t 1                7,810  7,671  9,702            8,300  6,650  9,015  9,397  9,797 10,215               12,600
5. WIlNIul PROJECT
Existing 6mneral Cargo Berths
- -- ------------------     --         1        2     /         2            1          2   :2                  2  1 2
1. Berths (number)                              22      22      22              21      21       I      21      21      I1              21
2. Traffic i 000 tons)                       7,610  1,671  6,702             6,300  8,650  9,015  9,397  9,797 10,215               12,600
3. Annual ship berth days required           9,t61  9,6e6 10,961            10,480 10,922 11,393 11,865 12,'SI O  i,898             IS '09
4. Annual ship berth days available          6,710  6,710  6,710             6,405  6,405  6,405  b,t5  o,405  b,4U5                  ,4Ot
5. Bkrth occupancy rate  i)1                   (95)    95i   9t5)               (95)    951    95)    9)    MI51    195i               195)
6. Waiting tsim  queuing factors              0.51   0.51   0.51              0.55   0.55   0.55   0.55   0.55   0.55 .55
7. Annual ship waiting days                 5_09  1,940  1,b03               b,7b4  6,0dt7  e,26   6,526  6,8O4  7,094               8,750
C. WITH PROJECI
Enisting 6eneral Largo Berths
- - - - - - ----- - - - --------------            2     ;2    /12              i 2    /12    1 2    1/2    1 2    t 2                  1 2
1. Berths (nuber)                               22      22      22              21      24      24      24      24      24              24
2. Traffic  I 000 tons)                      7,810  7,671  8,702             9,300  8,650  7,449  6,615  6,422  6,264                7,727
3. Annual ship berth days required           9,861  9,69E  Iv,967           1t48D  10,922  9,405  8,352  9,109  7,909                9,756
4. Annual ship benth days available          6,710  6,710  6,7110            o,405  7,320  7,320  7,320  7,320, 7,320                1,320
5. Brth occupancy rate I)                       (95'   (95)   ,95)             (95)   195)   M95)   095         95     (95)            195)
6. Waiting time queuing factors               0.51   0.51   0.51              0.55   0.41   0,41   u. 9   v 37   0.36                 0.36
7. Annual ship wa.tinq days                  5,(/9  4,94v  5.6So             5,164  4,476  3,856  3,174  3,0vv  z,847                3,51Z
Porposed 6eneral Cargo Berths
-------------- --------------                                                                  o 2    1 2    ' 2    1'2                1 2
1I  krths (nuder)                                                                                2       4       5       6               6
2. Tri4fic I 000 tons)                                                                       1,566  2,782  3,375  3,951              4,813
3. Annual ship berth days required                                                             784  1,392  1,689  1,977              2,439
4, Annual ship berth days available                                                            610  1,220  1,525  1,9                1,830
5. krth Kcupancy rate (1)                                                                        95    M95I   (95)    i U               (951
6. Naiting time queuing factors                                                               0t41   0.38   0,37   v.36               V.3
7. Annual ship wiiting days                                                                    321    529    625       112             876
Wotesi fi)   annual ship berth days required          traffic'theoretical daily capacity per berth.
(iI)  annual ship berth days available * number of berths m oerth operating says per year.
liii) berth occupancy rate * annual ship berth days rfeuired , annual ship berth days avaliable.
(iv)  waiting tise queuing factors   (roe Port Developrent, UKCtAD 1978, page 209 and 210.
Iv)   annual ship waiting diys a annual ship berth required x waiting time queueinq factors,
(vi)  all the figures are rounded.
I I Inciudes noncontainerized foreign and dosestic tin/out.
/i .l r.ific would enceed the practical capacity of these berths. For the purpose of tht econoAic evaluation It has beeIi
assu.ed that ways will he found, e.g, through lightering, to sove the traffic through the port with waiting tilts
not eiceeding those correSpondirg to 951 berth ocEupancy rate.
Sourcesi MOC, Dolion Port Authority and Banb staff.



-59 -                                                        S         .3
t  t, ill  ui c1
Cal r  adling lithout ad Wtith Proed Erths
IC"tail  r Lroth
6    1164   I5                199    1991   1"2   1993   1994   1995               2000
A. TWFIC K11    I 000 TEUI) /1                  15.9   27.1   40.4           175.0  191.1  206.7  227.9  248.9  271.6             420. 0
1. IITHOUT OJECT
Elistt7 Cotainer Erths
*-2    /12    I 2    1.2    /.2    1 2               1.2
1.   rths (INO )                               I       I       1              2      2       2       2      2       2              2
2. Traffic IWO  TELls)                      15.9   27.1   40.4            175.0  191.1  201.7  227.9  24.9  271.6              420.0
3. hisual ship berth days reqire             110    192    211            1,215  1,327  1,449  1,515  1,72t  1,01              2,917
4.  n1al ship brth days available            305    305    305              10    110    110    10    610    10               10
5. brth uCcPaScy rats I1)                     36      3      92            (t5)   (95)   (f9    (95)   i95)   1951               R9S)
6. Witi)l  tin   ueleg factors              0.11   0.34   0, 9             4,34   4.34   4.34   4.34   4.34   4,34              4.34
7. Snivl ship maiting days                    12      I5    276          5,273  5,759  ,289  1,170  7,500  6,194             12,60
c. WIIH PIJECT
Ezistig COAtainr Erth
._ -  -- - ------ -1- - --                                                    2    1  2
1. beth s(nuaerl                               I       I       1              2      2
2. Traffic  ('000 TEUs)                     15.9   27.6   40.4            175.0  191.1
3. Aisual ship brth days reqired             110    192    261            1,215  1,327
4. tunual ship Wrth  ays available           305    305    305              10    c10
5. Erth KccPAcy rate It)                      36      63      92            (95    (95)
i. Witing tiM  qeil factors                 0.11   0.34   0.99             4.34   4.34
7. aul ship sailting days                     12      IS    270          5,273  5,759
Porpeos   Cintaaiwr l rtho
1. brths (sniff)                                                                             2       2      2       3              4
2. Traffic ( 000 TEUO)                                                                   200.7  227.9  241.9  271.6            420.0
3. Annul ship brth days required                                                           290    317    36    370               513
4. Anual ship berth days available                                                         10    i10    110    915            1,220
5. krth  Kcupancy rate (i)                                                                 4U       52     57      41             41
A.  aiting tin  queteg factors                                                            011   0.14   0.10   0.02              0.03
7. Annual ship waiting days                                                                 32      44     2       2             17
Notne  li   ansal ship brth days reqire  *  traffic/theretical  aily cApacity per berth.
ii)  aenal ship brth days Available *  uaber of berths x berth operating days pr yor.
Iilil berth KcuVpCy rats * |al ship berth days required I wanual ship berth lays available.
Uiv)  iaitin  tieo queing factors * fros Part kvoloant, KICTAD 1971, pap 209 aid 210.
(v)   seal ship waitinl days * mnval ship berth required   w isaiting ties queueig factors.
(vi)  all the fil;ue  are rounded.
/l   Inciluds freoig  and doentic (in/out).
/21 Traffic would emceed th' practical capacity of these berths. For the purpose oV the etcwcic evaluation it has bemn
issued that says sill be found, e.g., through lightering, to ove the traffic throuh the pwort ith sailtinl times
not eceeding thosu crrnpoonding to 951 berth occupancy rate.
Srcen     hOC, Dalian Port Athority sod Dub staff.



-60-
Table 5.4
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Economic Benefits
General Cargo Berth
1U million)
ii4l   1992    1S9''   1994    1995              20(lo
General Cargo Berth
Ports: Loading/unloading sayings                        -1.56  -.. 54   4.54   7.53  10,46                 4.02
Ships: Berth daye savings                               14.84  15.46  27,47  33.31   3i.0l               48.10
WaitinQ days savinQs                            25.89  2b,99  36.5O  41.17  45.78                56.46
Larqo: berth oays savings                                2.98   3,11    5.52   6.69    7.84                9.61
Waiting days savings                             5.20   5,42    7.35   8,27    9.20              11.35
Total                                             47.35  48,44  81.44  9b,97 112.29               129.60
Notes: 1.AIl the figures are rounded.
2.Opportunity cost of capital for cargo is assused to be  9.50X.
Sources: MhC, Galian Port Authority and Bank staff.



- 61 -
Table 5.5
CHINA
DALIAN PORI PROJECT
Economic Benefits
ECntdiner Berth
t illiwon
1|iq    l 92    1?t3    1994    1q9r.
Container Berth
Ports: Loadingiunloading savings                           lC,     I1,'   i2.1.14  Iv.'4   lt.t5
Ships: Berth days savinqs                                  12.5'  13.72   14.99  lb.736   V.82 .17,t3
Waiting daY5 saviriqs                             b:.94  ;'4. 86 8       '.82   8. 0    .9           I % 2
Carycg: Berth days savings                                  1.2    1.51    I.o5    1.B(    I.A?                 3K4
WaitinQ  days savings                               7.47    B.14    6.88    W.LB   iv,.rj IS4r
Total                                                99.74 l')9.18 118.28 12b.t5 143.97                2'4.68
Noteb: 1. pill the lqures 3ve rounOed,
2  Opportunitv cost ot capital tor cargo' i  a5ssl'ed to t  4.5IMe.
Sources:  MOLI, Gailir Port Mu!  cr a'Y    i       ar!a   staff,



Table 5.6
- 62 -
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Unit Cost of Ship Wait. ng In Port
General cargo            Container
Existing   Project   Existing   Project
berths    berths       berths    berths
Average ship size (dwt) /a                  10,000    25,000        5,000    30,000
Average shipment size (ton) /a               5,000    13,500        3,500    25,000
Cargo value (Yuan/ton) /a                    2,000     2,000      20,000    20,000
Average daily ship cost in port
(Yuan/day) /a                            12,950    16,650       11,840    37,740
Cargo handling cost (Yuan/ton) /b             2.30      6.45       42.70      61.40
/a The World Bank, OPS, Transportation Department, Ship Cost User's Manual
Vessel and Voyage Costing Modal, December 1986.
/b Port of Dalian Authority and the Bar1k mission.



Table 5.7
CHINI
DAliPI PORT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return (ERRI and Sensitivity Apalysis
Sueeiy
z  Iason Yuan I
120 years)
----- -------------llnt C a--------------      -------C-e --            ------- -------- --e 2--- ----     --------------     -------
--------Costs-------   Total    Net                               Net                            Net                             Net
Capatal "fint-           Den,-   Cash           Costs Benefits  Cash           Costs 8enefits  Cash            Costs 8enefits  Cash
Year         irvest. mnance  Tttal   fits   Flow             (.131)            Flow                  l-151)   Flow          ('151)  (-151)   Flow
1S97         105.59          105.59         (105.6i         121.4l          il21.4)        105.59           105.6)         121.43          (121.4)
1986         175,89          175.99          1175.9i        20.27           (202.3?        175.89           (175.?i        2(2.27          i202.3)
(999         234.34          234,34          (234.3)        269.40          (269.5)        234.34           (234.j)        269,49          t269.5)
1990         175.63          I75.6t          (175.o         201.97          4202.0?         175.t3          ((75.6)        201.97          1202.0)
1991          40.70  17.o0  59.3Q 1(7.09  8P.79              67.05 147.09  80.04            58.30 125.03  66.73             67.05 125.03  51.99
1992          91.40  17.60  99.00 15.62  58.62             113.85 157.62  43.77             99.00 133.99  34.90           113.85 133.98  20.13
1993          81.40  17.60  99.00 199.82 100.92             113.85 199.82  85.97            99.00 169,.85  70.85           113,85 169.85  56.00
1994          '0.70  17.60  58.30 223.62 165.32              67.05 223.62 156.5)            58.30 (90.08 131.78             67,05 190.06 123.03
1995                  17.60  17.60 256.26 239.66             20.24 256.26 236.02             17.60 217.92 200.22            20.24 217.82 t97.58
1996                  17.60  17,60 259.72 242,12             20.24 259.72 239.48             17.60 220.76 203.16            20.24 220.76 200.52
1997                  .7.60  17,60 263.18 245.59             20.24 263.18 242.94             17.60 223.71 206,11            2o,?4 223.71 203.47
1999                  17.60  17,60 266.65 249.05             20.24 266.65 246.41             17.60 226.65 209.05            20.24 226.65 206.41
1999                  17.60  17.6v 270.11 252.51             20.24 270.11 249.87            1.D0 229.59 211.99             20.24 229.59 209.35
200t                  17.60  17,60 354.28 336.68             20.24 354.29 334,04             17.JO 301.14 283.54            20.24 301.14 280.90
2001                  17.60  1/.60 354.28 336.69             20,24 Z54.28 i;4.04             17.60 301.14 263.54            20.24 301.14 280.90
2002                  17.60  (1.60 354.28 336,68             20.24 354.28 334.04             17.60 301.14 283.54            20.24 301.14 280.90
2003                  17.60  17.DO 354.28 336.68             20.24 354.28 334.04             17.60 301.14 283.54            20.24 301.:4 280.90
2(04                  17.6v  17.60 354.28 3.S6.6B            20.24 354.28 334,04             17.60 301.14 293.54            20.24 301.14 290.?0
-105                  35.2)  35.20 354.28 319.08             40.48 354.28 313.90             35.20 301.14 265.94            40.48 301.14 260.66
2006                  35.20  35.20 354.28 319.08             40.48 354.28 313.80             35.20 301.14 265.94            40.48 301.14 260.66
2007                  35.20  35.20 354.28 3!9.08             40,48 354.28 313.80             35.20 301.14 265.94            40.48 301.14 260.66
2009                  35.20  35,20 354.28 319.08             40.48 354.28 313.8O             35.20 301.14 265.94            40.4b 301DM  260.66
2009                  35.20  35.20 354.28 319.09             40.48 354.29 313.80             35.20 301.14 265.94            40.48 301.14 260.66
2010                  35.20  35.2(1 354.28 319.08            40.48 354.28 313,8'             35.20 301.14 265.94            40.48 301.4 260.66
Total         935.7 457.60 1393.3  5,q41 4547.9            1(02.2  5,941 4338.9             1393.3 5050.0 3656.8           1602..2 5050.0 3447.8
ERRS  19.9 X                   ERR S  17.6 1                  ERP     17.2 1                  ERP - 5.l X
Note: 1, All the fig4res art roinded.



-  64  -                                                 Table 6.1
CHINA
PORT OF DALIAN AUTHORIIr
Incose Statement
(Y*0001
Actual                 Est.                              Forecast
1983     1964      1995       1996       19B7        1903       1989       1990       1991       1992
Traftfc                            32,793   37,535   40,465    41,942    43,4'73    45,060    46,704    48,409           50,116    52,007
Of which: containers               159       276       404        541        725        972      1,303      1,745      2,339      3,134
Revenut
Loadingiunloadxnq              136.515  146,003  1i6,471   250,981   269,601   286,795   304,886   32;,924   346,655   373,454
Storage                              0   23,022   25,949    28,959    30,912    32,973    34,958    37,176    3,b3V              42,246
Other                           27,375   30,515   34,983    38,794    41,553    44,199    46,992    49,973    53,271             56,787
Marketing                        5,728   6b,03   13,776    15,321    16,411          17,452    1,559    19,736    21.039    22,428
Subtotai                       160,638  206,423  273,079   333,955   359,477   381,309   405,395   430,799   460,595   494,915
Less: Operating tax              6,395    6,351    9,404       13,311    14,281      15,190    16,150    17,166    18,339        19,8bb
Total Net Revenue              163,223  200,072  263,675   320,644   344,196   3b6,11   389,245   413,633   442,256   475,248
Operatinq Costs
Loading/unloiding               36,244   34,136   41,611    50,1B    55,166    61,26e    69,445   e8,031    91,224    102,182
Storage                              0    9,939    7,557        8,133      8,878      9,691     19,579    !1,548    12,369    13,249
Other                           12,b21   14,762   17,545    18,883    20,613    22,502    24.564    26,815    28,722    30,765
Mirketinig                       4,694    5,125   10,999       11,83T    12,9i2    14,11>       15,398    16,809      i9,o0      1i9,2e6
lotal Operatinq Costs           53,559   63,961    77,911    89,471    97,519   107,567   119,966   135,203   1SV,32oi  lb5,49d
Operating Profit                  109,664  13b,111   185,764   231,173   246,617   256,552   269,259   27e,430   291,936   309,7bb
Nonoperatin  Incoue                 1.631       759    1,701       1,80v      1,900      2,000      2,100      2,200      2,300      2,40('
Nonoperating Expenses               4,132    4,919    9,000        5,000      5,500      6,000      6,500      7,00(0     7,500      8,0oo
Finance charqes                         (i        0         0      1,072      1,072      2,670      6,932     12,065     15,975    17,894
Profit 9efore Taxes               107,163  131,981  17B,465   227,913   245,017   254,552   264,859   273,63tp  286,738   304.16b
InLoge tam                     58.940   72,590   98,158             0          0                     0 V                   0
Othtr taxes                     36.694   38,460   42,458                       0          0                0          0    I0O
Payeents to State                    (I        0         0    60,000    60,000    60,000    60,000    60,000    bO001.l1   60,00
Net Profit after Taxes             11,529   20,931   37,655    167,913   13,0v17   194,552   204,859   213,630   220,736   244,166
OperatinQ Ratio                     33        32        30         289        lE         2q         3          33         34         35
Rtturn on Assets Employed it)                 28        32         36         37         34         29         22         18         16
,.    . .   . ...    .   . .  - . -  - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   -- - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - -   I - - - - -   - .   ..



-  65  -                                                            _able 6.2
CHII
PORT OF DALIAN AUTH0RITY
Sources afnd Aplications of Funds
(Y '00)
Actual            Est.                              core-st
1984     1985       i96t       1907       i988       '989       19't     1991         1912
Sources
Net profit                               20,931   37,951    167,973   18S,017   194,55.   204,859   213,63C,  226,736   244,166
Depreciation                              7,202    8,117      13,945    14,510    16.495    19,91/    25,462    32,149    36,346
State contribution                       12,043  121,a0                                  0 (                                         0
8orrowing - IDRD                               0         QI                   (,   b.3,90V  Ii,600    99,54         bU,44'J    .A,90
- Local                             0   29,785           0
Total Sources                          40,17b  196,954   10',818   197,527   274,947   331,37i   338,592   319,285   307,412
Applications
Capital empenditure                      19,245  159,103    12,500    63,300   163,400   227,60    406,100   356,20O    350,000
Special fund expenditure                 34,908   18,648    1i,526    17,619    16,455    19,202    19,838    20,789    22,052
Loan repayent -  lBRD                         0        0           0         0          0          0          0          0          0
Local                      0         0          0          0          0          (     2,978      5,957      5,957
Chinge w'capital                        (11,003)   7,190         238        178        175        Joe        203        22e        243
Tctal Applications                     43,150  184,931    29,i66    81,297   182,030   246,990   429,119   385,170   378,252
Net Funds Flo*                               (2,974)  12,023   152,552   116,230    92,917    64,386   (90,527)  (65,885)  (70,840)
Opening Balance                             37,194   34,220    46,243   198,795   315,025   407,942   492,329   401.801   335,915
Closinq Balance                             34,220   46,243   198,795   315,025   407,942   49,,326   401,801   335,915   265,075



-66                                                       a
CNIm
PONT Of DALIN AUT7 ITY
_.._...............
bluce Sheet lot Dec.31)
~~~~~~~~~~~. .. ..    .. ...... .  ........... ............. .
Actual *              Est.                             Forecast
....- - -- - -- - -- -        ............ --- -- --- -- --- -- -- --- -- --- -- -- --- -- --- -- --
1963     194       1995      1996       1967       96        199        1990      1991       1992
kiets
Fixed asuts
At cost                    606,550  625,795  794,198   797,399  960,699  1,024,299 1,251,899  1,657,990 2,016,198 2,366,190
Lessi depreciation         138,106  146,010  154,127   167,972   192,482   190,977   219,994   244,356   276,505   314,051
Subtotal                     467,142  479,785  630,/71   629,426   617,416   925,321 1,033,004 1,413,642 1,139,693 2,051,347
Current assets
Inventory                   i4,251   14,352   13,910    15,643    16,944    19,221    19,594    21,071    22,714    24,495
Rectivables                 74,192   85,411   69,115    77,727    94,199    90,534    97,357   104,695   112,957   121,655
Cash                        37,,94   34,220   46,243   198,795   315,025   407,942   492,329   401,901   335,915   265,075
Subtotal                     125,627  133,983  129,268   292,165   416,159   516,697   609,279   527,567   471,486   411,215
_-- -  -- - -     .....   .. . . .  - - - -     - - - -   - - -- -  - - - -     . . . .   - - - -
Special fund assets           37,924   64,914   67,078    67,079    67,078    67,078    67,078    67,076    67,079    67,079
Total Assets                 631,193  679,692  927,117   999,669 1,161,652 1,409,096 1,709,361 2,006,297 2,279,257 2,529,640
3as3s33s 3s333333  3st33333  3ss333333  33333:3x3 333333333 33333 3 332333333 333333333 33333333
Liabilities & Equity
State funds-Contributed      480,712  492,755  613.956   613,956   613,956   613,956   613,956   613,956   613,956   613,956
Internal funds for port
ievelopornt                     0         0        0   151,445   316,943   492,940   679,597   972,399 1,079,337 1,300,451
L/T loans - IPRD                    0        0         0         0          0    63,900   170,500   270,000   330,400   355,*0(
- Local                  0        0   29,795    29,785    29,795    29,795    29,785    26,807    20,950    14,993
Current liabs.                92,702  105,035   91,116    91,223    99,800   106,255   114,263   122,975   132.454   142,780
Sptcial funds                 67,779   90,892  102,260   102,260   102,260   102,260   102,260   102,260   102,260   102,260
Total Lia. S Equity          631,193  679,602  827,117   48,669 1,161,652 1,409,096 1,709,361 2,009,287 2.?78,257 24529,640
*wsomzs asitxwzw CRX21ZZ022 asslazzan  messrsssss    ssages* *ssasseema  *ssuassax mssess-s"  *sae-wss
Debt:Capitai 1%)                 0.0       0.0       4.6       3.7        3.1       7.9       13.4       16.6      17.2       16.2
Current Ratio                     1.5      1.3       1.6       3.2        4.2       4.9        5.3        4.3       3.6        2.9
at Balanct Sheet values for 1993-85 represent a cosolidati m of those assets and liabilities of the Dalian Port Aduinistration
and the United StevodorinQ Corporation which were serged on the creation of the Port of Dalian Authority on January 1, 1986.



- 67 -                             TTable 6.4
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts
1. Traffic: as in Table 5.1, adjusted for a small content of non-revenue-
earning traffic.
2. Tariff Rates and Unit Operating Costs (other than depreciation):
remaining constant in real terms at the 1986 level.
3. Business Tax: at the following rates as in 1986:
Handling                        3%
Storage                         5%
Marketing                       3% (excluding raw material sales)
City constrution tax            7% of the total of the above taxes
4.  Interest on Long-term Debt:           foreign at 5%, local at 3.6%
5. Payments to State: Y 60 million per year as prescribed for the period
of 7FYP.
6.  Capital Expezditures:  Project--as in Table 4.3; others--as in PDA's
Seventh Five Year Plan through 1990, nominal
thereafter



- 68 -                                    CHART A
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Organization Chart of Port of Dalian Authority
Secretonat
Commanud                           eg. AdvW
Det Tm_nt                        InternQl Audtt
DeputyDpt
Director               Director                Director                  Engwnaer
- MateSfb Disiorn        Safety & Technicai      Envirormenta4 Protection     Science and
- Persne Dlsison       _Divsion                    Divkbn                    Ter nocWV
- Finance Divison       Connrrercil              Staff HoWpOlA               DNis
- Planning DKAso           Dlsison                                        - Engineedrigo
Training Division                                                          Dinion
-Data Center                             _Comnunicaton                  -MecEnicoi & Electricd
- staff Cdieg &                                  Staon                        Engineering Dmsion
Technical School                                                        Energ
POWp
Station
Seven Harbor _      Mdintenconce l&
Machinery PeDow
_ l& Manutoctuiing
Technical
CorPocv



-  69  -                                                  OIT I
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJEC!
lepleentation Schedule
. . .. . . . . . ..... ... ... ... ... . ....
1998              1989               1990               l99l              199i
-- - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -  -- -  - -- -  - -    -- -  .  .  ...   ..  ..  . ... .. .... . . . .. . . . . .......   .     ..
I Breakoater Part I                           /1--------------b6O
2 Reclasation                                      111 1-----------------------------12 /   31
3 Dredginq g/1-l                                         ; 3,
4 6C. and Iron Ore Berth                                          '/1        ----------12/31                                       i
5 6.C. and ffrtililizer                                     4/I-----------------6iO
6 Breakmater Part 11                                        4/1----------------- 130
7 End Part of Berth                                      i           0,1--------- /30
8 Foundation Ireatment                                     3/1- ---------------------12031
9 Raid and Yard, NP Berth                                !I 3---------------                               -     - 6,30
10 Container Quaywall                  i                  1  4-1-          -------------12/31
It Breakwater Part III                                                                   1011        ----------------------11130:
12 CT Road and Yard                                                                              711--------------------------------/1130
13 CFS                                                                               7/1---------------------------6/30
14 Buildings                                                                  3/1 -          -- --3
15 Rail  in Port                                                                     7i31 -                  -- *30 
16 Water Supply and Sewage                                       b/3u-----------------------------------------------9'30
17 Heatina and Ventilation                                i          9/30---------------------------------------------1l'O
to Power Supply                                                       930-- - --                                              113;
19 Rail Outside Port                   I/l-------------------------------------------------------------------630
20 Infrastructure Outside              1/1      -        -- --------------------12/SI
21 Tleporarv Work                             6/30--12;31
22 Clearinq of Channel                                            b,30-12,31
23 Office Facilities                                                                b/30--------------------------- e3
24 Carqo Handlinq Equipment                                                  '----------------------------------------12,31
25 Communication and Nivaa                                                  Ill-----------------------------------30
26 Coeouters                                                                        6'30-------------12 31
-otes Date shown are P- -  ------.-. .  ...... ................ ........
Hote:. Date shown are PDA tarlet.



- 70 -                            Chart C
CHINA
DALIAN PORT PROJECT
Procurement Schedules /a
Package 1                  Package 3
Recla-    Package 2       Breakwater   Package 4
mation    Dredging        & wharves        CES
Item                               (ICB)       (LCB)          (ICB)         (ICB)
General procurement notice       done        done           done          01/01/88
Call for prequalification        06/30/87   08/31/87        06/30/87      n.a.
Receive PQ documents             08/15/87   09/30/87        08/22/87      n.a.
PQ evaluation complete           12/30/87   11/01/87        12/30/87      n.a.
Call for bids                    01/10/88   11/15/87        01/10/88      11/01/88
Bid opening                      03/20/88   12/25/87        03/20/88      02/01/89
Evaluation complete              05/31/88   02/05/88        06/10/88      05/01/89
Award of contract                06/15/88   02/28/88        06/25/88      06/01/89
Start                            08/01/88   03/15/88        08/10/88      0-/01/89
/a The rest of the work will be carried out through LCB and financed by PDA.
The equipment procurement schedule is shown tentatively in the overall
schedule since procurement will be carried out late in 1988 and early in
1989.



DF-                                                                                                               -
IN                                   ,                                                  -1                                         4                                            .                       -           N.    - .Ae:4 
ol 10-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M 
30'~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
SC.D
X   ]2'   <         S         =    =        X DEMOS,,7                                                                                                                                                               /
-~ ~~~~~~4~E />  $            fKR                                                                               \c               7               ,''/                                   ,,                                      
,/., tu,> \\ j/fi sa, Ss/N-V                                                                                                                                                        ,     -        /
<   Onodoo   : :  < .  do   A                                            '                                                                \                        /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R LCD
4-                     /\                                                                                                                /                .                                  /                                      PROPOSED FINOSECT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                                                       -/J  ES \. G      o01  ..
7  2   0                                \    \   \      2        <                           S                  i    9     2                   4       /    //              ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~            5   ND(t 9^  RE   21  CHS   To   Ml Z  %~ ROUC
,                                                                 RET NO ROADS
lEST NG RUIIDINUS
-                                           V.A  FU~~~~~~~~~~~~~:TURE DEVELOPMENT AERES
OSFATHS  -DN -TEWEE  DEPTHS IN METES
--  L.OCDS                                                                                                                                                                                        DERE O        D0 S D     300        5SD
L                            RAi30ADS                o~~~~~~~~~~~'~~''                                                     ~~~                                       ~~~                                                I       I       N~~  ETERS                 f93  i9



