OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1875 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 2907 CHA
Project Agreement
(Dalian Port Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PORT OF DALIAN AUTHORITY
Dated                     , 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1875 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 2907 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           7                  , 1988, among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATTON (the Association), INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
PORT OF DALIAN AUTHORITY (the Port Authority).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the People's Republic of China (the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to eighteen million two hundred thousaInd Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 18,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
Port Authority agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) *by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy-one million dollars ($71,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Port Authority agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(C) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Port Authority, the proceeds of the
Credit and the Loan provided for under   the Development Credit
Agreement and the 'Loan Agreement, respectively, will be made
available to the Port Authority on the terms and conditions set
forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Port Authority, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in


﻿-2-
the General Conditions (as so defined) and in the Loan Agreement
and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Port Authority declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, the Port
Authority shall carry out Parts A, C and D of the Project with
the Borrower's assistance, and shall assist the Borrower in
carrying out Part B of the Project, with due diligence and.effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, engineering and port practices, and shalloprovide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for Parts A, C and D of the
Project.
(b) Without Jimitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except    .the Association, the Bank and the
'Port Authority shall otherypise. agree, the Port Authority shall
carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with the Imple-
mentation Program set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Port Authority shall carry out the obli-
gations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9,06, 9.07 and
9.08v of the General Conditions applicable to the Development
Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of, the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A, C
and D of the Project.
Section 2.04. The Port: Authority shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Port Autho-
rity shall not take or concur in any action which would have the


﻿effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) The Port Authority shall, at the request
of the Association or the Bank, exchange views with the Associa-
tion or the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts A, C and D
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b) The Port Authority shall promptly inform the Associa-
tion and the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens
to interfere with the progress of Parts A, C and D of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the
Loan, or the performance by the Port Authority of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Nanagement and Operations of the Port Authority
Section 3.01. The Port Authority shall carry on its opera-
tions and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound adminis-
trative, financial and port practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The Port Authority shall at all times operate
and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property,
and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and port practices.
Section 3.03, The Port Authority shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Association and the Bank for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association and the Bank may
otherwise agree, the term "Port Authority" shall include all
enterprises and units which are under the control of the Port
Author'lty.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Port Authority shall maintain, or
cause to be maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices: (i) its operations
and financial condition; and (ii) the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A, C and D of the Project.
(b) The Port Authority shall:
i    have said records, accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and of
sources and application of funds), for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing  principles   consistently  applied,   by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association
and the Bank;
(ii)  furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by s-id auditors of such scope and in such
detail as the Association and the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association and the Bank such other
information concerning said records, accounts and
financial statements as well as the audit thereof
and said records, as the Association and the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Port Authority shall from time to time
take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments of the levels of its tariffs as deter-
mined by the Borrower) as shall be required to produce, for each
of its fiacal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31,
1988 total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of (i)
its total operating expenses, and (ii) the amount by which its
financial obligations exceed the provision for depreciation and
any other non-cash operating expenses.


﻿-5-
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "total revenues" means the sum of reve-
nues from all sources related to port   operations
and net non-operating income.
(ii) The term    "total poerating expenses" means the
sum of all expense   related to port operations,
including maintenance, administration, and depre-
ciation.
(iii) The term "financial obligations" means interest
and other charges on debt, repayment of loans
(including sinking fund payments, if any), all
taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, allocations to
special funds and other cash distributions of
surplus (including mandatory transfers to the
Borrower), and any other cash outflows (other than
capital expenditures) related to port operations.
Section 4.03. The Port Authority shall: (a) by April 30 of
each year, commencing April 30, 1989, prepare and furnish to the
Association and the Bank a financial plan containing, inter alia,
projected traffic, revenues, costs, capital expenditures and a
financing plan for the current year and each of the next four
years.
(b) exchange views annually with the Association, the Bank
and the Borrower on such financial plans.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which both the Development Credit Agree-
ment and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and al -obligations of the
Association, the Bank and the Port Authority thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following dates:
(i) the date on which both the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement shall have
terminated; or


﻿-6-
(ii) the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agree-
ment or both of said Agreements terminate in accordance with
their respective terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association or the Bank or both, as the
case may be, shall promptly notify the Port Authority of this
event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions applicable to the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.'
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Port Authority:
Port of Dalian Authority
1 Gangwan Street
Zhongshan District
Dalian
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                     Telex:
3155                              86246DHAB CN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to-be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Port Authority, or by the Port
Authority on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit
Agreement or the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its
Director or such other person or persons as its Director shall
designate in writing, and the Port Authority shall furnish to the
Association and the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to
the contrary to the Port Authority, and so long as the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the
termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a) the obligations of the Port Authority to consult with,
and to furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records
and statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent
performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the
Association;


﻿-8-
(b) the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to
furnish information to the Port Authority shall be satisfied to
the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and
(c) all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or
the granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant to the
Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant
to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement,
and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the
Bank.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ByIy
Regional Vice President
Asia
PORT OF DALIAN AUTHORITY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.   The Port Authority shall carry out the training under Part
C (1) of the Project in accordance with a program agreed with
the Association and the Bank.
2.   The Port Authority shall carry out Part C (2) of the Project
in accordance with terms of reference and timing agreed with the
Association and the Bank, complete it by December 31, 1989 and
exchange views with the Bank on the findings and recommendations
arising therefrom.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Associatidn.
FOR SECRETARY


