Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6704-HR
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SINGLE CURRENCY LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF DM14.2 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR A
CAPITAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 29, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1995)
Currency Unit = Kuna
I Kuna = US$0.19
US$1   =  5.35 Kuna
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
per US$1
1993      1994        July 1994     July 1995   December 1995
3.59      5.99          5.83          5.01          5.35
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
CROSEC - Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission
CPF - Croatian Privatization Fund
EFSAL - Enterprise Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP - Gross Domestic Product
GOC - Government of Croatia
MOF - Ministry of Finance
MOP - Ministry of Privatization
OTC - Over-the-Counter
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
PSAL - Public Sector Adjustment Loan
USAID - United States Agency for International Development
VVS - Depository, Registry, Clearing and Settlement Facilities
ZZPP - Institute for Payment Transactions
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
Capital Market Development Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Republic of Croatia.
Implementing Agency:       Ministry of Finance.
Beneficiaries              VVS (Securities Depository); The Croatian Securities and
Exchange Commission (CROSEC); and The Republic Fund
for Pension and Disability Insurance for Workers in Croatia
("The Pension Fund").
Poverty Category:          Not Applicable.
Amount:                    DM14.2 million  (US$9.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                     A floating rate LIBOR-based Single Currency Loan in
Deutsche marks (DM), with a maturity of up to 17 years with
5 years grace period for level repayment of principal. The
lending rate, which is reset every six months, consists of a
Base Rate and a Total Spread. This is announced by the
World Bank in January and July each year, and will apply to
all debt service periods of such a Single Currency Loan,
commencing in the semester in which it is announced. The
repayment dates allowed for Single Currency Loans are the
15th day of any month.
Commitment Fee:            0.75 % on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:           Not Applicable.
Financing Plan:            See Schedule A (on page 10).
Project ID Number:         HR-PA-40142
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE EBRD TO THE EXECUTIE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR A CAPITAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed single
currency loan in Deutsche marks (DM) to the Republic of Croatia for DM14.2 million (the equivalent of
US$9.5 million) to help finance a project for the development of the capital markets. The loan would be
a floating rate LIBOR-based single currency loan, with a maturity of up to 17 years with 5 years grace
period for level repayment of principal. The United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
has agreed to provide approximately US$1.1 million worth of technical assistance under the project.
Country/Sector Background
2.    Recent Economic Developments. Prospects for economic growth in Croatia have improved
decidedly over the last two years. This improvement follows a steep economic decline and near-
hyperinflation in the wake of the dissolution of former Yugoslavia and the ensuing war which followed
Croatia's declaration of independence in June 1991. The stabilization program, which was launched in
October 1993, has delivered impressive results. Inflation has been negligible during most of 1994 and
through 1995. Foreign exchange reserves of the Central Bank reached US$1.9 billion in December 1995.
GDP Growth has resumed, although still at a modest pace (i.e., I percent in 1994 and 1.5 percent in
1995).
3.    The resumption of growth, as well as the positive prospects for further growth, largely reflect the
dynamism of the private sector, which includes both new ventures and those transferred from the State
to private owners under the ongoing privatization processes. As a result of these developments, the private
sector now generates about 45 percent of GDP. Further private sector growth, however, will be
constrained by insufficient access to financial resources. This reflects, in part, weaknesses in the banking
sector as well as the lack of liquid capital markets. The absence of functioning capital markets also is
hampering further privatization and the post-privatization restructuring of enterprises.  It hinders:
(i) individual and other investors, such as commercial banks, from effecting trades to rationalize their
portfolios; (ii) firms from raising capital to renovate and restructure their production facilities; (iii) foreign
investors from making portfolio and strategic investments in Croatia; and (iv) clear enterprise valuation
and oversight of management performance. The Government is starting to address some of these
constraints through major enterprise and banking sector reforms (supported by the proposed World Bank
EFSAL). However, it is critical to reinforce the reforms by accelerating development of the capital
markets -- the central objective of this proposed project.



CROATIA: Capital Markets Development Project  -- 2 -                   Memorandum of the President
4.     Financial Intermediation. Commercial banks dominate the financial system and are the main
channel for financial intermnediation. The only non-bank financial institutions operating in Croatia are
insurance companies, the pay-as-you-go public pension fund, the Zagreb Stock Exchange and a couple
of over-the-counter markets (securities trading volume in all of these markets is very low, however). Bank
intermediation suffered severely from the hyperinflation period, as well as from years of resource
misallocation to loss-making enterprises. The banking system is also burdened with high reserve
requirements and illiquid government obligations (e.g., the so-called "Big Bonds" and "Frozen Deposits").
This has created a severe credit squeeze, even for the sounder enterprises, and has contributed to the
current high level of real interest rates (e.g., 18% p.a. on short term government debt). Since any long-
termn recovery depends on lower rates and more effective bank intermediation, the Government is
embarking on an EFSAL-supported reform program to restructure the banking system and place it into
a sound incentive framework. This is expected to help avoid the recurrence of the present problems, foster
competition in the banking sector, and enable banks to chaninel new flows of resources to a wider segment
of sound borrowers and at a lower cost.
5.     Although the non-banking sector is relatively small, its development is important for continued
economic growth. Foreign portfolio capital inflow and return of off-shore savings of Croatian residents
would be greatly fostered by open and efficient capital markets. The efficient allocation of investment
resources also depends on companies being valued by markets, rather than by banks alone. In addition,
better matching of economic risks with financial instruments from non-bank intermediaries and broader
risk distribution can help lower risk premia and the cost of capital for productive investment. Finally,
effective enterprise management requires a rationalization of enterprise ownership, from the initial post-
privatization starting point (i.e., highly dispersed shareholding of over two thousand corporations in an
economy that, under a normal market conditions, would have developed probably less than two hundred
widely held corporations). Liquid and robust capital markets will greatly facilitate the process of
consolidating firm ownership, particularly of the smaller firms, and promoting the emergence of strategic
investors with major stakes in the larger enterprises.
6.     Capital Markets. Croatia is in the process of establishing its capital markets. In the short term,
the fundamental missing building blocks include: (i) an adequate regulatory framework; and (ii) more
robust and reliable trading mechanisms and common "back office" facilities for securities depository,
registry, clearing and settlement. In the medium term, the requirements are: (iii) tradeable instruments
such as bonds and asset-backed securities; and (iv) a full range of market participants, including
institutional investors, a critical mass of modem brokerage firms, credit rating agencies, etc.
7.     Regulatory Framework The lack of an enabling regulatory framework for securities issuance and
trading has recently been addressed with the new Securities Law (approved December 14, 1995). In
addition, the new Investment Funds Law (approved December 14, 1995) will enable the development of
these key capital markets participants.
8.     With the passage of the Securities Law, the authorities must begin to formally establish the
securities regulator -- CROSEC. Once established, CROSEC will need to rapidly build up a body of
essential regulations and guidelines on, among other things: licensing requirements for exchanges and
brokers; approval of new trading, settlement, delivery and registry mechanisms; as well as other urgent
issues, such as insider trading.



CROATIA: Capital Markets Development Project  - 3 --                   Memorandum of the President
9.     Trading Mechanisms and Infrastructure. In terms of physical stock trading environments, both
a traditional stock exchange and over-the-counter markets currently exist. The Zagreb Stock Exchange
was established in 1991 without comprehensive regulatory framework and, to date, has primarily served
as a channel for privatization of State assets. The Exchange and markets in Varazdin and Pula have also
developed rudimentary mechanisms to support over-the-counter trading. However, the existing facilities
are neither comprehensive enough nor robust enough to handle the transactions volume required to:
(i) complete the privatization process; (ii) subsequently rationalize and consolidate enterprise ownership;
and (iii) support new securities issues and other corporate and public finance transactions. In particular,
Croatia will have to greatly improve its common back office facilities for securities depository, registry,
clearing and settlement.
10.    The reliability and transparency with which these common back office facilities operate are
critical, since liquid and efficient capital markets will not emerge without rapid and trustworthy execution
of trades and other shareholder services. Moreover, in Croatia, by virtue of the distribution of shares to
a large majority of all households under the privatization programs, reliability and transparency take on
exceptional importance, since incidences of fraud and misadministration would severely set back the
process of building and sustaining the trust of an inexperienced and wary general public. Thus, given their
unusually large and direct role in the capital markets, the depository, registry, clearing and settlement
facilities must address the needs of the general public. In particular, to establish and maintain a sufficient
level of public trust, these facilities must provide coverage to all participants and do so as quickly as
possible. Otherwise, political support for the continuation of privatization and other economic
transformation programs may be placed at risk, by incidences of fraud or misadministration.
11.   In recognition of the importance of these common back office facilities, the authorities have
legally established a mixed public-private institution, the Securities Register Center (VVS), which is
expected to set up and operate these common back office facilities. Due to a number of factors, the public
sector is expected to take a leading role in VVS during the design, development and initial operation
period. First, by lowering the risk of fraud and misadministration, particularly in the transition period,
VVS represents a mechanism to limit uninsurable systemic risks to the financial system (and the economic
transformation program in general). Typically, such systemic risk management mechanisms are provided
as public services, as, for example, financial regulation and supervision are usually public sector agencies
(e.g., CROSEC). Second, the private sector is currently unable to mount the investment program
necessary to establish these facilities rapidly and widely enough to address the needs of the Croatian
public. In part, this is due to weakness and inexperience of the private financial institutions. It is also
due to the fact that there are no private mechanisms through which the economy-wide benefits from
successful risk containment can be made available to induce private parties to invest the necessary start-up
capital. Thus, without a public agency's involvement, investments of the required breath and speed would
not be forthcoming. The third factor is that, in a country the size of Croatia, there are significant
economies of scale and of consistency in the design, development and operation of the systems and
procedures for these common back office facilities. Accordingly, a single, publicly-regulated facility may
prove to be the most economical arrangement for Croatia (to be determined under the project). Thus,
during the initial phase the public sector is expected to lead the work on VVS. However, as the capital
markets develop and the private financial institutions strengthen, the authorities expect to wind down their
role in VVS. (A privatization study for VVS is integral to the project.)
12.    Tradable Instruments. Currently, there is an absence of tradeable debt instruments in Croatia.
The short term National Bank Bills are primarily held by banks and are not traded. As for the longer term



CROATIA: Capital Markets Development Project  - 4 --                 Memorandum of the President
debt of the GOC, the 20-year so-called "Big Bonds" (worth about US$1 billion) were issued only to
banks, and require the approval of the government for trades involving non-banks. The MOF has agreed
with the banks to convert the Big Bonds into tradeable instruments and has retained the services of a local
brokerage firm to devise the conversion. The frozen foreign exchange deposit bonds (about US$2.2
billion worth still outstanding) were also issued to banks. They are book-entry claims on the government
to offset the banks' liabilities to depositors for foreign exchange assets lost during the break-up of the
former Yugoslavia. Their forced placement in a book entry form create little opportunity for secondary
market trading and, thus, create problems for bank asset management. The lack of housing loans and their
derivatives also deprives insurance companies and pension funds from high quality, long term interest
bearing investments.
13.   Institutional Investors. The absence of institutional investors is another key obstacle impeding the
development of the capital markets. Although Croatia has a pension fund and insurance companies, these
institutions do not yet function as active institutional investors. Domestic collective investment vehicles,
such as mutual funds, are also missing. The Pension Fund has received a large number of shares of
privatizing companies. However, it has little investment expertise and an inadequate understanding of its
role as an institutional investor.
14.   The Croatian financial market also lacks other capital market participants, such as portfolio
managers, financial advisors and credit rating services. These institutions are needed to improve market
information and provide services to local and foreign investors. The existing brokerage firms need to be
strengthened and more brokerage firms need to be established. Accordingly, the German Government,
through GTZ, has begun a program of technical assistance to the brokerage community and to the
Exchange as well.
Project Objectives
15.    The Government wants to strengthen: (i) the regulatory and policy framework of the capital
markets; (ii) the infrastructure to support securities transactions; and (iii) the public's understanding of the
capital markets and their roles as shareholders of privatized firms. The proposed Capital Markets
Development Project would focus on a few key initiatives in these areas, with the objective of facilitating
the ongoing economic transformation in Croatia and building the necessary operational and regulatory
capacity to meet the growing investment requirements of the private sector. While the proposed project
concentrates on a few selected priority areas that have immediate benefits to the capital markets at this
early stage of development, the project cannot resolve all the shortcomings identified.  Further
development of the capital markets and the financial sector would be addressed in follow-up operations
and in the proposed EFSAL, which this project is designed to complement.



CROATIA: Capital Markets Development Project  -- 5 --              Memorandum of the President
Project Description
16.   The proposed Project has three main components. These are (with total costs, including
investments, 3.5-year incremental recurrent costs and contingencies):
*     Policy Support Component (US$5.1 million).  This component would support the
development of a legal and regulatory framework. It would comprise: (i) establishment
and organizational development of CROSEC; (ii) restructuring of government debt in the
form of tradeable securities; and (iii) technical assistance on portfolio management to the
asset holding arm of the Pension Fund.
*     Infrastructure Development Component (US$12.7 million).  This component would
provide technical assistance, equipment and facilities investments to establish and
strengthen the securities depository, registry, clearing and settlement facilities.
*     Public Awareness Component (US$1.9 million). This component would provide technical
assistance to devise, develop and execute a mass media public awareness campaign. The
campaign would seek to improve the general public's understanding of the capital markets
and of their role and rights as participants.
Project Implementation
17.   The project is expected to be implemented over a three and one half year period. A project
preparation facility has been approved for use in establishing the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and
in selecting consultants for the establishment of CROSEC. USAID has selected the consultants for the
strategic study for the depository, and has consultants already in the field assisting the MOF in the
conversion of the Big Bonds. The Ministry of Finance will administer the funds under the project and
coordinate project activities through the PIU. The Assistant Minister of Finance will be in charge of the
project and will have the assistance of a project steering committee which would be made up of
representatives from the major constituencies in the Croatian capital markets. Also, three teams would
be set up to implement the various components. A mid-term review of project implementation experience
will be carried out in September 1997.
*     The MOF, led by the Assistant Finance Minister would coordinate the policy support
activities. (i) Establishing CROSEC. With technical assistance provided under the project,
this team would focus on legislative and regulatory policy issues and the establishment
of CROSEC (para 8). Technical assistanceto CROSEC would help devise and implement
the necessary regulatory and organizational structures as well as to develop staff and
management skills. (ii) Conversion of Big Bonds. USAID is already providing technical
assistance to convert some large government obligations held by commercials banks into
tradeable instruments (para 12). The MOF has also indicated an interest in converting the
frozen foreign exchange deposit bonds. Thus, pending a successful outcome of TA for
the Big Bonds, the MOF may choose to extend the assignment to address the problem of
the frozen foreign currency deposits. Project supervision would help ensure that the
financial impact of the conversion of Government debt on the commercial banks' balance
sheets will be consistent with work in the banking sector under the proposed EFSAL. (iii)
Assistance to the Pension Fund. While overall pension reforms are expected to be



CROATIA: Capital Markets Development Project  -- 6 --              Memorandum of the President
implemented under the proposed Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL), technical
assistance to the portfolio management arm of the Pension Fund will be provided under
this project by USAID (para 13).
The second team will be established by the MOF and would coordinate the infrastructure
development activities. This team would be made up of personnel from VVS, the
Institute for Payment Transactions (ZZPP) and members from other key capital markets
entities, such as the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the Broker's Association, commercial banks,
the Varazdin OTC market, the Croatian Privatization Fund and the Pension Fund. The
proposed project would provide technical assistance, equipment and other resources to
realize this organization and establish modem information systems to support rapid,
reliable and cost-effective paperless securities transactions, in accordance with the new
Securities Law. Among other things, this would require planning and executing a
program to immobilize (i.e., record and collect) the variety of existing paper records of
securities ownership. In addition, the project includes USAID funding for a strategic
analysis of the depository, registry, clearing and settlement functions as one of the first
activities (March 1996 through August 1996). This analysis would determine the specific
set of services which VVS would offer, which entities in the capital markets VVS would
directly interact with, and how these functions and interactions may need to change over
time. The strategic analysis would also articulate a business model for VVS.
Notwithstanding the difficulty of projecting securities trading, new securities issues and
corporate-shareholder communications over the next few years (i.e., the basis of the
demand for VVS services), the business model would also include a cost recovery
scheme.
*     The Public Relations Unit of the Ministry of Privatization, led by its Assistant Minister
would be responsible for the Public Awareness Component. With technical assistance
provided under the project, the team would focus on extending the public awareness
activities undertaken in the context of the ongoing privatization program.
Project Cost and Financing
18.   Estimates of the cost of the project are about $20.6 million, of which the Bank Loan would
provide the equivalent of $9.5 million. The Government would contribute $10.0 million and USAID
would contribute about $1.1 million on a grant basis.
Project Sustainability
19.   Under very difficult circumstances, Croatia has attained impressive results in stabilizing the
economy, resuming growth and commencing deep structural reforms needed to sustain stabilization and
growth. The Government is firmly committed to developing the private sector and strengthening the
capital market. Accordingly, the three project components: Policy Support, Infrastructure Development
and Public Awareness are entirely consistent with and highly complementary to the long term strategic
direction of the Government. Thus, to a large extent, the development of a securities and exchange
commission and the common "back-office" securities depository, registry, clearing and settlement facilities
are inevitable outcomes of the Government's strategy. The Bank's involvement will, thus, largely
facilitate the more timely, coherent and effective development of these capital markets features than would



CROATIA: Capital Markets Development Project  -- 7 --                  Memorandum of the President
likely occur without Bank support. Also, in line with the GOC's goal of a private sector led financial
system, the public role in VVS is expected to decline, after the initial development phase and after the
transition to capital markets with stronger private financial institutions, more typical securities trading
patterns and a more experienced public. Accordingly, once VVS develops an actual business record, the
project would provide resources to develop a privatization program for VVS (to full, or majority, private
ownership). Among other things, the privatization program would address the potential for redistributing
VVS's functional responsibilities, once a sufficient number of private sector financial firms develop the
capacity to offer reliable and transparent depository, registry, clearing and settlement services.
20.    The fiscal impact of the project (in addition to loan service) includes approximately
US$4.0 million in investment expenses and US$5.9 million in recurrent expenses during the project period.
In the post project period, estimated recurrent expenses associated with CROSEC are approximately
US$0.8 million per year, while VVS's estimated net revenues move from deficit to surplus over three
years, with a total deficit during those three years of about US$1.1 million. The Government's actual
share of VVS's costs and revenues, however, will depend on the financing arrangements devised in the
context of the upcoming USAID-financed strategic analysis (March-August 1996) and in the privatization
study to be undertaken in late 1998. Other fiscal impacts are less amenable to estimation. In particular,
the project's contribution to reducing the risk of financial crisis significantly lowers a large contingent
liability of the government to bail out distressed institutions or investors. Also, the project's contribution
to financial transparency is likely to contribute to improved tax collection.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement
21.    Sector experience of the Bank indicates that projects with a sizeable amount of TA and
information system investments should: (i) be carefully focused, to ensure effective and efficient
implementation; (ii) have the active support of senior government and ministry officials, to ensure properly
considered and timely decision-making on cross-cutting issues; (iii) have continuity in project
management, to achieve timely implementation and sustainability; and (iv) have well specified terms of
reference for consultants and studies drafted prior to negotiations, to ensure well defined project
components. Given the importance of institutional capacity building TA and information systems in the
project, close supervision will be required to handle the procurement challenges these typically present.
Based on theses lessons, the project will include only a few selected components, for which government
commitment and financing has been secured. The PIU will ensure continuity and the appropriate and
timely handling of consultants and information systems suppliers.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
22.    At this critical stage of Croatia's economic transition and during the transition from stabilization
to sustained growth, strong support from the Bank can play a critical role, not only in terms of lending,
but also in the form of policy work. The Bank's CAS (discussed by the Executive Directors on April 20,
1995) supports the three main areas of emphasis in the GOC's multi-year reform and investment program,
namely: (i) reforming public finance; (ii) rebuilding and upgrading key infrastructure; and (iii) fostering
private sector led growth. In pursuit of these goals, in particular that of private sector led growth, the
Croatian authorities have made significant efforts to introduce capital markets reforms, while
simultaneously pursuing both a major reform of the banking sector and restructuring and privatizing
enterprises. While covered in depth in the proposed Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(EFSAL), the reforms are also strongly related to future capital markets development. The Bank support



CROATIA: Capital Markets Development Project  -- 8 --                Memorandum of the President
to the capital markets could significantly assist the Government to succeed with these reforms and
transform the enterprise sector from social, to mixed public-private, to decisively private ownership. Thus,
the project fully conforms to the CAS.
Agreed Actions
23.    During Negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that: (i) the appointment of a
commissioner of CROSEC and the head of the PIU will be a condition of Effectiveness; (i) make
arrangements to transfer resources and assets from ZZPP to VVS no later than October 31, 1996; (iii)
develop a privatization plan for VVS no later than October 31, 1998; (iv) prepare under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank a mid-term report on project implementation by June 30, 1997; and (v) review
with the Bank the mid-term report by September 1, 1997.
Environmental Aspects
24.   In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD4.02
Annex E), the proposed project has been placed in Category "C" and does not require an environmental
assessment.
Poverty Alleviation
25.   By facilitating the necessary structural changes in the capital markets, the proposed Capital Market
Development Project is likely to have a positive impact on the development of the private sector and the
long term national welfare. However, this project does not attempt to directly address issues of poverty
alleviation.
Program Objective Categories
26.    This project would strengthen the capital markets in an efficient and sustainable manner, by
ensuring the development of more effective regulations, by supporting the creation of new institutions and
the strengthening of others, and by improving the public's understanding of the capital markets and their
role as share and bond holders. Improving the effectiveness of the capital markets would also help
accelerate the privatization process and thus further develop the private sector.
Project Benefits
27.    The major direct benefits of the project would be the development of institutional capacities to
build and sustain public confidence in the capital markets, without which the markets would remain
underdeveloped and the broader benefits unrealized. The indirect project benefits include: (i) an increase
in the variety and volume of securities traded in the Croatian capital markets and a concomitant increase
in market liquidity; (ii) the transition, through share trading, to a more rational pattern of enterprise
ownership, from the dispersed, post-privatization pattern; (iii) the emergence of strategic and institutional
investors; and (iv) the entry of foreign portfolio capital.
28.   The development of VVS would lower the risk of misadministration of the depository, registry,
clearing and settlement functions, by, among other things, economizing scare supervisory resources. With
complementary activities under the public awareness campaign and support to the portfolio management
armn of the Pension Fund, the development of CROSEC and VVS will help ensure that the privatization
process and post-privatization securities trading are more transparent and comprehensible to the



CROATIA: Capital Markets Development Project  -- 9 --              Memorandum of the President
participating public. This will help sustain political support for the economic transformation program and
foster active capital markets. In turn, this will raise the perceived value and importance of the capital
markets institutions and functions supported under the project and, thus sustain the project's investments.
Risks
29.   The success of the project would depend on timely decision-making and follow through regarding
critical issues, such as the establishment and staffing of CROSEC, and key design questions regarding the
functions of VVS and its specific relationships to other capital markets institutions. Although the
Government has demonstrated genuine commitment to the necessary work, the project will make
significant demands on the thinly stretched administrative resources of the Government, relative to the
Government's extensive reform agenda. The proposed Capital Markets Development Project seeks to
minimize this risk by providing ample technical assistance to the project management and project
implementation teams. Close Bank supervision will also help keep the project on track.
30.   Despite the ongoing regional peace initiative, political tensions among communities within the
region remain. Although political-military developments during the last few years have not derailed the
Croatian reform programs, to help keep the reforms on track and ensure adequate security for Bank
missions, the Bank will follow closely the overall country situation, through its macroeconomic dialogue
and other Bank operations.
Recommendation
31.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments: Schedules A - D
Washington, D.C.
February 29, 1996



CROATIA: Capital Markets Development Project  -- 10 --                          MOP: Schedule A
Republic of Croatia
Capital Markets Development Project
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local             Foreign           Total
Policy Support Component             1.8               2.5                4.3
Infrastructure Development           4.8               5.9               10.7
Public Awareness Component           1.1               0.5                1.6
Project Management                   0.8                -                 0.8
TOTAL BASE COST                  8.5                9.0              17.5
Physical Contingencies           0.8                0.9               1.7
Price Contingencies              0.7                0.7               1.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             10.0               10.6              20.6
FINANCING PLAN
Government of Croatia            7.8               2.1               10.0
IBRD                             2.2               7.4                9.5
USAID                             -                 1.1               1.1
Note: Costs include taxes and duties equivalent to US$1.1 million. Most imported items financed by
international agreements are exempt from duties and taxes.
Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



CROATIA: Capital Markets Development Project           -_ II --                                     MOP: Schedule B
Republic of Croatia
Capital Markets Development Project
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Total Cost, including contingencies, taxes and duties
-- Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD --
Intemational                     Not
Competitive                     Bank
Category of Expenditure                        Bidding         Other        Financed            Total
Technical Assistance                              -              5.8            1.1               6.9
(5.6)                            (5.6)
Equipment
info. & comm. technologies                     2.7            0.3            0.1               3.1
(2.7)         (0.3)                             (3.0)
office equip. & fumishings                      -             0.3            0.1               0.4
(0.3)                            (0.3)
vehicles                                        -             0.1            -                  0.1
(0.1)                            (0.1)
Materials
Printing & distribution                         -              -             2.5               2.5
Broadcast time                                  -              -             0.3               0.3
Office supplies                                 -              -             0.2               0.2
Civil Works                                       -              -             0.7                0.7
Project Preparation Facility ( PPF)               -              0.5            -                 0.5
(0.5)                            (0.5)
Recurrent Expenditures                            -              -              5.9               5.9
TOTALS                                            2.7            7.1           10.8              20.6
(2.7)         (6.8)                            (9.5)
Note: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
Other includes: Bank-financed consulting services and training to be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Use of
Consultants, with an aggregate amount of US$5.6 million; International Shopping for small amount of goods for which the cost of
ICB outweighs the any possible price advantages will be used with contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000, up to an
aggregate amount of US$1.0 million; and prudent National Shopping will be used for sundry items not exceeding US$25,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$75,000.
Direct Contracting for proprietary, time critical or special compatible equipment may be used, up to an aggregate amount of
US$100,000 equivalent, subject to Bank prior review.



CROATIA: Capital Markets Development Project  -- 12 --                            MOP: Schedule B
Republic of Croatia
Capital Markets Development Project
Proposed Disbursement Categories
Amount of Loan         % of Expenditures
(in US$ million equivalent)  to be Financed
Technical Assistance                      5.1               100%
Equipment                                 3.1               100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost); and
85% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally.
Repayment of PPF                          0.5               Amounts due pursuant to Section 2.02 (c)
of Loan Agreement
Unallocated                               0.8
TOTAL                                 9.5
Proposed Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions, by calendar year)
1995       1996       1997       1998        1999
Annual                          0.0         1.7        3.8        3.1        0.9
Cumulative                      0.0         1.7        5.5        8.6         9.5
Cumulative % of Total           0.0        17.9       57.9       90.5       100.0



CROATIA: Capital Markets Development Project  - 13 -                                MOP: Schedule C
Republic of Croatia
Capital Markets Development Project
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
First Bank Mission                               March 1995
Appraisal Mission departure                      June 1995
Negotiations                                     February 1996
Board Presentation                               March 1996
Planned date of Effectiveness                    April 1996
The project was prepared by:    Hiran Herat (Task Manager), EC2CO
Craig Neal (Information Systems Specialist), EMTDR
Stanislas Balcerac (Financial Economist), EC2CO
Hemant Shah, (Financial Economist), LATAD
Yvonne Jones (Senior Project Officer), ECAVP
The Management Team:          Michel Noel, Division Chief, EC2CO
Christine Wallich, Acting-Director, EC2DR
Johannes Linn, Vice President, ECAVP



CROATIA: Capital Markets Development Project       - 14 --                                  MOP: Schedule D
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CROATIA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS I
(As of January 31, 1996)
US$ Million
Loan      Fiscal                                                                      (Less Cancellations)
No.       Year         Borrower                      Project                                Loan
Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans benefitting entities located in Croatia b/                     359.0
Of Which: SALs, SECALs and Program Loans
Loans Under Disbursement:
3069-0    1989      Istarski Vod. Buzet  Istria Water Supply Project                  28.0        16.0
3760-0    1994      Republic of Croatia  Emergency Reconstruction Loan                128.0       75.1
3843-0    1995      Republic of Croatia  Health Project                               40.0        37.4
3869-0    1995      Republic of Croatia   Highway Sector Project                      80.0        76.9
Total                                        635.0
Of Which: Repaid                        314.1
Total Now Held by the Bank                   320.9
Total Amount Sold      .                       0.1
Of Which: Repaid                          0.1
Total Undisbursed                                       205.4
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1996)
There are no outstanding IFC commitments
Date: February 23, 1996
/    The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is
updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/    Represents Croatia's portion of loans made to the former Yugoslavia which were not fully repaid as of December 31,
1992.






IMAGING
Report No: P-   6704 HR
Type: Mop



