Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19949
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CROATIA
CAPITAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3999-HR)
December 17, 1999
Private and Financial Sector development
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US Dollars Equivalents
(Kunas per US$)
Average Annual
1995                     5.23
1996                     5.43
1997                     6.10
1998                     6.36
1999 (end-October)       7.32
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CROSEC    Croatia Securities and Exchange Commission
ECA        Europe and Central Asia
EFSAL      Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOC         Government of Croatia
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IOSCO      International Organization of Securities Commissions
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MOP        Ministry of Privatization
MPP        Mass Privatization Program
PMU        Project Management Unit
PSAL       Public Sector Adjustment Loan
SDA         Securities Depository Agency
ZAP         Institute for Payment Transactions
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:     Johannes Linn
Country Director:    Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Manager:     Ilham Zurayk
Team Leader:        Gerardo Corrochano



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CROATIA
Capital Markets Development Project
Loan 3999-HR
CONTENTS
Preface ----------------------------------------
Evaluation Summary -------------------------------------- i
PART  1. Project Implementation  Assessment---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1
A.    Statement of Objectives--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1
B.      Major Factors Affecting  Project-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  2
C.    Achievement of Objectives----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3
D.    Project Sustainability-------------------------------------------------------------3-------------------------------- 3
E. Bank Performance-----------------                                                                                                                                       4
F.    Borrower Performance ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4
G.   Detailed  Assessment of Outcome---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 5
H.    Future Operations---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 9
1.     Key  LessonsLeamed-----------------------------                                                                                                                     9
Part II.   Statistical Tables---------------------------------------11-----------                                                                                            I I
Table  1:  Summary  of Assessments ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------12
Table 2:  Related  Bank  Loans/Credits ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------13
Table 3:  Project Timetable---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual---------------------------------------------- 14
Table  5:  Studies Included  in Project----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 14
Table 6:  Status of Legal Covenants------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 15
Table 7:  Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------16
Table 8:  Bank Resources:  Missions----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 16
Appendix 1: Review of the Capital Markets Development Project From the Borrower's Perspective
Appendix 2: ICR Mission Aide Memoire
Appendix 3: Project Indicators
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CROATIA
CAPITAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - LOAN 3999-HR
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Capital Markets
Development Project in Croatia, for which a loan in the amount of DM 14.2 million equivalent
was approved on February 29, 1996 and made effective on July 22, 1996. DM 14.2 million was
disbursed. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Hiran Herat, Senior Financial Analyst, ECSPF, and reviewed
by Julius Varallyay (Acting Country Director - ECC02), Ilham Zurayk (Sector Manager -
ECSPF), and Gerardo Corrochano (Program Team Leader - ECSPF). The Borrower provided
comments that is included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission,
May 26-28, 1999. It is based on the mission's findings and material in the project file. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the
project's execution and commenting on the draft ICR.






CROATIA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAPITAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan 3999-HR
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
(i)    Under difficult circumstances, during the five years that followed the 1993 stabilization program,
Croatia attained good results in stabilizing the economy, resuming growth, and commencing structural
reforms. Yet macroeconomic imbalances that became evident since early 1988 and continued into 1999
have affected mainly the external and fiscal sectors. Throughout this entire period the Government has
remained committed to supporting policies airned at the development of the private sector and the
strengthening of the capital markets.  Accordingly, the three components of the Capital Markets
Development Project (CMPD), policy support, infrastructure development, and public awareness, were
entirely consistent with the long term strategic direction of the Government. To a large extent, the
development of the basic regulatory and institutional infrastructure to support capital markets would have
been likely outcomes of the Government's strategy. The Bank's involvement was to largely facilitate the
more timely, coherent and effective development of these important capital market features.
Project Objectives
(ii)    The overall aim of the CMDP was to support the Government's economic transformation
program, by facilitating the privatization and restructuring processes and, more specifically, by helping
develop the capital markets institutional and regulatory infrastructure required for a modern market-based
economy. In particular, the Government wanted to strengthen: (a) the policy framework for the capital
markets, mainly focusing on the regulation of securities markets; (b) the operational capabilities of key
capital markets entities, especially the securities depository, registry, clearing and settlement functions;
and (c) the public's comprehension of the capital markets and their roles as shareholders.
Achievement of Objectives
(iii)   The project met all of its main objectives. Moreover, it successfully targeted key initiatives with
the objective of facilitating Croatia's economic transformation and building the necessary operational and
regulatory capacity to meet the new investment requirement of the emerging private sector. Thebasic
regulatory and policy framework for the capital markets is in place with the establishment and the
operation of the Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission (CROSEC), and the passage of the
Securities and Investment Fund Laws in December 1995. The central securities depository, registry,
clearing and settlement agency (SDA) has been established and went into operation in July 1999. A mass
media public awareness campaign to improve the general public's understanding of the capital markets
and their role and rights as participants was launched with educational TV and radio series, road shows
and written materials.



ii
(iv)   At the same time, from a sectoral point of view, the overall development of the capital markets in
Croatia has been slower than expected.  Compared to other countries in Central Europe, foreign
investment has been very low, and important structural reforms have been delayed. Privatization based
on insider buy-outs and concentration of residual ownership in the Pension Fund have resulted in weak
enterprise governance. In the absence of effective bankruptcy enforcement, insolvent companies have
often been transferred into a "shell", without formal closure or asset reallocation. Given the weak judicial
system, contracts are not enforced and the culture of chronic non-payments continues. Arrears among
enterprises have increased rapidly.  In sum, hampered by weak institutional capacity to enforce
contractual obligations, payments and bankruptcy, a competitive market system does not yet fully
function in Croatia. The project concentrated on a few selected priority areas that aimed at having
immediate benefits to the capital markets at this early stage. Yet itwas not intended to resolve all of the
shortcomings identified above, which are being addressed by the ongoing reform program of the
Government and supported by complementary Bank operations.
Sustainability
(v)    The issue of sustainability of project investments differs among the three project components.
The Public Awareness Component involved a "one-time" effort to educate the general public on capital
markets concepts. Accordingly, continued input of resources is not required to sustain the investment.
The Policy Framework Component led to the creation of the Croatian Securities and Exchange
Commission. CROSEC is a public agency funded by the General Budget. Notwithstanding the current
difficult fiscal environment, CROSEC has been more-or-less adequately funded. CROSEC is widely
regarded as an essential element of the national financial system and is performing its function well.
Additional technical assistance, focussing specifically on improving public access to information and
market surveillance is been provided to the CROSEC under the recently approved Technical Assistance]]
Loan (HR-4460).
(vi)   The sustainability of the Securities Depository Agency created under the Infrastructure
Component is subject to greater uncertainty. SDA's financial resources are derived from user fees for its
services. Thus, it is tied to developments in the capital markets and the economy as a whole.
Accordingly, it is reasonable to assume that its financial viabilitywill be assured in the medium to long
term (i.e., three years out). However, SDA's financial viability is uncertain in the immediate to short
term period during which it will initiate operations and transition tobecome the comprehensive provider
of capital markets infrastructure services. This period of vulnerability has been exacerbated by the high
degree of distress in the Croatian economy that resulted from the economic downturn that stated in 1998.
With limited latitude to adjust costs, accelerate service volumes or increase fees, SDA's only option for
immediate survival is term debt finance. SDA has reached agreements, in principle, with two of the
largest commercial banks for a syndicated loan, which is expected to be covered by a government
guarantee. During this interim period, the Government recognizes that its support will be crucial to
enable SDA to operate and maintain the infrastructure established under this project. It is also fair to
mention that the Government's continued commitment to the sustainability of the SDA is also evidenced
by the fact that additional technical assistance is been provided to the SDA under the Technical
Assistance II Loan (see v above).
Bank and Borrower Performance
(vii)   The overall performance of the Bank and the Borrower in all aspects of the project cycle was
satisfactory. The project was implemented on time and the Loan was fully disbursed. There were no
significant deviations in Bank policies or procedures in project implementation, and project supervision was



iii
adequate with about two main missions per year and frequent brief follow-up visits by the project team, in
conjunction with other missions to Croatia and the region. Through close monitoring of the project, the
project team was able to support the Croatian counterparts and their consultants through the challenging
process of institution creation and building.
Assessment of Outcome
(viii)   Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission. The CROSEC was established with the
passage of the Securities Law in December 1995. The CROSEC consists of five Commissioners and 20
staff members (para 12). The Commissioners and staff of the CROSEC received substantial training in a
variety of fields, including enforcement, corporate disclosure, market manipulation, public relations and
stock exchange regulation. The commission has: (a) approved prospectuses for 31 private placements
for a value of over HRK 4.1 billion and 22 public offering prospectuses concerning the issues of HRK
3.13 billion in securities; (b) licensed 19 management companies and 13 investment funds; (c) conducted
77 open investigations involving possible violations of the Securities Law, takeover Code, Private
Investment Funds Law and Investment Funds Law; and (d) provided training for 172 brokers.
(ix)   Securities Depository Agency: The SDA was licensed to operate by the regulator on April 29,
1999 (para 13). This has also been supported by the decision of Pliva d.d., one of the countries largest
companies with international investors, to appoint the SDA as its primary registrar effective July 19,
1999, when the SDA went "on line". Two other companies have also agreed to appoint the SDA as
primary registrar which translates into more than 42,000 securities accounts holding more than 36.5
million shares with a total market value of over HRK 8.5 billion (or US$1.2 billion) in the central
registry. This "on line" date represents the successful end of a pilot project with the three initialissuers.
During this period, the SDA maintained a parallel set of shareholder records reflecting changes in
ownership and account maintenance activity as recorded by the issuers. There also were seven brokerage
firms and five custodian banks involved in a simulation test of the SDA Depository System for Trade-for-
Trade Settlements.
(x)    Public Awareness Component. Implementation of this component, which commenced in
December 1996, was intertwined with the support campaign for the mass privatization program (para 19).
Technical assistance under this component provided for the elaboration of a strategic plan and a detailed
media communications development plan, market research on the population's attitude towards
privatization and share ownership, and development and airing of an intensive media relation campaign
with educational TV and radio series, and printed materials. The program was concluded by end-1997.
(xi)  In order to implement this project, a project management unit (PMU) was established, as the
required capacity was not available within the MOF. Although funding was provided under the project to
hire staff for the PMU, the MOF opted to use grant financing for this purpose. With the assistance of an
Italian trust fund, a project manager was hired and an additional staff member was provided by the MOF.
The successful implementation of the project can also be attributed to the professionalism and hard work
of the PMU staff, who became well versed in Bank procedures.



iv
Future Operations
(xii)  Future Bank's assistance to Croatia is expected to blend lending and non-lending services. The
proposed assistance will provide support for urgent macro stabilization and financial sector reforms, as
well as for deeper structural measures required for sustainable growth. Operations will be geared towards
achieving the following objectives: (i) reducing the size of the public sector and increasing efficiency; (ii)
improving governance of enterprises; (iii) creating conditions for competitive real sector development;
and (iv) containing poverty. The recently approved Technical Assistance 11 Loan and the proposed
Property Rights and Cadastre Pilot Project are expected to assist the development of the private sector.
The IFC is also expected to provide support for private sector development and privatization, thus
mobilizing FDI and external financing for technology and modernization.
Key Lessons Learned
(xiii) Government's commitment to the overall policies to support the development of capital markets
was, in essence, the cornerstone to the success of this operation. Furthermore, the implementation and
completion of the CMDP highlights key lessons in four main areas (i) adequate project management, (ii)
strong counterpart commitment and project ownership, (iii) clear project design, and (iv) proper
identification of project risks.
(xiv)  Project management. Government's commitment was made particularly effective by the
management and implementation expertise that was developed in the Project's Management Unit (PMU).
This key element, which was made possible with the financing of a trust fund, proved to be a critical
ingredient to the successful implementation of the project. The efficient operation of the PMU greatly
facilitated the relationship between the Bank and the MOF. Further, the MOF now has a core group of
trained staff who are already contributing to the implementation of other Bank financed projects.
(xv)   Counterparts commitment and project ownership. In addition to counterparts commitment at
the policy level, project ownership of the implementing agencies also proved to be critical to the success
of the CMDP. As a result, decisive steps towards achieving project objectives were quickly evidenced by
the diligence and professionalism of key counterparts. Moreover, initial short comings and inexperience
in implementation were promptly reinforced by out side experts who also made major contributions to the
success of this project. Another important ingredient that helped maintain the commitment of the
implementing agencies was the frequent (albeit brief) in-country presence of Bank staff to help the
various agencies reach practical agreements on the many topics of common concern. As a trusted,
neutral party, the Bank played a key role by helping bridge communication gaps between participants in
the domestic arena.
(xv)   Project design. The project components should be clearly defined, kept simple, and have well-
written terms of reference, as was the case in this project. This resulted in awell-executed selection of
competent consultants, who contributed a lot to the success of the project. Furthermore, the main project
objectives of the CMDP were highly complementary to the overall policy reform program of the
Government, which was in turn supported by various Bank operations. While keeping a well-targeted
focus in its components, the CMPD was fully coherent and an integral part of this agenda. Experience in
the design of this project, also shows that contracts with long implementation periods can be subject to
short fall in financing if they are denominated in currencies other than the currency of the Loan and
depreciation between the two currencies occur.



v
(xvi)  Project risks. Political risks highlighted at the time of project preparation stated the need to
closely monitor ongoing tensions in the region and the way this will affect the pace of the overall reform
program. Yet the degree to which these developments, combined to other internal and external events,
have affected Croatia's transition to a fully functioning market economy - and thus the slow pace of
development of capital markets - was certainly not fully anticipated. In this context, the implicit
assumption that SDA could become a self-sustained revenue earning entity in a relatively short period of
time, proved to be unrealistic. Nevertheless, while the establishment of basic institutional and regulatory
elements in Croatia's capital market was a necessary step in the transition, the current state of Croatia's
capital markets is perhaps evidence that a great deal of the impact of this project is hopefully yet to be
realized in the near future.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CROATIA
CAPITAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan 3999-HR
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Statement of Objectives
1.    Background. Prospects for economic growth in Croatia had improved decidedly by the time
project preparation began in 1995. The improvement followed a steep economic decline and near
hyperinflation in the wake of the dissolution of former Yugoslavia and the ensuing war which followed
Croatia's declaration of independence in 1991. The stabilization program launched in October 1993 had
delivered impressive results, with a drastic reduction in inflation. The resumption of growth, as well as
the positive prospects for further growth, at the time largely reflected the dynamism of the private sector,
which included both new ventures and those transferred from the state sector, and generated about 45
percent of GDP. However, further private sector growth was hampered by insufficient access to financial
resources, exacerbated by a still weak and state owned banking sector, and illiquid capital markets. In
this context, Croatia was establishing its capital market from almost a zero base. In the short term, the
fundamental missing pieces were: (i) an adequate regulatory framework, including a securities law, a
securities market regulator and an investment funds law; and (ii) trading mechanisms and infrastructure
required for the proper functioning of a capital market, including a depository, clearing and settlement
system. In the medium to long term, the critical requirements were: (iii) tradeable instruments, such as
bonds and asset-backed securities; and (iv) institutional investors, a critical mass of modern brokerage
firms, credit rating agencies, and other parts of the capital market infrastructure.
2.     Rationale for Bank Involvement. In 1995, Croatia's transition from stabilization toward sustained
growth was at a critical stage and considering prevailing constraints on external financing, strong support
from the Bank was expected to play a vital role, not only in terms of lending, but also in the form of
policy work and technical assistance. The Bank's CAS at the time, supported three main areas of
emphasis in the GOC's multi-year reform and investment program, namely: (i) reforming public finance;
(ii) rebuilding and upgrading key infrastructure; and (iii) fostering private sector lead growth. In pursuit
of these goals, in particular that of private sector lead growth, the Croatian authorities had made
significant efforts to introduce capital markets reforms, while simultaneously pursuing both a major
reform of the banking sector and restructuring and privatization of enterprises. While covered in depth in
the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) and Technical Assistance Project that
were under preparation, the reforms were also strongly related to future capital markets development.
3.     Project Objectives. The overall aim of the Capital Markets Development Project was to support
the Government's economic transformation programs, by facilitating the privatization and restructuring
processes and, more specifically by helping develop the capital markets institutions required for a modern
market-based economy. In particular, the Government wanted to strengthen:



2
a.    the policy framework for the capital markets, especially the regulation of securities
markets;
b.    the operational capabilities of key capital markets entities, especially the securities
depository, registry, clearing and settlement functions; and
c.    the public's comprehension of the capital markets and their roles as shareholders.
4.     Project Description. The Capital Markets Development Project provided technical assistance,
training, information technologies and various office-related equipment and resources. The total cost of
the Project was estimated at US$21.0 million equivalent, including physical and price contingencies,
taxes and duties, and recurrent expenses for the three and one half years of the project. The World Bank
financed US$9.5 million equivalent of the project cost.
5.     The Project has three basic components:
(i)    The Policy Support Component supported the development of a legal and regulatory
framework. It comprised: (a) regulatory and organizational development of the Croatian
Securities and Exchange Commission (CROSEC) and establishment of essential capital
markets legislation; (b) restructuring of illiquid government obligations in the form of
tradeable securities; and (c) development of a satisfactory strategy for managing the
investment portfolio being transferred to the pension fund.
(ii)    The Infrastructure  Development Component provided  technical assistance  and
investment resources to establish and strengthen the key capital markets institutions,
including modern information systems to support essential capital markets functions, in
particular the securities depository, registry, clearing and settlement function.
(iii)   The Public Awareness Component provided technical assistance to devise and create
mass media, public awareness vehicles. The component also provided financing for the
execution of the public awareness campaign to improve the general public's
understanding of the capital markets and of their roles and rights as participants.
B.            Major Factors Affecting Project
6.     The original focus of the project was aimed at minimizing the negative impacts of settlement risk
in the advent of expected substantial international capital inflows and a relatively rapidly growing
secondary market following the Government's privatization programs. However, compared to other
countries in Central Europe, important structural reforms have been delayed, a more favorable climate for
investment has remained uncertain, and the level of foreign investment has been low. Privatization based
on insider buy-outs and concentration of residual ownership in the Pension Fund has resulted in weak
enterprise governance. Given the weak judicial system, contracts are not enforced and the culture of
chronic non-payments continues.  Arrears among enterprises have increased rapidly.  With weak
institutional capacity to enforce contractual obligations, payments and bankruptcy, the competitive
market system does not yet fully function in Croatia.
7.     There have also been a number of external factors that have negatively impacted the Croatian
market. These include the Asian and subsequent Russian financial crises. Related to, and compounding,



3
these dampening effects on both international and domestic business prospects has been a severe
domestic liquidity crisis and political uncertainty. Thus, the project, which was designed to manage the
effects of an "upside" scenario, faced instead a severe "downside" scenario. In particular, trading
volumes and prices have declined dramatically, and substantial capital inflows have not materialized,
trends which have been reflected in the stock exchange experiencing a major downturn and thus
operating losses. Although this has had less of a negative impact on the newly created Croatian
Securities and Exchange Commission (CROSEC), it has created severe short-term financial problems for
the newly created and just operational Securities Depository Agency (SDA). This reflects SDA's
dependence on revenues from its transactions-based clearing and settlement and share registry services.
As a result, in the interim, continued government support, such as loan guarantees and forbearance of
debt service, is required to prevent the loss of the institution-building investments in this key element of
the capital market infrastructure. The market downturn can also be seen as diminishing somewhat the
impact of the public awareness campaign that also formed part of the project.
C.    Achievement of Objectives
8.    The main objective was to develop the capital markets institution infrastructure required for a
modern market-based economy. The project focused on a few key initiatives in these areas, with the
objective of facilitating the ongoing economic transformation in Croatia and building the necessary
operational and regulatory capacity to meet the growing investment requirement in the private sector.
The project met all of its main objectives. The regulatory and policy framework for the capital markets
are in place with the establishment and the operation of the Croatian Securities Commission (CROSEC),
and the passage of the Securities Law and Investment Funds Law. The CROSEC has rapidly built up a
body of essential regulations and guidelines, among other things, licensing requirements for exchanges
and brokers, approval of new trading, settlement, delivery and registry mechanisms, as well as other
urgent issues as insider trading and securities fraud. The central securities depository, registry, clearing
and settlement agency (SDA) has been established and became operational in July 1999. A mass media
public awareness campaign to improve the general public's understanding of the capital markets and their
role and rights as participants was launched, and played an important role in the popular success of the
voucher privatization launched in 1998. In essence, the project concentrated on a few selected priority
areas that aimed at having immediate benefits to the capital markets at an early stage. Yet it was not
intended to resolve all of the shortcomings identified in Croatia's nascent market system.
D.    Project Sustainability
9.     The issue of sustainability of project investments differs among the three project components.
*  The Public Awareness Component involved a "one-time" effort to educate the general public on
capital markets concepts. Accordingly, continued input of resources is not required to sustain the
investment. Nevertheless, some more narrowly targeted follow-on awareness activities aimed at the
professional capital market community will be financed under the recently approved Technical
Assistance II project.
*  The Policy Framework Component led to the creation of the Croatian Securities and Exchange
Commission. CROSEC is a public agency funded by the General Budget. Notwithstanding the
current difficult fiscal environment, CROSEC has been more-or-less adequately funded. CROSEC is
widely regarded as an essential element of the national financial system and as having performed its



4
function well. It has achieved international recognition, as demonstrated by its acceptance into
IOSCO, the international association of securities commissions. There is relatively little reason to
doubt continued support and future funding. Additional technical assistance financing will be
provided under the Bank's second Technical Assistance (TA II) project, focussing specifically on
improving public access to information and market surveillance.
* The sustainability of the Securities Depository Agency created under the Infrastructure Component is
subject to greater uncertainty. SDA's financial resources are derived from user fees for its services -
and very much determined by the volume of transactions effected on the securities market. Thus, it is
tied to developments in the capital markets and the economy as a whole. SDA is a regulated, not-for-
profit, joint-stock company with a legal mandate to perform registry services for all Croatian
securities, as well as clearing and settlement services for the organized markets. Accordingly, its
financial viability is more-or-less assured in the medium to long term (i.e., three years out).
However, SDA financial viability is uncertain in the immediate to short term, during which it will
initiate operations and effect the transition to the role of comprehensive provider of capital markets
infrastructure services. This period of vulnerability has been greatly exacerbated by the high degree
of general financial distress in the Croatian economy.  In this context, neither the brokerage
community nor the issuers can be expected to provide an adequate source of revenues to cover
SDA's costs (which are predominantly fixed in nature). Moreover, the shareholders of SDA (the
brokers, the commercial banks, the MOF and ZAP) are not in a position to provide additional capital
given the current economic and fiscal situation. With limited latitude to adjust costs, accelerate
service volumes or increase fees, SDA's only option for immediate term financial survival is term
debt finance. SDA has reached agreements, in principle, with two of the largest commercial banks
for a syndicated term loan, which is expected to be covered by a government guarantee. In
anticipation of such bridge financing, follow up technical assistance for continued institutional
support and on-the-job training for the SDA is being provided under the TA II project.
E.     Bank Performance
10.    Bank's performance in all aspects of the project cycle was satisfactory. There were no significant
deviations in Bank policies or procedures in project implementation, and project supervision was adequate
with about two missions per year and frequent, brief follow-up visits by the project team, in conjunction
with other missions to Croatia and the region. The project also benefited from the continuity of having
the same task manager and technical specialist from its inception to Loan Closing. Through close
monitoring of the project, the project team was able to support the Croatian counterparts and their
consultants through the challenging process of institution creation and building. It also meant that the
team was able to propose adjustments to the Legal Agreement to reflect the evolving needs of project
implementation and ensure that the resources were directed to best achieve the project's objectives. The
project team benefited from excellent support and guidance throughout the project implementation period
from the Disbursements, Procurement and Legal Departments.
F.     Borrower Performance
11.    The overall performance of the Borrower and the concerned government agencies was satisfactory
in all phases of the project cycle, and was in compliance with all main loan covenants. The cooperation and
exchange of information between the Bank and MOF, through its project management unit (PMU) was
excellent. The PMU worked closely with the Bank to modify the Legal Agreement as needed, as the project



5
was implemented. The PMU which was established for this project and which is well versed in Bank
procedures will be used to implement several of the Bank projects that are managed by the MOF
G.    Detailed Assessment of Outcome
12.   Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission . The CROSEC was established with the
passage of the Securities Law in December 1995. The CROSEC consists of five Commissioners and 20
staff members. The Commissioners and staff of the CROSEC received substantial training in a variety of
fields, including enforcement, corporate disclosure, market manipulation, public relations and stock
exchange regulation.  Executive and institutional management training was also received by the
commissioners. In turn, CROSEC expended substantial resources training market participants in
portfolio management, security valuation, and risk management.  In March, 1999, the CROSEC
successfully sponsored a seminar on the topic of detecting, preventing and prosecuting securities market
manipulation. The CROSEC held the conference on behalf of IOSCO Emerging Markets Committee
Working Group Number Four. Sixty-three representatives of the securities regulatory bodies from
nineteen emerging and developed countries attended the seminar. During the annual conference of
IOSCO, held in Lisbon, Portugal during May 1999, the CROSEC received international recognition for
its efforts. Listed below are some of the highlights of the operational achievements of the CROSEC as of
mid 1999:
Corporate Disclosure:
* The CROSEC has approved prospectuses for 31 private placements for a value of over HRK 4.1
billion and 22 public offering prospectuses concerning the issue of HRK 3.13 billion in securities.
Approval of all prospectuses was based upon principles of full financial disclosure. During the
reporting period, the CROSEC has also rejected several prospectuses for not meeting the standards of
full disclosure.
* The CROSEC continues to implement the Takeover Code. Forty-one offerors have submitted
disclosure statements revealing their intention to buy out a target issuer. Twenty-five of those
offerors have launched full takeover bids.
Regulation of Managed Investing:
* The CROSEC/Ministry of Privatization program of privatization investment funds ("PIF's") is being
closely supervised by the CROSEC. All of the seven PIF's have had their proposed portfolio
valuations reviewed by the CROSEC for adherence to the Valuation Regulation and for sufficiently
justifying the valuation determined for illiquid securities in their portfolios.
* The CROSEC has licensed 19 management companies and 13 investment funds. CROSEC's crucial
role in the licensing process has prevented the emergence of unprofessional management groups in
the voucher/PIF program and avoided abuses experienced earlier in other transition countries which
did not have an operational securities commission when they launched voucher privatization
programs. The CROSEC has also licensed an open-end mutual fund that is making periodic
disclosure and valuing its portfolio in accordance with International Accounting Standards.



6
Enforcement:
*  Enforcement by CROSEC continues to be a priority. The CROSEC has tripled the number of open
matters bringing the total number to 57. Open investigations involve possible violations of the
Securities Law, Company Law, Takeover Code, PIF Law, and Investment Fund Law.
*  The Division of Enforcement has referred 31 investigations to the public prosecutor and Court for
enforcement action.
Market Regulation:
*  To date, 172 brokers have received CROSEC sponsored training, and 202 brokers have passed the
certification examination..
*  The CROSEC has licensed the SDA, and it has approved the Rules of the Zagreb Stock Exchange
and the Varazdin OTC market. The CROSEC has completed a survey to determine the net working
capital of securities brokers in order to develop a net capital regulation.
Relations With The Public and Industry:
- The Commissioners of the CROSEC have delivered various speeches and articles on financial
disclosure, accounting, capital markets and securities regulation. The Commissioners have been
active participants in the media and in local conferences of securities industry participants.
13.    Securities Depository Agency: The SDA was granted a license to operate by the regulator on
April 29, 1999. This has also been supported by the decision of Pliva d.d., one of the countries largest
companies with international investors, to appoint the SDA as its primary registrar effective July 19,
1999, when the SDA went "on line". Two other companies have also agreed to appoint the SDA as
primary registrar which translates into more than 42,000 securities accounts holding more than 36 million
shares with a total market capitalization of over HRK 8.5 billion in the central registry (or about US$1.2
billion). This "on line" date also represents the successful end of a pilot project with the three initial
issuers. During this period, the SDA maintained a parallel set of shareholder records reflecting changes
in ownership and account maintenance activity as recorded by the issuers. This pilot enabled the SDA to
test its registry system and demonstrate both its technical ability and operational ability to provide
registry services to issuers. There also were seven brokerage firms and five custodian banks involved in
a simulation test of the SDA Depository System for Trade-for-Trade Settlements. This simulation
continued until July 19, 1999 at which time these twelve market participants started clearing and settling
of trades in the initial three depository eligible securities through the SDA.  Additional market
participants have been invited to join according to their own schedule and needs.
14.    The SDA provides three classes of service to its member participants within the Croatian capital
markets. These three classes of service are:
1. Registry Services.  The SDA  maintains an electronic shareholders register for the
dematerialised shares of eligible companies. Book entry changes in ownership are entered in
the share registry. Before the SDA can provide an issuer with its registry services, it is first
necessary to import the shareholder registry records currently maintained by the issuer into
the SDA Depository System;



7
2. Clearing Services. Clearing is the preparation of trades for settlement within the SDA
Depository System. Clearing includes trade reporting and calculation of the net money value
of trades due for settlement; and
3. Settlement Services. Trade settlement is the actual exchange of securities and money which
occurs on the settlement date (T+4). SDA offers settlement services either on a contractual
basis where the SDA guarantees (for qualified market participants) the settlement or on a
trade-for-trade basis where settlement is the broker's obligation.
15.    While the success of the SDA in receiving its operating license in April, 1999 is significant, this
is tempered by the fact that this date was a full three months later than originally planned. The reasons
for this delay continue to create problems for the SDA in fully meeting its institutional goals and
milestones. Up until December, 1998 all signs pointed to a launch date for SDA operations in January,
1999. However, serious disputes arose in December with the market participants andwith CROSEC over
the SDA's proposed fee structure and proposed membership rules. These disputes introduced substantial
uncertainty about the licensing of the SDA for the next 3 months. Only after the substantial reworking of
the proposed fee schedule and the rules was the SDA able to achieve consensus among all of the parties
involved.
16.   In order to address the concerns expressed by market participants regarding the proposed fee
schedule it was necessary for the SDA to substantially reduce the fees charged to brokers and custodian
banks. In order to do this the SDA had to move its target of achieving full operating cost recovery by the
end of its first full year of operations to the end of its third year of operations. The burden of fees was
also shifted from a 50/50 split between issuer-related fees and trade-related fees to a 70/30 split. This
shift in strategy will only be possible if the Ministry of Finance continues to excuse the SDA from
servicing its investment costs and if a government guaranteed bank loan to cover operating deficits over
the next three years is provided.
17.   In examining this issue further, it is instructive to review the factors that caused the problem.
These factors can be divided into issues within the agency's control and those factors outside the
agency's control. Those factors outside of the agency's control include negative environmental factors
that seriously dampened the development of Croatian capital markets and the economy as a whole.
Factors within SDA's control primarily relate to having not fully grasped the challenge of managing
client relations on financial matters (as compared with technical matters) in the face of the downturn in
the market. In defense of SDA management, however, it needs to be pointed out the SDA's client are in
fact represented on SDA's governing board. Also, the clients tend not to be deeply experienced with the
complexities of contemporary clearing, settlement and registry practices. Moreover their individual
interests do not coincide with the interest of the market taken as a whole (e.g., broker's individual interest
is to avoid costs and maintain less than full transparency of their activities). These combined factors
resulted in SDA trying to launch itself in a relatively hostile environment, i.e., just as the domestic
securities market went into a highly depressed state and most of SDA's clients started suffering extreme
financial distress.
18.    Whereas the original project objectives foresaw an "upside" scenario with growth in the markets
and continued international capital inflows, what occurred in reality was a severe "downturn" scenario
with reduced trading volumes, lower prices and significant operating losses for the exchange and OTC
markets. The fees originally proposed by the SDA were seen as highly unrealistic given the severely
depressed market conditions. This created a strong push-back by SDA's clients and CROSEC, which



8
might have been mitigated by better preparation of the client community. As a result, the SDA
abandoned its original strategy of working towards full cost recovery in its first year of operation and will
now focus on full cost recovery by the end of its third year of operation. In order to do this, the agency
will require interim financing over the next three years to cover its operating deficits. SDA has reached
agreements, in principle, with two of the largest commercial banks for a syndicated loan, which is
expected to be covered by a government guarantee.   During this critical period, the Government
recognizes that its support will be crucial to enable SDA to operate and maintain the infrastructure
established under this project. It is also fair to mention that the Government's continued commitment to
the sustainability of the SDA is also evidenced by the fact that additional technical assistance has been
provided to the SDA under the recently approved Technical Assistance II Loan (HR-4460).
19.   Public Awareness Component.  Implementation of this component, which commenced in
December 1996, also included, support for the campaign for the mass privatization program (MPP), at the
request of the Government. In effect the two sub-components were intertwined. Technical assistance
under this component, provided the following: (i) elaboration of a strategic plan and a detailed media
communications development plan for both components, (ii) market research on the population's attitude
towards privatization and share ownership and market research on the MPP gauging the degree of
demand and the eligible population's expectations, (iii) creating theMPP's identity (with selection of a
campaign logo) and production of a range of print ready materials (vouchers, leaflets, posters, etc), and
(iv) development of an intensive media relation campaign with educational TV and radio (local and
national series), phone-in lines and written materials, and of an advertising campaign with press
conferences, press releases, briefings, television/radio commercials, road-shows and written press
materials. In total, twelve radio programs and several television episodes were broadcast, and printed
material was distributed to the general public. The program was concluded at the end of 1997.
Other issues
20.    The anticipated short term assistance from  USAID to the Pension Fund for its portfolio
management unit and to the MOF for the management of government debt did not materialize. However,
the US Treasury Department provided a long term consultant to the MOF for the management of
government debt, and additional Bank assistance was provided through a Japanese Grant for the proposed
Public Finance Management Project, which was subsequently cancelled.  For better coordination
purposes, it was decided to pursue assistance for the Pension Fund through a separate Public Sector
Adjustment Loan (PSAL). The latter has not in fact materialized, though the preparation of a technical
assistant program to support pension reform efforts is fairly advanced.
21.    The CMDP was a single currency, DM denominated Loan. One hardware and three technical
assistance contracts accounted for a major part of the Loan. These contracts were signed relatively early
in the project implementation cycle, were denominated in US dollars, and had implementation periods of
between 12-20 months. The sharp depreciation of the DM against the US dollar (about 17%) during this
period had adverse consequences on the original budgeted amounts for both the CROSEC and the SDA,
and led to a funding short fall. In consultation with the Bank, the Borrower requested and was provided
with additional financing from the on-going Technical Assistance Project, which was complementary to
this project in the development of the private sector. The CMDP was completed on time and the Loan
was fully disbursed.



9
H.    Future Operations
22.    The Bank's assistance strategy will blend lending and non-lending services. The proposed
assistance will provide support for urgent macro stabilization and financial sector reforms, as well as for
deeper structural measures required for sustainable growth. Operations will be geared towards achieving
the following objectives: (i) reducing the size of the public sector and increasing efficiency; (ii)
improving governance of enterprises; (iii) creating conditions for competitive real sector development;
and (iv) containing poverty. Given the expanding role which the private sector is expected to play in
Croatia, the IFC will provide support for private sector development and privatization, thus mobilizing
foreign direct investments and external financing for technology and modernization. In order to maintain
the momentum achieved under this project and to further develop the capital markets, a specific follow up
component was included in the TA II Loan that was recently approved. Further, the CAS for Croatia
envisions a follow up adjustment operation aimed at sustaining macroeconomic stability and the
completion of pending structural reforms. Both elements that in the long run are also supportive of the
development agenda of the capital markets.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
23.   Government's commitment to the overall policies to support the development of capital markets
was, in essence, the cornerstone to the success of this operation. Furthermore, the implementation and
completion of the CMDP highlights key lessons in four main areas (i) adequate project management, (ii)
strong counterpart commitment and project ownership, (iii) clear project design, and (iv) proper
identification of project risks.
24.   Project management.  Government's commitment was made particularly effective by the
management and implementation expertise that was developed in the Project's Management Unit (PMU).
This key element, which was made possible with the financing of a trust fund, proved to be a key
ingredient to the successful implementation of the project. The efficient operation of the PMU greatly
facilitated the relationship between the Bank and the MOF. Further, the MOF now has a core group of
trained staff who are already contributing to the implementation of other Bank financed projects.
25.    Counterparts commitment and project ownership. In addition to counterparts commitment at
the policy level, project ownership of the implementing agencies also proved to be critical to the success
of the CMDP. As a result, decisive steps towards achieving project objectives were quickly evidenced by
the diligence and professionalism of key counterparts. Moreover, initial short comings and inexperience
in implementation were promptly reinforced by outside experts who also made major contributions to the
success of this project. Another important ingredient that helped maintain the commitment of the
implementing agencies was the frequent (albeit brief) in-country presence of Bank staff to help the
various agencies reach practical agreements on the many topics of common concern. As a trusted,
neutral party, the Bank played a key role by helping bridge communication gaps between participants in
the domestic arena.
26.   Project design. The project components should be clearly defined, kept simple, and have well-
written terms of reference, as was the case in this project. This resulted in a well-executed selection of
competent consultants, who substantially contributed to the success of the project, . Furthermore, the
main project objectives of the CMDP were highly complementary to the overall policy reform program of



I 0
the Government, which was in turn supported by various Bank operations. While keeping a well-targeted
focus in its components, the CMPD was fully coherent and an integral part of this agenda.
27.    In the case of single currency loans, where the currency is not the US dollar, the prudent course
of action would be to denominate all contracts in the currency of the Loan and not the US dollar.
Experience under this project (para 21), shows that contracts with long implementation periods can be
subject to short fall in financing if they are denominated in currencies other than the currency of the Loan
and depreciation between the two currencies occur.
28.    Project risks. Political risks highlighted at the time of project preparation stated the need to
closely monitor ongoing tensions in the region and the way this will affect the pace of the overall reform
program. Yet the degree to which these developments, combined with other internal and external events,
have affected Croatia's transition to a fully functioning market economy -and thus the slow pace of
development of capital markets- was certainly not fully anticipated.  In this context, the implicit
assumption that SDA could become a self-sustained revenue earning entity in a relatively short period of
time, proved to be unrealistic. Nevertheless, while the establishment of basic institutional and regulatory
elements in Croatia's capital market was a necessary step in the transition, the current state of Croatia's
capital markets is perhaps evidence that a great deal of the impact of this project is hopefully yet to be
realized in the near future.



I1
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Studies Included in Project
Table 6:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 7:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 8:   Bank Resources: Missions



12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Proect             Substantial       Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
Objec ives
Macro Policies                                        0 
Sector Policies                                      LI 0                                L0
Financial Objectives                 O                                1=1               [iI
Institutional Development                             Z [z 0                              0
Physical Objectives                  ZI              LI                0
Poverty Reduction                   LI                0                0I
Gender Issues                                         Z               IZI
Other Social Objectives                              L                 LI      
Environmental Objectives             n                                I                 IZI
Public Sector Management             ao
Private Sector Development                                            LI
Other (specify)                      C                                L                  LI
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                  Unlikely                   Uncertain
(V)                       (/)                        (/)
C. Bank Performnance                     Satisfactory          Satisfactory                Deficient
IdentificationLI
Preparation Assistance              fl                                                   L
Appraisal                                                     F7                         L
Supervision                                                   FEF]



13
Highly
D. Borrower Perfonnance                       Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
(1)            (i)             (/)
Preparation                                  El               f3            m
Implementation                                               % e            I
Covenant Compliance                                                         i:i
Operation (if applicable)                                   F7      
Highl                                             Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome              Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
(10             (10()                               /
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title           Purpose               Year of approval              Status
Technical Assistance Loan  Private Sector Institution    1996               Will close in December,
Development                                        1999
Enterprise Financial     Private /Banking Sector   1996                      Will close in June 2000
Sector Adjustment Loan    Development
Technical Assistance 11  Private Sector Institution    1999                  On-going
Loan                     Development
Investment Recovery      Private Sector            1998                     On-going
Project                  Development



14
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned               Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)        02/15/1995              03/02/1995
Preparation                                       05/01/1995              05/07/1995
Appraisal                                         06/15/1995              06/23/1995
Negotiations                                      10/16/1995              02/15/1996
Board Presentation                                12/05/1995              04/04/1996
Signing                                           04/15/1996              04/23/1996
Effectiveness                                     07/15/1996              07/23/1996
Project Completion                                12/31/1998              06/15/1999
Loan Closing                                      06/30/1999              06/30/1999
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
1996            1997        1998          1999
Appraisal Estimate                    1.7             5.5          8.6          9.5
Actual                                0               2.7          8.0          9.5
Actual as % of Estimate               0               49           93            100
Date of Final Disbursement            September 17, 1999
Table 5: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study                at Appraisal/Redefined           Status             Impact of Study
Strategic Study for the    To select the most optimal  Completed in 1996       Based on the study, the
Development of the Securities  configuration of the proposed                   optimal configuration for
Depository Agency          depository                                          the SDA was chosen by the
Government.



15
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section   Covenant Present   Original        Revised             Description of              Comments
type     status   fulfillment  fulfillment            covenant
date         date
LA           3.01(a)   M          C                                  Borrower declare its commitment Complied
to the objectives of the Project as
set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement
LA           3.01(b)   M          C                                  Borrower shall carry out the    Complied
Project in accordance with the
Implementation Plan set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement
LA           3.02       M         C                                  Procurement to be governed by   Complied
Schedule 4 to this Agreement
LA           4.01(a)   F          C                                  Borrower to maintain satisfactory Complied
records and accounts in
accordance with sound
accounting practices.
LA           4.01(b)   F          C                                  Borrower to have records and    Complied
accounts, including those for the
Special Account audited no later
than 5 months after the end of
each year
GA           3.01       M         C                                  Guarantor shall carry out and    Complied
cause to be carried out Part C of
the project with due diligence
and efficiency.
GA           4.01       F         C                                  Guarantor shall maintain or cause Complied
to be maintained records and
accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound
accounting practices the
operations, resources and
expenditure in respect of Part C
of the Project
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                   8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from      9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                    10.  =Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds             11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                      allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing    12. =Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                  regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                           13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:                                        CP   =  complied with partially
NC   =  not complied with
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay



16
Table 7: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                              Actual (US$ 000)
Project Cycle                                            Actual_(US$_____
SW                    US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                        51.1                  148.5
Appraisal-Board                                                 24.5                   81.5
Negotiations through Board Approval                              2.3                     8.1
Supervision                                                    61.7                   122.1
Completion                                                       7.0                    17.7
TOTAL                                                        146.6                   377.9
Table 8: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                     Specialized     Implemen-        Develop-
Stage of         Month!        of        Days in        Staff Skills      tation          ment         Types of
Project Cycle       Year       Persons       Field       Represented        Status        Objectives     Problems
Through Appraisal      03/95      4           10            FA,T,,E,O
Appraisal through                                           FA, T, L ,O
Board Approval
Supervision            07/96      3           7             FA,T,E                 S               S
04/97      2           7             FA,T                   S               S
08/97      2           5             FA,T                   S              S
04/98      2           6             FA,T                   S               S
11/98      2           5             FA,T                   S              S
Completion             05/99      3           3             FA,T,E                 S               S
E=       Economist
FA =    Financial Analyst
T=       Technical
L=       Legal
0 =      Operations Officer



17
Appendix A
Review of the
Capital Markets Development Project
From the Borrower's Perspective
1. BACKGROUND
The overall aim of the Capital Markets Development Project was to support the Government's
economic transformation programs, by facilitating the privatization and restructuring processes and,
more specifically by helping develop the capital markets institutions required for a modern market-
based economy. In particular, the Government wanted to strengthen:
a. the policy framework for the capital markets, especially the regulation of securities markets;
b. the operational capabilities of key capital markets entities, especially the securities depository,
registry, clearing and settlement functions; and
c. the public's comprehension of the capital markets and their roles as shareholders.
The Capital Markets Development Project provided technical assistance, training, information
technologies and various office-related equipment and resources. The total cost of the Project was
estimated at US$ 21.0 million equivalent. The World Bank financed US$ 9.5 million equivalent of
the project cost and the Borrower participated with local funds corresponding to the US$11.5
million. The Loan was actually effected in German Marks.
2. SPECIFIC COMMENTS OF THE BORROWER ON THE CMDP IMPLEMENTATION
When evaluating the CMDP, it should be noted that the practical objectives of the project were to
establish and make operational the main institutional and regulatory elements of the Croatian's
capital markets, and to embed created institutions into the global macro-economical movements of
the Croatian economy.
From that point of view, the project has fully met its objectives.
a)  Project design
With the help of the World Bank's team of dedicated specialist, the Technical Annex was very
well developed, clearly identifying each of the components together with the relevant budget
components. Such approach helped, to the great extent, to understanding of the local teams
implementing the project components, what and how needs to be done. Consequently, the
understanding of the clearly set objectives and of the available resources resulted with the
project "ownership" by the implementing agencies.



18
b) Project implementation
As stated in the ICR, the Project had three basic components:
(i)  The Policy Support Component supported the development of a legal and regulatory framework. It
comprised:
E   regulatory and organizational development of the Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission
(CROSEC) and establishment of essential capital markets legislation;
*   restructuring of illiquid government obligations in the form of tradable securities; and,
*   development of a satisfactory strategy for managing the investment portfolio being transferred to the
pension fund.
(ii) The Infrastructure Development Component provided technical assistance and investment resources
to establish and strengthen the key capital markets institutions, including modern information systems to
support essential capital markets functions, in particular the securities depository, registry, clearing and
settlement function.
(iii) The Public Awareness Component provided technical assistance to devise and create mass media, public
awareness vehicles. The component also provided financing for the execution of the public awareness campaign to
improve the general public's understanding of the capital markets and of their roles and rights as participants.
Project teams involved in implementation in all of above mentioned components strictly followed the objectives set
in the Technical Annex and extensively used the assistance provided by the dedicated team of the World Bank. This
close (literary day-to-day co-operation) resulted in a very productive project implementation and timely closure of
the loan.
The key points of the project implementation are:
*  the World Bank's project support team, rendered, practically, on-line support in all on-going
technical and procurement issues. Such support resulted in good and timely selection of
appropriate and competent consultants with a rather fast turnover of major consultancy and
hardware/software procurement contracts within the Bank's approval process;
 the Task Manager succeeded in obtaining additional support to the project management, through
ensuring Italian trust grant funding (in kind) for the MoF's Project Management Unit (PMU).
Based on this funding (cca 500 k$ in technical assistance), an experienced project manager and
several short term consultants were added (at no charge) to the PMU;
* the selected Croatian Team Leaders, both for the CROSEC and for the SDA, were very competent
individuals. They succeeded, (with the support of the World Bank's team and selected consultants),
to build-up their respective entities from scratch to full size organizations, during the CMDP
Project. That included the complete institutional development and the development of the
infrastructure;
* although starting somewhat late and the Borrower being heavy penalized with imposed currency
exchange losses (some 17% - the Loan in DEM, with expenditures in US $), the Project was
completed and the loan disbursed on time, with all elements specified in the Technical Annex, fully
implemented;
* by the end of the project, the CROSEC became fully staffed and well organized Regulatory Body
taking very active role in the development of Croatian capital markets;



19
* equally, the institutional development as well as the installation of very sophisticated equipment,
made the SDA one of the most advanced depositories in this part of Europe;
* the Public Awareness Campaign met its primary objectives. However, it became obvious that
capital markets issues are rather new prospective of economical thinking within wider layers of the
Croatian public. Consequently, more effort needs to be invested in the future to further educate
some 700.000 small shareholders;
* taking the above into account, under given circumstances, it could be stated that the project was
implemented in line with the World Bank's rules and policies, creating a solid base for further
development of the Croatian capital markets. Due to other macro economic reasons, such as the
shortfall of expected international capital inflows, the actual trading activities are considerably
lower than expected. As a direct result of such situation, the Government will have to further
support the initial project objectives in order to overcome the transition phase between creation and
steady state operation of mentioned institutions.
c) Bank performance
The performance of the World Bank's team assigned to the Capital Markets Development
Project, headed by Mr. Hiran Herat, the Task Manager, can be described as highly cooperative
and supportive. Each member of the team demonstrated the sensitivity and good understanding
of the Croatian specific business environment. It should be highlighted that they were available,
practically at all times, for consultations and assistance in resolution of ongoing issues. The
Task Manager continuously followed the work of the PMU and of the working groups, which
helped avoiding problems in advance.
Probably one of the main points in the Bank's staff performance was the accessible continuity of
the individuals assigned to the project, their cooperative attitude and their familiarity with the
local specifics of the country.
2.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Having reached its objectives, the CMDP created the right framework for further development of the
Croatian capital markets.
On behalf of the Government it is well understood that additional actions need to be taken in order to
justify the current investment and to over-come the transition period between the creation and the
steady-state operation of institutions established as a result of the CMDP. This particularly concerns
the SDA, which under the ruling of the Securities Law needs to "dematerialize" shares of more than
2,000 share holding companies, currently existing in Croatia. This, in-itself, is an enormous
challenge, which needs to be implemented in next five years. Although being a troublesome process,
it has been already initiated by granting the operating license to the SDA by the Regulator on April
29, 1999.
This has also been supported by the decision of Pliva d.d., one of the countries largest companies
with international investors, to appoint the SDA as its primary registrar effective July 19, 1999,
when the SDA went "on line".



20
Two other companies have also agreed to appoint the SDA as primary registrar. This translates into
more than 42,000 securities accounts holding more than 36 million shares with a total market value
of over HRK 8.5 billion in the central registry (or about US$ 1.2 billion).
Efforts to convert additional companies, as specified by the Securities Law, are ongoing, and will
take some time, until SDA fully loads its registries.
It is to be mentioned that the Government fully understand the current situation and demonstrated its
continued commitment to the sustainability both of the CROSEC and of the SDA.
3.  FUTURE OPERATIONS
Within the action plan to support the entities created under the CMDP (CROSEC & SDA), and to
further develop the Croatian capital markets, the Government in cooperation with the World Bank,
has already taken specific steps. The additional technical assistance has been ensured both to the
CROSEC and to the SDA under the recently approved Technical Assistance Project for Institutional
and Regulatory Reform for Private Sector Development (Loan No. 4460-HR) - TAL II Project. The
detailed action plans and the corresponding budget for each of the mentioned agencies could be
found in the Loan Agreement and the Project Implementation Plan of the TAL II Project.
Additionally, the Government is also making efforts to support the SDA during the start-up phase by
facilitating appropriate loans for covering the shortfalls in the SDA's current income, until the point
of the SDA's self-financing.
4.  CONCLUSIONS
Summarizing the above comments, the following could be said about the Capital Markets
Development Project:
* it is essential to have well designed Project Technical Annex (including estimates for each of the
project components), as a guideline for all parties involved;
* the understanding of the World Bank's team of the local circumstances, and the continuity of the
World Bank's staff on the project is one of the keys to the success of the project;
* election of appropriate individuals for heading specific project components, in the Borrower's
scope, is equally important for the success of the project;
* the project management function (PMU) could greatly contribute to the project success. Within
the CMDP, the PMU demonstrated to be a useful bridge between the Bank's team and the
implementing agencies. It particularly helped in implementing the World Bank's policies and
procedures;
* within its scope and objectives the CMDP fully met its objectives, implemented with active
Borrower's support and participation in line with the World Bank's policies and procedures,
within the allocated budget and within the perceived schedule.



21
Appendix B
CROATIA: Capital Markets Development Project
Supervision Mission
May 26, 1999
-- Aide Memoire --
I.    A World Bank mission comprising Messrs. Hiran Herat, Craig Neal, Hemant Shah and Zdravko
Kuzmic visited Zagreb between May 26-28, 1999 to supervise and to initiate the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the Capital Markets Development Project (CMDP). The mission met with
representatives of the Ministry of Finance (MOF), Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission
(CROSEC), Securities Depository Agency (SDA) and the Project Management Unit (PMU). The mission
wishes to extend its thanks to the Croatian authorities for the cooperation and courtesies extended to it.
Project Objectives
The project objective, as set out in the Loan and Project Summary of the relevant Staff Appraisal Report
dated February 29, 1996 (Report No: T-6704-HR), was to support the Government of the Republic of
Croatia's economic transformation programs, by facilitating the privatization and restructuring processes
and, more generally, developing the capital markets institutions required for a modern market-based
economy. In particular, the Government wanted to strengthen:
(i)   the policy framework for the capital markets, in particular the regulation of securities
markets; including the organizational development of the Croatian Securities and
Exchange Commission (CROSEC
(ii)   the operational capabilities of key capital markets entities, in particular the securities
depository, clearing and settlement functions; and
(iii)  the public's comprehension of the capital markets and their roles as shareholders, via
mass media, public awareness vehicles
3.    Project Status and Anticipated Activities. Both the CROSEC and SDA components continue to
progress satisfactorily. The work on the public awareness campaign has been completed. CROSEC is
established and active, with the initial institutional development technical assistance (TA) completed, and
the second phase to be completed by June 30, 1999.  Similarly, SDA is established. Its operational
system is expected to go on line in July 1999. SDA's institutional development TA will also be
completed by end June.
4.    Total Loan amount of 14.2 million DEM  loan has been committed, and about 81 percent
disbursed. The audit of the project accounts are underway and is expected to be completed shortly.
5.    Following are a summary of accomplishments made by CROSEC over the last few months. The
clear inference from the list of accomplishments set forth below is that this component is meeting its
objectives:



22
*  CROSEC presented its first annual report to Parliament on March 5, 1999.
*  Enforcement continue to be a priority. CROSEC has opened 36 over the past three months, bringing
the total to 57 investigations of possible violations of the Securities Law, Company Law, Takeover
Code, PIF Law, and Investment Fund Law. At present, the Enforcement Division has 25 active
investigations.
*  CROSEC has licensed 18 management companies and 5 open-end investment funds, 2 closed -end
funds and 7 PIFs.
*  The CROSEC/Ministry of Privatization program of privatization investment funds (PIF's) is being
closely supervised by the CROSEC, and the program is progressing rapidly. All seven PIFs have had
their proposed portfolio valuations accepted by the CROSEC. In addition, the PIFs have been listed
for trading on the Varazdin OTC market.
*  The CROSEC has approved prospectuses for 31 private placements valued at over 4.1 billion
HRK and 22 public offering prospectuses concerning the issues of 3.1 billion HRK in
securities.
6.     After discussions with all market participants, the CROSEC issued SDA its operating license on
April 30. The SDA will require approximately 10 weeks to prepare for production services, including
the additional training and simulation program for market participants. The SDA expects to be ready to
"'go live" on July 6, 1999 with Trade for Trade Settlement services in the three depository eligible
securities currently in the system. They expect to hold another round table discussion after six weeks of
Trade for Trade Settlement services to determine if the market is prepared to start Contractual Settlement
services together with the implementation of the Guarantee Fund.
Issues
7.     The following issues would need the close attention of the MOF in order to sustain the progress
that has been made on the project so far:
(i) CROSEC Offices. CROSEC's inability to move to the new premises at Ksaver, has retarded
their ability to staff up and realize its responsibilities in some of its functional areas -- most
notably enforcement. The mission urged the MOF to seek closure on all open issues that are
perpetuating this delay.
(ii) Bride Financing for SDA. Although SDA's long-term financial viability is not in question,
under current market conditions and with the recently-approved fee structure, SDA must finance
projected losses over the next three years. With no prospects for fresh capital, little to no latitude
to increase fees, expand service volumes or shrink its predominantly fixed cost base, SDA's
financial survival in the interim depends on term debt finance. SDA has reached agreement, in
principal, for a syndicated bank loan. However, it must have a government guarantee to obtain
these funds. This must be arranged immediately, since SDA's initial capital is exhausted and its
debts are already accumulating. Continued cash drain is very likely to lead to staff losses, a
serious disruption of SDA's operations, and, even more critical, a hard-to-repair loss of
confidence in the Croatian capital market by domestic and foreign participants )or prospective
participants)



23
Operational Plan
8.    The Bank's revised guidelines ( April 1994) on preparation of ICRs requires the preparation of an
operational plan by the Borrower and the implementing agencies, indicating actions and measures to be
taken by the Borrower, the relevant Government agencies, and the project entities, to ensure satisfactory
future implementation and operations under the project, and the achievement of the project s objectives.
The draft operational plan should include:
* the Government's views on the continued relevance of the project's objectives;
* actions and measures to be taken to ensure sustainability and continued satisfactory operation of
institutions and technical assistance programs under the project;
* actions and measures to be taken in the case of subprojects and subborrowers facing financial
difficulties, including enterprises that continue to be under state ownership.
9.     The operational plan should be supported by a table that indicates clearly, for each major item
under the technical assistance component, the following:
* major issues/problems;
* major actions/measures already take, being taken or to be taken;
* schedule and timing of each major action/measure; and
* the main Government and /or project agencies responsible for the actions/measures.
Borrower's Evaluation Of Project Implementation
10.    The Borrower's responsibilities in the preparation of the ICR are indicated in the Bank's
Operational Manual Statement and Good Practices for ICR Preparation (GP 13.55 of April 1994.paras 4
and 5). Copies of the Bank's BP 13.55 and relevant parts of GP 13.55 were given earlier to the Borrower
(PMU)
11.    As indicated in BP 13.55 and GP 13.55, the Borrower's ICR should include a summary not
exceeding 10 pages, together with the supporting background information and annexes.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
12.    To enable a comparison of appraised and actual project costs and financing plans, the Borrower
should update the relevant tables (Tables 2 and 4 on pages 10 and I I of the Staff Appraisal Report No. T-
6704-HR).
Information to be sent to the World Bank
13.    To enable the Bank to complete the draft of Part I of the ICR, it was agreed that the Borrower
would ensure that the information in relation to the technical assistance component indicated in Annexes
I is sent to the Bank together with the updated project costs and financing table.



24
14.   To enable the timely submission of the final ICR, including both the Borrower's and the Bank's
parts to the Bank's Board of Directors by December 31, 1999, as required, it was agreed that the
following timetable would be followed:
PMU to send the Bank by August 31, 1999
(i)      The updated project cost and financing tables;
(ii)     The draft operational plan
(iii)    Updated project indicators; and
(iv)     A status report on SDA's financial situation and its loan application.
Coordination of ICR Preparation
15. The following persons would coordinate the preparation of the Borrower's and the Bank's preparation
of ICR:
For the Borrower            Hrvoje Radovanic, Assistant Minister, MOF
Sanja Flegar, Manager, PMU
For the World Bank         Hiran Herat, Task Manager
Zagreb, Croatia
May 28, 1999



25
Appendix 3
CAPITAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan 3999HR)
Project Indicators
INTRODUCTION
The objectives of the Capital Markets Development Project was to facilitate the transformation of the Croatian
economy, primarily supporting capital markets institutions which lower the risks associated with securities market.
An overview of measurable and quantifiable categories, which have a direct impact on the changes in the Croatian
economy, are given below. The overview of the investments in terms of contracted technical assistance (staff-
months), training programs/study tours, and equipment procurements as compared to delivered reports, installed
systems/equipment and actually realized study tours, attendance at different conferences and training sessions is
given in a table format.
OUTCOME INDICATORS
a. Policy Development (Securities regulations and operational procedures - development of
CROSEC)
The elaboration of key securities regulations and operational procedures, includes:
i.  by-laws of the CROSEC;  The "By-law of the Securities Commission of the Republic of
Croatia" was issued on June 23, 1997 (Narodne Novine # 75 ).
ii. implementation of regulations based upon the Securities Act; In addition to the Regulation
referenced above, the CROSEC has issued the following regulations:  Regulation for the
Conditions and Process of Issuing licenses to do Business With Securities and for Authorized
Agents to Trade Securities (Narodne Novine #56, May 28, 1997 as amended Narodne Novine
#60); Regulation on Stock Broker's Examination (Narodne Novine #69, July 2, 1997); Decision
on Administrative Fees (Narodne Novine #62, May 22, 1997); Regulation on the Content of
Abridged Prospectuses and Conditions for Private Placements of Securities (Narodne Novena
#61, June 4, 1997 as amended Narodne Novena #65, June 18, 1997); Regulation of Privatization
Investment Funds to Participate in Privatization (Narodne Novine #125, October 17, 1997),
Regulation on the Accounting Records and Financial Reports of Investment Fund Management
Companies and Investment Funds (March 24, 1999, The Regulation is based upon International
Accounting standards and modern techniques of mutual fund bookkeeping and reporting),
Regulation on the Obligatory Form and Content of Periodic Reports (March 24, 1999 as
amended, April 27, 1999 - The Regulations sets forth the standardized forms that issuers should
file with the public reference room. The Regulation makes substantial strides in increasing the
amount of financial disclosure that Croatian enterprises are required to make public), Regulation
on Securities Companies Trading Off-exchange and Trading in PIF Shares (April 27, 1999. The
Regulation is aimed at stemming an arising situation in which market participants with fraudulent
intent canvass the regions of Croatia and purchase PIF shares for a fraction of their market
value).
iii. guidelines for CROSEC staff conducting inspection of investment firms, stock exchanges,
brokers, dealers, depositories, etc. The "Procedures Manual for CROSEC Operations" was
delivered to the CROSEC on December 11, 1997. These operating procedures have been
implemented in part by the CROSEC staff. As the development and training of the CROSEC
staff progresses, more provisions of the operating procedures, or a variation of the procedures,
are adopted by the staff.



26
iv. regulations and guidelines for confidentiality by CROSEC staff; Article 14 of the Securities
Act prohibits present or former CROSEC Commissioners or staff from divulging material or
privileged facts which they learn in the course of their duties regardless of the source of the
information. Such disclosure may only be made when authorized by law and is otherwise
considered to be a state secret. Moreover, Article 14 prohibits CROSEC Commissioners or staff
from providing advice or opinions on the merits of securities traded in the territory of Croatia. In
addition, Paragraph 1.1.9 of the Procedures Manual contains a procedure for special
confidentiality requests by issuers, and paragraph 5 of the CROSEC's Code of Ethics (delivered
April 20, 1997 and presently under review) provides further restrictions on the use and
dissemination of non-public information.
v. Drafting of Legislation and Amendments; The CROSEC has successfully drafted, submitted to
the Government, and lobbied through the Parliament two pieces of legislation that stimulate
development of the capital market: The Takeover Code (Narodne Novena # 124, November 7,
1997) and The Law on Privatization Investment Funds (NarodneNovine #109, October 10,1997).
In addition, the CROSEC provided comments to the laws on pension fund reform in June of
1997. Furthermore, on July 6, 1998, the CROSEC submitted to the Government proposed
amendments to the Securities Law. The CROSEC is also drafting and reviewing amendments to
the Investment Fund Law. The CROSEC has successfully amended the Securities Law (Narodne
Novine # 142, October 28, 1998).
vi. Enforcement Activities; During the project, the CROSEC opened 57 investigations of possible
violations of the Securities Law and Investment Fund Law, of which 22 has been closed. Thirty-
one referals have been made to the Public Prosecutor. There are currently 25 enforcement action
investigations in process. The investigations concern a variety of possible violations, including
market manipulation, failure to disclose material information, insider trading, conducting
unregistered brokerage activity, and fraud
vii. Regulation of Investment Funds; The CROSEC has licensed 19 management companies and 13
investment funds. The CROSEC has also licensed an open-end mutual fund which is making
periodic disclosure and valuing its portfolio in accordance with International Accounting
Standards. In addition, the CROSEC has been conducting oversight and inspections of the
activities of seven privatization investment funds. This oversight includes a review of all fund
advertising to ensure that advertisements do not contain unrealistic statements. Finally, the
CROSEC drafted a model disclosure document that funds must provide voucher holders before
investing. The CROSEC/Ministry of Privatization program of privatization investment funds
(PIF's) is being closely supervised by the CROSEC, and the program is progressing rapidly. The
PIF's have all been listed for trading on the Varazdin OTC market.
viii. Corporate Finance Regulation; The CROSEC has approved prospectuses for 31 private
placements for a value of over 4.06 billion HRK and 22 public offering prospectuses concerning
the issue of 3.13 billion HRK in securities. Approval of all prospectuses was based upon the
principles of full financial disclosure. The CROSEC is implementing the Takeover Code.
ix. Market Regulation; The CROSEC has registered 51 brokerage companies to date. In addition,
the CROSEC has organized two training seminars for individual securities brokers. The seminars
have included lectures on ethics, domestic securities regulations, modern portfolio theory, and



27
international and domestic trading practices. To date, 172 brokers have received training, and 202
have passed the certification examination.
x.     The Parliament accepted, on March 5, 1999, the first annual report of the CROSEC.
xi.    During the period of March 22-25, the CROSEC successfully sponsored a seminar on the topic of
detecting, preventing and prosecuting securities market manipulation. The CROSEC held the
conference on behalf of the International organization of Securities Commissions, Emerging
markets Committee Working Group 4. Sixty-three representatives of the securities regulatory
bodies from 19 emerging and developed countries attended the seminar.
xii.   The CROSEC is in the final phase of establishing the Public Reference Room in cooperation with
ZAP:
xiii.   The CROSEC is actively involved in a working group that is integrating Croatian laws with those
EU Directives that involve securities.
b. The impact of depository on securities activities (Infrastructure - development of the Securities
Depository Agency and its facilities)
The development of infrastructure of the Securities Depository Agency is advanced to the point that
the target date of going "alive" with the Clearing and Settlement services is set for the January I 9th,
1999. The current loading level of the operating system, as well as planned loading are given in the
tables below.



28
Current
Number of Accounts       Number of Shares       Market Capitalization (Ka)
39,097              3 82-7,276                    47 0,z2 373  40
Domestic individuals                     ,                   ,8,                         4
Domestic companies                      1,995              16,700,387                  3,012,103,835
Foreign individuals                       907 1                55,302                      3,889,642
Foreign companies                         118              15.565,184                  4,930,875,877
Treasury shares                            10                296,869                      71,244,084
Totals                                 42,127              36,445,018                  8,488,436,898
c. The impact of the public awareness campaign
The results of the public awareness campaign could be summarized as follows:
1.   IO minutes education TV episodes, covering elements of the capital markets in general (4) and
coupon privatization broadcasted in four cycles during prime time on the Croatian national
television. The total broacasting time was approximately 3,5 hours.
II.  12 radio series of 10 minutes each, covering all aspects of the capital markets, broadcasted in
some 20 local radio-stations. Each broadcast included a phone-in program of about one hour. The
total brodcasting time could be estimated at 40 hours total.
11. About 500 video tapes containing education TV episodes distributed to different interested
parties.
Planned
Curr.    Dee 99    Jan 00    Feb 00  { Mar 00         Apr00  | Maw 00
No. of securities                               12         16         20         25          30          36
No. of accounts                  42,000     45,000     60,000     70,000     75,000      80,000      85,000
No. ofmarketparticipants             21         23          25        27         29          31          33
Market Value (billion kuna)         8.5  Not possible to predict. Market value will depend on prevailing market
conditions and the bring-on sequence for the various securities.
Daily turnover (thousand kuna)'     130  Not possible to predict. Subject to prevailing market conditions outside
|________ _  >of the control of the SDA.
l________________________    _  Jun 00    Jul 00       Aug 00     Sep 00     Oct-00  I  Nov-00      Dec 00
No. of securities                    42         50         60         70         80          90          100
No. of accounts                   90,000   340,0002    345.000    350,000    355,000     360         365,000
No. of market participants           35         37         39         41         43          45 !        45
Market Value (billion kuna)          8.5  Not possible to predict. Market value will depend on prevailing market
conditions and the bring-on sequence for the various securities.
Daily turnover (thousand kuna)3     130  Not possible to predict. Subject to prevailing market conditions outside of the
| control of the SDA.
In depository-eligible securitie
2 Introduction of the Privatization Investment Funds (PIFs)
In depository-eligible securitie



29
CAPITAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan 3999HR)
Project Input - Output Indicators
COMPONENT
sub-component
INPUTIOUTPUT                       CY1 997    CY 1998 CY 1999 TOTAL
POLICY SUPPORT
CROSEC institutional Develop.
INPUTS
foreign TA months (major TA cont.) ............ ...... 28 . 10   4      42 
OUTPUTS
major reports   ......... ... 3  .......... 1  1     25 
periodic reports .         7.          3        2      12 
training progam months ......... Note (1)    Note (1)   ....   Note (1)  .. Note (1)
study tours .2..............2               6      10  ..         3
General:
Regulations Published            5           0        4       9    Note (4)
Laws Drafted              2          0        0       2    Note (4)
Laws Submitted to Government             2           0       0        2    Note (4)
Amendments Drafted               2          0        0       2
Amendments Submitted to Governement               0          1        0       1
Laws/Amendments Passed by Sabor               2           0       0        2
Employees Hired              19          4        5      27
Enforcement Division:
Investigations Opened             0         20       37      57    Note (4)
Investigations Closed            0          2       20      22    Note (4)
Investment Management Division:
Management Companies Licensed              14           4        1      19    Note (4)
Investment Funds Licensed             0           3      10       13    Note (4)
Corporate Finance Division:
Public Offering Prospectuses Approved          15           1       6       22    Note (4)
Pvt. Placement Prospectuses Approved           22           5        4      31     Note (4)
Market Regulation Division:
Brokerage Companies Registered            24          10       17      51     Note (4)
Individual Brokers Trained         172          0        0     172    Note (4)
Individual Brokers Certified         0         154      48      202     Note (4)
INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
SDA Institutional Development
INPUTS
foreign TA months (major TA cont.)          14         25        6      45
foreign TA months (other TA cont.)         3.5         10       7    20.5
OUTPUTS
major reports             3          9        6      18
periodic reports            1          2        2       5
newsletters                         4       3        7
study tours             2          2        0       4
SDA Infrastructure Development
INPUTS
foreign TA months (major cont.)     Note (2)    Note (2)        Note (2)
domestic TA months        Note (3)    Note (3)        Note (3)
major computer systems              2          0                2



30
OUTPUTS
major reports/business specifications         0           5                5
training progam months      Note (2)    Note (2)         Note (2)
business and operational sys.           0          2        3        5
# of other equipment procurements            4          6               10
PUBLIC AWARNESS
INPUTS
foreign TA months .........9.............. ... 2.5  ...  ...... 11.5 
domnestic TA months .6 .       .1 ....                 ..........7 
OUTPUTS
major reports .2 .      .1                          ..........3
periodic reports .    ........ ............ 1 9..........  .  9
camera-ready printing pkgs .................. 10 .   0 ..    ........ 10.
broadcast-ready video pkgs ...................5. . 0 ....5
broadcast-ready audio pkgs .................. 12 ......... 0   ..  12.
(1) - Traninig program months integrated in the main TA contract
(2) - Training & TA months and included in the contract for the equipment supply
(3) - Domnestic TA months included in the main contract for the Public Awarness Campagn
(4) - Denotes ongoing activity of the CROSEC
World Bank User
\\ECACL02\ECA-PROJECT\CROATIA\PFSD\CAP-MARK.DFV\71CR\CMDPICR 121 6.doc
12116199 2:59 PM



