                                                               55528
       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                International Development Association




                   PROGRESS REPORT
         TO THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
                  IN RESPONSE TO THE
     INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT ON THE




                          ARGENTINA

       SANTA FE ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
                  (Loan No. 7429-AR)




                          June 14, 2010
Contents
Introduction ......................................................................................................................... 1 
Status of Project Implementation ........................................................................................ 3 
Progress Achieved on Each Activity of the Management Action Plan .. Error! Bookmark
not defined. 
Management Recommendations ......................................................................................... 5 

Annex:
Annex 1:              Summary of the Study to Assess the Project's Potential Impacts on
                      Flooding Risks Downstream of Road 19


Table

Table 1.              Management Action Plan ­ Implementation Progress




                                            Abbreviations and Acronyms

DPV                                          Provincial Road Directorate
ESMP                                         Environmental and Social Management Plan
ISR                                          Implementation Status and Results Report
MAP                                          Management Action Plan
MRR                                          Management Report and Recommendation
PIU                                          Project Implementation Unit
PSF                                          Province of Santa Fe
ROW                                          Right of way




                                                                   ii 
 
Introduction

1.     The Inspection Panel submitted its Investigation Report No 49110-AR on the
Santa Fe Road Infrastructure Project to the Board of Executive Directors on July 2, 2009.
On August 13, 2009, Management submitted its Report and Recommendations (MRR),
including a detailed Management Action Plan (MAP) developed in response to the
Inspection Panel's Investigation Report.

2.      On October 20, 2009, the Executive Directors discussed the above reports and the
MAP proposed by Management. The Board asked that Management report on the
progress in implementing the MAP. This Progress Report is being submitted to the Board
in response to that request.

3.     Management has taken action on all items of the MAP, and implementation has
been substantially completed. The counterpart entity (the Government of the Province of
Santa Fe) has followed through on the implementation of the MAP by: (i) exchanging
views with the Project team on the results of the study (an ongoing process as of June
2010 that will involve meetings with the consulting firm, the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) and the provincial Secretary of Water Affairs); (ii) implementing the
communications and consultations strategy as agreed in the Environmental and Social
Management Plan (ESMP); and (iii) fully complying with its responsibility in supervising
the construction works. In addition, it has supported the elaboration of a Strategic
Environmental Assessment (SEA).



Status of Project Implementation

4.     The Project has two key components:

           Component 1 ­ Upgrading National Road 19 (estimated cost, including
           contingencies, US$ 167.4 million, of which US$ 123.9 million will be
           financed by the Bank Loan). This component will transform 130 kilometers of
           National Road 19 in the PSF into a four lane Autovia to expand the capacity
           and road safety of this heavily traveled corridor. The component entails
           building: (i) a two lane carriageway within the right of way (ROW) that will
           serve East-West traffic, which will become one of the main carriageways of
           the future freeway; (ii) three four-lane bypasses of the towns of San Jerónimo
           del Sauce, Sa Pereyra and Frontera (and its twin city San Francisco) within the
           PSF; (iii) alignment improvements for three sharp curves on the existing two
           lane highway; (iv) grade separation interchanges at high trafficked
           intersections ­ National Roads 34 and Rosario Santa Fe Freeway ­ and
           overpasses for railroad crossings; (v) ground-level interchanges at
           intersections with provincial and rural roads; and (vi) turn lanes and returns at
           intervals of about 4-6 kilometers to facilitate safe access to properties along
           the corridor.


                                             1 
 
           Component 2 ­ Institutional Strengthening (estimated cost US$ 2.8 million,
           all Bank-financed). This component will consist of four subcomponents:

           o Sub Component 2.1 ­ Road Safety;
           o Sub Component 2.2 ­ Measurement of logistics costs in the PSF;
           o Sub Component 2.3 ­ Strengthening the strategic planning capacity of the
             PSF;
           o Sub Component 2.4 ­ Strengthening the capacity of the Provincial Road
             Directorate (DPV) to enhance environmental and social management; and
           o Sub Component 2.5 ­ Design of a capacity building program to
             incorporate monitoring and evaluation analysis in infrastructure projects.

5.    Key Project dates. The Santa Fe Road Infrastructure Project was approved by the
Board of Directors of the World Bank on February 13, 2007 and the Loan Agreement
became effective on August 17, 2007. The closing date is June 30, 2012.

6.     Disbursements. As of June 2, 2010, disbursements totaled US$ 64.56 million,
equivalent to 50.96 percent of the total (US$ 126.7 million) loan amount.

7.     Status of the Upgrading of National Road 19. The execution of the Project is
proceeding according to the set time plan. There have been no major delays in the
implementation of Project components. Construction works began in May 2008. The
progress of the works has complied with the schedule set out in construction contracts.
Through June 2010, the progress of works in the five construction sections of Road 19
averaged 53 percent. According to the construction contracts and the works program, the
upgrading of National Road 19 is expected to be completed by May 2011.

8.      Supervision missions and Project ratings. On April 19-23, 2010, the Project
team carried out the Mid Term Review Supervision mission. The team visited the whole
length of the upgrading of Road 19, including all critical hydrological spots mentioned in
the Requests for Inspection. The assessment of the Project team is reflected in the ISRs
which give the Project a satisfactory rating overall (both for the likelihood of achieving
its development objectives and for implementation progress).




                                            2 
 
Progress Achieved on Each Activity of the Management Action Plan

9.    The following table describes the implementation status of each component of the
Management Action Plan.

                      Table 1. Management Action Plan ­ Implementation Progress
Relevant OP/                  Action                                      Implementation Progress
Issue/Finding
Potential environmental risks and impacts in the area of influence. OP/BP4.01
               The Province of Santa Fe (PSF), at         A well respected engineering consulting firm was hired to
               the request of the Bank, will conduct      carry out the study proposed in the MAP.
               a downstream analysis similar to           The study takes into consideration the shortcomings
               that conducted for the upstream area       identified by the Inspection Panel, namely: (i) lack of
               of Road 19. The study will use the         coherence in the basic criteria used in the different studies
               same methodology agreed upon for           for upgrading the three sections of Road 19; and (ii)
               the studies that simulated the impact      different modeling approaches used in the hydrological
               of flooding in the areas upstream of       studies for the same three sections.
               Road 19. The results of the study          The study shows that, for rainfall events with return
               will be presented following the same       periods of 25 and 50 years, and even with the exceptional
               scheme used for the upstream study.        event of March 2007 (equivalent to return periods of 100
               The results of the study will allow a      years), the "with Project" situation upstream of Road 19
               comparison of the with Project             is better than the "without Project" situation and the
               situation with the without Project         situation downstream does not change with the Project
               alternative. The study will cover the      nor does it affect the performance upstream.
               whole length of the road with              Annex 1 provides a more detailed summary and
               particular focus on critical               explanation of the study. A copy of the report, including
Project's      evacuation streams.                        the simulations prepared by the consulting firm, was
potential      The study will also include                submitted to the Inspection Panel on May 21, 2010.
impacts on     environmental mitigation measures          The PSF is in the last step of the hiring process of an
flooding risks if the results identify negative           expert in strategic environmental assessments (SEAs).
downstream impacts associated with the Project.           The expert contract is, as of June 2010, awaiting the
of Road 19     This study is expected to be               signature of the Governor of Santa Fe. The approval and
               completed within a period of 6             signature of the Governor will constitute an explicit
               months. Its results will be                endorsement of the SEA at the highest political level.
               appropriately documented in                This SEA will be the first in the history of the PSF. The
               supervision reports (e.g., Aide            road network will be the pillar of this SEA, which is
               Memoires) and Implementation               planned to be a participatory process. The documents
               Supervision Reports (ISRs).                produced as the SEA is developed will be made public by
               The PSF has agreed with                    the PSF.
               Management to carry out the
               Strategic Environmental Assessment
               that is an integral part of the
               institutional strengthening
               component of the project. The
               Strategic Environmental Assessment
               will allow the PSF to elaborate a
               methodology to identify and
               measure the major impacts and risks
               associated with road investments.
Consultation and communication with Project Affected People. OP 4.12
Communi-        As part of Project implementation,        In the period between the presentation of the MAP
cation on       the ESMP communication program            (August 2009) and the preparation of this progress report,

                                                     3 
 
                       Table 1. Management Action Plan ­ Implementation Progress
Relevant OP/                   Action                                    Implementation Progress
Issue/Finding
flood risks     calls for community meetings during       several community meetings were held in the localities
                the construction phase. Stakeholder       along National Road 19 between Santo Tomé and
                engagement, communication and             Frontera. Some of these meetings were organized
                consultation will remain an integral      following a request made by Project Affected People,
                part of this communication program.       while others follow the communication plan set in the
                Stakeholder involvement will also         Project's ESMP. The dates, places and major issues
                continue to be an important element       discussed in each community meeting were:
                in the Bank's discussions with the        1) September 16, 2009: meeting with representatives of
                Government as part of                         Colonia San José Telecommunications Cooperative.
                implementation support and                    Topic: treatment of aerial and underground cables in
                supervision. Particular attention will        the Project area. Participants: 8 people.
                continue to be devoted to presenting,     2) October 14, 2009: meeting with Project Affected
                in an easily understandable way,              People of the localities of Sa Pereira and San Jerónimo
                past and future hydrologic and                del Sauce. Topic: impact of the upgrading of Road 19
                hydraulic studies that assess the             on flood risks. Participants: 17 people.
                impacts of the Project on the area        3) February 24, 2010: meeting with Project Affected
                surrounding Road 19.                          People from Santo Tomé. Topic: environmental and
                                                              social impacts of alternative engineering drainage
                                                              solutions for the upgrading of Road 19. Participants:
                                                              80 people.
                                                          4) February 18 and March 23, 2010: meeting with
                                                              farmers in the area of Colonia Cello. Topic:
                                                              clarification of causes of water logging in the
                                                              intersection of Provincial Road 20 and Road 19.
                                                              Participants: 30 people.
                                                          It should be highlighted that the communication and
                                                          consultation activities included in the ESMP do not only
                                                          include issues strictly related to communication on flood
                                                          risks. Issues related to road safety during construction,
                                                          location of access to industries and farms, lighting and
                                                          bus stops are also part of information requests received
                                                          through various communication mechanisms designed
                                                          and implemented for this Project. The main project
                                                          specific communication tools include: community
                                                          meetings in the Project area, a Project-specific email
                                                          address, physical mailboxes and community information
                                                          centers (six along Road 19) and the public dissemination
                                                          of the Project's ESMP on the PSF's official website
                                                          (www.santafe.gov.ar). The PIU registers all requests for
                                                          information and records all the exchanges of information
                                                          and interaction with the originator of the request until a
                                                          formal response is provided.
                                                          In order to provide information on the progress of works
                                                          and to remind Project Affected People about all
                                                          communication mechanisms available, the PSF has
                                                          produced, since November 2008, five information
                                                          bulletins that were distributed in more than ten localities
                                                          in the Project area and sent electronically to the main
                                                          local radios, newspapers, industries, schools and
                                                          municipal governments (copies of the information
                                                          bulletins are available in Project files). Several of these


                                                     4 
 
                       Table 1. Management Action Plan ­ Implementation Progress
Relevant OP/                   Action                                       Implementation Progress
Issue/Finding
                                                             bulletins include information on flooding issues.
Project supervision. OP 13.05
               Management is committed to                    Management is complying with this action. Three
               continue providing the necessary              supervision missions (in March, July and December) led
               resources to conduct enhanced                 by the Washington-based Task Team Leader were carried
               supervision of the Santa Fe Road              out in calendar year 2009. In 2010 the Project Mid Term
               Infrastructure Project. The enhanced          Review supervision mission took place in April and
Project
               supervision consists of at least three        supervision missions are planned for August and
supervision
               supervision missions per year with            November.
until the
               the participation of the Washington-          Since January 2009 several field visits by local
closing date
               based Task Team Leader and                    environmental and social consultants and engineers have
of the Project
               several other visits to the field by          been carried out, as follows:
               local environmental and social                Engineering consultant: May, August and October, 2009;
               consultants, as well as direct                February and June, 2010.
               attention by regional management.             Environmental and social consultants: August 2009 and
                                                             February 2010.



Management Recommendations

10.    As noted above, Management has taken action on all items of the MAP, and its
implementation has been substantially completed. Going forward, the Bank will continue
to make sufficient resources available to finance enhanced supervision of the Project.

11.     Based on the implementation of the MAP, the positive results of the downstream
studies requested by the Inspection Panel, and the submission of this report, Management
proposes to take no further action on this matter.




                                                        5 
 
                                    Annex 1:
         Summary of the Study to Assess the Project's Potential Impacts on
                     Flooding Risks Downstream of Road 19
Introduction

In its Investigation, the Panel considered that the methodologies used by engineering
consulting firms to assess flood risks caused by the Project to upgrade Road 19 were not
homogeneous and that the evidence presented in the studies did not allow for the
conclusion that the upgrading of Road 19 would not cause harm to the Project Affected
People. Management concurred with the Panel that all hydrological and hydraulic studies
should be based, from the early stages of Project preparation, on a unique and
homogeneous methodology.

In addition, the Panel found that the assessment of potential impacts upstream of Road 19
was appropriate and in compliance with OP 4.01, except in respect of the Project's
potential impact on flooding in the areas located downstream of the road to be upgraded
under the Project.

With the objective of addressing the Panel's finding of non-compliance regarding the
downstream area, the Management Action Plan proposed to conduct a downstream
analysis similar to that conducted for the upstream area of Road 19.

The Action Plan proposed to have the downstream analysis / study rely on the same
methodology agreed upon with the Panel during its investigation for the studies that
simulated the impact of flooding in the upstream areas. The results of the study would be
presented using the same format used for the upstream study, in order to facilitate
understanding of the results by all interested parties. Thus, the results of the study would
allow a comparison of the with Project situation with the without Project alternative. The
study would cover all the critical watersheds along the segments of Road 19 to be
upgraded.

The Study

A well known Argentine engineering consulting firm that met to discuss engineering
designs with the Inspection Panel during the investigation phase was hired in November
2009 to carry out the complementary study required by the Action Plan. The main
objective of the study was to address the shortcomings identified by the Inspection Panel:
(i) lack of coherence in the basic criteria used in the different studies for upgrading the
three sections of Road 19; and (ii) different modeling approaches used in the hydrological
studies for the same three sections.

The supervision mission that visited Santa Fe in mid April 2010, held two meetings in
Buenos Aires with the engineers of the consulting firm in charge of the complementary
study, one on April 16 to understand the status and contents of the study and another on
April 23 after the Project team carried out several field visits as part of the Mid Term
Supervision mission. A brief summary of the basis and conclusions of the study follows
below.

                                             6 
 
The study included the analysis of the following watersheds:

        Los Cuatro Sauces located between km 22+800 and 22+830 in Section I of the
        Project. The study completely revised the analysis of this watershed because it
        was affected by the lack of homogeneity among the methodologies used to assess
        flood risks in the watersheds of Sections II and III of the Project and also because
        of the Panel's requirement to conduct simulations for the possible impacts of the
        Project on downstream flooding risks.

        Cañada del Sauce (or Canal Santa María) and Arroyo del Sauce at km 38+40 in
        Section II of the Project. In this case the Panel found that the potential impacts
        upstream of Road 19 were satisfactorily analyzed and proposed that the
        methodology and parameters utilized here be used to review the remaining
        watersheds. Therefore, for these two watersheds the study only analyzed the
        downstream area and the potential effect of downstream flooding on the upstream
        flooding profile.

        Arroyo Colastiné at km 48+100 in Section II of the Project. This watershed was
        initially studied using the Rational Method. The new study carried out to comply
        with the Action Plan jointly analyzed upstream and downstream flooding.

In the case of Los Cuatro Sauces, the study:

        Applied methodologies based on The Unit Hydrograph Theory to estimate the
        effective rainfall. These methodologies were already applied in the cases of the
        Cañada del Sauce (or Canal Santa María) and Arroyo del Sauce (both in Section
        II of the Project), but not in the case of Los Cuatro Sauces (Section I).

        Confirmed that the Project will not increase the risk of flooding in the area
        surrounding Road 19 and that the road, as designed, will not create a "dam
        effect," because the hydraulic structures under construction will properly evacuate
        the flood flows generated by the storms with return periods of 25 years (as
        required by the Argentine National Road Directorate for culverts and small
        drainage structures) and 50 years (as required by the same institution for small
        bridges) and even for exceptional rainfall such as that which occurred in March
        2007.

        Confirmed that the Project's cross drainage structures are sufficient to evacuate
        the rainfall and will not be determined by downstream conditions in the three
        cases of rainfall mentioned in the previous paragraph.

        Carried out the analysis of the Project's flooding impacts in the areas downstream
        of Road 19, concluding that the situation downstream is the same in the situations
        "with project" and "without project" and therefore, it is not affected by the
        upgrade of Road 19 and the dimensions of its cross drainage structures.



                                               7 
 
      Performed a downstream hydraulic analysis to define the proper boundary
      conditions and the effects of the downstream flooding in the upstream flooding.

      Determined the return period for the extreme March 2007 event, using hourly
      precipitation data and a model similar to the one used in the previous analysis for
      Section II of the Project. The consultants concluded that the return period for such
      a flood is a little over one hundred years.

For all watersheds the study:

      Considered precipitation and evapo-transpiration, as well as the capacity of soil-
      water storage processes, which result in water excess most of the time.

      Took into account the "spatial variability" of an intense rainfall, converting for
      that purpose the rainfall at a specific point into an average rainfall over an area,
      by multiplying the rainfall at a specific point by a correction factor.

      Considered a possible climate change effect by multiplying the precipitation
      values obtained for the 25 and 50 year return periods by a factor greater than one.

      Presented the results of the studies for the upstream and downstream areas
      following the same format used for the previous upstream studies, showing areas
      of flooded land in the three cases of rainfall studied, the time necessary to
      evacuate flood waters, and the flood levels reached, under both the "with project"
      and "without project" scenarios.

All these results were achieved:

      Taking into account the land use changes and construction of informal channels
      built by the landowners to properly define the watershed areas and concentration
      times.

      Using a multiplying factor to the precipitations of 25 and 50 years of return to
      take into account a possible climate change effect.

In all cases the resulting values show that: (i) the "with project" situation improves upon
the "without project" situation in terms of flooded areas, evacuation time and levels of
water; and (ii) the flooding downstream of the road does not change with the Project nor
does it affect the upstream flooding of the land.

In only one location (Arroyo Colastiné) and only in the event of an exceptional
recurrence such as the storm of March 2007, the study found a very small "dam effect,"
of very limited duration, that could increase the flooded area upstream of Road 19 by
about 3 percent compared with the "without project" situation, due to the elevation of the
new road. A positive aspect of this brief "dam effect" is that flood waters would not flow
over the existing carriageway during the storm. Moreover, the small change in the
upstream flooding area (3 percent) is within the margin of error of the methodology used

                                            8 
 
for the study and, therefore, it is uncertain to occur in practice. In addition, it is important
to consider that the "dam effect" would only occur in the event of a 100-year flood like
the one which occurred in March 2007. Finally, it is worth noting that the small "dam
effect" would be of very short duration.

Nonetheless, since this small "dam effect" can be completely eliminated by adding a
small culvert (no wider than 5m) at very low cost, the Bank's mid April mission proposed
to the Borrower (the Province of Santa Fe) that this small additional work be included in
the Project, to eliminate all risk of any increase in the upstream flooded area of the
Arroyo Colastiné. The Province of Santa Fe agreed to study the proposed engineering
solution in detail as it fully endorses the Action Plan and is committed to implement all
the items included in the Action Plan that fall under its fiduciary and legal responsibility,
including the environmental mitigating measures resulting from the studies of the
downstream area.

No other mitigation measures are proposed by the complementary study, since it has not
identified other negative impacts associated with the Project.

In summary, the complementary study shows that, for rainfall events with return periods
of 25 and 50 years, and even with the exceptional event of March 2007, the "with
project" scenario upstream of Road 19 is better than the "without project" scenario. In
addition, the situation downstream does not change with the Project nor does it affect the
performance upstream.




                                               9 
 
