                                    Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR2776



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (Loan No. 7429-AR)

                                     ON A LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$126.7 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                       PROVINCE OF SANTA FE, ARGENTINA

                                        FOR A

            PROVINCE OF SANTA FE ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT


                                     June 24, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective March 15, 2013)

         Currency Unit = Argentine Peso (AR$)
                   AR$4.95 = US$1

                    FISCAL YEAR
               [January 1 – December 31]

              Abbreviations and acronyms

CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CECI                Cámara de Empresas y Corredores
                    Immobiliarios de la Provincia de Santa Fe
GDP                 gross domestic product
DNV                 Dirección Nacional de Vialidad
DPV                 Dirección Provincial de Vialidad
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
ESMP                Environmental and Social Management Plan
GoSF                Government of Santa Fe
HDM                 Highway Development and Management Model
IIRSA               Initiative for the Integration of Regional
                    Infrastructure in South America
ISR                 Implementation and Status and Results Report
NPV                 Net Present Value
NR                  National Road
PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
PDO                 Project Development Objective
PFM                 Provincial Financial Management System
PMU                 Project Management Unit
PSF                 Province of Santa Fe
PR                  Provincial Road
REP                 Resettlement and Expropriation Plan
SPIFE               Secretariat of Investment Projects and External
                    Financing


              Vice-President:      Hasan Tuluy
            Country Director:      Penelope Brook
             Sector Manager:       Aurelio Menendez
        Project Team Leader:       Lucia Spinelli
           ICR Team Leader:        Lucia Spinelli




                            ii
                                                               ARGENTINA

                                            Santa Fe Road Infrastructure Project


Contents
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

1.     Project context, development objectives, and design .............................................................. 1
2.     Key factors affecting implementation and outcomes .............................................................. 4
3.     Assessment of outcomes ........................................................................................................ 11
4.     Assessment of risk to development outcome ........................................................................ 16
5.    Assessment of Bank and borrower performances (relating to design, implementation and
      outcome issues) ...................................................................................................................... 16
6.     Lessons learned...................................................................................................................... 19
7.     Comments on issues raised by borrower/implementing agencies ......................................... 19
Annex 1. Project costs and financing ......................................................................................... 20
Annex 2. Outputs by component ................................................................................................ 21
Annex 3. Economic and financial analysis (including assumptions in the analysis) ................. 25
Annex 4. Bank lending and implementation support/supervision processes ............................. 31
Annex 5. Beneficiary survey results (if any).............................................................................. 33
Annex 6. Stakeholder workshop report and results (if any) ....................................................... 34
Annex 7. Summary of borrower’s ICR and/or comments on draft ICR .................................... 35
Annex 8. Comments of co-financiers and other partners/stakeholders ...................................... 46
Annex 9. List of supporting documents ..................................................................................... 47
Map ............................................................................................................................................... 48




                                                                         iii
A. Basic Information

4.

5.
                                                                             AR Santa Fe Road
Country:                 Argentina                 Project Name:
                                                                             Infrastructure
Project ID:              P099051                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-74290
ICR Date:                06/28/2013                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                             GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:      SIL                       Borrower:                 THE PROVINCE OF
                                                                             SANTA FE
Original Total
                         USD 126.70M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 126.70M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          USD 126.70M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Treasury and Finance and Ministry of Works, Public Services and Housing
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

6.      B. Key Dates
                                                                                    Revised / Actual
      Process              Date               Process             Original Date
                                                                                        Date(s)
Concept Review:         02/22/2006      Effectiveness:             08/17/2007           08/17/2007
Appraisal:              12/18/2006      Restructuring(s):
Approval:               02/13/2007      Mid-term Review:
                                        Closing:                   06/30/2012           06/30/2012

7.      C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       Moderate
Bank Performance:                                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings            Borrower                          Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:                    Satisfactory
                                              Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                         Satisfactory
                                              Agency/Agencies:


                                                   i
Overall Bank                                            Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                               Satisfactory
Performance:                                            Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                     Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                              Quality at Entry
                           No                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                                   (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                                 Quality of Supervision
                             No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                          (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

8.      D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                           Original                  Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                            1                         5
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                                    99                        95


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                      17
Environmental policies and institutions                                      16                       20
Infrastructure services for private sector development                       33                       40
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                       17                       15
Trade facilitation and market access                                         17                       25

9.      E. Bank Staff
         Positions                            At ICR                                  At Approval
Vice President:              Hasan A. Tuluy                           Pamela Cox
Country Director:            Penelope J. Brook                        Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:              Aurelio Menendez                         Jose Luis Irigoyen
Project Team Leader:         Lucia Spinelli                           Tomas S. Serebrisky
ICR Team Leader:             Lucia Spinelli
ICR Primary Author:          Melanie Glass


10.     F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall purpose of the project is to improve transport conditions along a strategic road


                                                       ii
corridor that links the Province of Santa Fe with regional and international markets. Adding
capacity to National Road 19, a key component of a major bi-oceanic corridor that links the PSF
and the Center Region with Chile and Brazil will reduce logistics costs, facilitate access to major
regional consumption and export markets and foster the effective economic integration of the
Center Region provinces

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not modified.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                       Formally
                                                   Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                      approval                           Completion or
                                                                     Target Values
                                                    documents)                            Target Years
                  Travel time for all road user categories along National Road 19 (between Santo Tome
Indicator 1 :
                  and San Francisco) is reduced.
                                                                                     In all road segments
                                                                                     analyzed reductions
                                                At least 5%
Value                                                                                in travel times
                                                reduction for all
quantitative or                                                                      exceeded the 5%
                                                road user categories
Qualitative)                                                                         target, ranging from
                                                by Project closure.
                                                                                     8% to 23%
                                                                                     reductions.
Date achieved                                   08/18/2007                           11/30/2012
Comments          Indicator was met. Measurements were conducted shortly after the Project's closing
(incl. %          date, given that the new road needed to be operational in order to capture reductions in
achievement)      travel trime.
Indicator 2 :     Road accidents along National Road 19 reduced.
                                                                                     From 2007-2012, the
                                                                                     Province revealed a
                                                Reduction in
                                                                                     13.6% increase in
                                                accidents 20%
Value                                                                                road linked fatalities,
                                                higher than average
quantitative or                                                                      while on NR19, road
                                                reduction of
Qualitative)                                                                         linked fatalities
                                                accidents in the
                                                                                     decreased by 73.3%
                                                PSF.
                                                                                     in the same time
                                                                                     period.
Date achieved                                   08/18/2007                           12/31/2012
Comments
                  Indicator was met. Data provided by the Provincial Road safety Agency corresponds
(incl. %
                  with calendar years 2007 through 2012.
achievement)




                                                     iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target                           Actual Value
                                                                        Formally
                                                   Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                               Revised Target
                                                     approval                             Completion or
                                                                          Values
                                                    documents)                            Target Years
                  Hard and soft road safety interventions in pilot areas (Provinicial Road 1 and 21) fully
Indicator 1 :
                  operational.
                                                                                      Soft interventions
                                                                                      included provision of
                                                                                      equipment to the
                                                                                      Provincial Road
                                               YR 1: Alcohol                          Safety Agency:
                                               testing program                        elaboration of
Value
                  No road safety               operational                            manuals and
(quantitative
                  interventions.               YR 2: hard                             trainings
or Qualitative)
                                               interventions                          Hard interventions:
                                               completed.                             included vertical and
                                                                                      horizontal signaling,
                                                                                      other improvements,
                                                                                      speed reducers,
                                                                                      traffic lights, etc
Date achieved     12/12/2007                   08/18/2007                             12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Indicator was met.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Logistics Unit established and logistics costs measured.
                                                                                     Results achieved
                                                                                     include: (i)
                                                                                     elaboration of a "plan
                                              YR 1: Logistics unit
                                                                                     for the optimization
                                              established
                                                                                     and strengthening of
                                              YR 2: First logistics
Value             Logistics costs are not                                            freight logistics in
                                              costs survey
(quantitative     measured in the Province of                                        the Province ; (ii)
                                              completed
or Qualitative)   Santa Fe                                                           over 60 interviews
                                              YR 3: Second
                                                                                     with public and
                                              logistics costs
                                                                                     private sector
                                              survey
                                                                                     organizations (iii) 2
                                                                                     communication and
                                                                                     consultation wkshops
Date achieved     12/12/2007                     08/18/2007                          06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Indicator was partially met.
achievement)
                  Assessment of the Provincial capacity to produce a strategic development plan is
Indicator 3 :
                  conducted.
Value             The Province does not have YR 1: Assessment                       Results achieved


                                                     iv
(quantitative     a comprehensive strategic      of current                     include: (i)
or Qualitative)   development plan               organizational                 elaboration of
                                                 structure of                   "guidelines for the
                                                 provincial agencies            territorial, urban and
                                                 involved in planning           environmental
                                                 completed                      planning of Villa
                                                 YR 2: Development              Ocampo"; and (ii)
                                                 of a new                       training of over 200
                                                 institutional scheme           people, through 3
                                                 to improve planning            different workshops
                                                 capabilities
Date achieved     12/12/2007                     08/18/2007                     12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Indicator was partially met.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Indicator was partially met.
                                                                                Results achieved
                                              YR 1: Diagnostic of
                                                                                include: (i)
                                              training needs and
                                                                                equipment of DPV's
                                              best equipment for
                                                                                environmental unit
                                              the unit's needs
                                                                                and training of its
                                              YR 2: Based on
                                                                                staff; and (ii)
Value             DPV has an environmental diagnostic,
                                                                                elaboration of a
(quantitative     unit but lacks training and equipment is
                                                                                Strategic
or Qualitative)   equipment                   purchased and
                                                                                Environmental
                                              training program is
                                                                                Assessment of the
                                              organized
                                                                                Provincial territory
                                              YR 3: Training
                                                                                (concluded after the
                                              program is
                                                                                Project's closing
                                              completed
                                                                                date)
Date achieved     12/12/2007                     08/18/2007                     06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Indicator was met
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Management Unit knowledge of monitoring and evaluation techniques is increased.
                                            YR 1: Introductory
                                            training on M&E is
                                            organized
Value             M&E is not a component of YR 2: Follow up
(quantitative     provincial infrastructure course on M&E
or Qualitative)   projects                  YR 3: Course on
                                            impact evaluation
                                            techniques is
                                            organized
Date achieved     12/12/2007                08/18/2007
Comments
(incl. %          Indicator was not met.
achievement)



                                                      v
11.    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

         Date ISR                                                 Actual Disbursements
 No.                          DO                       IP
         Archived                                                    (USD millions)
  1     03/15/2007        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                0.00
  2     09/11/2007        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                0.00
  3     03/11/2008        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                0.03
  4     10/22/2008        Satisfactory             Satisfactory               17.20
  5     04/09/2009        Satisfactory             Satisfactory               27.60
  6     10/09/2009        Satisfactory             Satisfactory               45.05
  7     04/09/2010        Satisfactory             Satisfactory               60.50
  8     11/27/2010        Satisfactory             Satisfactory               89.95
  9     05/21/2011        Satisfactory             Satisfactory              107.98
 10     12/13/2011        Satisfactory             Satisfactory              120.58
 11     06/27/2012        Satisfactory             Satisfactory              125.28


12.   H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



13.    I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi
1.     Project context, development objectives, and design

1.1    Context at appraisal

1.      Following the 2001–2002 economic crisis, Argentina’s rate of recovery was
impressive, with average rates of gross domestic product (GDP) growth around 9 percent
between 2003 and 2006. This rate of economic growth was paralleled at the provincial level,
with Santa Fe seeing a rapid rate of economic growth starting in 2003. Important engines of
this recovery were the agricultural and industrial sectors, representing approximately 45
percent of GDP nationwide and exerting increasing pressure on the national infrastructure
and transportation sector. The devaluation of 2002 created extremely favorable terms of trade
for Argentine commodities and increased exports, further increasing the demand for
transportation services and enhanced regional integration.

2.      At the time of appraisal, the Province of Santa Fe (PSF) accounted for 42 percent of
Argentina’s total agro-industrial exports. It occupies a strategic location in the Center Region
of the country, accounting for 20 percent of the Argentine population and 25 percent of
national GDP. Additionally, the province is at the heart of many of the major transportation
arteries of the country, representing an ideal gateway for Argentina’s agricultural exports,
particularly with key regional partners such as Chile and Brazil.

3.      At the time of appraisal it was estimated that approximately 60 percent of logistic
costs in the country were transportation costs, reducing the competitiveness of Argentine
products. As a response to these challenges, the Government of Santa Fe (GoSF) established
as a key objective to improve the efficiency of the transportation sector, particularly the road
sector, which accounts for nearly 80 percent of total freight movements. Additionally, given
the economic context, the GoSF intended to link its investments in infrastructure in general,
and transportation specifically, to the productive sector, ensuring that infrastructure
investments served as a means of fostering integration among the main productive regions
within the province, between the province and the broader Center Region, and between
Argentina and its key commercial partners within the region.

4.       National Road 19 (NR 19) has a strategic role to play in increasing provincial
competitiveness and fostering regional and international integration. Connecting the cities of
Santo Tome in Santa Fe and San Francisco in Cordoba, this 136 kilometer road constitutes
part of a bi-oceanic integration corridor linking the economies of Mercosur with Chile, one of
the key axes of integration identified by the Initiative for the Integration of Regional
Infrastructure in South America (IIRSA). Traffic levels on this road corridor increased by 40
percent between 2003 and 2006 as a result of the booming economic growth and increased
agricultural exports; however, the limited capacity of this strategic corridor imposed a clear
infrastructure bottleneck to growing transportation flows. This placed the upgrading of NR 19
from a two-lane to a four-lane road among the top priorities of the GoSF, despite the fact that
it is a national road under the national government’s jurisdiction, with the province taking on
the project in order to accelerate its execution. This priority was maintained despite the
change in the provincial government and leading political party in December 2007.

5.     Rationale for World Bank assistance. In line with the 2006–2008 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) (Report 36430), discussed at the Board on June 6, 2006, which
intended to transition World Bank support from emergency response to crisis recovery, the
Bank played a key role in transforming the road sector in the country following the

                                                                                              1
2001/2002 economic crisis, helping to reduce the infrastructure and maintenance backlog
generated by postponed investments and strengthen the overall capacity of road agencies in
the country, both at the national and provincial levels. The PSF was a beneficiary of previous
efforts made by the Bank, including the Rural Roads Program (P005980) and the Provincial
Road Infrastructure Program (P070628). The proposed project and its objectives were
strongly aligned with the 2006–2008 CAS objective of improving transportation conditions
along key segments of the trunk road network as a means of fostering regional integration,
increasing productivity, and supporting a path towards sustained economic growth.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and key indicators

6.      The project’s development objective was to improve transportation conditions along a
strategic road corridor linking the PSF with regional and international markets. Additionally,
the project aimed to provide institutional support to the PSF to (i) improve road safety by
implementing a pilot intervention capable of providing valuable qualitative and quantitative
information to the comprehensive road safety action plan prepared by the PSF in 2005; (ii)
identify transportation infrastructure and trade facilitation constraints by setting up a system
to measure logistics costs in the PSF; (iii) reinforce the province’s planning capacity to foster
economic growth; (iv) strengthen provincial capacity to assess and manage environmental
and social impacts of large civil works; and (v) create provincial capacity to monitor and
evaluate large infrastructure projects.

7.      The Result Framework included in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) includes
the following as key indicators for results monitoring: Outcome Indicators: (i) travel time for
all road user categories along NR 19 (between Santo Tomé and San Francisco) is reduced;
and (ii) road accidents along NR 19 are reduced. Intermediate Outcome Indicators: (i) hard
and soft road safety interventions undertaken in pilot areas (Provincial Road 1 and 21) are
fully operational; (ii) the logistics unit is established and logistics costs are measured; (iii)
assessment of provincial capacity to produce a strategic development plan is conducted; (iv)
the capacity of the Dirección Provincial de Vialidad (DPV) environmental unit is
strengthened; and (v) the Management Unit’s knowledge of monitoring and evaluation
techniques is increased.

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) key indicators, and
reasons/justification

8.     Neither the PDO nor the key indicators have been modified.

1.4    Main beneficiaries

9.      The direct beneficiaries of this operation were the PSF and the broader Center Region
of the country, a region that accounts for 20 percent of Argentine population, 40 percent of
total agricultural and livestock activity, and 25 percent of Argentina’s GDP. Given that NR
19 is a strategic component of a bi-oceanic corridor, benefits were not only restricted to the
PSF and the Center Region of Argentina, but also have repercussions for key commercial
partners, primarily Brazil and Chile, expected to benefit from improved transportation
conditions on this trade corridor.




                                                                                               2
1.5           Original Components (as approved):

10.     Component 1. Upgrading National Road 19 (Estimated cost, including
contingencies, US$167.4 million, of which US$123.9 million will be Bank financed).
This component would upgrade 130 kilometers of NR 19 between the town of Santo Tomé in
the PSF and the border of the Province of Córdoba into a four-lane highway with separate
two lane carriageways in each traffic direction to expand the capacity and road safety of this
heavily traveled corridor. The component also provided for the construction of three four-
lane bypasses along NR 19, straightening three sharp curves on the existing two-lane
highway, grade separation interchanges at intersections with high traffic roads and overpasses
for railroad crossings, ground-level interchanges at the intersections with rural and urban
roads, construction of urban boulevards in San Jerónimo de Sauce and San Pereyra, and turn
lanes and returns at intervals of 6 kilometers each. The upgrading of the remaining 6
kilometers of NR 19 in the Province of Cordoba would be financed and executed by the
Federal Government, through the Dirección Nacional de Vialidad (DNV), as established in
the Subsidiary Agreement between the PSF and DNV.1

11.           Component 2. Institutional strengthening (Estimated cost US$2.8 million, all Bank
              financed)

              2.1. Road Safety. Implement a pilot intervention along Provincial Road 21 (PR 21),
              including two types of road safety interventions: (i) hard: including vertical and
              horizontal signaling, shoulders, bus bays, and pedestrian bridges; and (ii) soft:
              including the purchase of alcohol testing equipment and programs to train provincial
              inspectors to improve overall enforcement of road safety legal provisions.

              2.2. Systemic measurement of logistic costs in the PSF. This subcomponent
              originally included the following activities: (i) support creation of a Logistics Unit
              within the provincial administration; (ii) train provincial staff in logistics issues; (iii)
              conduct surveys to measure costs in the PSF and complementary studies to identify
              infrastructure and trade facilitation constraints; and (iv) disseminate findings in
              workshops organized jointly with the private sector.

              2.3. Strengthening the planning capacity of the PSF to prepare a new strategic
              development plan/foster economic growth. This subcomponent originally envisaged
              the financing of studies to (i) conduct a diagnostic assessment of the current
              institutional set-up with an evaluation of the performance of each agency having
              planning responsibilities; (ii) develop a framework listing all activities and a roadmap
              to produce a strategic development plan; and (iii) propose an information sharing
              system for planning purposes to be implemented in the PSF.

              2.4. Strengthening DPV’s capacity to enhance the environmental and social
              management of large civil work projects. This subcomponent was aimed at
              strengthening DPV’s environmental unit to carry out effective planning, design, and
              supervision of environmental and social aspects of civil work. Activities envisaged


                                                            
 
1
    Convenio Complementario No. 2, Article 6, November 28, 2006.

                                                                                                        3
              included training for relevant staff, preparation of manuals, purchase of equipment,
              and preparation of a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA).

              2.5. Design a capacity-building program to incorporate monitoring and evaluation
              analysis in infrastructure projects. This subcomponent was requested by the PSF to
              improve provincial capacity in the area of monitoring and evaluation, with the Project
              Management Unit (PMU) being the original recipient of training in this area.

1.6           Revised components

12.           There were no formal changes to the project’s original components.

1.7           Other significant changes

13.      Although there were no formal changes to project components, original designs under
Component 1 underwent a series of modifications at different stages of project
implementation in order to maximize safety, accommodate new municipal requests, or
respond to social or environmental situations arising throughout implementation. Various
activities under Component 2 also underwent some modifications in terms of their final scope
and results, which should have been reflected in modifications to the original intermediate
outcome indicators included in the project’s Result Framework.

14.     Restructurings. The project underwent a first restructuring in April 2008 to apply the
Bank’s new pricing policy to the loan, including the deletion of the commitment charge, the
inclusion of the front-end fee, and the corresponding reallocation of funds under the project’s
cost table to accommodate the front-end fee,2 as well as the elimination of interest waivers. A
second and final restructuring was undertaken in May 2011, reallocating all funds under the
unallocated category (approximately US$20 million) to Component 1 (upgrading NR 19).
This restructuring formalized a financing arrangement envisaged from the beginning of the
project, given that the PAD had already estimated Bank financing under Component 1 at
US$123.9 million (equivalent to the US$103.9 million formally allocated plus the US$20
million unallocated for contingencies). However, total cost of works in May 2011 was
estimated at US$175 million, vis-à-vis the original estimation of US$165 million (including
contingencies). This revised cost estimate was primarily due to changes made to the original
project design, particularly in the urban area of Santo Tome, under Lot 1, with the original
contract amount rising 16 percent.

2.            Key factors affecting implementation and outcomes

2.1           Project preparation, design, and quality at entry

15.    Soundness of background analysis. This project was specifically requested by the
PSF, as part of an agreement between the Bank and the Government of Argentina, to cancel
undisbursed tranches of outstanding development policy loans, including three provincial
reform loans (Cordoba, Santa Fe, Catamarca), redirecting undisbursed funds to investment
operations in said provinces. As such, this was a demand-driven loan, with all preparatory
                                                            
 
2
 Reallocation of funds from Category 5 (Unallocated) to Category 3 (Front-end fee) in the amount of
US$316,750.

                                                                                                      4
work being undertaken and financed by the PSF. Preparatory studies included technical
designs for the various road sections, as well as environmental and social studies. All of this
background analysis undertaken by the province, informing project preparation, is considered
to have been instrumental to effective project design.

16.     Technical designs were contracted out to three different consultant firms, although
efforts were made by the province to make designs homogenous and ensure coordination
among the three consultant firms, as well as between these firms and the firm in charge of the
environmental and social studies. The concept of “green road? (or via verde) was established
early on in preparation, serving as a guiding criterion for technical designs and explaining the
inclusion of several environmentally driven measures within the road design. Parallel to the
engineering studies, the province contracted with an independent consultancy to undertake
required environmental preparation work, whereas traditionally each consultant firm in
charge of technical designs would undertake its own environmental evaluation. Additionally,
this consultant firm was in charge of developing the project’s Environmental and Social
Management Plan (ESMP), which proved to be a key asset to the project’s successful
outcomes, as explained later.

17.     The participatory approach and open communication strategy undertaken throughout
the project’s life cycle was also evidenced in early stages of project preparation. Measures
taken included information sessions with communities and the establishment of mail boxes in
various community centers (for the collection of questions, consultations, and suggestions).
These communication channels provided a feedback loop to inform project design and
incorporate citizen concerns and knowledge into the project. The project design underwent a
series of improvements as a result of the consultations with beneficiaries, including alignment
of bypasses, location of road crossings, the type of restoration programs within urban areas,
etc.

18.     Assessment of project design. Project design was sound, building on solid
preparatory studies and previous Bank experience in the sector. In many ways, the proposed
operation provided a sense of continuity and complementarity with other Bank loans to the
road sector benefiting the PSF, and drew on lessons learned from these prior interventions in
the sector, including the Provincial Roads Program (P005980) and the Provincial Road
Infrastructure Program (P070628).

19.    Project design was also realistic and straightforward, with components aligned to the
development objective of improving transportation conditions along a strategic road corridor
linking the province with regional and international markets, and providing institutional
support to the province in key areas, including road safety, trade facilitation, planning,
environmental and social management, and monitoring and evaluation.

20.     Project design was also consistent with existing institutional capacity within the PSF
and relied on the presence of prior, formal agreements between the province and the federal
government, specifically DNV, on the precise responsibilities and obligations pertaining to
each party in the execution of the project. Although jurisdictional overlaps between the
federal government and the province added a layer of complexity to the project,
implementation arrangements at the provincial level proved to be a key driver of the project’s
successful implementation. The Project Management Unit (PMU—Unidad de Gestión)
consisting of representatives of the Ministries of the Treasury and Finance (through the
Subsecretariat of Investment Projects and External Financing), and Works, Public Services

                                                                                              5
and Housing (through DPV—Dirección Provincial de Vialidad), drew on existing staff, and
did not rely on project funds for its day-to-day functioning, thereby increasing its
sustainability.

21.     Adequacy of government commitment. The commitment of the Provincial
Government to the project was sustained through project preparation, despite the fact that the
preparation and approval of the project coincided with the end of the political term of the
Governor. Project preparation was concentrated in 2006, with the approval of the Bank’s
Board on February 13, 2007, declared effective on August 17, 2007. A new Provincial
Government entered office on December 10, 2007, with a change to the ruling political party
within the province (the Peronist Party), which had been in office for the preceding 24 years.
However, commitment to the project was sustained despite this change in the political scene,
with no major repercussions in terms of changes to the original project design, changes in the
technical staff at the PMU, or delays in the intended project schedule.

22.     Assessment of risks. Overall, risks were adequately appraised, with some effectively
materializing during implementation. Mitigation measures put in place were also adequately
identified, proving to be effective in minimizing the impact of the risk factors envisaged.
Formal agreements between the province and DNV, clearly establishing the roles to be
played by each party during project implementation, and signed prior to project approval,
minimized the risk of delays in project execution as well as potential uncertainties in terms of
each agency’s accountability vis-à-vis procurement and contract supervision of the work. The
establishment of a fiscal framework for the province with which to monitor key financial
indicators and the capacity of the province to comply with its obligations under the project
also served as a good instrument to minimize the risk of lack of counterpart funding during
implementation. Efforts undertaken to work on the prequalification for civil work projects
and on improving the quality and design of bidding documents—ensuring good work
designs, detailed cost estimates and technical solutions, maximizing competition by allowing
firms to bid for several or all of road segments, among others—also had a significant effect in
keeping costs down. Risks regarding the effective application of Bank safeguards, in
particular in environmental and social safeguards, were addressed through the establishment
of a detailed ESMP and a Resettlement and Expropriation Plan (REP), as well as through an
intensive communication and consultation campaign with affected communities along NR 19.
However, despite these efforts, unforeseen impacts did materialize both in project preparation
and implementation; particularly on environmental and social safeguard related issues,
leading the PMU and the Bank to tailor case-by-case solutions and mitigation measures, as
issues appeared. This is further detailed in the following section on implementation.

2.2    Implementation

23.    Management of social and environmental issues arising during implementation
was exemplary. The technical design of the work favored social and environmental criteria,
making safety a guiding principle of the project and going beyond the requirement of seeking
to minimize environmental and social impacts. Rather, the design sought to generate,
wherever possible, social and environmental benefits within the project’s area of influence
and associated communities. Both the ESMP and the REP were extremely comprehensive,
including a landscaping program, a road safety program, a program to preserve the network
of provincial roads, a program to improve conditions in the urban area of Santo Tome, a
program for the installation of urban ring roads and boulevards, a program to preserve the



                                                                                              6
natural and cultural patrimony of the region, a program for environmental management of
works, and programs for the effective compensation of affected households and businesses.

24.     Effective communication strategy throughout implementation. Project
implementation was characterized by an extremely active information, communication, and
participatory strategy. This included actions ranging from informative meetings with
communities, the installation of five community points of information,3 the printing and
distribution of biannual informative bulletins and other graphic materials, the online
publication of news and progress reports on the work, the delivery of road safety workshops
in schools, and the registering and follow-up of consultations and complaints received by
users throughout project implementation.4

25.    However, despite good frameworks in place in terms of environmental and social
safeguards, and the active communication and participatory approach adopted during
implementation, instances of social discontent and protest against the project were seen
during preparation and implementation, with one case, described below, being the subject of
an Inspection Panel investigation.

26.     Inspection Panel investigation. Early in project preparation and implementation, and
prior to the actual initiation of work, the Bank’s Inspection Panel received a series of
requests, raising diverse issues, including loss of employment, expropriations, loss of
productivity of affected farm land, sound and visual contamination, lack of appropriate
communication on the project, and a potential rise in mortality rates during construction
phase, etc. The two initial requests did not lead to an investigation by the panel. The third and
most significant request, in September 2007, was submitted by residents of Franck, a town
along the segment of NR 19 to be upgraded under the project, on behalf of themselves and
other residents of the project-affected area. The requesters claimed that water drainage in the
project's design was insufficient, and as a result, the proposed elevation of the new
carriageway to be built would increase the risk of flooding in the area. They also argued that
disclosure of information and consultations were inadequate during preparation. The panel
considered that the issues of road design and flood risk, as well as those of information
disclosure and consultation on resettlement and environmental aspects, were relevant for they
could potentially imply noncompliance with Bank policies and operational procedures, in
particular OP/BP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment and OP/BP 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement. As a result of the inspection, the panel concluded that the original ESMP did
not fully analyze the project’s potential hydrological impacts both upstream and downstream
of NR 19, stating that “Project design was considerably more concerned with the impact of
environmental conditions on the road rather than the impact of the road on the environment.?
As a result, the Inspection Panel Investigation Report No. 49110-AR dated July 2, 2009
concluded that the ESMP was not fully in compliance with OP/BP 4.01 and did not properly
provide for measures to mitigate potential downstream hydrologic impacts. In terms of claims
raised regarding communication and consultation during preparation, the panel concluded
that there were no instances of noncompliance with Bank policies and procedures and that

                                                            
 
3
 Santo Tome, San Agustín, Jerónimo de Sauce, Pereira, Plaza Cresellas, and Frontera.
4
 From the initiation of work in March 2008 until May 2012, the number of consultations totaled 133, with most
concentrated in the first year of work, and dealing with a variety of issues including access resolutions, timing of
work projects, and demarcation of property boundaries.

                                                                                                                  7
affected people were given the opportunity, through diverse means, to voice their concerns
and suggestions, these being reflected, where appropriate, in project design.

27.    The Management Report and recommendations submitted by the region, dated August
13, 2009, contained an Action Plan with a series of proposed actions, including a
hydrological study for the downstream area of NR 19 and continuing an enhanced
supervision schedule in the remaining implementation period. These were discussed by the
Bank’s Board in October 2009. Throughout this process, which spanned more than 2 years,
the Inspection Panel recognized the significant effort put forth by Bank management, the
project team, and the PMU to address issues raised by the requesters, to achieve full
compliance with Bank policies and procedures through corrective actions in implementation,
and to engage in a constructive and forthcoming dialogue with the affected people, making
the communication and consultation program already in place a pillar in the project’s overall
implementation strategy. During ICR interviews, high “transaction costs? implicit in the IP
process were highlighted both by the Bank team and by the provincial counterpart.

28.     Other relevant cases. Complaints were also raised on kilometer 44.5 where a chapel,
a school, and a bar are located, allegedly too close to the new road, causing safety concerns
among users, owners, and school attendants. Residents of the area submitted a request to the
Bank’s Inspection Panel in September 2011; however, the panel did not register the request
because project implementation was almost completed, with disbursements exceeding 95
percent. Nevertheless, the PMU agreed to include a series of complementary measures to
mitigate the perception of risk among residents of the area. Instances of conflict were also
common regarding the issue of land valuations, with land owners estimating very high costs,
in view of the rising trend in the price of commodities at that time. However, the PMU did an
intensive follow up of all cases. The use of a standardized matrix to follow-up on
resettlements provided an up-to-date record, at all times during implementation, of the status
of the process, its key bottlenecks, and the cases requiring provincial intervention. Wherever
possible, the province tried to further compensate owners for the loss of land through
complementary work projects, including improved accesses, small infrastructure works, and
infrastructure improvements.

29.     Other conflicting issues were recurrent complaints of increased risk of flooding in
case of heavy rains, by what was termed the “dam effect?—given the higher elevation of the
new road vis-à-vis the existing road. As a result, a series of studies was undertaken to
evaluate the capacity of drainage facilities included under the project, in view of
exceptionally strong rains such as those seen in March 2007. Although studies verified the
adequacy of the designs, they did so at the limit of capacity; therefore, if precipitation levels
exceeded those seen in 2007, drainage facilities could collapse. In response, a series of
additional drainage facilities was added to the original design in strategic locations, including
Los Cuatro Sauces, Canada del Sauce, and Arroyo del Sauce.

30.     Finally, other issues arising during the implementation of work and that led to delays
include: (i) a significant omission of the need to relocate a natural gas pipeline by the
consulting firm in charge of engineering designs for the urban section of Santo Tome, leading
to unexpected changes in the original scope of works; (ii) issues regarding the transfer of
interferences, particularly power lines, in various sectors of the work, raising disputes among
parties involved regarding who should bear the cost of these transfers; and (iii) the over-
activation of the rain clause by contractors, leading to extensions in the duration of contracts.



                                                                                               8
2.3           Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) design, implementation and utilization

31.     Design: The PMU contracted with the National University of Cordoba to undertake a
consultancy on design indicators, establish baselines, and define monitoring schemes for NR
19 and PR 21 beyond the monitoring framework already included in the PAD. The approach
undertaken by the University of Cordoba intended to portray the project’s impact on three
different levels: (i) mobility and circulation; (ii) road safety; and (iii) socioeconomic impacts.
This ultimately led to the establishment of multiple indicators5 which, despite being relevant,
presented some degree of inconsistency or overlap with those established under the project’s
Result Framework.

32.     Furthermore, indicators included under the project’s Operational Manual also present
some degree of variance, both with indicators included in the PAD and those used for the
study conducted by the University of Cordoba. In this case, the terminology used is
“improvement in transit conditions? and there is also a reference to evaluating the impact of
the project on production and transportation competitiveness, a dimension which is not
included under the project’s Result Framework. However, given that the Operational Manual
was the only document available in Spanish, the province opted for the use of this document,
vis-à-vis the PAD.

33.     This conceptual disconnect between monitoring indicators established in the Project
Appraisal Document, the project’s Operational Manual, and the study conducted by the
University of Cordoba for the establishment of a baseline and a monitoring and evaluation
methodology added a layer of confusion to a task that should have been straightforward in
referring back to the original result framework.

34.    Beyond the monitoring of outcomes/results, the project relied on semi-annual reports
prepared by the PMU to evaluate overall progress in project implementation. These reports
included information on overall progress of contracts/work, status in terms of financial
management, disbursements, and key procurement processes, among others.

35.    Implementation of the M&E framework. The University of Cordoba, under the
supervision of the PMU, was in charge of collecting the data for establishing baselines and
follow-up measurements. Delays in the initiation of this consultancy meant that the initial
surveys were conducted only in early 2010. However, given that the methodology used
compared a “without project scenario? with a “with project scenario? and that—although
work was initiated in 2008—the new road was only opened to traffic in 2012, this delay did
not impact the quality of the data.

36.     Regarding mobility indicators, a series of manual traffic counts was conducted in
three different locations on NR 19, and the resulting data was utilized to calculate both
average speed/velocity and travel times (through a conversion formula using both average
speed and length of travel). In terms of road safety indicators, the baseline was originally
established with data provided by OCCOVI (Órgano de Control de Concesiones Viales), yet
follow-up data was provided by the Provincial Road Safety Agency, established in 2010.
                                                            
 
5
  (i) Mobility indicators: travel time and average travel speed/velocity; (ii) Road safety indicators: fatality rates
(accidents with fatalities); and (iii) Socioeconomic indicators: increase in land value, opening of new businesses,
new construction permits and variations in tax collection rates.

                                                                                                                   9
Finally, socioeconomic indicators relied on information provided by a series of agencies,
including CECI (Cámara de Empresas y Corredores Immobiliarios de la Provincia de Santa
Fe) for land values, API for tax recollection values, and corresponding municipalities for new
business registrations and new construction permits granted.

37.    In the last Implementation and Status and Results Report (ISR), Monitoring and
Evaluation was downgraded to moderately satisfactory, given that monitoring information
was not systematized as required. However, in December 2012, following the completion of
new traffic counts in October/November 2012, a new report was submitted to the Bank,
showing significant progress.

38.     Utilization. As mentioned previously, the fact that the general methodology used to
evaluate the project’s impacts compared “without? and “with? project scenarios implied that,
by design, this information was not available as a decision-making tool during
implementation because the actual work was only completed toward the very end of the
project. Moreover, given that the measurement of traffic shortly after the opening of the road
would not have allowed for the proper assessment of project benefits or impacts, and that a
reasonable amount of time is required after a ramp-up period for the traffic to reach a
representative level, these measurements were only taken in October/November 2012, after
project closure.

2.4    Safeguard and fiduciary compliance

39.    During preparation the project was classified as Category B. This categorization was
further ratified by the Inspection Panel, which stated that the project was correctly
categorized, in compliance with OP/BP 4.01.

40.     Safeguards—Frameworks, plans, and overall performance. Management of social
and environmental issues during implementation was generally exemplary, and frameworks
in place went beyond what is expected under Bank guidelines. This was evidenced by the fact
that the project earned a prize for the Road Work of the Year in Argentina—a prize granted
by the Argentine Road Association, a civil entity grouping diverse actors linked to the road
sector in the country—on Road Day 2012. The Association praised the road’s design and
implementation as a “green road.? Annex 2 includes two tables summarizing results attained
under the various programs of the ESMP and the REP.

41.     Fiduciary compliance throughout the project was generally satisfactory. Financial
management arrangements in place at the Secretariat of Investment Projects and External
Financing (SPIFE) in the province’s Ministry of Finance provided reasonable assurance that
project funds were effectively allotted to the intended activities in an efficient manner. The
Provincial Financial Management (PFM) System (SIPAF—Sistema Integrado Provincial de
Administración Financiera) was utilized to keep records of all transactions under the project.
All transactions recorded under PFM were subject to internal and external control units,
including the Budget Directorate, the General Accounting Office, the General Treasury, and
the Court of Accounts. In this way, project transactions were fully integrated into the
province’s financial management systems and subject to its internal control framework.
Annual external audits have been submitted to the Bank in a timely manner throughout the
project life, with no major issues being identified. Financial Management performance
ratings in ISRs were consistently satisfactory throughout implementation.



                                                                                           10
42.    Procurement was also consistently rated as satisfactory until the last ISR when it was
downgraded because results of the last ex-post procurement review indicated some delays in
the implementation of the procurement plan and some small instances of procurement
malpractice at the end of the project that had not been identified earlier. Significant efforts
were dedicated to ensuring that bidding processes were adequate, transparent, and
competitive, and that bid prices were reasonable. Although contracts included a clause for the
monthly redetermination of costs in order to mitigate the risk posed by inflation, another
contractual clause to raise the overall cost of the contract was not activated by the contractors,
enabling the parties to complete work within schedule and with no cost overruns.

2.5           Post-completion operation/next phase

43.     Much of the work and programs undertaken under the project called for the
establishment of maintenance and operation plans to guarantee their sustainability in time,
with responsibility for these plans falling on various entities, including the provincial
government, concessionaires, municipalities, DPV, DNV, and even private parties in some
cases. Of particular concern were the transitional arrangements regarding the transfer of work
to DNV, given that this takeover by DNV had not proven to be automatic in segments 4 and
5, which were already eligible for transfer (they had already complied with the stipulated
one-year grace period).

44.     Finally, in terms of work continuity, it is important to note that the continuation of
work on NR 19 up to the provincial capital of Cordoba is included and prioritized within
DNV’s investment plans. This would build on the still ongoing work, under DNV’s
jurisdiction, from the border of Santa Fe to the city of San Francisco in Cordoba, representing
only 6 kilometers.

3.            Assessment of outcomes

3.1           Relevance of objectives, design and implementation

45.     The project objectives remain highly relevant to current priorities, also in line with the
2010–2012 Country Partnership Strategy,6 which continues to focus on the same three pillars
of the previous CAS,7 particularly under its first pillar (Sustainable Growth with Equity),
whose specific objectives include: (i) upgrading Argentina’s infrastructure to address
potential bottlenecks to competitiveness, and underpin medium-term growth and poverty
alleviation; (ii) improving competitiveness, quality, and exports of agriculture and livestock
production; and (iii) addressing a growing problem of resource degradation. This operation,
by focusing on a strategic transportation and logistics corridor, in a region accounting for 20
percent of the Argentine population and 40 percent of total agricultural and livestock activity,
and vital to regional trade, is directly aligned with the objectives set out in this strategy.
Additionally, by virtue of its design as a “green road,? this project also addressed issues of
resource degradation through the landscaping and reforestation program included in the
ESMP.

                                                            
 
6
 Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Argentina 2010 – 2012, May 6, 2009. Report No. 48476-AR
7
 Country Assistance Strategy for the Argentina Republic for the period 2006-2008. May 4, 2006. Report No.
34015-AR.

                                                                                                       11
46.    On a different note, the mode of lending, namely this first direct lending operation to
the Province of Santa Fe by the Bank, also speaks to the relevance of this operation, being
one of three loans to subnational governments, duly guaranteed by the national government,
under the previous CAS. Based on the successful experience in all three cases, the 2010–2012
CAS explicitly states the Bank’s intention “to deepen its engagement with the subnational
levels of government? in Argentina, although few direct lending operations to Argentine
provinces have been approved in the past years.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

47.      When analyzing results, the fact that the key project component (upgrading of NR
19—97 percent of total project cost) was completed on time and in form, with no cost
overrun or extension to the project’s closing date, with 132/135 kilometers upgraded under
the project opened to traffic, is an indication in itself of the project’s success. This was an
extremely ambitious project, requiring the construction of an entire new road, north of the
existing NR 19. Additionally, the project included the construction of bypasses,
circumvallation of urban centers, new bridges (15) on railroad crossings, and other critical
points of intersection, traffic distributors, roundabouts at crossings and returns, as well as a
series of water and drainage works. Construction was subdivided into five different sections,
assigned to four different contractors, and overall, work was undertaken according to the
established construction plans. Significant delays, vis-à-vis the original estimates, were only
seen in 3 kilometers within the urban area of Santo Tome, where work is still underway,
financed by provincial funds. Finally, beyond the successful completion of Component 1,
most of the activities included under Component 2, regardless of their comparative allocation
in terms of financing, were also successfully completed, despite delays in some of the
activities, as detailed below.

48.     In terms of actual result indicators, as set out in the PAD and the Project Result
Framework, two indicators measure the achievement of the Project Development Objective:
(i) travel time for all road user categories along NR 19 (between Santo Tome and San
Francisco) is reduced; and (ii) road accidents along NR 19 are reduced. Detailed results
achieved in terms of the two PDO indicators are presented in the tables below.




                                                                                             12
49.   Regarding results attained on the more specific intermediate outcomes of the project:

      (i)     Hard and soft road safety interventions in pilot areas (PR 1 and PR 21)
      fully operational. Road safety interventions along PR 21 were completed in 2010,
      including vertical and horizontal signaling, improvement of shoulders, construction of
      bus bays, defenses/barriers in dangerous curves, construction of a roundabout in a
      blind spot, Curva de Bassi, installation of speed reducers, installation of traffic lights,
      construction of pedestrian bridges, bike paths, and illumination. Regarding soft
      interventions, a series of measures including the purchase of vehicles and equipment
      for alcohol testing, training programs for police and teachers, the preparation of a
      monitoring and evaluation manual, and a series of consultancies for traffic
      management and mapping of risks, were also completed. Some of the originally
      identified interventions were slightly modified to accommodate requests by
      municipalities along PR 21.

      (ii)    Logistics Unit established and logistics costs measured. A comprehensive
      logistics assessment was carried out by the province under this subcomponent. The
      first phase enabled the province to undertake an analysis of logistics in the province,
      identify key strengths and weaknesses, and outline a proposal on the vision and the
      needs to be met in order to optimize the sector’s progress. The second phase included
      proposals on potential actions that could be undertaken by the province to enhance
      efficiency in the sector, including a proposed organizational chart for a Logistics
      Observatory, its functions, and the normative instruments required for its
      implementation. This consultancy was undertaken with broad participation through
      consultation and over 60 interviews conducted with various entities within the private
      and the public sectors, as well as a series of communication and consultation
      workshops to validate the results of the study. However, the actual implementation of
      the Logistics Unit could not be completed during project execution, with studies being
      finalized in July 2012.

      (iii) Assessment of the provincial capacity to produce a strategic development
      plan is conducted. The Strategic Plan for the province included as one of its projects
      the rehabilitation of “Puerto Ocampo,? located 20 kilometers from the urban area in
      the city of Villa Ocampo. The proposal under this subcomponent was to undertake an
      integral territorial planning exercise within the entire district of Villa Ocampo,
      anticipating future transformations and analyzing territorial, normative, economic,
      and environmental dimensions. Delays were evidenced in the initiation of this task.
      Four consultants were hired to undertake this activity in March 2012, and the work


                                                                                              13
       was carried out between April and June 2012, with the approval of final products
       extending beyond the project’s closing date. However this pilot is expected to be
       extended to other localities within the province, enabling consolidation of the
       province’s experience in terms of territorial and strategic planning.

       (iv)    Capacity of DPV/SFP environmental unit is strengthened. Human resource
       changes in the early stages of project implementation made the initiation of activities
       under this subcomponent complicated, leading to initial delays. However, provision of
       equipment to the unit and the training program envisaged under this subcomponent
       was completed prior to the project’s closing date. Regarding the Strategic
       Environmental Assessment, delays were also seen in the initiation of this activity. The
       Inter-Ministerial Coordination team was established in March 2009 and the activity
       was officially launched in September 2010. However, the actual execution process
       started only in January 2012, when the contracted consultants effectively initiated
       their work. Despite efforts to conclude the task prior to project closing, this was not
       possible, with only the diagnostic phase of the work being completed by June 2012.
       The subsequent phases and payments were undertaken by the province. Currently the
       final report is being reviewed by the PMU.

       (v)    Management Unit knowledge of monitoring and evaluation techniques is
       increased. No activities were undertaken under this subcomponent.

3.3    Efficiency

50.     At appraisal, net economic benefits were evaluated using the Highway Development
and Management Model (HDM-4) Version 1.3, which simulates life cycle conditions and
costs and provides economic decision criteria for multiple road design and maintenance
alternatives. Results of the project’s original cost-benefit analysis estimated the net present
value (NPV) of the road work at US$67.1 million, a 12 percent discount rate over a 28 year
evaluation period, and the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at 19.3 percent. This evaluation
was conducted in September 2006 and was based on costs published by DNV in 2005.

51.     An ex-post economic evaluation was performed in April 2013 on work executed for
the conversion of NR 19 into a four lane road, using the same methodology applied at
appraisal, running the HDM-4, Version 1.3. This ex-post evaluation was undertaken using
costs in Argentine pesos, corresponding to December 2005. Most of the assumptions used to
carry out the ex-post evaluation were identical to those used under the original evaluation,
with the following exceptions: (i) the ex-post economic evaluation is based on the five road
segments under which the works were adjudicated and executed, whereas the original
evaluation was based on three road segments; (ii) the ex-post evaluation does not include the
2.4 kilometer extension corresponding to the urban segment of Santo Tome on road segment
1, given that this segment was subject to considerable modifications vis-à-vis the original
design, during implementation, which were not contemplated under the original economic
evaluation; and (iii) traffic levels used (up to 2012) were those provided by DNV, which
differ from the traffic estimates made in the original evaluation. The original evaluation
assumed growth in traffic rates from year 1 onward, when in fact during the construction
period, due to traffic deviations, there was no significant growth (refer to Annex 3). Traffic
levels only saw a considerable rise in 2012, when the four-lane road was opened to traffic.




                                                                                            14
52.    Results attained in the ex-post economic evaluation are summarized in the table
below:




53.     The consolidated NPV corresponding to the five road segments results in $AR8.82
million, equivalent to US$2.93 million, using December 2005 values/conversion rates. The
consolidated ERR for the five road segments results in a rate of 12.35 percent. Results
attained are lower than those presented in the original economic evaluation, in part because
traffic estimates used in the ex-post evaluation are more realistic, and also because the ex-
post evaluation excludes other benefits (including those generated by the reduction in road-
linked fatalities), resulting in a lower bound estimate of benefits attained.

3.4    Justification of overall outcome rating

54.     Rating: Satisfactory. The overall outcome rating of “satisfactory? is based on the
following: (i) Project objectives and content are still deemed relevant to the country’s and
province’s priorities, and they are aligned to the Bank’s strategy in the country; (ii) Clear
results have been achieved, with the conversion of NR 19 into a four-lane highway, within
the stipulated timeframe and cost estimate; (iii) Results have also been achieved under
Component 2, despite the imbalance regarding resource allocation; (iv) Both PDO indicators
have been met; (v) Four out of five intermediate result indicators were either met or partially
met; and (vi) Ex-post economic evaluation indicates that the project has yielded benefits and
that the project’s ERR remains robust.

3.5    Overarching themes, other outcomes and impacts

(a)    Poverty impacts, gender aspects, and social development

55.     The incredible impact of this project in terms of reduction in the number of road-
linked fatalities on NR 19 (by 73 percent) is without doubt the greatest social and economic
contribution of the project-- road fatalities in Argentina being one of the major causes of
death for young men, often the main breadwinner of the family, implying an enormous
emotional and economic burden on families left behind.

(b)    Institutional change/strengthening

56.    The project proved the existing capacity, at the provincial level, to directly execute
Bank financed projects with good results. Additionally, through the project, the provincial
government was capable of strengthening its capacity in several areas including strategic
planning, road safety, logistics, and overall social and environmental management, with the
preparation and implementation of exemplary ESMPs and RAPs.

(c)    Other unintended outcomes and impacts (positive and negative)




                                                                                            15
57.     The relocation of school number 1303, financed entirely with provincial funds, had a
series of unexpected positive impacts. It is important to mention that throughout the
execution of work, a contingency plan was put in place, transporting all students on a daily
basis to a nearby school, number 353, in San Agustin. This resulted in students completing
the 2009 school calendar year without major disruptions. The new school building started
operating at the start of school calendar year 2010, with a significant increase in the number
of students attending the school (greater than a 300 percent increase).

58.     Other unexpected impacts brought about in the implementation of the REP, as a form
of “compensation? for losses or unwanted situations caused by the work, were the large
number of additional road safety measures applied in the surroundings of school number 334,
in the neighborhood/locality of La Vigilancia. These measures included the installation of
protective barriers (flex beam), the construction of a pedestrian walkway, the paving of part
of the rural road accessing the school, the relocation of a bus stop, the modification of the
point of entry to the school, the construction of the internal access to the school, the
relocation of the playing area, the installation of vertical and horizontal signaling, etc.

3.6    Summary of findings of beneficiary survey and/or stakeholder workshops

No beneficiary survey and/or stakeholder workshop was held.

4.     Assessment of risk to development outcome

59.     Rating: Moderate. Although commitment to this operation and the sustainability of its
results have been sustained at the provincial level throughout the entire implementation
phase, new stakeholders will also play a vital role in ensuring sustainability of results moving
forward into the post-completion phase. These new stakeholders include the federal
Government, through DNV, which will be responsible for ensuring an adequate allocation of
financing for the maintenance of NR 19, and private concessionaires who will also, once the
concession is extended by DNV, play a critical role in guaranteeing that quality standards are
sustained over time.

60.    The existing regulatory frameworks stipulating the responsibilities of all parties in this
post-completion phase and the strict compliance with agreements reached between the
province and the federal government prior to the initiation of the project will combine to
provide an important instrument for ensuring the sustainability of project outcomes in the
coming years. Additionally, the institutional continuity of the PMU and its staff, as well as its
technical capacity, will certainly play a role in safeguarding the results attained by the project
going forward.

5.    Assessment of Bank and borrower performances (relating to design,
implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank

(a) Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry

61.     Rating: Satisfactory. Bank performance during preparation and appraisal is rated as
satisfactory. Project preparation built upon previous Bank experience in the sector and was
strongly aligned to the existing Country Partnership Strategy and government priorities, while

                                                                                               16
remaining innovative in the form of lending, this being the first direct lending to the Province
of Santa Fe. The Bank team in charge of preparation correctly identified and appraised the
mix of benefits and risks implied in this form of lending and adequately crafted mitigation
measures to reduce potential risks, for example, through the establishment of a fiscal
framework as part of preparation to minimize the risk of lack of counterpart financing during
implementation and to monitor the overall financial health of the province. Although, as
mentioned previously, a large part of the preparatory work on the technical side was
undertaken by the province itself, the Bank did provide extensive technical support to the
client through various Bank specialists during preparation.

62.     Project design was satisfactory overall, guided by strong environmental and social
principles, including its design as a “green road? and the establishment of a very
comprehensive ESMP, as well as the establishment of “safety? as a unifying vector/criterion
throughout preparation (and implementation). The only possible shortcoming in terms of
project design relates to monitoring and evaluation, given discrepancies in indicators used
and the inability to measure results indicators throughout implementation.

63.    Finally, as mentioned previously, the project faced an Inspection Panel Investigation
during the preparatory phase, making this initial phase particularly challenging and time
consuming for the World Bank team (as well as for the executing agency). However,
preparation managed to move forward, and this did not translate into implementation delays
down the road.

(b) Quality of supervision

64.     Rating: Satisfactory. Bank supervision is rated as satisfactory. This operation was
subject to an extremely intensive supervision effort on behalf of the Bank team, particularly
after the Inspection Panel Investigation, given that one of the agreed to measures under the
Action Plan was the adoption of an “enhanced supervision? approach by the Bank. This
implied very regular supervision missions to the province, on average every 3 to 4 months
throughout implementation. In addition to missions undertaken by the World Bank team, the
Bank supported implementation through a network of local consultants providing advice to
the province on various issues arising throughout project execution (e.g., social,
environmental, engineering,). This intensive supervisory effort paid off in the long run and
resulted in an extremely positive working relationship with the province. This relationship
was characterized by a very dynamic flow of communication and very high problem solving
capacity on a day-to-day basis. Additionally, safeguard-related supervision by the Bank was
particularly intensive due to the effective implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan
and the ESMP. As a result, it is fair to say that management and supervision of safeguard
aspects under the project was exemplary in the larger part of project implementation.

(c) Justification of rating for overall Bank performance

65.    Rating: Satisfactory. The overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory, with
both quality at entry and supervision rated as satisfactory.

5.2    Borrower performance

(a)    Government performance


                                                                                             17
66.      Rating: Satisfactory. As envisaged by the project design, the federal Government
undertook more of an oversight role during project preparation and implementation, with
Jefatura de Gabinete de Ministros (JGM) and the Dirección Nacional de Proyectos con
Organismos Internacionales de Crédito (DNPOIC) participating regularly in Bank missions.
Additionally, during the initial preparation phase formal/legal negotiations were held with the
federal Government regarding the establishment of Convenios. However, from a technical
standpoint there was no direct relationship with the federal Government, either in project
preparation or implementation, beyond DNV assuming the responsibility for the construction
of 6 kilometers of road on NR 19 in the territory of the neighboring Province of Cordoba and
being responsible for the reception of work, once concluded.

67.     At the subnational level, given that this was the first experience of direct lending to
the province, the commitment and execution capacity of the province were critical. The
province was closely involved in every stage of the project cycle, from identification, to
preparation, to prequalification for civil works, to bidding on contracts, the day-to-day
execution of work, the relationship with contractors, and management of safeguards-related
issues, with an exemplary track record. Additionally, placing the province in the “driver’s
seat? generated immediate project ownership and a strong sense of accountability vis-à-vis
project results.

(b)    Implementing performance of agency or agencies

68.     Rating: Satisfactory. The performance of the PMU is rated as satisfactory, both in
terms of its general institutional capacity and its effective management of the project, from
technical, fiduciary, and safeguards-related perspectives. The institutional setup proved to be
an important asset and a guarantee for project sustainability, given that no artificial parallel
structure was created for project management, drawing on existing staff and ensuring their
continuity, and that no project funds were allocated to the PMU. Additionally, despite the
formal dual dependency on the Ministry of Treasury and Finance and the Ministry of Works,
Public Services and Housing, leadership was undertaken by the Ministry of Treasury and
Finance, and there was an overall centralization in day-to-day decision making and
dynamism in reacting to issues arising during preparation/implementation. Moreover, the
PMU, through its various specialists, established a direct line of communication with Bank
technical counterparts, resulting in a very fluid and active relationship. Additionally,
coordination and constructive relationships with various players/stakeholders within the
province-- including DPV, the Secretary of Planning under the Ministry of Public Works, the
Provincial Road Safety Agency, and the Secretary of Environment, among others-- were also
extremely effective.

69.     The PMU role in the management of safeguard-related issues is worth highlighting,
particularly in the implementation of the resettlement plan. The unit played a very active role
in the day-to-day relationships with affected communities, managing communications and
stakeholder involvement and showing a willingness to go the extra mile to compensate
people for losses, including mitigation measures to compensate communities for losses
caused by the project, when possible. The PMU also maintained its commitment throughout
implementation to the quality of the work and to maximizing safety, remaining open and
flexible to the inclusion of modifications when needed to maximize the safety and overall
quality of the work. Finally, the PMU complied with all its fiduciary and monitoring
obligations vis-à-vis the Bank throughout the entire project lifespan.



                                                                                             18
(c)    Justification of rating for overall borrower performance

70.    Rating: Satisfactory. The overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory, with
both government and implementing agency performance assessments rated as satisfactory.

6.     Lessons learned

Lessons learned at design stage

      The Bank is well equipped to provide added value to projects of this nature, ensuring
       that road safety and environmental management protocols are adequately integrated
       into project design and implementation. The establishment of unified environmental
       standards for all contractors involved in project execution is a practice worth
       replicating in similar projects. Traditionally, environmental studies are undertaken by
       the same consultancy firms in charge of technical designs. In the case of the project,
       however, the hiring of a single consultant firm in charge of environmental studies,
       working hand in hand with the different consultancy firms in charge of technical
       designs, ensured that environmental standards were unified across the various road
       segments and contractors and provided a feedback loop to guarantee that designs
       undertaken met environmental and social criteria.

      The establishment of formal channels for continued feedback from users and civil
       society provided a vital instrument for guaranteeing successful project
       implementation, enabling inclusion of citizens’ perspectives and knowledge in the
       actual design of projects, strengthening ownership by local communities, and
       democratizing the overall process.

      Operations should provide for appropriate due diligence in urban projects, minimizing
       the risk of encountering unforeseen contingencies, particularly in the provision of
       utilities (electricity, water), which can increase costs and delay implementation.

Other lessons learned

71.     The Bank should increase its work with subnational governments. The fact that such
an ambitious project was completed on time and in form with no extension or request for
additional financing demonstrates that capacity exists at the subnational level to execute
direct loans from international financial institutions and to comply with the associated norms
and standards. 


7.     Comments on issues raised by borrower/implementing agencies

(a)    Borrower/implementing agencies

72.    In April 2013, the borrower submitted its project closing report (summarized in
Annex 7) and reviewed the final draft of the Bank’s ICR, concurring with its key conclusions,
and providing no additional comments.




                                                                                           19
                                           ANNEXES

Annex 1.        Project costs and financing

(a) Project cost by component (in US$ millions equivalent)

                               Appraisal          Actual /Latest               Percentage of
      Components               Estimate             Estimate                   Appraisal (%)
                             (US$ millions)       (US$ millions)
1. Upgrading of National
   Road 19                        103.60                125.4                      120.0
   Contingencies                  20.30                  0
2. Institutional
   strengthening
   component                       2.80                 0.967                      71.4
3. Resettlements                     0                   0


   Total baseline cost            106.10                126.4                      119.0
Price contingencies
   Total project costs            126.70                126.4                      99.7
Project Preparation
                                     -                    -
Facility (PPF)
Front-end fee (IBRD
                                     0                   0.3
only)
Total financing required          126.70                126.7                     100.00

(b) Financing

                                            Appraisal
                                                              Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                          Type of           Estimate
Source of Funds                                                 Estimate           Appraisal
                         Financing            (US$
                                                              (US$ millions)          (%)
                                            millions)
   Government                                46.4                 49.8              107.3
  IBRD/IDA or              IBRD             126.7                126.7              100.0
      GEF




                                                                                               20
Annex 2.      Outputs by component

    Component/            Original      Revised
   subcomponent          allocation    allocation                   Outputs
Component 1.            US$103.6      US$124.4      New work (number of kilometers
Upgrading of National   million       million       per road section)
Road 19                                             Section 1: 29.421 km
                                                    Section 2: 24.000 km
                                                    Section 3: 22.577 km
                                                    Section 4: 32.000 km
                                                    Section 5: 22.000 km
                                                    Total:129.998 km
                                                    Additionally to the transformation of
                                                    NR 19 from a two-lane to a four-
                                                    lane highway, this component
                                                    included the construction of by-
                                                    passes in towns along NR 19, the
                                                    correction or straightening of three
                                                    sharp curves on the existing two-
                                                    lane highway, construction of new
                                                    bridges (15), grade separation
                                                    interchanges at intersections with
                                                    high traffic roads and overpasses for
                                                    railroad crossings, ground-level
                                                    interchanges at the intersections with
                                                    rural and urban roads, construction
                                                    of urban boulevards in main towns
                                                    along the road, turn lanes and
                                                    returns at intervals of 6 kilometers
                                                    each on average, and a series of
                                                    drainage works (25 sewerages).
Component 2.            US$2.8        US$2
Institutional           million       million
strengthening
2.1. Road Safety                                    “Hard interventions?: vertical and
                                                    horizontal signaling, improvement
                                                    of shoulders, construction of bus
                                                    bays, defenses/ barriers in dangerous
                                                    curves, construction of a roundabout
                                                    in a blind spot, Curva de Bassi,
                                                    installation of speed reducers,
                                                    installation of traffic lights,
                                                    construction of pedestrian bridges,
                                                    bike paths, and illumination.
                                                    “Soft Interventions?: provision of
                                                    equipment to the Provincial Road
                                                    Safety Agency (alcohol detectors,
                                                    cones, reflective bandage, signaling
                                                    material, vehicles, etc.); preparation
                                                    of monitoring and evaluation

                                                                                       21
     Component/            Original     Revised
    subcomponent          allocation   allocation                   Outputs
                                                    manual; training (of 50 people).
2.2. Systemic                                       -“Plan for the optimization and
measurement of                                      strengthening of freight logistics in
logistic costs in the                               the Province of Santa Fe? (priorities,
PSF                                                 institutional legal requirements,
                                                    investment cost analysis, short and
                                                    medium term investment plan,
                                                    monitoring plan, etc.)
                                                    -Over 60 interviews with
                                                    organizations from public and
                                                    private sector
                                                    -2 communication and consultation
                                                    workshops to present study results
                                                    -Strategic Planning training for
                                                    provincial state staff
                                                    -Design of a provincial logistics
                                                    observatory
2.3. Strengthening the                              -“Guidelines for the territorial, urban
planning capacity of                                and environmental planning of Villa
the PSF to prepare a                                Ocampo,? including: (i)
new strategic                                       justifications of the need for
development plan/                                   territorial planning and normative
foster economic growth                              reform; (ii) detail on existing
                                                    studies, plans and projects for the
                                                    area; (iii) diagnosis and guidelines
                                                    for environmental sustainability; (iv)
                                                    economic guidelines; (v) territorial/
                                                    urban guidelines; (vi) urban/
                                                    environmental guidelines.
                                                    -Training of over 200 people,
                                                    through 3 workshops
2.4. Strengthening                                  -Provision of equipment and training
DPV’s capacity to                                   to the Environmental Unit of DPV
enhance environmental                               -Development of a Strategic
and social management                               Environmental Assessment of the
of large civil works.                               provincial territory
2.5. Design a capacity-                             No activities were undertaken under
building program to                                 this subcomponent.
incorporate monitoring
and evaluation analysis
in infrastructure
projects.




                                                                                        22
Results attained under the Environmental and Social Management Program (ESMP)

        ESMP Program                                         Results attained
Landscaping Program                     Planted: 6856 trees and 32504 shrubs, using local
                                        species.
Road Safety Program                     Corrective work, including the construction of
                                        sidewalks, the expansion of the road, the paving of
                                        shoulders, the construction of access roundabouts and
                                        acceleration/ deceleration lanes, improvement and
                                        reinforcement of horizontal and vertical signaling,
                                        rectification of dangerous curves, construction of
                                        overpasses for railroad crossings, bypasses in the
                                        localities of San Jerónimo de Sauce and San Pereira,
                                        bus bays and parking docks, signaling in areas of low
                                        visibility due to fog.
                                        Road safety workshops: 15 delivered
                                        Number of students trained: approximately 1500
Preservation of rural road network      Construction of 33 returns and ground-level
program                                 interchanges, every 4 kilometers on average.
Program for the improvement of the      Landscaping, bike path, pedestrian crossings, urban
Santo Tome urban area                   portal, design of alternative crossing circuits,
                                        drainage, signaling, illumination;
                                        Delays were seen in this work, expected to conclude
                                        in 3 months but still ongoing.
Program for the installation of urban   Construction of urban ring roads in the urban areas of
ring roads and boulevards               San Jerónimo de Sauce, Sa Pereira, Josefina, and
                                        Frontera, to increase safety and better manage the
                                        flow of traffic entering/exiting the urban area.
                                        The boulevards of Santo Jerónimo de Sauce and Sa
                                        Pereira apparently could not be completed to the
                                        standard outlined in the ESMP owing to omissions in
                                        the bidding documents.
Natural and cultural patrimony          Preservation of some natural (biological corridors of
preservation program                    Canada de Sauce and Arroyo Colastine) and cultural
                                        patrimony sites (Fortin el Tala and Pilar de la Fe)
Flora and fauna preservation            Preservation of flora and fauna in defined natural
program                                 patrimony sites.
Program for the environmental           Contingency program (hydrocarbon spills, accidents,
management of civil work projects       fires, labor related accidents) in work/construction
                                        sites
                                        Environmental training program;
                                        Program for the control of contamination, in land,
                                        water, and air (including sound contamination at
                                        construction sites);
                                        Follow-up in the transition phase of closing
                                        construction sites.




                                                                                            23
Results attained under the expropriation and resettlement program

        Program                     Objective                       Results attained
Compensation for           Expropriation of 246           Finalized in 2010. At project
expropriations (or new     parcels north of NR 19,        closure, 20 additional
expropriations)            remnant of those               expropriations identified during
                           undertaken by DNV in           implementation of work were
                           1972                           almost finalized.
Support for the            Guarantee that the             Completed towards the end of
resettlement of families   socioeconomic conditions       2009; the Project Management
and displaced economic     of the 26 families, or         Unit continued monitoring cases
units                      economic activities            until early 2010.
                           undertaken in expropriated
                           land parcels, were
                           maintained
Undertaking of previous    Undertaking of 69              During the second half of 2008,
DNV expropriations         expropriations undertaken      the Project Management Unit
                           by DNV in 1972                 notified DNV and the contractor
                                                          regarding encroachments, and
                                                          requested that corrective measures
                                                          be taken.
Relocation of school       Relocation of school,          Concluded, with the school
number 1303                located within the ROW of      operating, in March 2010. School
                           NR 19                          enrolments have grown
                                                          substantially since its opening in
                                                          2010.
Agro-Technical School      Mitigate some of the           Concluded in mid-2011, with the
                           negative impacts generated     paving of the access road to the
                           by the expropriation of part   school.
                           of this land, through
                           repaving of the access road
                           to the school.




                                                                                             24
Annex 3.        Economic and financial analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

1.      Introduction

This annex synthesizes the results attained in the economic evaluation exercise undertaken in
April 2013 on work executed in the expansion of NR 19 in the Province of Santa Fe, through
the application of the HDM4 model, version 1.3.

The original economic evaluation of this work was undertaken in September 2006, using
costs published by DNV in 2005. The ex-post evaluation reported in this annex was
undertaken using Argentine pesos and December 2005 costs.

The following table summarizes the results attained in this evaluation.

      Net Flow of Funds. Net Benefits by Road Segment ($AR millions)                   Overall
             Segment 1 Segment 2 Segment 3 Segment 4 Segment 5                        net benefit
                                                                                         ($AR
                                                                                       millions)
NPV             $2,352        $8,127        ($1,150)       $4,488        ($4,998)       $8,819
ERR              12,4          13,7           11,8          12,9           10,8          12,35
                percent       percent        percent       percent        percent       percent

2.      Assumptions

The analysis has been undertaken using the following assumptions:

     1. The ex-post evaluation considered the same conservation and maintenance allocations
        used for the original evaluation, with their respective costs, in order to make it
        comparable with the ex-ante evaluation.

     2. The same accident indexes as those for the original evaluation were applied. This was
        due to the fact that there is insufficient data available to prove that the values used in
        the ex-ante evaluation are not applicable.

     3. The original evaluation was undertaken based on three road segments. The ex-post
        evaluation, in turn, was based on the 5 segments by which the work was assigned and
        executed.

     4. The ex-post evaluation did not include 2.451 kilometers of the urban segment under
        road segment number 1. This specific segment was subject to an important
        modification, vis-à-vis the original design, throughout implementation, which was not
        contemplated under the original evaluation, and was therefore excluded to avoid
        distortions in the comparative values.

     5. The characteristics and the condition of the road are taken from the original
        evaluation.

     6. The traffic composition is as originally established for each of the segments.



                                                                                               25
7. The traffic levels up to 2012 were provided by DNV for each of the segments, which
   differ from the traffic estimations of the original evaluation.

8. The following table summarizes the traffic values being considered, indicating their
   relation to the segments used under the original evaluation in 2006.




                                                                                    26
 

        HDM4 2006                     HDM4 2013                                                          TRANSITOS VIALIDAD NACIONAL                                           Tasas crecimiento estimadas

                                                   Tipo                                                     AUXILIA
                                     Longitud                Denominacion Vialidad/Transito      Longitud             2006   2007   2008      2009    2010    2011    2012    2013   2015     2018     2020
                                                Pavimento                                                     R
             RP 11 fin de  Lote 1?                              INT.R.N.11 ? A/N R.P.AP01         2,91                7200   7400   7300      7780    8100    8680    8950
                  la                   2,45       Flexible
    T1?S1                  Urbano
             ampliacion 
                                                               Tasa de Crecimiento TMDA                                      1,03      0,99   1,07    1,04    1,07    1,03
               L=9km                                            INT.R.N.11 ? A/N R.P.AP01         2,91      0,1006    7200   7400   7300      7780    8100    8680    8950
                                                               A/N R.P.AP01?EMP.R.P.6 (D) 
                                                                                                  15,24     0,527     4650   4850   4750      5150    5350    5700    5900
                                                                         (FRANCK)
                                                                 EMP.R.P.6(D)?EMP.R.P.6 
               Fin de la                                                                          10,77     0,3724    4350   4700   4700      4550    4350    4660    6100
                            Lote 1    26,97       Flexible            (I)(S.CARLOS)
             ampliacion 
    T1?S2
                 RPN6                                                   Adoptado                                      4795   5051   4988      5191    5254    5613    6281    6784   7766     9162    10102
              L=20,4km
                                                               Tasa de Crecimiento TMDA                                      5,3%   ?1,2%     4,1%    1,2%    6,8%    11,9%   8,0%   6,0%     5,0%     5,0%
                                                                  Tránsito nueva seccion                                                              2627    2806    3141    3392   3883     4581     5051
                                                             EMP.R.P.6 (I) (SAN CARLOS) ? B/N 
                                                                                                  45,44               4600   4950   4700      4550    4300    4600    5350    5778   6615     7804     8604
               Ruta 6?                                                     R.N.34
    T2?S1       RN34        Lote 2     24         Rígido       Tasa de Crecimiento TMDA                                      7,6%   ?5,1%     ?3,2%   ?5,5%   6,98%   16,3%   8,0%   6,0%     5,0%     5,0%
               37,6km
                                                                  Tránsito nueva seccion                                                              2150    2300    2675    2889   3307     3902     4302
                                                             EMP.R.P.6 (I) (SAN CARLOS) ? B/N 
                                                                                                  45,44               4600   4950   4700      4550    4300    4600    5350    5778   6615     7804     8604
               Ruta 6?                                                     R.N.34
    T2?S1       RN34        Lote 3   22,577       Rígido       Tasa de Crecimiento TMDA                                      7,6%   ?5,1%     ?3,2%   ?5,5%   6,98%   16,3%   8,0%   6,0%     5,0%     5,0%
               37,6km
                                                                  Tránsito nueva seccion                                                              2150    2300    2675    2889   3307     3902     4302

               RN34 ?                                            B/N R.N.34 ? INT.R.P.13          19,12               3800   4105   4100      4050    4250    4560    5050    5454   6244     7366     8121
                Limite 
    T3?S1                   Lote 4     32         Rígido           Tasa de Crecimiento                                       8,0%   ?0,1%     ?1,2%   4,9%    7,3%    10,7%   8,0%   6,0%     5,0%     5,0%
               aprox. 
               44,7km                                             Tránsito nueva seccion                                                              2125    2280    2525    2727   3122     3683     4061
                                                              INT.R.P.13?Lte.c/CBA(Estacion 
               RN34 ?                                                                             33,71               3950   4308   4238      4107    4267    4550    4650    4790   5081     5660     6240
                                                                      Permanente)
                Limite 
    T3?S1                   Lote 5     22         Rígido       Tasa de Crecimiento TMDA                                      9,1%   ?1,6%     ?3,1%   3,9%    6,6%    2,2%    3,0%   3,0%     5,0%     5,0%
               aprox. 
               44,7km
                                                                 Tránsito nueva seccion.                                                              2134    2275    2325    2395   2541     2830     3120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   



                                                                                                                                                                                                             27
9. As observed, for the year 2012, a significant increase in traffic levels for all road segments was
   evidenced. For the future time periods, a marginal reduction in the growth rate was applied, reaching a 5
   percent value from 2018 onwards. This value represents the average growth rate for most of the segments.
   The only segment presenting a different evolution is segment 5. It assumes that once the construction
   connecting to Cordoba is concluded and opened to traffic, the estimated growth rate will be attained. The
   traffic distribution, under consideration by direction, is 50 percent.

10. The final costs used, per road segment, were provided by the province. It was observed that for segments
    2 and 5, the investment undertaken was below the original forecast. Values are provided in Argentine
    pesos: Segment 2: $2,364,822; Segment 3: $502,091; Segment 4: $1,961,953 and Segment 5: $2,041,921.

11. The cost of work at basic values utilized were those of September 2007, corresponding to the amounts
    executed and valued on said date.

12. The operating cost of vehicles and the travel times being considered adopt 2005 values. In order for the
    costs to be comparable to the dates used to estimate benefits, given the reduction in the operating costs of
    vehicles, the cost of work was adjusted to the basic values used under the ex-ante evaluation (December
    2005).

13. For this purpose, a variation index for the cost of construction between month I = September 2007 and
    base month = December 2005, was utilized.

14. The indexes used were those provided by INDEC for the cost of construction.

                                                                                                                                                  VARIAC - período Diciembre 2004 - Junio 2012
                                                                                                                                 Evolución de Indicadores




                                                                                                                                                                                                    


                 290%


                 280%


                 270%


                 260%


                 250%


                 240%


                 230%


                 220%


                 210%


                 200%


                 190%


                 180%


                 170%


                 160%


                 150%


                 140%


                 130%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INDEC

                 120%


                 110%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Variación del
                 100%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           dólar


                 90%


                 80%


                 70%


                 60%


                 50%


                 40%


                 30%


                 20%


                 10%


                  0%
                                 feb-05




                                                                                 feb-06




                                                                                                                                 feb-07




                                                                                                                                                                                   feb-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       feb-09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       feb-10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       feb-11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       feb-12
                        dic-04




                                          abr-

                                                 jun-05

                                                          ago-

                                                                 oct-

                                                                        dic-05




                                                                                          abr-

                                                                                                 jun-06

                                                                                                          ago-

                                                                                                                 oct-

                                                                                                                        dic-06




                                                                                                                                          abr-

                                                                                                                                                 jun-07

                                                                                                                                                          ago-

                                                                                                                                                                  oct-

                                                                                                                                                                          dic-07




                                                                                                                                                                                            abr-

                                                                                                                                                                                                   jun-08

                                                                                                                                                                                                            ago-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   oct-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          dic-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                abr-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       jun-09

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ago-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       oct-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              dic-09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                abr-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       jun-10

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ago-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       oct-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              dic-10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                abr-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       jun-11

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ago-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       oct-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              dic-11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                abr-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       jun-12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    28
15. In order to evaluate the ex-post scenario with real values in terms of cost per kilometer of executed work,
    the unit costs for the base month evaluation (December 2005) were arrived at by applying the variation
    indexes for the cost of construction between months i and 0.

                Costo Obras $AR      ICC         ICC         Factor     Costo Obras $AR      Costo   C.Económico
                   Al mes i =     Al mes i = Al mes 0 =    Al mes 0 =      Al mes 0 =     Financiero Factor CE =
                     sep?07        sep?07      dic?05        dic?05          dic?05        $AR/km        0,70
      Lote 1    128.081.283,58     274,10       199,6     0,728201386   $ 93.268.968,27   3.458.249   2.420.774 
      Lote 2     90.884.056,06     274,10       199,6     0,728201386   $ 66.181.895,62   2.757.579   1.930.305 
      Lote 3     93.007.623,33     274,10       199,6     0,728201386   $ 67.728.280,25   2.999.880   2.099.916 
      Lote 4     90.016.079,35     274,10       199,6     0,728201386   $ 65.549.833,78   2.048.432   1.433.903 
      Lote 5     97.715.178,79     274,10       199,6     0,728201386   $ 71.156.328,66   3.234.379   2.264.065 



16. The consolidated net present value corresponding to the 5 segments of the ex-post scenario results in
    $AR8,82 million, equivalent to US$2,93 million, at December 2005 values, corresponding to the base
    date used for the ex-ante evaluation in the pre-investment phase of the project. The consolidated
    Economic Rate of Return for the 5 segments results in 12.35 percent. The following table summarizes the
    results attained.




                                                                                                                   29
                          Flujos de Fondos Netos. Beneficios Netos por Lote (mill $AR)        Beneficio 
                                                                                             neto global 
                         Lote 1       Lote 2        Lote 3        Lote 4        Lote 5       (mill. $AR)
            2007            ?19,59        ?13,90        ?14,49        ?14,63        ?14,94          ?77,54
            2008            ?26,12        ?18,53        ?19,32        ?19,50        ?19,92        ?103,39
            2009            ?19,59        ?13,90        ?14,49        ?14,63        ?14,94          ?77,54
            2010             ?4,01         ?3,49         ?3,71         ?5,77         ?2,14          ?19,11
            2011              7,73          6,76          5,90          9,93          8,77           39,10
            2012              9,59          8,73          7,68         21,65         16,11           63,77
            2013             11,57         16,79         15,22          1,40          2,77           47,74
            2014             21,09          4,19          3,32          1,72          2,94           33,25
            2015              5,26          4,52          3,59          2,14          3,17           18,68
            2016              5,64          4,87          3,88          2,91          3,55           20,86
            2017              5,98          5,25          4,20          3,58          4,03           23,05
            2018             ?1,07         ?0,80         ?1,53         ?3,63         ?1,31           ?8,34
            2019              7,89          7,49          6,23          9,08          6,76           37,45
            2020              9,02          8,91          7,52         11,10          7,66           44,21
            2021              3,91          9,91          8,43         13,93          9,25           45,43
            2022             13,29         11,67         10,03         16,09         10,69           61,78
            2023             15,60         13,23         11,45         19,99         12,30           72,57
            2024             17,71         14,95         13,02         23,97         14,02           83,67
            2025             20,05         17,26         15,15         37,08         22,46         111,99
            2026             22,95         18,92         16,65          4,23          5,05           67,81
            2027             25,80         22,26         19,74          4,90          5,53           78,23
            2028             29,73         31,41         28,28         ?3,56          5,50           91,35
            2029             33,69         10,14          8,21          9,22          0,08           61,34
            2030             16,39          4,32          2,66         12,30          8,86           44,54
            2031             17,77         13,79         11,50         15,93         10,64           69,64
            2032             19,44         15,24         12,79         20,48         12,93           80,87
            2033             14,83         17,33         14,68         25,31         14,98           87,13
            2034             41,90         30,86         28,26         43,09         28,90         173,02
              VAN =        $ 2,352       $ 8,127      $ ?1,150       $ 4,488      $ ?4,998        $ 8,819
               TIR =        12,4%         13,7%         11,8%         12,9%         10,8%         12,35%
                                                                                                              

This table summarizes the net flow of funds for each of the road segments, resulting from the HDM4 model as
well as from the calculation and verification of the Economic Rates of Return estimated by the model. The table
also presents the consolidated value for the 5 road segments (values in millions of Argentine pesos).




                                                                                                                 30
Annex 4.           Bank lending and implementation support/supervision processes

    (a) Task team members

                Names                           Title              Unit        Responsibility/Specialty

Lending
 Tomas Serebrisky                 Infrastructure Economist        LCSFT   Task Team Leader
 Jose Maria Alonso Biarge         Lead Highway Engineer           LCSFT   Highway Engineer
 Juan Manuel Campana              Highway Consultant                      Highway Consultant
 Andres Mac Gaul                  Senior Procurement Specialist   LCOPR   Senior Procurement Specialist
 Ana Maria Grofsmacht             Procurement Specialist          LCOPR   Procurement Specialist
 Enrique Pinilla                  Procurement Consultant                  Procurement Consultant
                                  Financial Management
 Alejandro Solanot                Specialist                      LCOAA   Financial Management Specialist
 Reynaldo Pastor                  Sr. Counsel                     LEGLA   Counsel
 Fernando Brunstein               Environmental Consultant                Environmental Consultant
                                  Infrastructure Economist
 Lucia Spinelli                   Consultant                              Infrastructure Economist Consultant
                                  Senior Environmental
 Juan David Quintero              Specialist                      LCSEN   Environmental Specialist
 Elena Correa                     Senior Social Scientist         LCSEO   Social Safeguard Specialist
 Xiomara Morel                    Sr. Finance Officer             LOAG1   Finance Officer
 Jose Luis Irigoyen               Sector Manager                  LCSFT   Sector Manager
 Juan Gaviria                     Sector Leader                   LCSFP   Sector Leader
 Juan Sanguinetti                 Fiscal Consultant                       Fiscal Consultant
 Cesar Queiroz                    Lead Highway Engineer           ECSIE   Peer Reviewer
 Aurelio Menendez                 Lead Transport Economist        EASTR   Peer Reviewer
 Zeinab Partow                    Senior Country Economist        LCSPE   Peer Reviewer


 Supervision
 Lucia Spinelli                   Senior Energy Specialist        LCSEG   Task Team Leader
 Fernando Brunstein               Environmental Consultant        LCSEN   Environmental Consultant
 Lilian Pederson                  Social Safeguards Consultant    LCSSO   Social Safeguards Consultant
 Andres MacGaul                   Senior Procurement Specialist   LCSPT   Senior Procurement Specialist
 Ricardo Lugea                    Senior Procurement Specialist   LCSPT   Senior Procurement Specialist


                                                                                                            31
                                  Senior Financial Management                  Senior Financial Management
 Alejandro Solanot                Specialist                        LCSFM      Specialist
                                  Financial Management
 Daniel Chalupowicz               Specialist                        LCSFM      Financial Management Specialist
 Juan Manuel Campana              Highway Consultant                           Highway Consultant
 Marta Arancibia                  Highway Consultant                           Highway Consultant
 Alejandro Alcala                 Senior Counsel                    LEGES      Senior Counsel
 Reynaldo Pastor                  Chief Counsel                     LEGLE      Chief Counsel
 Aurelio Menendez                 Sector Manager                               Sector Manager


   (b) Staff time and cost (from SAP)


                                                   Staff time and cost (Bank budget only)
                                                                                US$ Thousands
                                                                        (including travel and consultant
      Stage of project cycle             No. of staff weeks                           costs)
Lending
              FY06                                          16.54                                86,575.76
              FY07                                          27.35                               169,765.61
              FY08                                           1.00                                 5,596.36
                          TOTAL                             44.89                               261,937.73
Supervision/ICR
              FY07                                           3.78                                34,564.40
              FY08                                          22.29                               120,047.96
              FY09                                          20.96                               127.926.55
              FY10                                           9.07                               122,437.85
              FY11                                          28.90                               156,654.49
              FY12                                          15.38                                99.335.04
              FY13                                           3.58                                20,496.66
                          TOTAL                            103.96                               681,462.95




                                                                                                                 32
Annex 5.      Beneficiary survey results (if any)

No beneficiary survey was carried out.




                                                    33
Annex 6.     Stakeholder workshop report and results (if any)

No stakeholder workshop was undertaken.




                                                                34
Annex 7.        Summary of borrower’s ICR and/or comments on draft ICR

 1.- INTRODUCCIÓN Y COMENTARIOS GENERALES
1.1. Descripción
         El PIV (Programa de Infraestructura Vial) formó parte de una estrategia destinada a fomentar las
inversiones en las redes viales relacionadas con los ejes productivos nacionales y provinciales, asegurando de este
modo una integración regional entre diferentes áreas productivas. De esta forma, el presente Programa logró por
una parte materializar acciones de transformación de la infraestructura de la RN 19, y por otra, fortalecer y
mejorar la gestión de la seguridad vial, concretar proyectos que permitan una efectiva verificación de resultados
en la materia y avanzar en el planeamiento del desarrollo territorial relacionado con el transporte y la logística.
     El Programa se estructuró en los siguientes componentes:
A) Componente de Obras Civiles (COC) que se financió con el préstamo propuesto y consistió en transformar
     en autovía la Ruta Nacional N° 19 que se contrató bajo la modalidad basada en precios unitarios.
B) Componente de Fortalecimiento de la Capacidad Institucional (CFI) de las áreas de vialidad,
     planeamiento y transporte provincial, que se financió con los fondos del préstamo. Incluyó cinco
     subcomponentes: Seguridad Vial, Logística, Planeamiento, Fortalecimiento Institucional de la Unidad de
     Gestión del Programa (creada ad hoc para la ejecución del mismo) y Fortalecimiento Institucional de la
     Unidad Ambiental de la DPV.

2.- DESCRIPCIÓN DE LOS COMPONENTES
A) Componente de Obras Civiles: Obra: Transformación en Autovía de la Ruta Nacional Nº 19 - Corredor
     Bioceánico Central - Tramo Provincia de Santa Fe - (RN19: Santa Fe – San Francisco)
A.1. Introducción
         Con el objetivo de consolidar los procesos de integración regional, la Provincia avanzó en su gestión con
la construcción de obras fundamentales para establecer y mejorar las redes de comunicación y afianzar así las
relaciones de la Región y en el MERCOSUR y Chile.
         Los corredores bioceánicos, constituyen un aporte fundamental a la integración y su conformación
articulada de vías terrestres y fluviales que unen las costas del océano Atlántico y Pacífico, con lo cual se logra
fomentar la vinculación económica y el comercio en el espacio geográfico ampliado.
         La Provincia de Santa Fe tiene una ubicación privilegiada en este nuevo espacio económico, tanto por la
diversidad de su producción como por sus vinculaciones en el marco de la Región Centro y de los países del
MERCOSUR. En este contexto este Proyecto de duplicación del tramo Santafesino de la RN Nº19 (Santa Fe-San
Francisco) del Corredor bioceánico Central constituye una decisión estratégica que complementa las dos grandes
iniciativas proyectadas para el norte provincial (el Puente Goya - Reconquista) y para el Sur Santafesino (El
corredor Circunvalar).
         La Ruta Nacional Nº 19 tenía al momento de elaboración del proyecto en el tramo Santo Tomé – San
Francisco un Transito Diario Promedio de 5.000 vehículos, con una participación de vehículos pesados del 30
percent. En el tramo de más alta congestión (Tramo Autopista Santa Fe –Rosario y Ruta Prov. Nº 6) el tránsito
alcanzaba a los 7.028 vehículos diarios.
         La concreción de la obra más la rehabilitación del tramo actual permitió agilizar el tránsito con una
velocidad directriz mayor, mejorando la seguridad con la rectificación de curvas riesgosas y la ejecución de pasos
sobre nivel en los lugares críticos.
A.2. Objetivos
         El objetivo general que se planteó fue incrementar la eficiencia en la gestión vial provincial para mejorar
la transitabilidad del Corredor Bioceánico Central a través de la Transformación en Autovía de la Ruta Nacional
N° 19 facilitando el transporte de bienes y personas en los corredores productivos.
         Así, se contribuyó a la consolidación del Corredor Bioceánico Central dado que constituye el tramo que
hacia el oeste captura el tránsito del corredor Villa María – Río Cuarto – Cuyo – Santiago y Valparaíso, y el
generado hacia el centro norte (Córdoba – San Juan - Coquimbo), que será potenciado con la construcción del
Paso de Aguas Negras.


                                                                                                                 35
A.2.1. Objetivos Específicos Directos
        Mejorar las condiciones del tránsito tanto los de origen y destino en la región, como el tránsito pasante
generado en las provincias mesopotámicas, Brasil y Uruguay al Este, y el generado en las provincias de Córdoba,
parte del NOA, Cuyo y Chile al Oeste, mediante la construcción de una Autovía entre las localidades de Santo
Tomé y Frontera - San Francisco.
A.2.2. Objetivos Específicos Indirectos
 Mejorar la competitividad de la economía regional, proveyendo infraestructura para una logística más
    eficiente.
 Mejorar los índices de seguridad.
 Potenciar el desarrollo de las zonas francas de la región.
 Potenciar las estructuras productivas regionales completándolas entre sí y facilitando el acceso a mercados.
 Potenciar las actividades turísticas en la región.

A.3. Descripción de la Obra
         La obra transformó en autovía la Ruta Nacional N° 19 en el tramo comprendido entre la Ruta Nacional N°
11 y el límite interprovincial con Córdoba (RP Nº 158).
         Este segmento del sistema vial regional se construyó sobre la base de la traza existente de esta ruta
nacional contemplando, por una parte, nuevos trazados para evitar los atravesamientos de las áreas urbanas de las
localidades de San Jerónimo del Sauce, Sá Pereyra, Frontera y San Francisco, por otra parte, el tratamiento
específico de las vías de penetración urbana en estas localidades y su tramo de inicio en la localidad de Santo
Tomé.
         De acuerdo con su magnitud y demanda de tránsito, se resolvieron todos los nodos y articulaciones con
las distintas rutas, caminos regionales y vías férreas existentes en su recorrido, de modo tal que se garantice la
fluidez de los distintos movimientos regionales Este – Oeste y Norte – Sur.
         En esta primer etapa, la obra consistió en una autovía, es decir una vía de dos calzadas de dos carriles
cada una, con control parcial de accesos y un cantero central, utilizando como calzada Oeste – Este (descendente)
el camino existente y ejecutando una segunda calzada Este – Oeste (ascendente). En el futuro, se culminará en una
segunda en una autopista con control total de accesos.
         El proyecto de transformación de la Ruta Nacional N° 19 y consecuentemente la obra, se ha dividido en
diversos tramos conforme a características locales comunes y longitudes similares, tomando como base los
estudios de ingeniería y evaluación económica y socio – ambiental.
         Durante el año 2007, se efectuó el proceso licitatorio que culminó en 2008 con la adjudicación y la
ejecución de las obras con las siguientes empresas y montos:
 Lote 1: Tramo RN N° 11 (Prog. 0+000) Intersección RP N° 6 (Prog. 29+421), la empresa DYCASA SA, por
     un monto de $139.973.645,77.
 Lote 2-Tramo: Intersección RP N° 6 (Prog. 29+421), a JOSE J. CHEDIACK S.A.I.C.A., por un monto de
     $96.000.000,00, ofreciendo un descuento del 3,80 percent, quedando la adjudicación propuesta en
     $92.833.000,00.
 Lote 3: Tramo: (Prog. 53+421)-Intersección RN N° 34 (Prog. 75+998), a JOSE J. CHEDIACK S.A.I.C.A.,
     por un monto de $94.145.800,00, a lo que ofrecieron un descuento del 3,80 percent, siendo el monto de la
     adjudicación propuesta de $90.568.259,60.
 Lote 4: Tramo: Intersección RN N° 34 (Prog. 75+998)- Prog. 107+998, a la empresa VIALCO S.A. -
     EQUIMAC S.A. (UTE), por un monto de $91.978.033,23.
 Lote 5: Tramo: Prog. 107+998 – Prog. 129+998, a la empresa ESUCO S.A., por un monto de $99.757.100,00.




                                                                                                               36
A.4. Resultados
A.4.1. Resultados en relación al objetivo

La ejecución de la obra permitió concretar lo siguiente:
                                                                                                   Monto Total
                                                               Long. Aprox.
                                                                               percent Extensión     Estimado
N° Tramo               Descripción / Longitud                 Obra Nueva (km.)
                                                                                    Total        (millones de U$D)
                                                                    (1)
                                                                                                        (2)
           Ruta Nacional Nº 11 (Prog. 0+000) –
    1                                                              29,421          20,06 percent      31,000
           Intersección Ruta Provincial Nº 6 (Prog. 29+421)
           Intersección Ruta Provincial Nº 6 (Prog. Nº
    2      29+421) – (Prog. 53+421)                                24,000          18,78 percent      27,500

           Prog. Nº 53+421 – Intersección Ruta Nacional
    3      Nº 34 (Prog. 75+998)                                    22,577          17,81 percent      28,500

           Intersección Ruta Nacional Nº 34 (Prog. 75+998)
    4      – Intersección Ruta Provincial Nº 20 (Prog.             32,000          21,84 percent      26,000
           107+998)
           Intersección Ruta Provincial Nº 20 (Prog.
    5      107+998) – Límite Interprovincial Córdoba               22,000          21,51 percent      27,000
           (Prog. 129+998)
TOTAL                                                             129,998          100 percent        140,000
 (1)       La longitud no incluye la rectificación de curvas de calzadas existente.
 (2)       Los montos incluyen el mejoramiento de las curvas en la calzada existente.

A.4.2. Resultados no previstos
Relocalización Escuela Nº 1303
        La ejecución de la escuela fue adjudicada a la empresa Del Sol SRL por un monto de contrato de
$1.323.000 de acuerdo al Decreto Nº 2950 del 04/12/2008. Fue financiada en un 100 percent con recursos
provinciales. La firma del contrato se realizó el 29-12-08, dando comienzo los trabajos el 19/01/09.
        Con el inicio del período escolar 2009, se aplicó un plan de contingencias, ya acordado con las
autoridades escolares para el funcionamiento adecuado de las actividades docentes, trasladando diariamente a los
alumnos a la Escuela Nº 353 “Domingo Faustino Sarmiento? de la localidad de San Agustín, por lo tanto los
alumnos de la Escuela Nº 1303 “General José de San Martín? cumplieron normalmente el ciclo lectivo.
        La ejecución de las obras de la nueva Escuela finalizaron el 15/09/2009.
        En el ciclo lectivo 2010 la Escuela comenzó a funcionar en el nuevo edificio, con mobiliario y
equipamiento adquirido por el gobierno provincial y con una matrícula que registra un notable incremento
respecto de la original, cursando 17 alumnos (6 en jardín de infantes y 11 en nivel primario).
Medidas adicionales de seguridad vial en Escuela Nº 334
        La interacción con los vecinos de La Vigilancia y las medidas propuestas y adoptadas por la Provincia de
Santa Fe tuvieron como propósito la ejecución de obras complementarias destinadas a reforzar la seguridad vial y
la funcionalidad del área afectada.
Estas acciones se pueden resumir en:
• Colocación de protección tipo New Jersey (hormigón) con agregado de baranda metálica para aumentar la
altura,
• Incremento en la longitud de la baranda metálica tipo Flex Beam, que se extenderá unos 40 metros más al este
de la escuela y el bar que está a su lado,
• Construcción de vereda peatonal de 1,80 m de ancho,
• Mejoramiento del camino vecinal de tierra por medio de la pavimentación hasta el límite sur de la Escuela,
• Construcción de vereda peatonal que una las dos calzadas, norte y sur,

                                                                                                                     37
• Reubicación del parador lado sur del transporte público de pasajeros conforme pedido realizado por la
comunidad educativa.
         Además de ello, gestiones iniciadas por el Ministerio de Obras Públicas y Vivienda permitieron la
ejecución de obras en el interior de la Escuela:
 Portón de acceso a la Escuela por el camino vecinal,
 Modificación del lugar de acceso trasladándolo hacia el camino lateral.
 Construcción de vereda de acceso interno a la Escuela,
 Relocalizaci6n del mástil y playón deportivo.
     Las medidas contaron con la aprobación de la DPV y preliminarmente de la DNV.
     Otras medidas adicionales a las indicadas fueron la instalación de señalización horizontal y vertical adicional
en la proximidad de la escuela (carteles de velocidad máxima 60 kilometers por hora y Despacio Escuela, según
especificaciones de la DNV) además de agregar bandas óptico sonoras logarítmicas en ambas vías (Norte y Sur).
A.5 Plan de Manejo Ambiental y social
A.5.1 Introducción
         El PMAyS ha sido desarrollado conforme las políticas de salvaguardia del Banco Mundial, en base a las
siguientes directrices operacionales: OP 4.01 BM de Evaluación Ambiental, OP 4.12 BM de Reasentamientos
Involuntarios, OP 17.5 BM de Divulgación al Público. Complementariamente se realizó el Estudio de Impacto
Ambiental (EsIA) exigido por las normativas provinciales de Santa Fe y Córdoba.
         A su vez, el Plan fue consensuado con los distintos actores provinciales y nacionales, y posteriormente
ejecutado a lo largo de la construcción del proyecto. Asimismo fueron implementándose medidas de
fortalecimiento institucional, las que fueron detectadas durante la elaboración del Plan de Manejo Ambiental y
Social.
         Los aspectos del medio ambiente natural y social más relevantes que eran afectados en alguna medida por
la obra fueron: I) Expropiaciones ; II) Afectación de infraestructura pública ; III) Aspectos Bióticos; IV) Aspectos
de Patrimonio Cultural y Social; V) Aspectos Hidrológicos; VI) Aspectos Paisajísticos; VII) Aspectos urbanos en
Santo Tomé; VIII) Afectaciones en las localidades circunvaladas.
         El PMAyS se estructuró en 10 programas ambientales y un programa de Fortalecimiento Institucional
para todo el ciclo del proyecto. Los programas ambientales son los siguientes.
o Programa Adquisiciones y Reasentamientos
o Programa Paisaje
o Programa Seguridad Vial
o Programa Afectaciones de la Trama Vial Rural
o Programa Afectaciones Zonas Urbanas en Santo Tomé
o Programa Circunvalaciones y Nuevos Bulevares Urbanos
o Programa Patrimonio Natural y Cultural
o Programa Manejo Ambiental de la Construcción
         Estos programas fueron materializados en el pliego licitatorio de la obra, lo que permitió que la gestión
ambiental no fuera un tema declarativo; ya que al contar con el diseño detallado a nivel de proyecto de todas las
acciones propuestas, cronogramas de implantación debidamente coordinados con el cronograma general del
proyecto; costos de las actividades; y la descripción del esquema institucional necesario para su adecuada
implantación, las medidas de mitigación ambiental propuestas pudieron instrumentarse y adecuarse a las diversas
instancias de la ejecución del proyecto.
         Dada la productividad y sensibilidad de las áreas involucradas, tanto rurales como urbanas y suburbanas,
desde el inicio del proyecto, y a lo largo de su ejecución se contempló la implementación de diversos
instrumentos de divulgación y participación social. Fueron incluidas muchas de las recomendaciones y
consideraciones de las comunidades locales en el Proyecto definitivo de las obras ejecutadas, como así también
durante la ejecución del mismo.
A.5.2. Programa de Expropiaciones y Reasentamientos-




                                                                                                                 38
     El objetivo del programa fue atender la resolución de todos los aspectos inherentes a la ampliación del
derecho de vía. El diseño del mismo se basó en la legislación provincial vigente y en la Normas Operativas del
Banco Mundial: OP 4.12 Reasentamientos Involuntarios; BP 4.12; Anexos y BP 17.50 Divulgación al Público.
     Entre los componentes de este Programa, deben destacarse: I) Relevamiento y diagnóstico socio-económico
de las familias, individuos, productores, comercios y actividades formales e informales afectadas por las
expropiaciones a realizar para la ejecución del Proyecto; así como de las afectaciones en la accesibilidad y
movilidad; II) Diseño de un plan de restablecimiento de las condiciones socioeconómicas de las familias,
individuos, productores, comercios y actividades formales e informales afectados por el Proyecto; III)
Elaboración de metodologías y procedimientos destinados a atender las alteraciones socioeconómicas en las
familias, individuos, productores, comercios y actividades formales e informales y proponer mecanismos de
organización y control, IV) Diseño y redacción del Plan de Comunicación y Participación Comunitaria.
     En cuanto a los resultados, se expropiaron 246 parcelas, se atendieron 17 casos de familias con condiciones
socioeconómicas vulnerables, se pavimentó 2, 5 kilómetros el Acceso a la Escuela Agrotécnica Nº 299 “El
Cantón de Zárate? de Sa Pereira, se construyó la escuela Nº 1303 “Gral José de San Martín? de San Agustín y se
realizó el correspondiente corrimiento de alambrados de los terrenos compensados. De las parcelas expropiadas
208 (84 percent) fueron expropiadas mediante convenios de avenimiento, 33 (14 percent) se han tramitado por vía
judicial, 2 (0,8 percent) no fueron expropiadas por ser terrenos estatales y 3 (1,2 percent) no fueron finalmente
afectadas.
B) Componente de Fortalecimiento de la Capacidad Institucional-
B-1) Subcomponente Seguridad Vial
B.1.1. Objetivos
         Su objetivo fue el desarrollo de herramientas propensas a mejorar la relación de convivencia en el tránsito
y la coordinación de la acción conjunta de los estamentos estatales involucrados, mediante intervenciones duras
(obras) e intervenciones blandas (planes, equipamiento, estudios).
B.1.2. Intervenciones duras
B.1.2.1. Introducción
         Consistió en una serie de obras tendientes a mejorar la señalización horizontal y vertical a fin de optimizar
las condiciones de la seguridad vial en los puntos de la red vial considerados como críticos por la cantidad y
siniestralidad en la ocurrencia de accidentes. En ese contexto, se identificó como tal un tramo de la Ruta
Provincial Nº 21 ejecutándose allí la obra denominada: MEJORAS EN LOS COMPONENTES SEGURIDAD
VIAL EN RUTA PROVINCIAL N° 21 - Tramo: Límite Provincial Bs. As. - Arroyo Seco (Progresivas
0+000 a Progresivas 35+948).
         El tramo intervenido estuvo ubicado en los departamentos Rosario y Constitución. Este trayecto tiene
34,978 Km. de longitud con un TMDA promedio de 6.546 vehículos, con un gran porcentaje de tránsito pesado.
Dicho volumen de tránsito, sumado a que el citado tramo se encuentra en una zona industrial y de hinterland de
los Puertos del Gran Rosario; sus características son urbanas y semiurbanas; y que bajo determinadas condiciones
climáticas se presencia una intensa neblina debido a que se encuentra en las proximidades del río Paraná;
terminan siendo factores que lo transforman en una zona conflictiva en lo que respecta a Seguridad Vial. Lo que
se propuso con estas mejoras es, a modo general, desalentar la velocidad o sea inducir a los conductores a que
reduzcan la velocidad más que nada en puntos donde existen factores potenciales de riesgo.
Dichos trabajos incluyeron mejoras, a saber: (i) Mejoras y refuerzos de la señalización horizontal y vertical; (ii)
Perfilado y mejoramiento de banquinas; (iii) Construcción de dársenas para detención del transporte público de
pasajeros; y (iv) Defensas, semaforización, bicisendas e iluminación.
B.1.3 Intervenciones Blandas
B1.3.1. Introducción
         Consistió en el diseño y ejecución de planes de sensibilización y capacitación para monitoreos vinculados
a la seguridad vial conjuntamente con provisión de bienes para controles de tránsito.
B.1.3.2. Resultados en relación al objetivo
         En relación al objetivo originalmente planteado para este subcomponente: a) Tiene por objetivo el
desarrollo de herramientas propensas a mejorar la relación de convivencia en el tránsito y la coordinación de la


                                                                                                                   39
acción conjunta de los estamentos estatales involucrados. Se presentan a continuación indicadores concretamente
verificables:
1. Equipamiento para la Agencia Provincial de Seguridad Vial: Mediante el Programa se compraron: (i) 20
alcoholímetros y 10.000 boquillas destinadas a control de tránsito; (ii) 40 juegos de conos lumínicos, 350 juegos
de conos y bases, 200 mts. de banda reflectiva, 500 cintas de peligro, 100 banderas de señales, 25 cintas de
remolque, 25 juegos de vallas de seguridad y 10 flechas viales lumínicas como equipamiento básico destinado a
operativos de seguridad vial; (iii)
2 vehículos tipo utilitarios furgón; y (iv) 6 vehículos tipo utilitarios familiar.
2. Manual de Monitoreo y seguimiento: Fue el resultado de un proceso que incluyó las siguientes etapas: a)
definición-identificación de indicadores; b) establecimiento de una línea de base y; c) determinación de los
indicadores en una situación futura (monitoreo) para su comparación con la línea de base, con vistas a la
evaluación y, eventualmente, adopción de medidas correctivas (monitoreo propiamente dicho).
3. Personas capacitadas en la temática: Las personas capacitadas sumaron un total de 50 en dos talleres
llevados a cabo en el norte y sur de la provincia.
B.2. Subcomponente Logística:
B.2.1.Introducción
         La Provincia de Santa Fe en el marco del Programa financiado por el BIRF fijó como prioridad realizar un
estudio sobre el sector de transporte y la logística en su territorio, el cual se centró en la situación actual del
mismo, teniendo como principal objetivo identificar los problemas existentes en el sector en el ámbito provincial,
y proponer medidas a adoptar, sean inversiones físicas o modificaciones en el marco legal sectorial e institucional
que lo contenga, e identificando las posibles acciones del Estado para promover el desarrollo del sector privado.
         En este contexto, se ejecutó a través de la UTE Proinsa S.A. – Ecoconsult S.A. el Estudio denominado:
“EVALUACIÓN DE LA LOG?STICA EN EL MOVIMIENTO DE CARGAS – FORMACIÓN DE UN PLAN
DE OPTIMIZACIÓN Y FORTALECIMIENTO?
B.2.2. Objetivos
         El objetivo del estudio de la logística en el territorio Provincial fue el desarrollo de estrategias concretas
para atender a los desafíos logísticos que requiere la expansión del comercio provincial, nacional e internacional
de la Provincia y la Región.
         Para ello, se planteó la obtención de un diagnóstico de la logística provincial actual, identificando la
posición y eficiencia que revisten los distintos componentes y actores en el contexto nacional e internacional
actual, identificando los requerimientos para lograr una logística óptima a futuro y los ineludibles cambios para
alcanzarlo, base sobre la cual trazar planes y programas a desarrollar.
B.2.3.Desarrollo del trabajo
         A los fines de la ejecución de este proyecto, trabajaron conjuntamente la Sub-secretaría de Transporte del
Ministerio de Aguas, Servicios Públicos y Medios Ambiente y la Sub-secretaría de Proyectos de Inversión del
Ministerio de Economía. Se efectuó una convocatoria a expresiones de interés de Firmas interesadas en participar
del proceso de selección basado en calidad y costo (SBCC) de una firma consultora para ejecutar el mencionado
estudio.
         La convocatoria contó con una amplia participación, se inscribieron 25 firmas con una amplia
representación geográfica (70 percent de firmas nacionales y 30 percent de firmas extranjeras) y de distintas
características empresariales (2 empresas unipersonales, 4 ONG, 16 firmas y/ó uniones transitorias conformadas
solo por sociedades comerciales y 3 uniones transitorias constituídas por empresas y ONG`s).
     En virtud de la evaluación realizada y de los Puntajes Totales Finales obtenidos por cada una de las
propuestas presentadas, se iniciaron las negociaciones con las firmas Consultoras “Advance Logistics Group, ILI
– Logistica Internacional, CLC – Consultores en Logìstica (Barcelo Bobba Asociados SRL)? por ser la firma
calificada con mayor puntaje.
     Luego de una serie de reuniones e intercambio de información relacionada con la propuesta metodológica y
financiera, en el mes de diciembre de 2010 se recibe una notificación del grupo consultor informando su
imposibilidad de ejecutar el contrato.



                                                                                                                    40
     En virtud de lo establecido en los documentos del Pedido de Propuesta, contando con el aval del BIRF se
procedió a convocar a la firma calificada en segundo lugar en la evaluación efectuada, grupo “ECOCONSULT
S.A.-PROINSA Proyectos de Ingeniería S.A.?. Negociado el contrato pertinente, se procedió a su firma 06/04/11.
B.2.4. Resultados
Desarrollado en las dos etapas antedichas, la primera de ellas –FASE I- culminó con los siguientes productos: (i)
Situación y diagnóstico de: a) el sistema logístico provincial? y; b) la demanda, flujos y corredores provinciales?;
(ii) Evaluación de: a) la logística provincial; b) principales proyectos de inversión vinculado con la logística que
fueran relevados en las cinco regiones que componen el PEP, sobre la base de información oficial y de
organismos internacionales; c) capacidad institucional del Estado; d) fortalezas de los operadores logísticos y; e)
gestión de los controles; (iii) Caracterización ambiental por regiones, incluyendo las intervenciones en transporte
y medio ambiente necesarias y recomendaciones sobre la Evaluación Ambiental Estratégica (EAE); (iv) Análisis
legal e institucional relacionando los cuerpos jurídicos con la logística y estableciendo la responsabilidad de los
distintos agentes en la actividad logística. Se presentó un detallado análisis del marco jurídico y de los principales
contratos. En estos dos últimos componentes, ambiental y legal e institucional, se han efectuaron
recomendaciones y requerimientos para optimizar la sustentabilidad ambiental y social de la logística de cargas y
señalado los requerimientos jurídicos, administrativos e institucionales necesarios en la PSF; (v) Planificación
Estratégica de la Logística con recomendaciones para la formulación de “la visión y estrategias del sector
transporte y logístico?; (vi) Fortaleza, Oportunidades, Debilidades y Amenazas (FODA) de la logística provincial;
(vii) Pilares y líneas de acción proyectadas, incluida la evaluación cualitativa de los recursos financieros
necesarios y posibles impactos en el horizonte temporal de corto y mediano plazo, indicando la magnitud
estimada de los recursos necesarios (Alta, Medio/alta, Medio, Medio/baja y Baja/nulo), discriminando su posible
procedencia (Recursos Financieros provenientes del Sector Público Nacional/Internacional, del Sector Privado y
del Sector Público Provincial); (viii) Calificación cualitativa de la Complejidad Institucional de cada
Programa/Proyecto propuesto y su impacto en el horizonte temporal.
     A posterori de la etapa de sensibilización y difusión de los resultados mediante entrevistas y talleres, se
incorporaron los aportes de cada sector involucrado obteniéndose el producto final de la consultoría el “Plan de
Optimización y Fortalecimiento de la logística de cargas en la Provincia de Santa Fe? en el cual se establecieron
prioridades y responsabilidades, requerimientos jurídicos institucionales, requerimientos financieros, análisis de
los Costos de Inversión de los Programas y Proyectos que integran el Plan de Corto Plazo (2012/2015) y de
Mediano Plazo (2015/2020), beneficios del Plan, matriz FODA ambiental, esquema de monitoreo y agenda de
gobierno. Adicionalmente se realizaron: (i) Entrevistas (más de 60) y reuniones con diversas organizaciones que
nuclean a los diferentes actores (Bolsas de Comercio de la ciudad de Santa Fe y Rosario, cámaras de
transportistas, Asociación Argentina de Automotores de Carga, entre otros); (ii) Dos Talleres de Comunicación y
Sensibilización, para la difusión del estudio desarrollado y para la validación del mismo por parte de los distintos
actores públicos y privados intervinientes, contándose con la presencia de un total de 40 asistentes; (iii) Seminario
de Planeamiento Estratégico destinado a capacitar al personal del estado provincial, encargados de seguir adelante
con este proyecto; y (iv) Diseño de un “Observatorio Logístico Provincial, incluyendo normativa, misiones y
funciones y organigrama.
B.3. Subcomponente Planeamiento:
B.3.1. Introducción
         La provincia de Santa Fe ha transitado un camino pautado y diseñado de manera estratégica desde el año
2008, en el que con la nueva organización del Estado Provincial dividida en 5 regiones, se ha perseguido atender
las particularidades de un territorio sumamente extendido y diverso, buscando la consolidación de estas regiones
como espacios de planificación y concertación que orienten la gestión pública.
         Así, y como resultado de un proceso amplio y sostenido de participación ciudadana, se construyó el Plan
Estratégico Provincial; con una visión estratégica a largo plazo sostenida en valores compartidos.
         A través de este proyecto se busca poner en práctica el desarrollo de instrumentos de ordenamiento
territorial que proyecten sectores del territorio santafecino con un alcance mayor al que normalmente tienen los
planes urbanos o antiguos planes reguladores. En primer lugar, se tratará de avanzar en la regulación de todo el
suelo, urbano y no urbano. En segundo lugar se procurará un abordaje microregional, involucrando a varias
jurisdicciones locales.

                                                                                                                   41
         Dado el avance del Programa financiado por el BIRF, la disponibilidad de financiamiento al momento de
identificar la posibilidad de ejecución de estos proyecto, y los plazos disponibles para la ejecución del Programa,
es que se decidió elegir para su ejecución el proyecto que presentara un mayor desarrollo en su formulación y que
en particular contara con un mayor involucramiento de los actores locales para su concreción, todo ello con el fin
de que se alcanzaran a cumplir con los objetivos del proyecto, dentro de los plazos del Programa.
         En este sentido es que la Sub-secretaría de Planificación y Descentralización del Ministerio de Gobierno y
Reforma del Estado propuso avanzar con el proyecto denominado “Directrices de Ordenamiento Urbano
Ambiental en Villa Ocampo?.
B.3.2. Objetivos:
B.3.2.1. Generales
         La puesta en marcha de este programa persiguió como objetivo el desarrollo de instrumentos de
planificación territorial de alcance supra-local con un enfoque integral del territorio tanto urbano como no urbano,
promoviendo la asociación entre administraciones locales para arribar a su concreción.
         El avance en este tipo de instrumentos busca contar con experiencia y antecedentes replicables en otros
lugares de la provincia.
B.3.2.2. Específicos
         Los instrumentos de planificación a desarrollar deberán incorporar los siguientes aspectos:
• Ambiente. El repertorio normativo de la provincia de Santa Fe, a través de sus leyes, reglamentos y resoluciones
ministeriales, estipula criterios para la definición de áreas de preservación, de prevención de riesgos, de
localización de actividades. El desarrollo de instrumentos de planificación local o supralocal suponen la
definición de estos sectores y la asignación de usos del suelo bajo estos criterios o, eventualmente los acordados
con las localidades involucradas.
• Territorio y producción. Uno de los principales desafíos de la planificación regional (territorial) o supra-local es
avanzar en la convivencia de usos del territorio altamente contrapuestos y sin embargo interdependientes como
son las actividades productivas, agropecuarias e industriales con todos sus efectos en el ambiente y su incidencia
en las infraestructuras de movilidad por un lado, y el desarrollo urbano por otro. Por otra parte y continuando con
el enfoque planteado por el Plan Estratégico Provincial, interesará identificar y potenciar actividades productivas
de menor escala y las cadenas de valor.
• Hábitat y vivienda. En la regulación del espacio urbano y el territorio, el desarrollo de estos instrumentos
constituye una oportunidad para la innovación en términos de gestión del suelo y la consecución de suelo que
permita a las administraciones incrementar la superficie destinada a espacio libres, equipamiento, vivienda
pública, infraestructuras, etc. Por otra parte, ofrece la posibilidad de repensar las políticas habitacionales
incorporando como condiciones insoslayables la integración urbana, la accesibilidad a través la definición de su
localización desde una planificación general amplia y coherente con otras decisiones.
• Infraestructura y servicios. La eficiencia de las infraestructuras de servicios públicos y movilidad requieren un
diseño integrado y un análisis sistémico de su funcionamiento, que frecuentemente supera las lógicas y
capacidades locales. El desarrollo de instrumentos de escala intermedia permitirá optimizar su inserción en el
territorio.
B.3.3. Descripción
         El modelo de gestión adoptado para este proyecto fue de un grupo de trabajo formado por cuatro (4)
profesionales, consultores individuales externos, contratados mediante comparación de 3 CVs, utilizando el
Sistema de Selección basado en Calidad. Ello implicó una fuerte participación de la Subsecretaría de
Planeamiento en el desarrollo del mismo, como organismo coordinador de la temática en la Provincia y la
estrecha participación del municipio de Villa Ocampo.
         El proyecto se desarrolló entre los meses de abril hasta fines del mes de junio de 2012, más allá que la
aprobación de los documentos finales y la realización de las denominadas “instancias participativas? se
extendieron a los meses siguientes.
B.3.4. RESULTADOS
Tal cual lo delineado al momento de su formulación, el resultado del proyecto fue un documento formado por: (i)
Memoria Justificativa de la necesidad de ordenamiento territorial y normativo de la ciudad de Villa Ocampo; (ii)
Detalle de todos los estudios, Planes y Proyectos referentes a las localidades existentes; (iii) Diagnostico y

                                                                                                                   42
directrices de sostenibilidad ambiental; (iv) Directrices de orden económico; (iv) Directrices Urbano Territoriales;
(v) Directrices de Ordenamiento Urbano-Ambiental; y (vi) Doscientas personas, entre autoridades locales,
referentes empresariales y comerciales, y público en general, fueron sensibilizadas en la temática mediante tres
talleres:
B.4. Fortalecimiento Institucional de la Unidad de Gestión del Programa y de la Unidad Ambiental de la
DPV.
-Se realizaron acciones para mejorar la organización de la Unidad Ambiental de la Dirección Provincial de
Vialidad (DPV) y se adquirieron equipos de oficina y de campo.
-Una especial consideración debe tenerse respecto del desarrollo de una Evaluación Ambiental Estratégica vial
(EAE) del territorio provincial, donde se obtuvo como resultado del proceso la necesidad de la conformación de
un equipo de trabajo interministerial y una evaluación del estado de situación del sistema vial relacionado con los
proyectos incluidos en el Plan de Infraestructura Vial, en lo relacionado con los factores y procesos ambientales y
los impactos que surgen para los diferentes escenarios, una visión sobre las estrategias de gestión a implementar
para abordar los impactos, riesgos y oportunidades ambientales y un Plan de Gestión Ambiental que acompañe las
inversiones viales y oriente la generación de políticas convergentes destinados al logro de la sostenibilidad
ambiental de la provincia.

3.- GASTOS Y APORTE DE CONTRAPARTE
En concepto de contrapartida local, la Provincia de Santa Fe erogó la suma de u$s 47.591.489,13 en Obras
Civiles y u$s 2.230.104,69 en bienes y servicios de consultoría.

4.- EVALUACIÓN DE DESEMPEÑO
La Unidad de Gestión (creada mediante Decreto 2011/06 modificado por Decreto 113/08) estuvo conformada
básicamente por dos ministerios: Economía y Obras Públicas y Vivienda, a través de las Subsecretarías de
Proyectos de Inversión y de Obras Públicas (Dirección Provincial de Vialidad), respectivamente con roles y
funciones según sus competencias.
Dada la conformación temprana de esta unidad, se logró desde el inicio y a lo largo de todo el ciclo del proyecto,
articular organismos y disciplinas profesionales disímiles que participaron activamente y cuyos aportes fueron
incorporados al proyecto. La Subsecretaría de Proyectos de Inversión (SPI) que ostenta amplia experiencia en la
ejecución de proyectos con financiamiento externo, además de contar con personal de planta dedicado a temas de
adquisiciones, de ingeniería, planificación territorial y temas ambientales actuó tanto en los aspectos
administrativos como técnicos de forma articulada con diversas otras entidades provinciales.8
La evaluación final encuentra que el esquema de ejecución fue apropiado a los objetivos y alcances del
programa pues la experiencia adquirida en la administración del proyecto, incluyendo aspectos
conceptuales y técnicos, reside en el personal de las entidades que tuvo la responsabilidad de
implementarlo.

5.- LECCIONES APRENDIDAS
Las lecciones aprendidas se han clasificado según aspectos del proyecto, desde su diseño hasta su
implementación. La tabla siguiente presenta la síntesis de las lecciones aprendidas del proyecto con base en el
ejercicio participativo de evaluación.
                                                               Lecciones aprendidas
                                                            
 
8
   La Dirección Provincial de Vialidad en el componente Obras Civiles. La Secretaría de Transporte del Ministerio de Aguas, Servicios
Públicos y Medio Ambiente en el subcomponente Componente de Fortalecimiento institucional (CFI) – Logística. La Secretaría de
Planeamiento del Ministerio de Obras Públicas y Vivienda, en el subcomponente CFI-Planeamiento Estratégico. La Agencia Provincial de
Seguridad Vial de Ministerio de Seguridad en el subcomponente CFI- Seguridad Vial Intervenciones Blandas. La Secretaria de Medio
Ambiente del ministerio de Aguas, Servicios Públicos y Medio Ambiente en el subcomponente CFI – Evaluación Ambiental Estratégica.



                                                                                                                                 43
                                      Lecciones aprendidas
Contexto de las políticas y del programa – incluida la capacidad institucional
 A nivel social (cámaras/federaciones, actores relevantes locales, ONG’s), se dio participación
    a los actores locales en talleres y entrevistas. Se considera una lección aprendida que este tipo
    de proyectos deben necesariamente establecer procesos de comunicación, intercambio y
    retroalimentación con todos los actores a efectos de que la comunidad toda participe en la
    gestión de los proyectos.
 El Manual de Monitoreo y seguimiento de indicadores de seguridad vial demostró ser un
    instrumento útil para sistematizar el relevamiento y procesamiento de datos a cargo de la
    propia Agencia Provincial de Seguridad Vial en su carácter de organismo competente, la que
    además modificó y mejoró los indicadores originales en función de la dinámica del tránsito y
    del acceso a la información.
 Posibilitó la interacción directa con especialistas del Banco Mundial para la elaboración de
    Documentos de Licitación destinados a grandes obras.
 Se implementaron por primera vez procesos de precalificación de empresas constructoras
    viales bajo la metodología utilizada por el Banco Mundial para la licitación por Lotes.
Proceso de planificación y diseño del proyecto
 Fue una lección aprendida (positiva) el proponer un esquema de trabajo multi-institucional.
    Desde el inicio del proyecto esto facilitó el involucramiento de las entidades beneficiarias
    durante el desarrollo del proyecto y no sólo al final del mismo.
 La participación de la comunidad en sus diferentes etapas: anteproyecto, proyecto y ejecución
    ha permitido el enriquecimiento del proyecto original a partir de la inclusión de
    modificaciones sugeridas por los vecinos en las distintas instancias de participación
    organizadas a tal fin, tanto en la etapa de preinversión como durante la ejecución de la obra.
    El hecho de incluir en el equipo de trabajo un comunicador social y la implantación de 6
    puntos comunitarios en las localidades donde se construía la ruta ha sido una medida
    novedosa y virtuosa.
 PER: Relocalización Escuela. Fue un importante aprendizaje de trabajo colectivo entre
    distintas reparticiones públicas y de la comunidad educativa, tanto en las etapas de
    planificación y ejecución de la obra.
?mbito del proyecto (objetivos, recursos, presupuesto, etc.)
 No debe subestimarse el tiempo de ejecución de las obras ya que deben considerarse en los
   plazos de ejecución del proyecto (no de la obra) los eventos compensables que en la mayoría
   de las obras ocurren.
Hipótesis y riesgos
 Uno de los principales supuestos del proyecto era el compromiso y participación de otros
  estamentos del gobierno provincial. Esto se logró permitiendo no solo la participación, sino
  también asumiendo responsabilidades concretas.
Procedimientos de gestión y coordinación del proyecto y participación de los actores.
 Las reuniones con la comunidad permitieron cumplir con objetivos concretos de participación
    proyectados de antemano, a saber: - Discutir con la comunidad el proyecto antes de su
    aprobación,- Dar a conocer tanto el proyecto como las readecuaciones del mismo a la
    comunidad de manera de favorecer su participación activa a través de aportes y sugerencias
    que fueron tenidas en cuenta para enriquecer tanto uno como otras - Resolver cuestiones
    vinculadas a las diferentes afectaciones ocasionadas por la obra a los vecinos y consensuar
    con estos posibles soluciones – Responder inquietudes y aclarar cuestiones vinculadas a las
    características técnicas del proyecto.
 Se requiere un mayor involucramiento de autoridades locales y del nivel nacional para aunar

                                                                                                        44
                                        Lecciones aprendidas
       esfuerzos en torno a la consolidación de los programas /pilares estratégicos que surgieron de
       los diversos servicios de consultoría como políticas de desarrollo.

    Sostenibilidad
     Temas técnicos: al involucrar en la creación e implementación a los actores, las soluciones
        técnicas implementadas son sostenibles (no son el producto de un consultor aislado, sino que
        son construidas en conjunto)
     Temas financieros: los recursos requerido implican un reto para las instituciones responsables



 




                                                                                                       45
Annex 8.      Comments of co-financiers and other partners/stakeholders

There were no co-financers or other partners involved.




                                                                          46
Annex 9.    List of supporting documents

     1. Project concept note
     2. Project appraisal document, January 2009
     3. First restructuring project paper,
     4. Second restructuring project paper,
     5. Implementation Status and Results Reports, series 1 through 11
     6. Borrower progress reports
     7. Project’s aide memoires
     8. Informe sobre el Plan de Manejo Ambiental y Social (PMAyS), Fernando
        Brunstein, August 2012.
     9. Inspection Panel Investigation Report, July 2008.




                                                                               47
Map




      48
