FILE COPY,
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1522-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
November 15, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completen^ss of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00         =  Rs. 8.00
Rs. 1.00       =   US$0.125
Rs. 1 million = US$125,000
The Rupee is officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. As the Pound is now
floating relative to the US Dollar, the
US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject
to change. Conversions in the appraisal
report and in this report were made at
US$1 to Rs 8.00, which was the rate at
the time of the report's completion. On
November 8, 1974, the exchange rate was
US$1 - Rs 8.11.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for the equivalent of US$35 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance a project designed to increase and stabilize
production from agriculture and related activities under the Drought Prone
Areas Program in six districts in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka,
Rajasthan, and Maharashtra.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(402-IN, dated May 7, 1974) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 20, 1974. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size, diversity, and the extreme difficuity of its economic conditions.
India's economic policies and performance have their shortcomings, many of
which are attributable to the open political system, where the reconciliation
of conflicting political views tends to favor less than optimal economic
solutions; others are due to the sheer magnitude of the task facing the Govern-
ment. Governing a country divided into more than 20 states with a population
of some 580 million and over 60 languages is an extraordinary responsibility.
The country's poverty and poor natural resource endowment, supplemented by
a net transfer of external resources averaging in recent years well below
US$1 per head per annum, have imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth.
Any judgment of India's economic performance must take these underlying cir-
cumstances into account. So, also, must account be taken of the uncertainties
imposed by the uncertain availability of water. A bad monsoon, which is
inevitable from time to time, has a pervasive influence over the entire
economy and wipes out the results of years of effort.
4.        In the past 25 years, national income has grown at nearly 4% per
annum, which compares very favorably with the average annual growth rate of
less than 1% during the preceding 50 years. Population has also grown faster
in the past two decades than previously, but per capita income has never-
theless risen from a more or less stagnant level in the first half of this
century to achieve an average growth of roughly 1% a year since independence.
5.        Progress has been impressive on many fronts but disappointing on
others and has all too often fallen short of India's massive needs. The
growth of the socioeconomic infrastructure (transport, education, health
services, etc.) has been spectacular, but has often been achieved at high



-2-
cost and has yielded results of variable qualities; many industrial and agri-
cultural investment schemes have been highly successful, but others have taken
excessively long to be completed and have operated well below full capacity;
in some regions of the country growth and structural change have been rapid
and compare favorably with developments in many other parts of the world,
but in other regions there has been stagnation and possibly even decline.
Despite these improvements and although the distribution of income in India
is relatively even by comparison with many other countries, there has been
little impact upon the living standards of the vast masses of the urban
and rural population. The Government has become increasingly concerned
about the plight of the lower income strata which, conservatively measured,
consist of some 200 million people with incomes of less than US$60 per head
per year, and has initiated in recent years a variety of programs specifically
designed to alleviate poverty.
6.        In broad terms, the structure of the economy has been slow to
change. Agriculture remains the dominant sector, accounting for some 43% of
national product in the early 1970's compared with around 49% twenty years
previously. The share of output contributed by the industrial sector has
increased only slowly and since the late 1960's has remained approximately
constant at a level of 23%. Tnere has, however, been a shift in the com-
position of industrial production, with consumer, intermediate, and capital
goods now contributing about one-third each compared with an overwhelming
preponderence of consumer goods production 25 years ago.
7.        The economic report contained a review of the immense difficulties
confronting the Indian economy as the Fourth Plan period drew to a close. The
final year of the Plan, 1973/74, witnessed a severe deterioration in India's
terms of trade which was led by, but by no means restricted to, the dramatic
increase in oil prices. The resulting balance of payments difficulties were
compounded by the need for food imports following the drought of 1972/73, in
order to sustain the public distribution system on which the poorest section
of society is particularly dependent. Given India's pervasively agricultural
economy, the drought also had the effect of causing a general slowdown in
economic activity which was further aggravated by infrastructure constraints,
particularly widespread power shortages and labor problems of Indian Railways.
Food shortages and other scarcities touched off an unprecedented inflationary
spiral fueled by large budgetary deficits which were at least partly
attributable to mounting expenditures for drought relief. The inflation
in turn contributed to labor unrest while efforts to cope with it through
budgetary cuts affected, among other things, the level of real expenditures
for development programs.
8.        Thus, at the commencement of the Fifth Plan period (1974/75-1978/79),
the most urgent tasks facing policymakers were: to get agricultural pro-
duction moving again; to bring inflation under control; to reduce India's
dependence on oil imports by compressing energy consumption and by formulating
and implementing programs to develop domestic energy sources; to boost export
earnings and to tap additional sources of aid in order to sustain imports;
and, finally, to maintain a minimum investment program so as to avoid economic



-3-
standstill in the longer run. Even in the best of times, it would have been
extremely difficult to pursue simultaneously such a variety of potentially
inconsistent objectives.
9.        Events since the preparation of the last economic report provide
little encouragement. For the second time in the last three years, the weather
has let down India's farmers with the result that the kharif (fall) crop
recently harvested is believed to be considerably below last year's (about
60 million tons as compared with 67 million tons). The outlook for the next
rabi (spring) crop is uncertain in view of continuing shortages of power
for irrigation pumps and possible fertilizer shortages. The reduced avail-
ability of foodgrains, the depletion of official food stocks, India's
balance of payments difficulties, the inflationary setting and frequent
changes in the Government's food procurement policy have led to hoarding for
both speculative and insurance purposes. Procurement for public distribution
has become extremely difficult. The public kitchens established in some of
the worst-affected areas (Bihar, Bengal, Orissa) bear evidence of the serious-
ness of the situation as well as of the Government's determination to prevent
extreme hardship.
10.       The spectre of massive food import requirements hangs over au
already very difficult balance of payments situation in the current year.
The need for six to seven million tons of foodgrains imports appears evident,
and considerably more than half this amount either has been delivered
already or has been purchased. There is little evidence of a major break
in the prices of other commodities imported in substantial quantities by
India (e.g. oil, fertilizers, steel, nonferrous metals, rock phosphate).
11.       One of the few bright spots in the balance of payments picture
has been the growth of export earnings. In 1973/74, export earnings recorded
an unprecedented increase of about 30% and there are indications of a similar
increase in the current year. While these increases - particularly that
in 1973/74 - are primarily attributable to unit value increases caused by
worldwide inflation, there is greater willingness to take advantage of
export opportunities, as illustrated most dramatically by the recent diversion
of sugar from domestic consumption to exports.
12.       Nevertheless, despite the increase in export earnings, India is
expected to run a massive trade deficit this year - probably of the order
of US$1,600 million as compared with US$795 million in 1973/74 and a negli-
gible one the previous year. Moreover, despite the magnitude of the current
deficit, it is unlikely that India's imports, excluding foodgrains, will
be as large in volume as in 1972/73. In addition to financing a trade
deficit of this order, India will have to meet debt service payments of about
US$730 million. These financing requirements will be partly offset through
Consortium assistance and USSR aid, which are together expected to reach
disbursement levels of about US$1,550 million in 1974/75 compared with
about US$1,270 million in 1973/74. The deferred payment arrangements for
part of her oil requirements that India is understood to have reached with
Iran and Iraq will also provide welcome relief. Nevertheless, these various
sources of financing hardly measure up to India's current requirements. India



- 4 -
will have to draw on her foreign exchange reserves, which, at about US$1,300
million, are currently equivalent to less than three months of imports. India
has also drawn US$375 million on the IMF in the current year. The Government
also intends to make use of the IMF oil facility, and a drawing on this
facility of about US$240 million has been recently approved for use in
calendar year 1974.
13.       On the domestic front, the Government's present efforts are con-
centrated primarily on maximizing production in key sectors through a system
of priorities in the allocation of scarce resources and through careful
monitoring of developments and performance. In agriculture, this entails
provision of power on a priority basis for minor irrigation and fertilizer
production, and allocation of adequate foreign exchange for as much fertilizer
as can be imported from the limited world supplies. Similarly, efforts are
made to identify production bottlenecks in such sectors as fertilizer pro-
duction, coal mining and power generation; and special arrangements exist
for meeting expeditiously the foreign exchange requirements of these sectors
for such items as captive power units where appropriate, spares and replace-
ment parts. The railways are also tied into this system and accord priority
to the movement of goods required by these sectors. In the fertilizer, coal
and power sectors, senior officials are provided on a continuing basis with
detailed production figures along with explanations for production shortfalls.
Attempts are also being made to rationalize the administrative machinery of
the Government in these sectors, as evidenced by the October 1974 decision
to bring irrigation under the wing of the Food and Agricultture Ministry
and to regroup power generation and coal mining under an Energy Ministry.
14.       In the short term, however. there ars limits to the e.;tent to which
India's dependence on oil imports can be reduced and production of domestic
sources of energy can be stepped up. Insofar as t:he compression of demand
for oil products is concerned, these limits are determined, on Lhe one hand,
by the relatively small proportion of oil products used for private con-
sumption (possibly one-sixth) and, on the other hand, by the lim1ited avail-
ability of domestic substitutes (i.e. coal and power). The 13 million tons
of crude oil plus 3 million tons of product imports planned for the current
year probably represent the lower limit beyond which these imports cannot be
curbed without serious repercussions on domestic production. Had consumption
been allowed to grow in line with recent trends, the present level of crude
and product imports taken together would probably be of the order of at
least 18 million tons.
15.       A major effort is being made to use existing capacity as fully as
possible throughout the economy. To this end, despite the serious balance
of payments problem described above, the Government is pursuing a relatively
liberal policy toward imports of raw materials required by industry. Never-
theless, it is hard to get away from the current infrastructure constraints
and particularly the shortage and unreliability of power supplies which,
though somewhat eased, continue to affect production. Fiscal and monetary
policies, including the cutback in budgetary expenditures and limitations
on bank credit, are also restraining industrial output; and there is some



- 5 -
evidence that, due to rapidly rising food prices and the consequent erosion
of real purchasing power, the demand for some consumer items and industrial
projects is being affected. Given the various constraints, there is likely
to be little or no industrial growth in the current year which, in combination
with the current agricultural situation, makes it unlikely that there will
be any GNP growth either. In regard to inflation, the Government has made
impressive efforts to curb budgetary expenditures and to tap additional
sources of revenue. However, not surprisingly, in view of continuing food
shortages and other scarcities, inflation has not abated. The wholesale
price index, which in 1973/74 had recorded an increase of 29% over the pre-
vious year, has risen by a further 14% during the first five months of this
fiscal year.
16.       In present circumstances, the Draft Fifth Plan, published in late
1973, has not been finalized. In real terms, investment in the current Annual
Plan is about 30% below the annual level implicit in the Draft Fifth Plan,
and even this is unlikely to be reached. To adjust to reduced resource
availability, a number of investments are being postponed. Expenditures on
some of the social sectors such as education and family planning are un-
fortunately also affected. The focus once again is primarily on investments
in key sectors such as fertilizer, coal, power, and steel, and quite rightly
within these sectors the emphasis is on completing ongoing investments
before committing resources to new schemes.
17.       In the long run, given her groundwater, coal, hydroelectric, iron
ore, nonferrous metals and human resources, India undoubtedly has the
capability to overcome her present difficulties. It is, however, clear that
to overcome them and to resume the interrupted process of economic development,
India will require substantially larger capital inflows than foreseen by the
authors of the Draft Fifth Plan. It is equally clear that as large as possible
a proportion of these requirements should be provided on concessional terms.
However, even on very optimistic assumptions regarding India's success in
narrowing her resource gap and the response of both Consortium and other
donors, a gap will remain between external financing requirements and the
availability of concessional aid.
18.       India's external public debt outstanding on March 31, 1973, stood
at US$9.9 billion. As a consequence of worldwide inflation and its effects
on India's export earnings, service payments of about US$730 million due
on this debt in 1974/75 are expected to be equivalent to about 17% of merchan-
dise exports as compared with about 26% in 1972/73. However, substantial
additional debt will have to be incurred as a result of increases in the
prices of India's imports. In the future, therefore, the debt service ratio
is likely to rise, given the magnitude of India's requirements and the
unavoidability of having to finance part of these on nonconcessional terms.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 42 loans and 63 development
credits to India totaling US$1,229 million and US$2,880 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$655 million has been
repaid and US$1,112 million was still undisbursed as of October 31, 1974.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of October 31,
1974, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1957, IFC has made 13 commitments in India totaling US$42.3
million, of which US$7.6 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.3 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$20.8 million, US$13.7 million
represents loans and US$7.1 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of October 31, 1974, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting
minor irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit
operations. Major irrigation, marketing, and seed development are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. In recognition of the
importance of adequate fertilizer supplies for agricultural output, the
Bank Group has been active in financing the expansion of fertilizer production.
Apart from investments in fertilizer plants, the Bank Group has lent support
to the industrial sector through its sizeable assistance to development
finance institutions, in a wide range of geographically scattered medium-
and small-scale enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials
and components for selected priority sectors has been instrumental in
facilitating better capacity util'ization in these sectors. The Bank Group
has also been active in supporting infrastructure development for power,
telecommunications, and railways. Family planning, education, water supply
development, and related urban investments have also received Bank Group
support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities.     The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, and transport remains highly
relevant.  The priority of the agricultural sector has been further enhanced
in the present world commodity situation. Thus, projects designed to foster
agricultural production through the provision of essential inputs such as
credit for on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation
schemes, fertilizer and seeds, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next few years. Special emphasis will be given to projects
designed to increase the productivity of small farmers and landless laborers,
as demonstrated by the project which is the subject of this report. Lending
in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will focus on energy-
related projects. Repeater credits for power and railways have high priority
in this context, and discussions are under way with the Government in an
effort to identify and prepare projects specifically designed to facilitate
coal production and coal transport. Lending for fertilizer projects, which



-7-
has been an important feature in recent years, is expected to continue to
occupy a prominent place in the future program; the use of coal-based tech-
nology will receive particular attention.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic reports
and of the discussions within the India Consortium. The need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance is especially pressing at a time when
output and investment have to be adjusted to a radically different price
situation. Consequently, Bank Group lending for critical industrial raw
materials and components continues to be an essential element within the
overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of
projects tends to be especially low in such high priority areas as agricul-
ture, education and family planning; for the Bank Group to be able to make
an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these and other
sectors, it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
24.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown signif'cantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements, as compared with an estimated 35%, 27% and 37%,
respectively, in 1973/74, and the contribution of the Bank Group is expected
to continue growing. Whereas on March 31, 1973, the Bank Group share of
India's outstanding external public debt was 21%, by 1979 it is projected
to account for about 25%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is pre-
dominantly in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will
rise slowly. In 1973/74, about 12% of India's total debt service payments
were to the Bank Group.
PART III - THE DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROGRAM
Background
25.       Agriculture remains the most important sector of the Indian
economy; it engages 72% of the labor force, contributes presently about
43% of GNP, and accounts for a major share of exports. The overall growth
rate of agricultural production, averaging about 3% per annum, obscures
considerable variations over shorter periods of time, between crops, and
between regions. Thus, the introduction of high-yielding varieties of
wheat led to increases in production of about 11% p.a. between 1967 and
1971. Other foodgrain crops, notably rice, have not enjoyed the same
success, as the introduction of high-yielding varieties has encountered
difficulties arising from local climatic and ecological conditions.



- 8 -
26.       India's agricultural output remains heavily dependent upon
adequate rainfall. In the period 1969-71, nonirrigated areas averaged
about 127 million hectares or 77% of gross cropped areas in India. In
addition to efforts at expanding irrigation and making more effective use
of existing investment in irrigation facilities, improved dryland farming
technology is vital to any significant and sustained growth of agricul-
tural production.
27.       The need for gains in agricultural productivity in the vast
areas heavily dependent on rainfall coincides with the Government's desire
for improved employment, income distribution and the uplift generally of the
weaker sections of society, particularly in rural areas. The Government
therefore initiated a number of programs, in 1970/71 and 1971/72, as essen-
tial components in its strategy for meeting the problems of agrarian un-
employment, low productivity and rural poverty. The most important among
these programs are the Small Farmers Development, and Marginal Farmers and
Agricultural Laborers Agencies Programs, and the Drought Prone Areas Pro-
gram.
28.       These programs have been operating with varying degrees of
success. Performance has been uneven from area to area and between
projects in the.same area. Rigidities, imperfections, problems in design,
definition, guidelines, organization and execution became evident as the
programs got under way. Most of these problems had been attributable to
the experimental nature of the programs. Nevertheless, the programs were
formulated on the basis of considerable earlier experience, and thorough
evaluations since have confirmed that they are conceptually realistic.
Bearing in mind their relatively recent start and slow initial pace, they
have already reached respectable rates of expenditure, activity, and accoDlplish-
ment.
29.       The programs represent a promising start in tackling the
complex and interrelated problems of rural development. A general short-
coming has been that they were conceived in isolation and that their operations
were locationally dispersed. It will be necessary not only to accelerate
the pace of their implementation and to bring about operational improvemnents,
but to ensure their close coordination with the general development programs
for particular areas. Only a well-integrated, comprehensive effort promises
to bring about lasting improvements in the economic conditions of small and
marginal farmers and agricultural laborers. These considerations, which
emerge from tihe Government's follow-up and evaluation of program performance,
are especially relevant to the Drought Prone Areas Program.
Drought Prone Areas Program
30.       The Drought Prone Areas Program (DPAP), initiated as the Rural
Works Program in 1970/71, now covers 72 districts in 13 states. The districts
selected for inclusion in the program were chosen on the basis of low average
annual rainfall, the frequency and severity of droughts, and relatively low



proportions of irrigated land to the total cultivated area. Program districts
are located throughout the country with a concentration in central and western
India. They cover about 590,000 sq. km. with a population of about 66 million
and an average per capita income significantly below the national average.
The objective of the program is to mitigate the effects of periodic droughts
in these areas by providing permanent employment, on-farm development, and
improving public sector services. Accordingly, the principal elements of
the program are irrigation, soil and moisture conservation, and the diver-
sification of agricultural production. More than half of the expenditures
under the program, so far, has been for medium and minor irrigation. The
main thrust will be on development and management of irrigation resources,
soil and moisture conservation, changes of cropping patterns, pasture devel-
opment, better agronomic practices, livestock development, and the technolo-
gical changes these activities require.
31.       Funding of the program is shared equally by the Central Govern-
ment and the state governments involved. The GOI budgeted a total of Rs 1
billion (US$121 million) for the four years, 1970/71 to 1973/74; almost the
entire amount has now been disbursed. The budget has been increased to
Rs 1.7 billion (US$206 million) in the Fifth Plan period. The funds avail-
able under the program are allocated specifically for the benefit of the
selected districts; they are additional to t1ie regular development assist-
ance received by the states from the Center and the institutional credit
allocations by Central institutions. However, financing by the Center under
the program is made contingent upon the provision, district by district, of
equivalent funds by the states. At the Center, the program is administered
by the Department of Cooperatives and Community Development within the Min-
istry of Agriculture. The state level organization varies among states,
but the general pattern includes a small staff within the ministry respon-
sible for rural development. At the district level, the program has been
administered through the office of the Collector, the senior civil servant
in the district, and by the district officers of executing state government
departments. Execution of all public sector works is the responsibility
of existing departments and agencies of the state governments.
32.       The urgent need for relief in the selected districts during the
past three years, especially in the wake of the 1972 monsoon failure, tended
to lead state governments to place emphasis on employment generation in the
design of program components and to ignore developmental exigencies. Exces-
sive priority was given in many areas to road construction, even though at
the present stage of development their contribution to drought mitigation in
the concerned areas could not be considered significant. Moreover, super-
vision of design and implementation of the various schemes was often
inadequate, which resulted in deviations from the norms and standards imposed
at the time of their formulation.
33.       On the institutional side, greater emphasis is now being given to
tne role ot the district administration, both in planning and coordinating
program implementation. The drought problem can be tackled only on a long-term
basis and the specific long-term programs needed for different districts cannot



- 10 -
emerge out of overall state plans but have to be conceived to meet the
needs of individual districts. At the same time, the quality of the agro-
nomic and technical design of the individual schemes would have to be
improved to make better use of the available land and water resources. The
execution of the individual schemes will be the responsibility of appropriately
staffed and equipped specialist departments in the state governments, assisted
by the administration of the program at the Center, while the coordination of
these various activities and the supervision of implementation schedules must
be a function of the district administration. Apart from the administrative
and financial arrangements, the key to the success of the program is very
largely a question of introducing improved technological practices. The work
under way at the newly established International Crop Research Institute for
the Semi-Arid Tropics is aimed to this end, as is that of some of the 23
research centers in dryland farming all over India. Research, which has
proved effective within the narrow and controlled confines of the experiment
station, is only just beginning to spread. This does not mean that investments
to improve the productivity of arid or semiarid areas must wait for a fully
developed technology. The investment will be, in itself, a means of helping
advance the critical breakthrough. These considerations have been significant
in shaping the proposed project and the specific conditions associated with it.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
34.       An IDA reconnaissance mission visited India, in February 1973, to
examine the possibilities of a project in the context of the Drought Prone
Areas Program. Following further discussions with the GOI and the state
governments concerned, a project was prepared by GOI and selected states with
the assistance of the Bank's resident missionl. The project was appraised
in October/November 1973; a follow-up mission completed the appraisal in
'larch 1974. A report entitled, "Appraisal of Drought Prone Areas Project,"
Report No. 533a-IN dated November 14, 1974, is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington, from
October 18 to October 24, 1974.   The Borrower was represented by Messrs. V. N.
Rajagopalan, Director, Department of Economic Affairs, Mlinistry of Finance;
M. A. Quraishi, Secretary to the Government of India, I!inistry of Agriculture;
D. Aurora, Director (DPAP), Ministry of Agriculture; and C. H. Krishnamoorthy,
Assistant Director General-cum-Project Director, Indian Council of Agricultural
Research. Andhra Pradesh was represented by Mr. B. C. Gangopadhyay, Secretary,
Forests and Rural Development Department; Karnataka by Mr. S. K. Hlajra,
Deputy Commissioner, Bijapur District; Maharashtra by ilr. V. Subramanian,
Secretary, Planning Department and Additional Development Commissioner;
and Rajasthan by Mr. P. Chopra, Deputy Secretary, Agriculture (Special
Schemes). A credit and project summary is given in Annex III.



The Project
35.       Representing a five year "time slice" of the ongoing DPAP program,
the proposed project is designed to increase and stabilize production in six
districts selected from among those especially affected by the 1972 drought.
These districts are: Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh; Bijapur in Karnataka;
Jodhpur and Nagaur in Rajasthan; and Ahmednagar and Sholapur in Maharashtra.
The range of conditions in these districts is such that there would be
considerable scope for replication of successful project components elsewhere
in the arid and semiarid regions of India.
36.       Project activities would vary, reflecting particular district
needs and resources. They would consist of public works and on-farm
development and cover minor irrigation schemes, command area development,
watershed management, dry farming, and sheep and dairy development. In
addition, the project would include cooperative investments in calf raising,
the conversion of sugarcane residues to fodder, the storage of cattle fodder
for emergencies, and diversification schemes in fisheries, sericulture (raw
silk production) and horticulture. Applied research and training programs
included in the project would strengthen the technical support available to
farmers. There would also be measures to improve the flow of agricultural
credit in project districts. Finally, outsiJe the scope of IDA financing,
the project would include unallocated funds to finance additional surveys,
research and training during the project period (core funds), and small
schemes unidentified at the time of appraisal but falling within objectives
and norms of DPAP. These schemes, which will be planned at the district
level in cooperation with state development departments, would provide
flexibility to the project in an environment of unstable and changing
conditions.
37.       Since agricultural production in the project districts is seriously
hampered by scarcity of water, exploitation and optimal use of what limited
water sources are available is a key element of the project. In the six
project districts, a total of about 1,735 wells of different types would be
built, and about 2,000 pumpsets installed. Together with about 30 tanks for
surface irrigation, these investments would secure agricultural production
on a total of about 20,000 hectares of which about 12,000 hectares would be
improved through land-leveling and construction of lined channels for water.
The groundwater resources of project districts have been adequately surveyed
in Rajasthan. Surveys are under way in Karnataka, and Maharashtra and Andhra
Pradesh have agreed to conduct similar surveys in the project areas. Maha-
rashtra, Karnataka, and Andhra Pradesh will prepare a master plan for inte-
grated tank construction and command area development.
38.       Watershed management would comprise soil conservation, afforestation
and pasture development appropriate to each land class within a watershed.
The upper reaches of most watersheds have been degraded through over-exploit-
ation of forest and pasture land. Such areas would be stabilized and gradually
restored through contour furrowing and pasture establishment on about 80,000
hectares of public and 10,000 hectares of private land. About 16,000 hectares



- 12 -
of public land would be afforested and about 2,000 hectares of public village
woodlots would be established to augment fuel supplies thus reducing the
present exploitation of the existing tree and bush cover. Trees would also
be established on about 12,000 hectares of woodside and boundary windbreaks
providing a secondary fuel source. About 230,000 hectares of private arable
lands, presently eroded because of inadequate conservation and husbandry
practices, would be protected through the construction of bunds, grass-lined
waterways and farm ponds. Old bunds would be repaired over a further 140,000
hectares. An advisor with experience in dryland pasture development would
assist in implementing the pasture program.
39.       Dry farming development under the project would be undertaken on
a pilot scale, embracing about 7,500 smallholdings in each of five of the
project districts. The objective would be to apply preliminary findings of
the Government's All-India Coordinated Research Project for Dryland Agricul-
ture, putting recommended technological and institutional adjustments to the
test under actual field conditions. Innovative dryland farming practices
would be introduced selectively, depending on each area's main crops and
productive potential. Critical to the success of this component would be
close cooperation envisaged between extension services and farmers, and the
active role to be played by progressive farmers as agents of change.
40.       In drought prone areas, where foodcrop production barely meets
subsistence requirements, animal husbandry traditionally becomes the major
source of cash income. Farmers, using public grazing lands, therefore tend
to expand the stock beyond the carrying capacity of the available land,
which leads to declining animal health and yields and to serious degradation
of the nonarable land. The livestock component of the project would aim at
increasing the productivity of selected livestock as a first step toward a
reduction in total animal numbers, creating a better balance between avail-
able land resources and animals. Programs for improving grasslands, cross-
breeding rams, veterinary services, and improved mutton and wool marketing
facilities would increase yields and earnings from sheep husbandry. It is
expected that at full development about 370 societies would have been estab-
lished, each of which would maintain a flock of about 400 mature sheep on
about 100 hectares of enclosed common land. Dairy development would be based
on village milk producer societies, in accordance with the pattern adopted
for dairy development throughout India. In the six project districts, a
total of about 90,000 farmers is expected to form at least 480 cooperatives,
motivated and assisted by special teams trained by the National Dairy Devel-
opment Board. Cooperatives involved would benefit from organized milk
collection, improved veterinary services, and distribution of cattlefeed
concentrates. The formation of sheep growers' and milk producers' coopera-
tive societies would be essential to ensure farmer access to health and
marketing services. Under an experimental scheme for crossbred dairying,
farmers would sell crossbred calves to calf-rearing centers, or establish
their own herds of crossbred cows. The services of an advisor would be
provided to assist in the planning and setting up of nine calf-rearing
centers, and would also assist in training of project staff.



- 13 -
41.       In order for farmers to take full advantage of the public invest-
ment provided by the project, they require credit for on-farm investments in
land shaping and water supply. Short and medium-term agricultural credit
would be provided principally by primary cooperative societies. Long-term
credit would be provided mainly by land development banks; commercial banks
have only recently ventured into agricultural lending and have yet to play
a major role. The various institutional, legal and social constraints that
in general impede agricultural lending in India also prevail in the project
districts. Thus, the project includes measures to facilitate the expansion
of agricultural credit in project districts. Programs to be started in
Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan to update land records would enable farmers to
show title or rights in support of their credit applications. Farmers'
Service Societies would be established and would extend credit primarily to
smallholders. Liaison between district officials and credit institutions
would be improved by strengthening local credit coordination committees. A
survey of short-term agricultural credit requirements in project districts
would be undertaken to point out problems and propose remedies. The Agricul-
tural Refinance Corporation would prepare district banking plans to facilitate
an expanded flow of medium and long-term credit, and would undertake the
appraisal and sanctioning of proposals received from the four States for
institutional financing under the project. Agricultural credit projects
financed by IDA would complement the proposed project in Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka and MSaharashtra.
42.       A team of agricultural economists would examine farm systems,
monitor the impact of development programs and, with the knowledge thus
gained, would help synthesize viable packages of technology for extension
to farmers. A team of pasture agronomists would investigate methods of
dryland pasture improvement and management. In addition, the Indian Council
of Agriculture Research would undertake a research program in agrometeorology
to establish soil moisture probabilities and relate them to crop water demand
to determine the probabilities of success of different cropping patterns.
Consultants in pasture agronomy and agrometeorology would be employed by GOI
to assist with these programs.
Project Implementation
43.       In the past, DPAP schemes have often suffered from insufficient
planning and too rigid adherence to common standards and criteria. Also,
lack of coordination among executing development departments, which have
traditionally carried out works along sectoral lines, has frustrated DPAP
performance. The GOI and the states have now decided to modify and
strengthen organization of the program, particularly in the districts,
with a view to ensuring effective execution and coordination of program
activities.
44.       At the Center, the DPAP unit within the Ministry of Agriculture
provides overall direction for the DPAP. It would, in particular. monitor
the financial and physical performance of the project, review investment
categories and norms, assist in preparation of more complex or innovative



- 14 -
schemes to be financed out of unallocated core funds, and address problems
related to credit constraints in all DPAP districts. Further, this unit
would be responsible for training activities, coordination of the research
component, and project evaluation. Recognizing the importance of these
functions, the GOI is strengthening the DPAP unit with a core of senior
experts in the fields of dry farming and soil conservation, irrigation, and
economics. Filling of these posts with qualified candidates satisfactory
to the Association would be a condition of effectiveness for the proposed
credit (see Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In
addition, the GOI has agreed to establish an Interdepartmental Coordination
Committee, under the chairmanship of the Secretary of the department
concerned with DPAP. Meeting quarterly, this committee would review
performance in the various subsectors of the program and ensure consistency
of technical norms with those of other programs.
45.       At the state level, DPAP is administered by a special cell in
the department responsible for rural development. Headed by a special
secretary or deputy secretary, this unit is responsible for planning, budget-
ing and technical supervision. It receives, from district officers, regular
reports on financial and physical performance, and monitors the execution
of program works by the executing state government departments. Interdepart-
mental coordination committees would include not only representatives of all
state government departments concerned with the program, but representatives
of the State Land Development Bank and the Apex Cooperative Bank as well.
46.       The GOI and the states have decided to establish District Devel-
opment Authorities (DDAs) initially in the project districts and eventually
in all other DPAP districts. These DDAs will be responsible for planning,
coordination and supervision of project activities, ensuring sound integra-
tion of DPAP and other development programs. They will in nicst cases be
chaired by the Collector withi a memberslhip consisting of diistrict level officers
of development departments and representatives of local governmenc, the state
legislature, commercial banks and producer cooperatives. Eacl) DDA will have
a small executive staff headed by a Project Manager, wiho will be the second
ranking officer of the district.   It would be a condition of disbursement in
each state that DDAs had been duly constituted in all project districts and
that Project Managers with acceptable qualifications had been appointed there-
to. (See Schedule 1, paragraph 4(c), (iii), of the draft Development Credit
Agreement.)
Project Costs and Financing
47.       The estimated total cost of the project is US$102.7 million
equivalent, including US$5.0 million in foreign exchange. The principal
cost components are: minor irrigation and soil moisture conservation
(US$23.0 million); forestry and pasture development (US$7.0 million); dry
farming (US$1.9 million); sheep and dairy development (US$22.1 million);
diversification schemes (US$1.9 million); updating land records and project
management (US$1.2 million); district and central core funds (US$4.1 million),



- 15 -
and technical assistance and research (US$1.3 million). The proposed
project represents a five-year "time slice" of an ongoing government
program. Similar to credit projects, cost estimates have been based on
investment norms rather than specific locations and numbers of works, and
therefore no physical contingency has been included. However, a significant
price contingency provision (US$40.2 million) has been made since cost
increases over the project period are expected to be such as would otherwise
jeopardize realization of project objectives.
48.       The GOI and the state governments would share equally the financing
of DPAP activities. On-farm development and cooperative activities amounting
to 30% of project cost would be financed by the farmers with credits from
commercial banks and cooperative credit institutions. Public sector ex-
penditures would amount to 70% of the total project cost, of which the
proposed credit would cover about 50%, or 34% of the total. It is expected
that about 90% of the total institutional credit requirements would be
financed by cooperatives and LDBs, sources of funds for which include loans
from state governments, the Reserve Bank of India, and ARC.
49.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be used exclusively
for public sector investments under the project: civil works (US$9.7
million); equipment, vehicles and livestock (US$2.6 million); operating and
staff expenses of project units (US$6.9 millJon); technical assistance
and research (US$1.3 million); and contingencies (US$14.5 million). All
the staff covered in project costs and against which disbursements would
be made would be incremental during the five-year project period.
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       Civil works (US$10.5 million) would not be suitable for interna-
tional competitive bidding because of their diverse nature, small size and
scattered locations. At the option of a State, these works, except for tank
construction (US$3.5 million), would either be executed by Government depart-
ments possessing the necessary staff and competence, or by civil works
contractors following competitive bidding advertised locally and in accord-
ance with local procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Government
contracts for the above tank construction, and government contracts for the
procurement of machinery, equipment, vehicles, and livestock in excess of
US$12,500 equivalent each (US$2.2 million), would also be let after competitive
bidding based on local advertising. Individual procurement contracts are
not expected to exceed US$20,000, bulking for international competitive
bidding would not be practicable, and the local representation of international
equipment suppliers is adequate for providing reasonable competition. Govern-
ment contracts for machinery, equipment, vehicles and livestock worth less
than US$12,500 each would be subject to the normal state government procure-
ment procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Well-drilling rigs
(US$0.3 million) would be procured on the basis of ICB in accordance with the
Association's guidelines, with domestic suppliers accorded the usual prefer-
ence of 15% or the rate of customs duties, whichever is the lower. Bids for
imported bulls (US$0.1 million) would be solicited from at least three



- 16 -
countries free from foot-and-moutlh disease. All contracts for on-farm
and cooperative investments, financed by credit institutions, would be
subject to the same rules for local procurement as the above public sector
investments.
51.       Although the cost of public investments would be shared equally by
IDA and the central/state governments, pro rata disbursement item by item
would not be feasible nor practicable. The proceeds of the credit would be
disbursed against the c.i.f. cost of imported goods, and at the rate of 80%
for goods procured locally. Disbursements for civil works would be made on
the basis of 95% of total expenditures against the usual documentation sub-
mitted by state governments. For irrigation tank construction, however,
only 47.5% against total expenditures on each tank would be authorized by
the Association for disbursement until certification by the DDA Project
Manager, in the district concerned, that command area development related
to that tank had started in accordance with approved plans. Thereafter
full disbursement would be made. (See Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Against technical assistance and
research expenditures, the Association would disburse 100% of total cost.
Finally, the Association would disburse 60%/ against operating costs of DDAs
and Project Implementation Units, and '100% against technical assistance
and research.
Benefits, Justification, and Risks
52.       It is estimated that the proposed project would improve permanently
the income of some 225,000 rural households, most of whom would belong to the
poorest segments of the population. Taking the average household as five
persons, then over 1 million people, or more thian 10% of the population of
the six districts, would permaaently benefit from the project. Average annual
income gains resulting from direct on-farm development would range from
Rs 1,000 to 1,100 for the bunding program to over Rs 4,000 (Rs 1,000 to
55300) for tank irrigation.   For dairy development, which would affect the
greatest number of people, it would be median at Rs 700 (Rs 1,050 to 1,750).
53.       Annual crop production would increase by about 58,000 tons,
principally foodgrains and oilseeds, and substantial increases would also
be realized in saleable fodder as well as milk, wool and mutton. About
85,000 man-years of short-term employment would be generated over the
project period,and, in addition, about 20,000 man-years of permanent
employment would be created. Measures to improve credit flow, research
and training would have permanent benef-Lts as would changes in district-
level planning and supervisory capacity through the establishment of district
development authorities.
54.       By its nature and objectives, this is not a project from which to
expect significant direct recoveries of public sector outlay. However, by
mitigating the impact of the future droughts, the project would reduce the
need for Government-supported famine relief and thereby result in a saving
of public funds. Only rough estimates of these possible savings can be made



- 17 -
since the incidence and effects of drought cannot be accurately predicted.
Under conservative assumptions, the saving in public expenditure would be
in excess of US$5 million equivalent during the project period.
55.       Furthermore, a proportion of costs would be recovered under two
major components. Fifty percent of the cost of bund construction on private
land would be recovered from farmers (about US$3.5 million equivalent).
About 2,500 farmers benefiting from irrigation tank construction would also
repay operation and maintenance costs and part of the capital cost. Because
of the diversity of systems and rates of payments (water rates, betterment
levy and crop cesses) it has not been possible to estimate the precise extent
of capital cost recovery. However, with current practices, it is unlikely to
exceed 20% and even this reflects a recent significant increase of rates.
These are now kept under constant review in recognition of the need to
improve the capital recovery position. Because the project's irrigation
component is but one of many and represents only a small part of the irri-
gation program of participating states, it has not been considered appro-
priate to seek assurances that recovery rates would be further increased.
56.       Economic rates of return have been calculated for the individual
project components and sensitivity analyses have been carried out to appraise
the possible impact of the key uncertainties bearing on these investments.
The rates so calculated range from 12% for pasture development to 37% for
dairy development.
57.       This would be the first Bank Group operation in India specifically
designed to tackle the difficult problems affecting rural development in her
arid and semiarid regions. The project is largely of a pilot nature;
investment components and prescriptions for rural development successfully
tested in this project would, in due course, be applied elsewhere and en
a larger scale. The project includes a wide range of components and involves
a variety of institutions at the Center, State and District levels. The
nature of the project thus reflects the complexity of rural development
in India. The proper implementation and supervision of the project will
require considerable effort if the objective, the improvement of agricultural
productivity and economic conditions in the six participating districts, is
to be realized, and if practical and economic solutions are to be developed
which can be used in rural development elsewhere. Technological progress,
the adoption of technological innovation, and the effectiveness of institu -
tional changes now introduced in the program should have considerable
impact on the return on project investments. Uncertainty about these
factors and the complexity of the project impose an element of risk greater
than in the case of other, more conventional projects. However, these risks
should be worth taking in the interest of learning better to deal with the
problems of rural backwardness and poverty, and in view of the potential
impact of this project extending far beyond the immediate project area.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreements between the Association and the
States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Rajasthan, respectively,
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed Credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
59.       Features of the draft Agreements of special interest are referred
to in paragraphs 44, 46 and 51. The due execution and delivery of a State
Project Agreement is made a condition for disbursement of proceeds of the
Credit allocated to the State which is party to that Agreement, and not a
condition for the effectiveness of the entire Credit (see Schedule 1,
paragraph 4(c), of the Development Credit Agreement). This would prevent
delays in starting the Project in any States which have satisfied this
particular condition.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreements of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by: I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
November 15, 1974



ANNEX I
- cm A DTA-Page                                                                       1
AREA                                              F'P(JLATION                                DENSITY
.772    ko277.0                                         dIln(mid-1 973)..bl                                                -
SOCIAL IiDIWOhlO
WI? FMR 0018 MO8 12AM     WMsI) f..                                         110 /             90 /a        220 At    2,600 /a
ratm;       (pr                                            3?          38              .oi -         L5 /o.    l.2
Cruda  utel rat ((P.r,h" aa                                    1'3  a10                            d      12        11
enftt oavtalty rate (par tfaeaas  iwl baLthe)                139 7.  130-no                .            80        I7.5 Li
Life oM*atany at birth (puara)                                 41 7-       50               i.8           53-         !2
GIroas roraoin     ae   t                                                 2.9               3.2          3.3         1.3
Np.latiae path  rate                          ~~~~        ~~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~2.3,  2.3 /6  2.2 /8  3.0 /8  0.5 lb
Papsflatiae paoth rate - urban                                  3/&         4 7T?             57-          .7W       o.s
Ape struahur  (porasat
LI    h2               4.5s          .3        2(
15-62.                                                       (6          55               53            53        6    .1.
$a,-d 550?                                                    3           3                              1        13.
DoraScany7 ratio Li                                           1.0         1.2 /t,1         s1. 4n        1. jL.      0.5 /
Urbe pepflatiae as peosat af tatal                             18/1        20 /u            12 f             I~t      78
Parity plannimng:   oof aCeaptore aseoatie   tea.           1,0A  7?        .               175          109
Se. af usara ( of acrriad acn).                           ..               .a
S m orfarc   (thoasande)                             189,0(0 /0  221,000 [          Lp(.,102 /   13,20-0 ft  25,610
Po'oratape auployod in ogrioultere                           ;3 7-       7                 633
Partantage ac-loyed                                           ..          .. 
a   mn     beemas r-1ivd by hi$eadt (9                20 fr       22 f               .25 /t .                1
facnta natinal incot recoivad by Isl*est 2qi               Ii 4?18 Ta                                   It       39', 
Piloant a! eatianj man0QQ  received by 10=st 2(1               86 7W          7W             .            54 It        6   ,E
Percent at national inseosreeivod by laveot 141                19 77       19 7? v                        12 2f       19  2
owneid by :callct2(1at    ecrarsf..                                       ..
Q1A*WAm-qprsp g-yi ..                        ~~~~5,80  fno I 1,SOO        2'.',650      9.100 /       9 20
Py.lA.tice par uae4S~ p-acma                                 5,1,o 7W~  5,110             8,01o        5,390 7?      311 In
Population par he.sptte bod                                 2,600 7x-   1,620 Lx          1,720          850 77,     110 zr.
For capita nalarte cppy as    ofa r*q.irc=tu                   689 fa      83/BI8                            I        2
Par capita Protein apply, total (vcx par da                     1?41           ?             30           53 7?       37
Of Wbih, an-a and pelce                                      19 7-       16 7??            14ac         22 7?       57
bocth rat. 1-4. years /7                                       ..7 .27?                                              0.7 Is.
/9  r  har  al.a  orlbnst ratia                 4.2          79 /an          "II          112         110
OAdjuswted 7?-=    .;iar  sceal onraicot ratio                  10          23 7i?c          1.2           45  e       72
Tooal of i.Aling previdod, first aid coon    lvoal             12          12               12            10          13
Vacattnal earclaat as     of so.. ashel osrollout               I           6 /Ij           28            10 /ad Ai    5
Adult iter.ay rct. 11                                          24 /a       36 /t,-M         5.6          22 ir72      97 /f
MlP.M      II*. of poraa-a jar roa  (urban)                     2.6 fa        .                .            .          0.? Ltiz
Peresi of eeespi.d wtrOt wbthcet pijud cter                    ..           .                .               /ad'
Amatc he eloetrioity, (as   af total yopcataati)                .           .                             23
Porest at Rura1 populati-o oce,maated to electricity           ..           .                .6 /a.
2M     resytyre Per 1020 pcpalatiaa                           5          21               111          (45 I/-     33
Fuoseansr eura per 100 ypoplation                             o.8           1                 2            8         210
Zmatrctate y cornasuzptica (ha, p.o.)                          L16        III                19          229       1,164
Siosopriat nacacptls  P... kg P.r year                        0.2         0.3              0.2          1.8 lola    27.7
Note., Figur    rotor sutor to theo latest periods or to          aeoont of ooatrsoetal tcprt.          AsY ealotybe  oa
the latest yerar. Latact periods rotor in principle to            ditftrbtice bW ay   cad ama af aatcel    apeplati-c
the yoe"s 1956-60 er 1966-70; the latest ye-ar in pria-        &6  Protein stadards (raqar=enete3 far all dcatrisa as watob-
ripis to 1960 and 1970.                                           lihobd b? SODA Icoaecl 8eeearob Scryiuo prwsido tar a abuts=
fTh13  For Capita he? catiacteto iat earkr prices for           allarcnpp atf 60 gcwa of total proteIn per day, eaid 20 panst of
year  othr than 1960, aclouated by' th.eacne sco-raon          sisal rid F,iaa. pS'otei, af wbich 10 gana ahoold be anal
t"oIsaqu  as ith. 15972 Wolod Back Atlas.                     prttol.   Pha setotddord  are cuosoht Iaar then tisca of 75(
Zt Aveog    nuder of d-g#ntcre per coetas ofrprchaetive            Vra  of tota  proteia and 23 pram of aninal proetin to to
age.                                                           avreraa far the~ world, proposed by PAO in the 2bIrd tbrld Paid
tPapalatica groeth rotan crc far the decados cer.ng in          SucroY.
1960 and 1970.                                                goSaretudies hav  auggocted thaot arada doath rates of dildree
&tRatio of under 15 and 65 cad ovor age ?-caoeta to               agee 1 th cayb 4 ey be waed as a firet eppraslnatica Ledos of
thees to taotr fares brekht of ages 15 thro.ey  64.            anImctrtbia.
ftFAD referna   standards rep-.set pkqaioiagicsl re.        /f   Paesentage enrolled of errocpediog pop,,ltios of aehool ag.
qelreaonts for eorea1 activity and health, taking              As definad for each eactry.
IA  1912;     /b  Est(eat   -- ann .glaeag for 1963.64. baaed at reaulta of' the natinal sample norovyl    /n   .tiae
7?  i965-7o1  -/e    Battated cannd   avarag  far 195'1.61 based n, analysis of decoenial eeUauae;      ft 7Wvip.
r    1o9S1.O;    7? 1960-72;      A4  Far the definition at urban, 5e Beat       hi3Ya   obko1172, p. I5Z_7    ft Naomi-
palittia, raegMey capitals and other ploona -sith urban IhraeitceeiAoW27rian;                      /6  Far the defIini-
tion of urban,  a   i9phi       Yearhebk 191p. 156;        ft  Ratio of Ppepaltlo- oute   15 and 65iri   ve  to labor
force in age group- "  P, O9V7     7Mtii.rj6PaPiaton onder 1.5 oAn 651Ae ove to total la.bor foroa;       In   964O;
I  96, Inlde     all1 irsditrduai.sil   parti.ipat. in any type of toaoaie activity;   /y   AID etijamts of f-.lbo  forco
1n ape group'15-59.  1B0D report giess   figar  of 180.4 iUiba based on the 19171 pe~Tlatt-eoanens. The differece
is doe to changs in the defi.W.ikof ata-rkar.     In the 1971 cnensu, persoc  oars calcified only on the boom    of the~ir
eaia act'irltos.  This led to thes sXntuono of severl categories, such as aaasts;           f   1961;     /r  1961-62;
19 i~-65;      /t  1971; At Roaahulds;        Iv  1962;     ft   P-orsoaae in g"Ovrnesct  -nicee: onlay;    7.  1957;
rloo~lqaig rurT hnoltols;      /0  ibore .rarehoapital eataibllehaents;  /ao  1960-62;    /ab  1969-712   -  /ao  Eat;-
sate whitch i-nl.,des -oera8o cto_ntc;    /ad  1862;     /r1868;             N ot inol-oting voctionl oot'ennoos
/ag  Pnpuloaoon of 10 yours and over booed oo oar percent coapli onto of 19717  feb  15 years oat oner;  lot  Iotientn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b..d  r-.t.-p "t.  19
boe,d 0caPI. s-,ney;       /aj  i966;     /abk InPnr,t. only;   /g    1965.
*  ice artd pap.uiati-o ake Indosia a. relevant reference contry, alth-ogh it io In ito per napito incmoe group below
oo  le  Uoited Kingds ba. bse. select,ed becasa  of the ioP-rtoat role of Phlito  ector  ot.rpru... ae. -  the olghly dv-
k.l4.                                                                5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 Soptcmber 11, 1931.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
ECONOMIC DEVETOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1      135: uS $ 110
b/
GiZSCIS I.ATI'!AL PRODUGC rN 1972/73                                                ANlUAL RATE OF GtOWTHi (%, constant. prices)
US  Bin1.                                    12961/62-1965/66   1965/66-1969/7(   1970/71-1972/73
.NP at :M,arket Prices                   17.7       100.0                                  3.3                4.7              2.0
Gross Domestic Investoe:nt                5.7        16.8
Gross tational Saving                     9.2        15.9
Current Account Balance                  -0.'        -0.9
Resource Gap                             -0.2        -0.3
OUTPJT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTI'1ITY I'l 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)                       Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
US $ Bln.              %_                          Rin.     %          5      of llaizonai AveraFe
Agriculture                        19.4                42.6                        129.9   72.0         149           87
onde,str-y                         13.3                23.3                         20.2   11.2         656          2.28
Ser-.ices                          24.3                34.1                         30.2   16.3         805          255
TItel/average                     57.0                100.0                        ITOJ3  100.0         T1           13C
GOVERINKENT FINAINCE
General Governmen                                    Central Government
(Rs. l3n            d of GOUP                        (Rs. Bln)             ; of GNP
1972 73       1972/73  1970/71-1972/73               1972/73        1972/73  1970/71-1972/73
.Silrrent Receipts                 78.71         17.0         16.1                      56.04          10.0         9.3
Current IixPenditures              80.76         17.5         16.2                      45.66          10.0
current - .. -- :  ..              - 2.07       -73          - 0.1                       0.36
Janital -epesotL.ures -            "6.21          5.7          5.5                      19.84          14.3         4.0
External Assistance (net)           3.30          0.7          0.8                       3.30           0.7         0.6
':CNE_Y.CRjEDIT ANDO ?:'_S               1965/66   1969/70   1970/7l   197152^   1972/73  1973/74    August 1973    Au"st 1974
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)  (est)                      (est)
Money end Quasi Money                      61.4      93.3     105.6     122.3     144.3     158.3      155.4           177.6
Bank Credit to Public Seztor               40.8      52.4      56.9      68.9      82.7      90.9       89.3            95.8
Bank Credit to Private S,ector             28.1      48.3      56.7      64.4      76.4      92.4       77.7            95.7
(Percentage or Intdex Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          24.0      24.1      24.7      26.8      28.5      32.8
Wholesale Price Tndex (1961/62 = 100)     131.6     171.6     181.1     188.4     207.0     283.6       251.1          323.1
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                       7.6       3.7       5.5       4.0       9.9      22.7       21.0            28.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector               12.9       1.5       8.6      21.1      20.0      9.9        26.3             9.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector              12.8      15.1      17.4      13.6      13.5      20.9       19.7            23.2
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at 1972 market prices, calculated by the same conversion technique as the 1972 World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Estimates.
c/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
d/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.



ANNEX I
Page 3
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                1971/72   1972/73   1973/74         MIERCHNDISE ElFORTS (AVERAGE 1971/72-1973"74)
TMillion US ) Est.                                        us $ Min. 
Exports of Goods                                    2,160     2,545     3,172     Jute Manufacturers                 324            12
Imports of Goods                                    2,572     2,590     3,966     Tea                                195             7
Trade Balance                                       - 412     - 45      - 794     Cotton Textiles                    241             9
IIFS (net)                                          - 148     - i146     n.a.     Iron Ore                           151             6
hesource Gap                                        - 460     - 191      n.a.     Engineering Goods                  193             7
Interest Payments (netl                             - 230     -237      - 239     Others                           1.521            58
Other Factor Payments anet)                         -   7     -   8      n.a.     Total                            2,t25           lOO
Net Transfers                                         358     -  50      n.a.
Balance on Current Account                          - 339     _ 1486   -1.033     EXTERNAL DEOT, MARCH 31   1973
Offlcial Aid                                                                                                                    US$   l1ln.
Repayable in foreigEn currency                 9,292
Disbursements                                  1,089       896     1,309     Repayable through exocrt of goods                560
Acorticetion                                   -'385     - 1408    - 461
Total Outstanding and Disbursed                9,852
Transaction s ith Ih0F                               -         -          75
All Other Itens                                     - 1140       32      n.e. 
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1973/74                22.1 percent;
Increase in Reserves (-)                            - 225     -  314    - 106
Gross Reserves (end year)                           1,277     1,311     1,417
Net Reserves (end year)                             1,277     1,311      1,417    IBRD/IDA L;DIlNG, AUCIUST 31, 1974           OJSS  11lnl)
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                                  IBRD         IDi'.
Imports                                               262       265       716     Outstanding and Disbarsed                  457       2,068
of which:  Petroleum                                261       265       716     Undisbursed                                 79         938
Exports                                                11        141       20     Outstandinr incl. Undisbu2sed              536       3,006
of which:  Petroleum                                  9        37        16
o-'o 'to rid-Dcccrrt 1971: ._     1.00 = .    7.5                          5ft"r end June 1972        Floating GRate
Rs . 1 .00  1US '5 0.133333
Spot Rate (o~v. 8, 1974-): approx. U3$ 1 .09'  RsG. 8,11
Mid-December 1971 tc       : US    1.00 = Rs. 7.27927                                                  approx. Rs. 1 .0C  US$0.123
end June 1972              Rs. 1.00 = US $ 0.137376
e/ Amortization and interest payments as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANiNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS Or' SANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMI'NT 0r BANK LOANS AND IDA CKEDITS
(As of October 31, 197h)
U11.$ Million
Loan or                                                              (Net of Cancellation)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower         Purpose                      Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
37 Loans/
29 Credits fully disbursed                                          993.6   1,L01.1
61l4-IN      1969   India    Tarai Seeds                          13.0       -        7.6
176-IN       1970   India    Kadana Irrigation                      -      35.0       7.0
683-IN       1970   ICICI    Industries DEC VIII                  40.0       -        1.2
191-IN       1970   India    Gujarat Agricultural Credit            -      35.0       1.0
203-IN       1970   India    Punjab Agricultural Credit             -      27.5      26.4
226,IN       1971   India    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit     -      24.4       7.7
241-IN       1971   India    Telecommunications IV                  -      78.0      23.1
242-IN       1971   India    Power Transmission II                  -      r5.0      67.6
249-IN       1971   India    Haryana Agricultural Credit            -      25.0      15.6
250-IN       1971   India    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit         -      35-0      11.3
26`41IN      1971   India    Cochin II Fertilizer                   -      20.0       8.1
267-IN       1971   India    Wheat Storage                          -       5.0       4.8
268-IN       1971   India    Pochampad Irrigation                   -      39.0      11.5
789-IN       1 971  ICTC0    Industry DFC IX                      60.0       -        9.8
278-IN       1972   India    Mysore Agricultural Credit             -      40.0      27.2
279-IN       1972   India    Gorakhpur Fertilizer Expansion         -      10.0       2.9
280-IN       1972   India    Railways XI                            -       5.0        -
293-IN       1972   India    Maharashtra Agricultural Credit        -      30.0      14.8
291.-IN      1972   India    Bihar Agricultural Markets             -      14.0      14.0
312-IN       1972   India    Population                             -      21.2      19.2
342-IT       1972   India    Education Project                      -      12.0      12.0
356-IN       1972   India    IDBI                                   -      25.0      25.0
357-IN       1973   India    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion            -      58.0      49.8
377-IN       1973   India    Power Transmission III                 -      85.0      85.0
378-IN       1973   India    Mysore Agricultural Markets            -       8.o       8.0
902-LIN      1973   ICICI    Industry DFC X                       70.0       -       55.7
390-IN       1973   India    Bombay Water Supply                    -      55.0     5$.1
391-IN       1973   India    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit     -      330(      27.3
392-IN       1973   India    UP Agricultural Credit                 -      98.0      32,8
603-IN       1973   India    Telecommunications V                   -      80.0      80.0
427-ID       1573   Indi.a   Calcutta Urban Development             -      35.0      33.1
440-Il       1973   India    Bihar Agricultural Credit              -       2.0.4
4468-IN      1973   India    Railways XII                           -      30.0     47.4
5O-IXi       1974   India    HP Apple Processing & Marketing        -      13.0      13.0
6;76-ILT     1976   India    Indistrial Imports IX                  -     1 50.0     63.U
681-IN       1974   India    Trombay IV                             -      50.0      50.0
1011 -IN      1976   India    Ghambal. (R)                         52.0*      -       52.0
482-IN       1976   India    Karnataka Dair,y                       -      -30.0*    30.0
502-IN       1974   India    Rajasthan Canal (CAD)                  -      8 3.0*    83.0
'Total                                                         1,226.6  2,380.0
of which has beea. repaid                                   6h7.1      7. c
Total now oacstaiidinR                                                  2 8 77
Amount sold                       111.5
of which has been repaid     111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                  7581 .s 72Th7
rotal undisbursed (includinga)1/                                 126.1    965.7   1,111.8
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of October 31, 1974)
Amount (US$ million)
Year            Company                                 Loan      Equity       Total
1959         Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -          0.9
1960         Assam Sillimanite Ltd                       1.4        -          1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -          0.2
1963-66      Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7       0.3          1.0
1964         Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.                0.8       0.4         1.2
1964         Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.               2.3       1.0         3.3
1964         Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0       0.3         1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0       0.1         1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6       2.9        11.5
1569-70      Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1       3.8        18.9
TOTAL                       33.5        8.8        42.3
Less:  Sold                                 6.o       1.6         7.6
Repaid                               7.6        -          7.6
Cancelled                            6.2        .1         6.3
Now held                            13.7       7.1        208
Undisbursed                           -         .6         1.0



ANNEX II
Page 3
/1
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was $368 million in FY74 or 83% of Bank Group
commitments in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of $1,112 million as of
October 31,   1974, corresponds roughly to commitments over the preceding
24-month period and reflects the lead tLme which would be expected given the
mix of f2st and slow disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 663   Eighth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$400. million loan of June 3, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1974
Ln. No. 789   Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
Ln. No. 902   Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June b, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1975
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance com,pany.  The undisbursed balance of
US$1.2 million for Loan 683-IN as of the closing date of September 30, 1974, has
been cancelled; Loan 789-IN is fully committed; and disbursements undEr Loan
902-IN are ahead of schedule. An eleventh loan to ICICI is tentatively
scheduled for Board presentation in July 1575.
Ln. No. 614   Tarai Seeds; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1'.74
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is tc assist in the
developntent of seeds of high-yielding varieties.  The Corporation is working
efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed quality. Seed
production is meeting targets. Implementation problems over processing plant
construction and land-leveling have been resolved although, as a result of
these delays, an extension of the closing date by two years is proposed.
Expansion of an existing processing plant is in progress, and tenders for a
new plant are under preparation.   Large-scale land-leveling demonstrations have
stimulated demand for such work and orders are to be placed shortly by con-
tractors for imported machinery.
Cr. No. 176   Kadana Irrigation; US$35.0 million credit of February 9, 1970;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam
on the Mahi River and the expansion of the irrigated area below the damn. The
project a:Lso includes field channel construction, land-leveling, drainage
/1  These nctes are designed to infcrm the Executive Directors regarding the
progress cf projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
shoul(d be read in this sense and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
nroject execution.



ANNEX I
Page 4
works and roads, and a program to support agricultural development.   The
project will be completed about two years behind schedule because of delays
in dam cornstruction.  The agricultural components of the project are also
behind schedule.  Some of the delays in implementation have occurre,d at the
start of the project before major investments have been made.   These will
not affect the economic justification of the project. Further delays have
occurred as a result of material shortages. The Government has rectntly taken
action to make more material available.
Cr. No. 268   Pochampad Irrigation: US$39.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the comprehensive agricultural development
on the right bank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to
some 100,000 ha.  It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-
lined main canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads.   Until
mid-1973, overall performance on the project was satisfactory with construction
and credit disbursements progressing ahead of schedule. Acute shortages of
construction materials, especially explosives for the canal excavation, have
hampered progress. As a result, construction of the main canals is now likely
to fall more than one year behind schedule, which is likely to delay the
introduction of irrigation to over 40% of the project area. Land development
is presently haphazard and increasingly lagging behind water availability in
the project. Government is aware of the inadequacy of the credit operation
for land development and has requested IDA financing for a Command Area
Development Project, to be implemented by a Central Authority for all
farmers in need of land development.
Cr. No. 191   Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million c-redit of
June 3, 1570; Closing Date: lMarch, 31, 1Q75
Cr. No. 203   Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit of
June 2I4, 1970; Closing Date: Decemaber 31, 1975
Cr. No. 226   Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.. million credit
of January , 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Cr. No. 249   Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 millicn credit of
June 11, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Cr. No. 250   Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 millicn credit
of June 11, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1974
Cr. No. 278   Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit of
January 7, 1972; Closing Date: October 31, 1975
Cr. No. 293   Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Cr. No. 391   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million credit
of June 5, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 392   Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million credit
of June T, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 440O  B~ihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit of
November 29, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 5
The above agricultural credit projects total US$319.9 million.
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization equipment only,
all are similar in structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term
credit to farmers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments
as imported tractors, minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of
these credits started slowly. So far as the minor irrigation camponents were
concerned, the main difficulties stemmed from the institutional requirements,
in particular the introduction of changes in lending criteria and lending
terms and the strengthening of institutions responsible for assessing ground-
water availability. These constraints have been overcome and disbursements are
on schedule. Tractor procurement has been delayed following the substantial
change in both the supply and demand sitaations since the projects were
originally appraised.  Those credits which have tractor components have been
amended to permit the financing of indigenously manufactured tractors as well
as imported tractors. Tractor procurement is now in progress on that basis.
Some funds earmarked for tractors have been reallocated to minor irrigation
components.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage; US$5.0 million credit of August 23, 1971; Closing
Date: September 30, 1975
This credit, which provides storage facilities in India's wheat
belt, comprises construction of 10 warehouses (100,000 tons capacity) and 10
silos (200,o00 tons capacity) and an all-India grain storage study. Warehouse
construction is about 75% complete. The Government Food Ministry has selected
a local research institute to conduct the study. Administrative problems,
substantial cost increases, and technical difficulties in the selection of silo
sites have hampered the execution of the silo component. A supervision mission
has recently assessed the situation and will shortly recommend appropriate action.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apples Processing and Marketing; US$13 million
credit of January 22, 197T; Closing Date: December 31, 197j
This project has been designed to promote the development of apple
production in Himachal Pradesh and comprises roads, cold storage, juice pro-
cessing, anr. marlketing.  This credit was declared effective on September 26, 1974.
Cr. No. _21r   Telecommunications IV; US$78.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V; US$o0.0 million credit of June 25, 1973;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1976
Both projects are continuations of Telecommunications III. Tele-
communications IV has been designed to sulppor't the telecommunications expansion
program over the last two years of the Fourth Plan (1969-74).   Procurement
action for delivery of imported goods in 1973/74 has been largely completed.
Production nroblems in local factories delayed initial disbursement by about
6-9 months. However, production has now picked up and as of October 31, 1974,
US$.54.9 million had been disbursed under the credit.  Telecommunications V was
declared effective on July 30, 1973, and procurement procedures, after a slow
start, are llow under way.



ANNEk II
Page 6
Cr. No. 24'!   Power Transmission II; US$75.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit of May 9,
1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1577
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project
financed by Loan 416-IN, has been designed to assist in financing the purchase
of equipment and materials required to develop a power transmission prograik in
nine states under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred because
of problems associated with preparing bid documents suitable for international
bidding and the analysis of the very large number of bids involved, but all
contract awards have now been made. Power Transmission III became effective
on October 10, 1973, and specification aund tendering procedures are progressing.
Tenders received so far indicate substanitial cost overruns.
Cr. No. 2612   Cochin II Fertilizer; US$20.0 million credit of July 30, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Cr. No. 279    Gorakhpur Fertilizer, US$10.0 million credit of January 7, 1972;
Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Cr. No. 357    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$58.0 million credit of
February 9, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion; US$50.0 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is intended to help finance the
expansion of fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cochin. The project is
now proceeding about 21 months behind schedule due, in large part, to labor
and procurement difficulties. Procurement problems have been largely overcome
and most of the equipment is either at the site or at the Cochin port. Another
factor which has contributed to the delay has been technical problems in the
commissioning of the Cochin I plant, which has required a disproportionate
amount of management attention. Credit No. 481 contains funds for a Plant
Operations Improvement Program which will be used in part to overcome these
problems; the use of these funds has been identified on a plant-by-plant basis
and procurement has been initiated. The engineering design for the Gorakhpur
project is well advanced and virtually all the equipment has been oriered.
Although delivery of some equipment may take longer than forecast during
appraisal, the project is progressing without serious difficulties, and
disbursements are expected to be complete by the March 1975 closing date.
Engineering work and procurement for the Nangal Fertilizer Project are
proceeding satisfactorily. The Trombay IV Credit was signed on June 19, 1974,
and was declared effective on August 21, 1974.
Cr. No. 448    Railways XII; US$80 million credit of December 21, 1974; Closing
Date:  September 30, 1975
This project consists of new and ongoing works in the Indian Railways



ANNEX I]
Page 7
investment program. The credit was declared effective on February 26, 1974, and
disbursements are on schedule.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets; US$14.0 million credit of March 29,
1972;  Closing Date:  December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 million
credit of May 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Bihar Agricultural Markets, which will help to finance the
establishment of wholesale markets in about 50 towns, was declared effective
on July 31, 1972. A supervision mission that visited the project in February 1974
reported good progress in the selection, design and appraisal of individual
market subprojects. Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets became effective
on September 7, 1973. Market construction is expected to begin on schedule
in late 1974. Training has been below the specified levels because of shortage
of staff available for training; this is expected to be rectified next year.
Cr. No. 312    Population; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1975
This credit, which will help finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, was declared effective
on May 9, 1'73. Project implementation is gaining momentum; the construction
program is well under way, and all key project staff have been appointed.
However, institutional problems have developed in the Population Centers and
the matter is currently under discussion.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities; US$12.0 million credit of November 10,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Progress of implementation has improved with the selection of campus
planners/executive architects, project architects and specialist advisers. Contract
negotiations for these personnel are presently in progress and appointments are
expected to be made shortly. University development plans and fellowship programs
have been submitted to the Association anld are under review. Equipment lists are
still being prepared.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India; US$25.0 million credit of
February 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This credit became effective on June 22, 1973. The last review
mission reported in May that after a slow start, satisfactory progress can now
be expected. Commitments of US$2.6 million have been made so far under the
credit.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water SUpply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million credit
of January 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Project implementation is about nine months in arrears due to an
initial delay in appointing the principal consultants. Bidding for principal



ANNEX II
Page E
material requirements commenced in October 1973 and is progressing satisfactorily.
Project completion is now expected to be in 1979 instead of 1978.
Cr. No. 474    Ninth Industrial Imports Project; US$150.0 million credit of
May 29, 1974;  Closing Date:  November 30, 1975
This credit was declared effective on June 24, 1974, and us$86.2
million had been disbursed as of October 31, 1974.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit of
September 12, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
This credit became effective on January 10, 1974, except for a
US$2.6 million portion allocated to a slum redevelopment proposal and a site
and services scheme. This portion became effective on July 15, 1974. As of
October 31, 1974, US$1.9 million had been disbursed under the credit, mainly for
civil works.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development; US$30 million credit of' June 19,
1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Conditions of effectiveness are to be fulfilled by December 23,
1974.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development; US$52 million
loan of June 19, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1951
Conditions of effectiveness are to be fulfilled by November 19,
1974.
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development; US$83 million credit of
July 31, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1901
Conditions of effectiveness are to be fulfilled by December 30, 1974.






ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA - DROUGHT PHONE AREiS PROJECT
CREIIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:      The states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan,
and Maharashtra for increasing and stabilizing pro-
duction from agriculture and related activities in
six selected districts under the Drought Prone Areas
Program (DPAP).
Amount:             US$35 million.
Terms:              Standard.
Relending Terms:    The Government of India will allocate the proceeds of the
credit as part of Central grant assistance to the states
of Andhra Pradesh, Kariataka, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan
for equal cost-sharing of public investments under the
project, except for US$1.3 million which will be made
available to the DPAP Unit within the Central Cooperatives
and Community Developmnent Department for research, train-
ing activities and consultant services.
Project
Description:      The project is designed to increase and stabilize
production from agriculture and related activities
under the DPAP in the following six districts:
Anantapur (Andhra Pradesh), Bijapur (Karnataka),
Jodhpur, Nagaur (Rajasthan), and Ahmednagar,
ShoLapur (Maharashtra). Under the project about
225,000 families will benefit from public investments
consisting of: (i) minor irrigation works including wells
and tanks, total command area about 20,000 hectares; (ii)
command area development of about 12,000 hectares irrigated
by certain of these wells and tanks; (iii) soil and moisture
conservation works to protect 370,000 hectares of arable
land; (iv) pasture improvement on about 90,000 hectares of
nonarable lands; (v) afforestation of about 16,000 hectares
of public land, the establishment of 2,000 hectares of
public village woodlots and about 1,200 kilometers of
roadside and boundary windbreaks, plus farm woodlots and
boundary plantings; (vi) dry farming development to extend
improved technology to about 37 ,500 farmers who cultivate
around 200,000 hectares; (vii) improved sheep and wool



ANNEX III
Page 2
production by introduction of controlled grazing,
distribution of crossbred rams and expansion of
veterinary services; (viii) improved dairy production
by establishment of producers cooperatives, milk
collection systems, mobile veterinary units, artificial
insemination units and calf-rearing centers; (ix) fodder
banking and a pilot project for cane bagasse treatment
to increase its fodder value; and (x) diversification
projects in sericulture, horticulture and fisheries.
The project also provides for pasture development
agrcrneteorology and agroeconomic training of project
staff, and measures to improve the flow of agricultural
credi-t.
.stirnated Cost:                                        US$ million
Local    Foreign     Tvtal
District Funds
Minor Irrigation               9.8      0.8        10.6
Soil Conservation             12.1      0.3        12.4
Forestry, Pasture
Development                  6.9      0.1         7.0
Dry Farmning                   1.6      0.3         1.9
Sheep and Dairy Development   21.2      0.9        221
Diversification Schemes        1.9       -          1.9
Updat-ing of Land Records      0 .       -          0 * 6
Project Management             0.4       _           .
District Core Funds            3.7      0.1         3.8
Central Funds
Research, Training             0.8      0.1         O.9
Consultants                     -       0.4         O.;.
Central Core Funds             0.3       -           .3
Subtotal:           59.5      3.0        62.5
Price Contingency              38.2     2.0         40.2
Total:              97.2      5.0       102.7
Financing Plan:                                         US$ million
Local    Foreign     Total
IDA Credit                    30.0      5.o        35.0
loca] Financing:
GCO and State Governments   37.1       -         37.1
Credit Institutions         30.6       -         30.6
Total:              97.7      5.0       102.7



A_ EX III
Page 3
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million
FY1975 FY1976 FY177 FY1971 FY1975 FY1980
Annual:       2.35    5.35    8.05     8.75    8.75    1.75
Cumul.ative:  2.45    7.70   15.75   24.50    33.25   35.00
Procurement
Arrangements:     Civil works (US$10.5 million) would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding because of their diverse
nature, small. size and scattered locations. At the option
of a State, these works, except for tank construction
(US$3.5 million), would either be executed by Government
departments possessing the necessary staff and competence,
or by civil works contractors following competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures,
which are satisfactory to the Bank.   Government contracts
for the above tank construction, and government contracts
for the procurement of machinery, equipment, vehicles, and
livestock in excess of US$12,500 equivalent each (US$2.2
million) would also be let after competitive bidding
based on local advertising. Individual equipment procure-
ment contracts are not expected to exceed US$20,000,
bulking for international competitive bidding would not
be practicable, and the local representation of international
equipment suppliers is adequate for providing reasonable
competition. Government contracts for machinery, equipment,
vehicles and livestock worth less than US$12,500 each would
be subject to the normal state government procurement pro-
cedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. Well-drilling
rigs (US$0.3 million) would be procured on the basis of ICB
in accordance with the Association's guidelines, with
domestic suppliers accorded the usual preference of 15%
or the rate of customs duties, whichever is the lower.
Bids for imported bulls (US$0.1 million) would be solicited
from at least three countries free from foot-and-mouth
disease. All contracts for on-farm and cooperative
investments, financed by credit institutions, would be
subject to the same rules for local procurement as for
the above public sector procurement contracts.
Rate of Return:     The economic rates of return for project components range
from 12% for pasture development to 37% for dairy develop-
ment.
Appraisal Rteport:  Report No. 533a-IN dated November 14, 1974.






70'so                                                                       go.
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
ZZ,              ~~~~~~~ARID AND SEMI-ARID ZONEY~ PROGRAM AND PROJECT DISTRICTS
Dro.ght pro,E dim5rFc5
HOT  CCLD           RAINFALL
SenI= S, arid  376 are. to 750 am
A, d       375m m or less
State and Unlon Terrwtory boundaries
t HIMACMAL                                      h -.- In.erntIonal boundaries
-30-            CO  .    
,5/ =O R S A30'*
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EC P A L o> 0
23-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
*                                                                BANGLADESH    ?     #' o
M ArD4YA    PRAD[ H                                                     B U R M A
0  R  I  S  S  A tsP  pIi~I
3~ mW
-20-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
A roa b ic n       StR~              __
10*                                       (. I
V~~~~~~~~T
0   00 O 00   200  30 0
7 70Dold*lswFlz:nlhlamwdSer  \                                             o-t /t eSRI LANKA  MIL;E          8 _
mpiv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E 300                     wAOO e\I 
xalaawN>:lavirll.u  \   SE-I   /   te                  o  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~03   20c 30 *o
70-     9 9/         nl     t\                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KULONEIVERS%



