Report No. 533a-IN
Appraisal of
Drought Prone Areas Project
in India
November 14, 1974
South Asia Projects Department
General Agricultural Division
Not for Public Use
i
Document of the International Banik for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official Use only, by the Banlk Group. Jt may not
be published, cquoted or Cited without Ban k Grnup authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility, for the accuracy, or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1      =    Rs 8.00
Rs1       =    US$0.125
Rs 1,000  =    US$125.00
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AI        -    Artifical Insemination
AMUL      -    Anand Milk U1nion Ltd.
ARC       -    Agricultural Refinance Corporation
CAD       -    Command Area Development
DDA       -    District Development Authority
DPAP      -    Drought Prone Areas Program
GOI       -    Government of India
ICAR      -    Indian Council of Agricultural Research
LDB       -    Land Development Bank
MFAL      -    Marginal Farmers and Agricultural Laborers
NDDB      -    National Dairy Development Board
SEDA      -    Small Farmers Development Agency
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
LOCAL TERMS
Bajra          -    Pearl millet
Jowar          -    Sorghum
Kharif         -    Monsoon (June-October) season
Rabi           -    Low rainfall cool (October-March) season
Nalla          -    Small water course



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
TABLE OF CQNTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..............................     - iv
I.   INTRODUCTION .....................................          1
II.   BACKGROUND ..............................................1
III.   THE DROUGHT PRONE AREAS ...............................     2
Rainfall and Soils ..........................     2
Area and Population ........................      2
Agriculture and Livestock .................. ....3
Agricultural Credit ........................      3
Project Area ...............................      3
IV.   THE PROJECT ..........................................      4
A.  Brief Description .....................            4
B. Detailed Features        ............................... 5
Minor Irrigation ..............................   5
Watershed Management ..........................   7
Improving Dryland Farming ..................      9
Livestock Development ...................... 10
Bagasse Treatment ......................... ...13
Diversification Schemes ........................  13
Research ...................................     15
Training ...................................     16
Measures to Expand Agricultural Credit           16
District Core Funds .......................      17
C.  Project Costs ...............................     18
D. Financing ...................................      19
E.  Procurement .................................     20
F. Disbursement ..................                    21
G. Accounts and Audit ..........................     22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. Brown, Thornley, Kanchanalak and Loup (IDA), Groenewold (CP), Maunder
(WMIO) and Jessup (Consultant), which visited India in October/November 1973
and a follow-up mission (Messrs. Brown, Thornley and Groenewold) in March 1974.



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............................. 23
A.  DPAP in the Central Government ................. 23
B.  State Level DPAP Organization.............        24
C.  District Level DPAP Organization .............    24
D.  Project Execution ............................    25
E.  Project Monitoring .........................      25
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION..........................        27
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..............       30
ANNEXES
1    Background of Drought Prone Areas Program
2    Other Development Programs in Drought Prone Areas
3    District Surveys
4    Climate in the Drought Prone Areas
5    Irrigation
6    Watershed Management
7    Improving Dryland Farming
8    Livestock Development
9    Diversification Components:   A.  Fisheries
B. Sericulture
C. Horticulture
10    Agricultural Research
11    Training
12    Agricultural Credit
13    Project Costs
14    Disbursement Schedul.e
15    Organization and Management
16    Yields and Prices
17    Financial and Operating Results
18    Economic Evaluation
MLAP



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
The Drought Prone Areas Program
i.        The erratic nature of the Indian monsoon and the drastic effects
of rain failure on traditional agriculture are a matter of record. Seventy-
two districts have been identified in whole or in part as being particularly
drought prone, and in 1970-71 the Government of India (GOI) introduced the
Drought Prone Areas Program (DPAP) for these districts with the objective
of creating rural employment through government-executed construction of
productive assets such as irrigation tanks, conservation works and roads.
Unfortunately, the urgent need for relief employment during the first three
years of the program resulted in inadequate planning of works and the
construction of many non-productive assets.
ii.       During the Fifth Plan period 1974-79 the major thrust of develop-
ment effort in drought prone districts will continue to be made through
DPAP with a proposed funding of Rs 1.7 billion over 5 years from GOI and
a like amount from participating states. Much more emphasis and effort
are being directed toward the identification and forward planning of works.
This will permit the re-orientation of the program toward the mitigation
of the effects of drought through integrated agricultural development and
away from short-term famine relief operations.
The Drought Prone Areas Project
iii.      This report appraises a project in support of the Drought Prone
Areas Program in six districts selected from among those suffering the worst
effects of the most recent drought period (1970-1972). Total project costs
over 5 years woulld be US$102.7 million, of which US$35 million would be
financed by IDA. The six districts selected for the project are: in Rajasthan,
the districts of Jodhpur and Nagaur; in Maharashtra, Ahmednagar and Sholapur;
in Karnataka, Bijapur; and, in Andra'Pradesh, Anantapur. The range of condi-
tions in these districts is such that there would be considerable scope for
replication of successful project components elsewhere in the arid and semi-
arid regions of India.
iv.       The project would consist of public works and on-farm development
in most agricultural sub-sectors of these districts, including minor irriga-
tion works, command area development, watershed management, dry farming, and
sheep and dairy development. In addition, the project would include a
fodder banking scheme, cooperative investments in calf raising and the con-
version of cane bagasse to digestible fodder, and schemes to diversify the
rural economies into activities less dependent on rainfall. Measures would
be taken under the project to improve the flow of credit in the drought



prone areas of project states, especially to smallholders, and the
technical support available to farmers in arid and semi-arid regions would
be strengthened by applied research and training programs under the project.
v.        The total project cost would be about US$102.7 million equivalent
including duties and taxes. The foreign exchange component would be only
5% or US$5 million. The proposed IDA credit of US$35 million would cover
34% of total project costs. The remaining 66% would be financed by the
Central and State Governments (36%) and commercial and cooperative banks (30%).
vi.       Civil works in the public sector other than tank construction
would be executed by government force account (US$7.0 million). Individual
works are small and spread over the project area and period, precluding
bulking, and executing departments possess the necessary expertise. Civil
works contracts for tank construction, on-farm development, and cooperative-
owned facilities, and contracts for eouiDment, vehicles, domestic livestock
and services in excess of Rs 100,000. (US$12,500), would be let after com-
petitive bidding based on local advertisitng (about US$10.8 million). Bulking
for international competitive bidding is not practicable as individual
contracts would be small and scattered. There is adequate representation
of domestic contractors and international equipment suppliers to provide
reasonable competition.    Contracts for less than Rs 100,000 would be
procured through normal trade channels (about US$25 million). The majority
of these small contracts would consist of goods and services for on-farm
development which would be financed by credit institutions. Well drilling
rigs (US$ 0.3 million) would be procured through international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Domestic suppliers would be accorded
the usual preference of 15% or the rate of customs duty whichever is the lower.
Bids for imported bulls (US$0.1 million) would be solicited from at least
three countries free from foot and mouth disease and where animals of the
required types are available. Internationally recruited consultants would
be selected and employed under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(US$0.4 million).  The balance of project costs, other than core funds
and contingencies, would consist of staff and operating expenses for govern-
ment departments and agencies (US$12.9 million) and producer cooperatives
(US$1.8 million), which would be subject to established cost norms.
vii.      The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against 95% of
the costs of civil works on public lands; against the full c.i.f. costs of
imported equipment, vehicles and livestock and against 80% of the costs of
such items locally prccured; against 60% of the costs of operating and
staff expenses of project units and against the full costs of technical
assistance and project evaluation.
viii.     The bulk of the proceeds of the IDA credit would be channeled
through GOI as budgetary grants to the participating states.   Funds for
research would be passed on by GOI to the Indian Council of Agricultural
Research (ICAR). The Central Unit of DPAP would retain and utilize funds
required for training and evaluation.



Project Implementation
ix.       The proposed project would be executed primarily by existing
development departments and agencies of the state governments. However,
the range and number of project components is such that successful imple-
mentation would depend greatly on a high degree of coordination; between
GOI and state governments, between departments within states; between official
and elected public bodies and firnally between the public sector and private
agencies supplying credit and inputs. To achieve the necessary coordination
among the departments concerned, interdepartmental committees would be
established at the Centre and state levels under the chairmanship of the
secretaries responsible for the program.
x.        District Development Authorities (DDA), would be established to
coordinate and supervise project activity and to ensure the sound integration
of DPAP and other development programs. Typically a DDA would be chaired by
the Collector with a membership consisting of district level officers of
development departments and representatives of local government, the state
legislature, commercial banks and cooperatives. Each DDA would have a small
executive staff headed by a project manager of Additional Collector rank,
(hence the second ranking official in the district). Powers would be vested
in the authorities and their project managers to ensure the coordination
and prompt execution of works by various departments, and to initiate develop-
ment planning on a district basis.
Project Benefits
xi.       It is estimated that the proposed project would improve permanently
the income of some 225,000 rural households, most of whom would belong to
the poorest segments of the population. Average annual income gains resulting
from direct on-farm development would range from Rs 100 (Rs 1,000 to 1,100) for
the bunding program to over Rs 4,000 (Rs 1,000 to 5,300) for tank irrigation.
Dairy development, which would affect the greatest number of people would be
intermediate at Rs 700 (Rs 1,050 to 1,750).
xii.      Annual crop production would increase by about 58,000 tons, princi-
pally foodgrains and oilseeds, and substantial increases would also be
realized in saleable fodder as well as milk, wool and mutton. About 85,000
man years of short-term employment would be generated over the project period,
and about 20,000 man years of permanent employment would also be created.
Measures to improve credit flow, research and training would have permanent
benefits as would changes in district level planning and supervisory capacity
through the establishment of district development authorities.
xiii.     The risks of this complex project must be acknowledged.   Farmer
response to technical innovation and cooperation, and the effectiveness of
institutional change within government, are difficult to quantify and vary
between components. Despite such risks however, the proposed project offers



- iv -
the potential for significantly improving the economic condition of very
poor rural families living in the harsh environment of the drought prone
areas.
xiv.      Economic rates of return have been calculated for typical project
components and are satisfactory.
xv.       The proposed project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$35
million.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The drought prone areas of India cover about 600,000 square
kilometers and a population of about 66 million. The bulk of this population
is engaged in a perennial struggle to meet its subsistence needs in a harsh
environment. That it frequently fails in this struggle is evidenced by
massive government expenditures on famine relief, about Rs 8 billion in the
period 1969-70 to 1972-73. In many districts, relief expenditures exceeded
development spending in each of the last three years.
1.02      The GOI sponsored Drought Prone Areas Program (DPAP) has evolved
from relief oriented programs to one which aims at the mitigation of the
effects of drought through integrated area development 1/. GOI Fifth Plan
expenditure for DPAP will be about Rs 1.7 billion over five years with a
like amount allocated from state funds. By providing permanent employment,
on-farm development and improving public sector services, the proposed project
would directly benefit about 225,000 rural families; in addition short term
employment of about 85,000 man years would be created as well as the equivalent
of 20,000 full-time employment opportunities. This is the first Bank Group
assisted project of its kind in India.  Both technically and institutionally
complex it has tacen unusual effort and time to prepare and appraise. How-
ever with continued effort through close supervision it should provide
information and operating experience to aid in a more comprehensive attack
in the future on the problems of one of the poorest segments of the rural
population of India.
1.03      The project is based on proposals prepared by state governments
which received guidance on preparation from an IDA reconnaissance missionl
which visited India in February 1973. This report is based on the findings
of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. Brown, Thornley, Kanchanalak
and Loup (IDA), Groenewold (CP), Maunder (WMO) aftd Jessup (Consultant) which
visited India in October/November 1973 and a follow-up mission in March 1974.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      The real growth of Indian agricultural production between 1961
and 1971 averaged 3% per year. Most of this increase was offset by popula-
tion growth of 2.2% per year over the same period. Agriculture accounts
for over 40% of GNP in India and employs about 70% of the labor force.
To bolster performance of the agricultural sector, GOI has, since 1966,
adopted a policy of concentrating development efforts in priority areas:
1/   The Drought Prone Areas Program is described in Annex 1.



-2-
high-yielding crop varieties, development of irrigation resources, and
increased availability and use of inproved inputs, notably fertilizer,
pesticides and certified seed. The success of this policy in recent years
lhas been vitally affected by drought and consequent crop failures. But
despite these setbacks productivity in the agricultural sector as a whole
increased almost twice as rapidly during the last decade as it did during
che previous ten years (2.2% a year for the decade ending in 1971/72 as
against 1 .2% for the previous one).
2.02      While improvements in productivity brought about by the new techno-
logies are beyond question, serious shortcomings remain with respect to the
distribution of benefits achieved. Increasingly sensitive to inequities in
the rural sector, GOI has taken several measures to assist the poorest segments
of the rural population. In July 1972, it issued national guidelines for
a new land ceiling program; since then most states have accordingly drafted
lew ceiling legislation. It is too soon to judge whether this new round of
land reforms will be more effective than the previous attempts. During the
fourth Five-year plan, the Government has also taken up special rural programs
with the main objectives of creating employment and increasing opportunities
;'or the poorer sections. The DPAP is the most promising of these programs 1/.
III. THE DROUGHT PRONE AREAS
,ainfall and Soils
01      Drought prone areas fall into three distinct rainfall categories:
,rid, up to 375 mm; semi-arid, 376 to 750 mm; and sub-humid, 751 to 1,125 mm.
5.oth major Indian soil types are present in these districts, the red latosols
and the black cotton soils. As a result of poor cultivation practices and
denuded vegetation due to overgrazing and fuelwood cutting, much of the
rainfall that does occur is lost in excessive runoff, frequently causing
serious erosion. Excess runoff in turn results in poor groundwater recharge
and correspondingly reduced irrigation potential.
,rea and Population
3.02      The 72 districts selected for DPAP assistance are located through-
out the country. Their greatest concentration is in the western and central
-ones, i.e. in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Haryana, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra
1'radesh. The total area of drought prone districts is 590,000 square kilo-
meters, representing 19% of the Indian land mass. The population of these
districts is about 66 million, 12% of India's total, resulting in a population
density of 112 persons per square kilometer compared with an all India average
of 178. The population of drought prone districts generally ranges from
I/   Other programs in the drought prone areas are described in Annex 2.



-3-
1.2 to 2.0 million, although the smallest is 167,000 (Jaisalmer, Rajasthan)
and the largest is 5.5 million (Midnapor, West Bengal). A higher proportion
of scheduled classes and tribes inhabit these areas, including most of the
country's nomadic peoples. Nomadism adds further to the instability of the
agricultural economy, and measures such as controlled grazing to improve
pasture productivity assume very complex dimensions under these circumstances.
Agriculture and Livestock
3.03      There is considerable variation in the agricultural qystems of
drought prone areas. Characteristically they are subsistence oriented,
producing essential food and fodder for local consumption, althiough there
are some notable exceptions where cash crops such as groundnut and cotton
are important to the local economy. In most districts the percentage of
cultivated to total area is substantially higher than the all India average,
while forest areas are very small. In an attempt to offset low yields per
hectare, farmers have expanded cultivation into areas of very poor potential.
This has aggravated wind and water erosion problems with the result that the
overall ability of the land to sustain human and animal population is further
reduced. Bajra (pearl millet) is the staple food in most of the arid zone,
while jowar (sorghum) and millets other than bajra are grown most extensively
in the semi-arid zone. In drought prone areas, as elsewhere in India, farm
animals are the main source of farm power. They are also a major source of
cash income which can be vital in bridging gaps when crop production does
not meet subsistence needs. To meet their fodder requirements, farmers grow
grain varieties with high straw yields. In spite of this, a large proportion
of the feed requirements must come from public lands. In the absence of
effective control and use of these public lands, serious overgrazing and
degradation is common.
Agricultural Credit
3.04      The dominant feature of agricultural credit in India is the
preponderance of non-institutional credit. The present share of credit
provided by various sources is approximately as follows: private moneylenders,
50% (15%-professional moneylenders, 35%-farmer/moneylenders); relatives, 18%;
cooperatives, 15%; traders, 13%; commercial banks, 4%. In backward areas
such as DPAP districts, credit institutions are generally weaker than else-
where, and their share of agricultural lending is less than the average
estimated above. The need for credit is reflected in the high rates (25-40%
per annum) generally charged on funds from private sources, far in excess
of the ceilings imposed by the State Moneylenders Acts.
Project Area
3.05      The recent droughts produced their greatest havoc in a belt
of Central and Western India, as did many previous droughts, and project
districts have been selected from among those of GOI's program in this area.



-4-
State               Project District (see Map)
Rajasthan           Jodhpur, Nagaur
Maharashtra         Ahmednagar, Sholapur
Karnataka           Bijapur
Andra Pradesh       Anantapur
These districts represent a cross section of the climates, populations and
farming patterns found in most of the drought prone areas of India.   Consequently,
measures proven successful under the proposed project could be replicated in
many more of the drought prone districts. In addition to a variety of physical
and economic patterns, these districts include both principal forms of public
sector district organization. Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh have traditionally
depended on strong district administration through the Office of the Collector,
while Karnataka and Maharashtra have increasingly delegated responsibilities
to locally-elected bodies known as Zilla Parishads. District surveys are
presented in Annex 3 while the climate of the drought prone areas is discussed
in detail in Annex 4.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
4.01      The proposed project is designed to increase and stabilize the
production from agriculture and related activities in six drought prone
districts of Western and Central India. The project, to be administered
as part of GOI's DPAP, would be executed over a five year period principally
by existing development departments, and coordinated and supervised by DDAs
to be established in each district.
4.02      The project would consist of:
-- Minor irrigation works including dug wells, tubewells, and tanks,
with a total command area of about 20,000 hectares;
-- Command area development (CAD) of about 12,000 hectares irrigated
by the tubewells and tanks to be constructed under the project;
-- Watershed management including soil and moisture conservation
works to protect 370,000 hectares of arable land and 80,000 hectares
of non-arable public and village common pasture land; establishment
of improved grass species on the above 80,000 hectares and on
10,000 hectares of privately owned fallow lands; afforestation
of about 16,000 hectares of public lands, the establishment of
2,000 hectares of public village woodlots and about 1,200 kilometers
of roadside and boundary windbreaks, plus farm woodlots and
boundary plantings;



-5-
A dry farming development program to extend improved technology
and inputs to about 37,500 farmers who cultivate some 200,000
hectares;
--   Improved sheep and wool production by the introduction cf controlled
grazing on the improved pasture on village common lands, L4stribu-
tion of crossbred rams and expansion of animal health services;
--   Dairy development through the establishment of producer cooperatives
and milk collection systems, similar to the approach of the Anand
Milk Union Ltd., Gujaral: (AIRJL). Mobile veterinary units, artificial
insemination units and calf rearing centers would also be provided;
--   Fodder banking and a pilot project for cane bagasse   treatment
to increase its fodder value;
Diversification projects in sericulture, horticulture, 4nd tnland
fisheries;
An expansion of the research efforts on dryland farming, pasture
development and agrometeoroloay;
Training programs for project staff;
Measures to improve the flow of agricultural credit.
Unallocated core funds to finance (i) small projects unidentified
at the tiIne of appraisal but which fall within objectives and norms
of DPAP and (ii) additional surveys, research and training during
the project period.
B. Detailed Features
4.03      The package of investments to be undertaken reflects the particular
resource endowment, degree of development and capacity to carry out produc-
tive programs and works in each district.
Minor Irrigation 1/
4.04      Groundwater Development. The groundwater resources of project
districts have been adequately surveyed in Rajasthan, and surveys in Karnataka
(previously Mysore) are now under way as part of the Mysore Agricultxral
1/   Details of the minor irrigation components of the project appear in
Annex 5.



-6-
Credit Project (Credit 278-IN). However in the case of Maharashtra and
Andhra Pradesh, additional investigation is needed for prudent groundwater
development in project districts. Assurances were given by these state
governments that they would implement and continue semi-detailed groundwater
surveys for project districts. The project would finance the following
investments, exclusively for smallholders 1/:
(a) about 170 tubewells, exclusively in Rajasthan with a total command
area of about 3,400 hectares;
(b) two air hammer drilling rigs for the Rajasthan Groundwater Board
to enable faster, more efficient drilling in sandstone;
(c) about 425 dug-cun.-bore wells; specifically, drilling into existing
dug wells and installation of pumpsets (incremental command area
1,450 hectares);
'(d)  about 660 dug-cum-blast wells; specifically, the deepening of
existing wells in rock with slow percolation rates (incremental
command area about 920 hectares); 2/
(e) about 480 dug wells with pumpsets commanding about 1,700 hectares;
and
(f) pumpset installations on about 265 existing dug wells commanding
about 500 hectares.
4.05      Surface Irrigation Development.  Twenty-nine minor irrigation tanks
would be constructed under the project with a total command area of about
8,900 hectares.  Command areas would be planned and developed at the sane
time as the tanks.  This would require the coordinated efforts of irrigation
and agriculture departments and the preparation of a master plan. Assurances
were given by participating state governments that: (a) tanks and channels
would be properly maintained, and (b) the first master plan for the integ-
rated development of tank and command area in each project district would
be submitted to IDA for comment.
1/   Groundwater development during the project period in these districts
would be considerably laraer than that included in the project. Approx-
imately 50% of original investment proposals havte been included as
project costs, These would be the works for smallholders, in which
DPAP would have a financial input, namely the smallholder assistance
similar to that now provided under Small Farmers Development Agency
(SFDA) and Marginal Farmers and Agricultural Laborers (MFAL) schemes
(para 4.50).
2/   Dug-cum-blast wells are not included in existing credit agreements.
Improvements under this project should be restricted to wells with a
reasonable certainty of yielding a discharge of 15,000 cubic meters
per year, as determined by the state irrigation department.



-.7-
4.06      Command Area Development. At present, the full benefit of irri-
gation facilities is not being derived since command areas typically have
undulating lands and poorly sited, unlined distribution channels. Under
the project, simultaneous CAD would be carried out for all tanks and tubewells
constructed under the project. Subsidies would be provided to assist
smallholders to develop the command areas of other wells constructed or
improved under 'the project.
Watershed Management -
4.07      Land Resource and Capability Surveys,. Conservation programs to
date have been carried out mainly on arable lands and their benefits have
been literally eroded by runoff from the untreated slopes of the upper
catchment. The basic topographic unit is the watershed, and if conservation
programs are to be effective, they must address the interdependencies of
each land class within this area. Initially, this requires land resource
and land use capability surveys to determine the conservation measures and
management practices most suited to the particular watershed. Staff to
conduct these surveys would be provided under the project.
4.08      Forestry. At one time, substantial forests covered the upper
reaches of watersheds in the project area outside Rajasthan. However, these
have long since been destroyed, and excessive erosion is now characteristic
of the area. Past attempts to extensively reafforest these areas have not
been effective in establishing productive forests or protective cover. The
terrain is now much more suited to pasture.   Rehabilitation work under the
project would be redirected towards pasture establishment, and afforestation
on government lands would be restricted to about 4,000 hectares in each
district outside Rajasthan, in small pockets which have escaped excessive
erosion. 2/ About 2,000 hectares of woodlots would be established under the
project on village common lands. These public lands would be fenced and
planted along contour trenches. About 1,200 km of roadside and boundary
wind breaks would also be established. In addition, seedlings would be
provided to private land owners willing to establish small woodlots and
boundary wind breaks. To achieve this work, additional nursery capacity
of five hectares would be financed for the state forestry departments in
each project district in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.
4.09      Pasture Development. As a result of overgrazing and neglect,
pasture land in the project areas is poor, consisting of a sparse cover of
low-quality grasses. While very little research has been done on dryland
1/   Details of the Watershed Management Components of the project appear in
Annex 6.
2/   About 2,000 hectares would be included in the area developed for pasture
and the balance planted only to trees elsewhere within the districts.



-8-
pasture development in India, sufficient information is available to indicate
that substantial progress can be made by fencing, to control grazing, and
the introduction of Cenchrus ciliaris (buffel grass) or Cenchrus setigerus
-- indigenous species which have been grazed out of most natural pastures.
The major constraint on pasture development is the extent to which controlled
grazing can be effected. For generations, pasture has been owned in common
and therefore competed for by the individual against the common good. Such
an attitude on the part of livestock owners cannot be changed quickly, and
pasture development efforts at this time must be viewed as experimental.
However, vast tracts of these districts are best suited to pasture, and under
the project about 80,000 hectares of government lands would be enclosed and
developed to demonstrate the benefits of viewing grass as a crop to be
carefully managed. In some districts there are significant areas of privately-
owned permanent fallow lands, of which about 10,000 hectares would be replanted
under the project. Free seed and technical assistance would be provided to
landowners willing to improve their lands under pasture. To promote and
supervise such grassland development, additional staff would be made available
to the responsible state departments. Much of the improved pasture would
be brought under the sheep development program (paras 4.18-4.22) and its
management supervised by the state animal husbandry departments.
4.10      Technical Assistance for Pasture Development.   There has been
insufficient attention to dryland pasture research and development in India
to generate Lhe experience required for implementation of the development
program proposed under the project. GOI gave assurance that a pasture devel-
opment advisor would be employed, with qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of service satisfactory to the Association, to provide techni-
cal guidance to field staff undertaking pasture work. His primnary responsi-
bility would be to assist pasture units and animal husbandry staff in imple-
menting the pasture program in project districts, but he would also be
expected to advise on pasture development in other DPAP districts. His
work wculd be complemented by that of a second consultant who would assist
ICAR to launch a dryland pasture research program (para 4.39).
4.11      Pasture Seed Production.  One seed production farm for dryland
grass speciies would be financed in each of the four states, each farm having
an area of about 400 hectares.
4.12      S-oil and Moisture Conservation.  Conservation measures on uncul-
tivated lands would consist of contour furrowing and seeding to improve
grass cover, a more effective measure than afforestation, and gully plugging.
On arable lands, the objectives are two fold: (i) to hold as much rainfall
as possible in situ to maximize moisture infiltration, and (ii) to guide
excess water slowly to safe discharge points so as to prevent soil erosion.
Under the project about 230,000 hectares of cultivated land would be
protected under systems of contour or graded bunds, grassed waterways and
farm ponds. Contour bunds would be constructed only on soils of adequate
nermeability (shallow and medium soils as defined for soil conservation



-9-
purposes; see also Annex 6). Bunds would be repaired over a further 135,000
hectares. Bunding costs and technical specifications are given in Annex 6.
4.13      To implement these measures, one divisional soil conservation
unit with four sub-divisional operating units would be financed under the
project in each district. In addition to the increased production and soil
stabilization which result from bunding, this work is a very large source of
employment during relief operations. In the past, however, planning of
these works has been inadequate in the face of emergency employment needs
and in many cases the resulting structures have not been effective in
conservation. Adequate design capacity would be provided under the project
to ensure that a "shelf" of prepared works is established in each district
for execution as employment needs arise.
Improving Dryland Farming
4.14      Under the project, dry farming development would be undertaken on
a pilot scale only. There are several reasons for limiting the size of the
initial effort. Only a limited package of improved technology can be derived
from the preliminary findings of the recently launched All-India Coordinated
Research Project for Dryland Agriculture. The extension mechanism needs to
be restructured and the new approach tested in the field. Institutional
credit at present does not reach the small dryland farmer in adequate volumes
to support a large program. New cooperative channels must be developed and
the confidence of financial institutions, currently wary of investing in high
risk dry farming, needs to be won. Finally, there is the acute shortage of
fertilizer which is expected to last for the next several years; clearly the
limited supplies should, in the main, be used to best advantage in irrigated
and assured rainfall areas. Two or three watersheds embracinlg about 7,500
holdings would be selected in five of the project districts. The sixth,
Jodhpur, would be excluded to further limit initial efforts in Rajasthan where
the environment is particularly harsh. Details of the dryland farming com-
ponent appear in Annex 7.
4.15      The extension service would be reorganized and expanded in project
areas. It would be essential to create a separate group of extension staff
under the supervision of one authority. 1/ These extension wo'ikers would work
at all times with clearly defined programs and objectives. It would thus be
possible to monitor and evaluate program and staff performance.    The use of
Progressive Farmers would be introduced as the final link in the extension
chain to widen dissemination of information and to increase program credibility
through close involvement of respected members of the community.
1/   The District Development Authority in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and
Maharashtra, the Department of Agriculture in Rajasthan.



-10-
4.16      Packages of technology for the extension program 1/ would focus
on each area's main crops, and the most important factors of production, to
avoid dissipating efforts. The operation of the extension program would be
governed by the need to ensure the closest possible contact between the
farmer and the extension worker and between worker and supervisor. Field
visits would therefore be emphasized. Simple demonstration plots would be
developed on the farms of Progressive Farmers with more complex ones near the
villages, to be managed by extension workers. The four state governments
gave assurances that separate groups of extension workers would be created
and that detailed extension programs would be prepared for review by IDA.
4.17      Adequate and timely supplies of credit and inputs would be vital
to the success of the program. Extension staff would work closely with the
staff of credit institutions for the provision of credit and would provide
estimates of input requirements to the District Agricultural Officers. This
would be done as part of the work of the District Agricultural Production
Committee which currently prepares input requirement projections. Procurement
would be arranged by District Supply Officers.    Assurances were obtained
that state governments would ensure that the required amounts of fertilizer
would be made available to the project areas from the reduced overall
supplies.
Livestock Development -/
4.18      Sheep Development. Large areas in project districts are best
suited to sheep husbandry. However, any sheep development is contingent
upon the improvement of grazing lands. Under the project, improved grass-
lands, crossbred rams, veterinary services, and improved mutton and wool
marketing conditions Vould be made available to sheep owners. Developments
would take place through about 370 primary sheep growers' societies, each
operating at least 100 hectares of village common grasslands, and on about
400 privately-owned farms, on each of which about 10 hectares of degraded
fallow lands would be converted to improved grassland.
4.19      The primary sheep growers' societies would be formed in villages
which agreed to enclose at least 100 hectares of common lands for develop-
ment. Initially, enclosed areas would not exceed 25% of common lands so
as to ensure adequate grazing area to stockowners unwilling to participate
in the society. At full development, these units would carry about 400
mature sheep units on a year-round basis. 3/ Participation in the society
1/   Staffing patterns at the sub-district level and the design of the exten-
sion program would be similar to those now being implemented in Rajas-
than under the Chambal Command Area Development Project (Loan 430-IN).
2/   Detail of the livestock program appears in Annex 8.
3/   400 mature ewes, unweaned lambs, female followers and 12 rams.



would be voluntary. Shares would be purchased in cash or in kind with
preference given to the latter to best serve the interests of sheep owners,
usuallv the poorer segment of village society.   However, all shares would
be denominated in cash values; thus private ownership of sheep would cease
upon entry into the society.   The amount of private equity of the society
would be determined by the estimated carrying capacity of the units and members
would be able to acquire a proportion of the equity up to the ratio of their
sheep numbers to the total number of sheep of intending participants. To
attract participation in this innovative venture, participants would receive
a guaranteed income for each share purchased in kind for.the first four years
of the societies' operations. Investment capital and the cost of technical
services during the first five years would be met by government.
4.20      Assurances were given that state governments would: (i) furnish.
to the Association for its comments the final draft of the model by-laws of
sheep growers primary cooperative societies; 1/ and (ii) provide funds to
enable societies to make the guaranteed income payments in the event that the
societies operating revenues were inadequate.
4.21      The implementation of sheep development, the provision of inputs
and technical assistance would be the responsibility of nine service centers..
It is assumed that each service center could support the development of
40 to 50 primary sheep growers' societies.
4.22      The project would establish a ram multiplication farm in each
participating state, on an existing government sheep station, in order to
supply the participating societies and private farmers with the required
crossbred rams. It is assumed that the average ram multiplication farm
would have about 400 hectares and that it would produce approximately 500
crossbred rams annually at full development.
4.23      Dairy Development. -/   Dairy development under the project would
be based mainly on indigenous animals. Upgrading through crossing with
exotic breeds would be restricted to farmers with assured irrigation water
supplies who could thus produce green fodder year round. The implementation
of dairy development would be the task of twelve Spearhead Team.- to be
trained by the National Dairy Development Board. These mobile units would
initially publicize project activity and assist groups of interested farmers
in the formation of producer cooperatives. The scheme would.improve farmers'
income by:  (i) providing .milk collection services.and thus increasing the
farm-gate price of milk, (ii) distributing concentrate feed, and (iii) improving
1/   Proposed draft by-laws are attached as Appendix 4 to Annex 8.
2/   An IDA project for dairy development in Karnataka (Credit 482-IN) was
presented to the Board June 13, 1974 and others for Rajasthan and Madhya
Pradesh have been appraised. The proposals in this project are consistent
with the investment criteria established in the Dairy projects. There
would be no overlapping of project areas.



- 12 -
health care. This assistance would be extended to about 17,600 farmers
in Raj asthan, and to about 18,000 farmers in each of the four southern
districts.
4.24      In keeping with the AMUL pattern 1/, milk producers' societies
would be formed at the village level. About 480 such societies are envisaged
under the project in villages or groups of villages with a bovine population
of at least 300 mature cows. The secretary of each society would maintain
accounts for each member, recording his deliveries and charges for concentrates.
4.25      As societies become established, milk collection within the dis-
trict would be organized by the Spearhead Teams under the direction of the
District Animal Husbandry Officer. There would be at least eight societies
along a route of about 120 km. Milk would be collected twice daily by con-
tract truckers. The collection costs would be borne by the societies but
government financial assistance would be required during the first three
years.
4.26      Milk surplus over local market demands would be diverted to
existing processing plants within each state.  Present capacity, including
that now under construction, would be adequate to handle projected milk
flow for at least 9 years.  In order to facilitate surplus transport by hired
road tankers, chilling plants would be established in each district at the
points from where the milk collection routes originate. The chilling centers
would be managed by specially trained operators responsible to the District
Animal Husbandry' Officer. Training programs would be conducted under the
auspices of the NDDB at a suitable facility in the area concerned.
4.27      Twelve mobile veterinary units would be established to improve
the animal health services in the participating villages. These units would
work under the direction of the District Animal Husbandry Officer.
4.28      Artificial insemination (Al) is accepted by fairmers in project areas
but there is a shortage of semen. Under the project one AI center would be
constructed or expanded in each project district except Nagaur which would be
served from Jodhpur. Centers would be stocked with high quality indigenous
bulls and a small number of exotic bulls.
4.29      In keeping with government policy, milk producers unions would be
formed after an initial development period to take over the responsibilities
of Spearhead Teams and possibly also the running of artificial insemination,
veterinary and other services. However, given the difficult environment
of the drought prone districts and their present low level of dairy develop-
ment, it is impossible now to predict with confidence when viable unions could
be formed and what services they could take over from the public sector.
Assurances were given by the state governments that before unions were formed
their proposed by-laws and projected cash flows would be submitted to IDA for
comment.
1/   Anand Milk Union Limited - Gujarat. Based entirely on cooperatives, this
pattern has been adopted by GOI for dairy development throughout IrLdia.



- 13 -
4.30      Calf Rearing Centers. Although great hope is placed in crossbreeding
to increase India's milk production, crossbred animals require good quality
green fodder year round, and are not as resistant to the climatic stress
of drought prone areas as indigenous animals. To the extent that farmers
with irrigated lands are willing to produce forage and to provide shelter
for milk cows, there would be some scope for crossbred dairying in the project
area. With the exception of city milk producers, however, there is little
evidence of this development. An experimental component in crossbred dairy-
ing would be included in the project, whereby exotic semen would be made
available to farmers with good quality indigenous cows. Weaned calves
could then be raised by farmers who so choose, or, in the case of dryland
farmers or others, weaned calves could be sold to calf rearing centers.
These (two per district except: Jodhpur, one, and Nagaur, none) would be
organized as cooperative ventures, either as part of a sugar cooperative
or milk producers' cooperative. Crossbred heifers in calf would then be
sold on the open market. This approach would enable officials to assess
the willingness of farmers to benefit from the sale of crossbred calves
(about Rs 100 per month of age) or to undertake the greater management require-
ments of maintaining crossbred cows. GOI gave an assurance that an advisor
would be employed, with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment satisfactory to the Association, to assist with the planning
and start up of the calf rearing centers.
4.31      Fodder Banking. The project wqould finance the establishment of
80 fodder banks in Jodhpur and 50 in Nagaur to be operated by the Forest
Department. Each would have the capacity to store about 50 tons of fodder.
In normal seasons the Department would contract for the cutting and hauling
of fodder from forest reserves. In years when an area had been declared
drought stricken, an event occurring on average every third year, the fodder
would be sold by the Collector's office at a subsidized rate to the livestock
owners of the vicinity.
Bagasse Treatment
4.32      Under heat and pressure, bagasse can be converted to a digestible
fodder.  This process, used extensively in some countries, e.g. Cuba, would
be introduced on a pilot basis at one sugar mill in Ahmednagar. Local
engineering capacity would be adequate for fabrication and construction.
However GOI gave an assurance that a bagasse treatment specialist would be
employed, with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
cmployment satisfactory to the Association, to assist with the planning and
start up of the plant and the training of plant operators and feed users.
Diversification Schemes
4.33      The majority of rural families in project districts will continue
to depend heavily on dryland farming in the foreseeable future. However,
great importance must be placed on opportunities to diversify rural economies
away from crop production, to the extent possible, into activities that



- 14 -
are less dependent on the vagaries of rainfall. Only a small proportion
of the population would benefit from the few alternatives currently avail-
able, but the inclusion of pilot schemes for fisheries, sericulture and
horticulture in the project would provide an excellent opportunity to assess
the scope for further diversification. Only in the case of Bijapur Dis-
trict (Karnataka) were schemes sufficiently prepared for appraisal. Else-
where, preparation would continue during the project period and approved
schemes would be financed from core funds to be allocated to the districts
(para 4.49). Details of diversification schemes are given in Annex 9.
4.34      Inland Fisheries. The Karnataka Fisheries Department has been
effectively serving an inland fisheries industry in that state for many years.
The project would provide additional nursery capacity to the department in
Bijapur for the production of about 9 million fingerlings per year. This
would facilitate an expanded program of tank, reservoir and river stocking
in Bijapur and provide a surplus for use in other districts. Fisheries
cooperatives would be established in about 50 locations, each with about
20 fishermen. 1/ Fish production from the project would be about 2,750
tons per year, most of which would be consumed within the district. Two
10 ton ice plants, a 20 ton cold storage unit and 10 small retail cold
storage chests would be financed to improve the quality of marketed fish
and extend its marketable period.
4.35      Sericulture.  Karnataka accounts for 85% of India's silk production.
Bijapur District is suited to silk production based on a tall variety of
mulberry, but on-farm development has not yet begun. Under the project an
egg multiplication center and demonstration farm would be established under
the Karnataka Sericulture Department. Silk production is well suited to a
smallholder development program since one ha of mulberry would be sufficient
to generate a net income of approximately Rs 1,700 per year, and it is
expected that about 400 such units would be established under the project.
Marketing of the additional production through the established channels
within the state would pose no difficulties.
4.36      Horticulture.  The project would provide incremental nursery
capacity to the Karnataka Horticulture Department for the production of about
200,000 transplants per year. Species would include ber (Zizyphus nummularia),
mango, jackfruit, lime, sapota, and coconut. Ber is ideally suited to the
poorer, unirrigated soils of Bijapur, and it yields a small yellow fruit which
is very high in Vitamin C. The other species would be planted along irrigation
canals, around farm ponds or homesites and in the lower corners of irrigated
fields. One-acre mixed orchards would also be established for commercial
production on irrigated lands. Trees would provide the added benefits of
firewood and fodder from clippings, shade and windbreaks. All transplants
would be provided at a nominal charge and total numbers to each farmer limited
1/   Fishermen would be smallholders or agricultural laborers, and this sub-
sidiary occupation would be an excellent source of added family income.



- 15 -
as follows: ber, not more than 50; mango and coconut, not more than 25; and,
for mixed orchards, not more than 100. In no case would the total of all
transplants given to one landowner exceed 100 plus subsequent replacements.
Research
4.37      Considerable resources are already devoted to dryland agricultural
research; nevertheless certain gaps in the research effort have been
identified by GOI, and an attempt would be made to fill these under the
research component of the project. Details of the research programs are
given in Annex 10.
4.38      The project would provide funds to the ICAR to enable it to
undertake research in the fields of agricultural economics, pasture devel-
opment and agrometeorology. A team of agricultural economists 1/ would be
established within the All India Coordinated Research Project for Dryland
Agriculture. GOI gave an assurance that the team would be headed by a Senior
Agricultural Economist whose qualifications and e.rperience would be acceptable
to IDA. The team would:
(a) study farming systems;
(b)  monitor the impact of development programs;
(c)  assist in the design of technical research programs; and
(d)  synthesize financially and economically viable packages
of technology for extension.
4.39      A second team, of pasture agronomists, would determine economical
methods of dryland pasture improvement and management.    In view of the lack
of Indian experience in this field GOI gave an assurance that the team would
be led by a senior pasture agronomist who would be employed with qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
4.40      The aim of the agrometeorology program would be to determine the
feasibility of establishing location specific soil moisture regime pro-
bilities and hence, by relating them to crop water demand profiles, the
probabilities of success of different cropping patterns. GOI gave an assur-
ance that an agrometeorologist would be employed with qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Association to assist in the design of such a research program.
1/   Despite the nature of the task only agricultural economists would be
required since other specialists are already available at the research
stations.



- 16 -
4.41      GOI gave an assurance that the terms of reference for research
programs under the project would be finalized in consultation with the
Association.
Training -/
4.42      The diversity of project investments would necessitate a multi-
faceted training program. This would be the responsibility of the DPAP
central unit in New Delhi. The unit would plan, organize and conduct project
level courses for senior staff. The latter would in turn conduct district
level courses for more junior staff in line with guidelines produced by
the central unit. Two exceptions would be the training of Spearhead Teams
for the dairy programs at the NDDB's facilities at Anand, and the training
of soil conservation field assistants at established Soil Conservation
Training Centers. Project funds would cover institution operating costs
and staff and trainee subsistence and travel costs.
Measures to Expand Agricultural Credit
4.43      Correcting the institutional and resource weaknesses hindering the
effective extension of agricultural credit in India would go far beyond the
scope of a project such as DPAP, with its small scattered project area.
However, it is appropriate that the project include: improvements that can
be implemented on a district-wise basis; and, surveys and pilot efforts to
precisely identify and define credit constraints and means for their allevia-
tion. Background on agricultural credit in the project area appears in
Annex 12.
4.44      District-level Coordination.   To strengthen the lirks between
district officials and credit institutions, and to improve the services and
information available to credit institutions the state governments gave
assurances that:
(a)  Project M-anagers and Sub-divisional Revenue Officers would be
members of district credit coordination committees; and
(b)  membership, powers and organization of DDAs would be satis-
factory to the Association, and that managers of lead banks,
district central cooperative banks and primary land development
banks would be appointed to DDAs.
4.45      Establishment of Farmers Service Societies (FSS.     Farners Service
Societies have been recommended by the Reserve Bank of India as appropriate
channels for credit, especially to smallholders.   Commercial banks, which
provide management and funds to FSSs, have willingly taken on this role, but
have encountered considerable difficulty in obtaining the necessary approvals
and support services of state governments. The state governments gave assur-
ances that they would render promptly such assistance as is required for the
establishment of not less than two FSSs in each project district during 1975.
1/   Details of the training program are given in Annex 11.



17 -
4.46      Updating Land Records. The most important single constraint on
the flow of credit is the absence of current land records whereby applicants
can show title or rights in support of credit applications. Under the pro-
ject, land records would be updated in Anantapur, Jodhpur and Nagaur. The
process would be easier now than at any time in recent years because all
transfer of titles has been suspended in most states pending the ratification
of new land ceiling legislation. Assurances were obtained from the state
governments of Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan that the updating program would
be launched during calender year 1975.
4.47      Short-term Credit Surveys.  Credit officers appointed to DDAs would
conduct a detailed survey of short term agricultural credit requirements in
their respective districts, and identify constraints effecting the flow of
such credit particularly to smallholders. The assistance of credit institu-
tions, Revenue Departments, Regional Managers, ARC, and field staff of devel-
opment departments would be essential to the success of these surveys. The
state governments gave assurances that: survey terms of reference would be
developed in cooperation with the Central DPAP Unit; surveys would be completed
not later than December 31, 1975; and results would be made available to IDA
for comment.
4.48      District Banking Plans. GOI gave an assurance that the Agricultural
Refinance Corporation (ARC) would prepare district banking plans for each
project district, including, inter alia, the volumes and types of agricultural
credit required, legislative and institutional changes required to facilitate
credit expansion, and the role to be played by various credit institutions
including credit cooperatives, commercial banks, the Agricultural Finance
Corporation and ARC. As the responsible agency of the Reserve Bank of India
(RBI) for the provision of agricultural credit through both the coolperative
structure and commercial banks, ARC is uniquely suited and qualified to under-
take this work.
District Core Funds
4.49      In addition to the funds committed to each district for specified
sub-projects, the project would include allocations to the district develop-
ment authorities to finance: (i) a smallholders' and agricultural laborers'
financial assistance program, and (ii) small schemes as yet unprepared which
may be found desirable during the project period.
4.50      Smallholders and Laborers Assistance.   GOI has adopted the policy
that small farmers, marginal farmers and agricultural laborers in DPAP
districts will be eligible for financial assistance similar to that now
provided by SFDA and MFAL schemes in their respective districts. This in-
volves a 25% subsidy under SFDA and a 33-1/3% subsidy under MFAL on the cost
of a specified range of on-farm investments and the purchase of livestock,
tools and equipment. In all cases these programs under DPAP would be adminis-
tered by the district development authorities, subject to guidelines issued
by the Central DPAP Unit. This assistance, which would not be financed by
IDA, is reflected in project financing tables.



-18-
C. Project Costs
4.51      The breakdown of project costs by component and object of expendi-
ture for each district is presented in Annex 13. Project costs of Rs 821.4
million (US$102.7 million) are summarized below:
Summary of Project Costs
Rupees Million          US$ Million         Foreign
Local Foreign    Total  Local Foreign   Total Exchange
District Funds
Minor Irrigation        78.2      6.8     85.0    9.8     0.8    10.6    3.0
Soil Conservation       96.5      2.7     99.2   12.1     0.3    12.4    2..7
Forestry                17.9     0.4      18.3    2.2     0.1     2.3    2.0
Pasture Developmetnt    37.3     ---      37.3    4.7     ---     4.7    --
Dry Farming             12.8     2.4      15.2    1.6     0.3     1.9   16.0
Sheep Development       13.1     0.9      i4.0    1.7     0.1     1.8    6.4
Dairy Development      156.8     6.0     162.8   19.5     0.8    20.3    3.7
Diversification Schemes 15.5     ---      15.5    1.9     --      1.9    ---
Updating Land Records    6.2     ---      6.2     0.8     --      0.8    ---
Project Management       2.8     0.1       2.9    0.4     ---     0.4    3.0
District Core Funds     29.1     0.9      30.0    3.7     0.1     3.8    3.0
Central Funds
Research                 5.8      0.5      6.3    0.7     0.1     0.8    7.9
Training                 0.8     ---       0.8    0.1     ---     0.1    ---
Consultants              ---     2.9       2.9    ---     0.4     0.4  100.0
Project Evaluation       0.3     ---       0.3    ---     ---     ---    ---
Central Core Funds       2.4     0.1       2.5    0.3     --      0.3    2.0
Sub-Total           475.5    23.7    499.2    59.5     3.0    62.5    4.8
Price Contingency      306.4     15.8    322.2   38.2     2.0    40.2    4.9
(69% except Core Funds)
Total               781.9    39.5    821.4    97.2     5.0   102.7    4.8
4.52      The proposed project represents a "time slice" of an on-going
government program and, similar to credit projects, is based on investment
norms rather than specific locations and numbers of works, and therefore no



- 19 -
physical contingency has been included in cost estimates. However a signi-
ficant price contingency provision has been made since cost increases over
the project period are expected to be such as would otherwise jeopardize
realization of project objectives. 1/
D. Financing
4.53      Of the total project cost, banks and cooperatives would provide
Rs 244.4 million (30%) to finance on-farm development and cooperative activ-
ities. 2/ State and Central Government would provide Rs 297.0 million (36%)
principally for government establishment and financial assistance to small-
holders.  IDA's contribution of Rs 280.0 million (US$35 million) amounting
to 34% of total project costs would finance about 50% of public sector ex-
penditures. However, activities for which institutional credit is required
would be eligible for ARC lending in project areas either under existing
projects 3/ or under a separate ARC credit project now under appraisal by the
Association, provided that participating banks in these areas satisfy such
ARC lending criteria as may be agreed with the Association. GOI gave an
assurance that ARC would undertake the appraisal and sanctioning of proposals
received from the states, for institutional financing under the project in
such phasing and volume as would facilitate project implementation. Project
financing is summarized below:
1/   Price Contingency Provisions:        Equipment         Civil Works
1973 (6 months)                    10%                12%
1974                                14%               18%
1975                                11%               15%
1976-80                              7.5%             12%
2/   About 90% of the total institutional credit requirements would probably
be financed by cooperatives and LDB's, where sources of funds include
loans from state governments, RBI and ARC.
3/   Andhra Pradesh, Credit 226-IN (1971); Karnataka Credit 278-IN (1973);
and Maharashtra Credit 293-IN (1972).



- 20 -
Summary of Project Financing
Credit       Central and
Institutions   State Governments         IDA
Rs Million   %   Rs Million    %     Rs MJIIIl.Lion  %
Minor Irrigation               37.9      45      15.2       18      31,.9    37
Soil Conservation              --        --      76.1       77      23.1     23
Forestry                       --        --       6.3       34      12.0     66
Pasture Development            --        --       1.0        3      36.3     97
Dry Farming                     3.8      25       6.9       45       4.5     30
Sheep Development              0.9        6       2.5       18      10.6     76
Dairy Development              99.2      61      42.2       26      21.4     13
Diversification Schemes         2.8      18       3.7       24       9.0     58
Updating Land Records                             3.1       50       3.1     50
Project Management             --        --       1.3       45       1.6     55
Technical Assistance           -                             -       7,4    100
Consultants                   --         =        --        -        2.9    100
Subs otal               144.6       31     158.3       34     163.8     35
Unallocated:
District Core Funds         --         --      30.0      100       --      --
Central Core Funds          --         --       2.5       -
Price Contingencies         99.8       31     106.2       33     116.2     36
Total:
Total:  Rs Million            244.4      30%    297.0       36%    280.0     34%
US$ Million           30.6               37.1               35.0
E. Procurement
4.54      Civil works in the public sector other than tank construction would
be executed by government force account (US$7.0 million). Individual works
are small and spread over the project area and period, precluding bulking,
and executing departments possess the necessary expertise. Civil works
contracts for tank construction, on-farm development, and cooperative-owned
facilities, and contracts for equipment, vehicles, domestic livestock and
services in excess of Rs 100,000 (US$12,500), would be let on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedurc1
which are satisfactory to the Association (US$10.8 million est.). Bulking
for international competitive bidding is not practicable, as individual
contracts would be small and scattered. There is adequate representation of
domestic contractors and international equipment suppliers to provide reasonable
competition. Contracts for less than Rs 100,000 would be procured through
normal trade channels (US$25 million est.). The majority of these small
contracts would consist of goods and services for on-farm development which
would be financed by credit institutions. Well drilling rigs (US$0.3 million)
would be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with



- 21 -
IDA guidelines with domestic suppliers accorded the usual preference of 15%
as the rate of customs duty, which ever is the lower.   Bids for imported bulls
(US$0.1 million) would be solicited from at least three countries free from
foot and mouth disease and where animals of the required types are available.
Consultants would be selected and employed under terms and conditions satis-
factory to IDA (US$0.4 million).   The balance of project costs would consist
of staff.and operating expenses for government departments and agencies
(US$12.9' million) and producer cooperatives (US$1.8 million), which would be
subject to satisfactory state government norms.
4.55      Tender documents for drilling rigs, imported bulls and contracts
in excess of Rs 800,000 (US$100,000) which would be financed by IDA would be
submitted to IDA for approval. Ternms of refqrence for studies and applied
research under the project would be finalized in consultation with IDA as
wouild qualificat.ions and terms of employment for all consultants.  Appropriate
assurances were obtained to cover the foregoing.
F. Disbursement 1,
4.56      For civil works executed by force account and staff and operating
expenses 2/ to be financed by IDA in districts, disbursement would be made
quarterly against certified statements of expenditure submitted by state
governments, the documentation for which would be retained by state finance
departments for review by supervision missions. Statements would enumerate
claims by establishment unit and category of works. Applications for dis-
bursement against the cost of contracted civil works would be supported by
full documentation. Disbursement would be against CIF documents for imported
equipment, and against purchase invoice for domestically-procured goods and
services. Quarterly disbursements would be made against invoice for all
approved technical assistance and project evaluation expenditures, and, in
the case of research conducted by an agency of G0I, against certified state-
ment of expenditure. It would be a condition of disbursement in each state
that lDAs had been duly constituted in all project districts and that Project
Managers with qualifications acceptable to IDA had been appointed thereto.
(para 5.05). In addition, on each irrigation tank, only half of the expenditure
on construction eligible for IDA disbursement would be disbursed pending
receipt of a certificate from the Project l4anager of the district concerned
that CAD had begun in accordance with the approved master plan (para 4.05),
thereafter full disbursement-would be made.
1/   A schedule of anticipated quarterly disbursements is given at Annex 14.
2/   All the staff covered in project costs and against which disbursements
would be made would be incremental; the majority would be required only
for the development-period.



-22-
4.57      Disbursement categories, amounts and percentages appear below:
Value        Disbursement
Category                       (US$ Million)    Percentage
I.  Civil works on public lands            9,7     -    95% of costs
incurred'
II.  Government equipment and vehicles     -2.6         :100% of CIF costs
and livestock                                      forimported goods,
and 80% of locally
procured
III.  Operating and staff expenses of        6.9          60% of costs
project units                                      incurred
IV.  Technical assistance and project        1.3         100. of costs
evaluation                                         incpirred
V.  Unallocated                            14.5
Total                  35.0
G. Accounts. and Audit
4.58      Assurances were obtained from state governments as foliows:
(a) separate project accounts and records would b.e maintained by the State
DPAP Units for,each project district, adequate to reflect expenditures and
progress by each executing agent under the project;. (b) DDAs would maintain
accounts of funds at thei.r disposal.for which control accounts would be
maintained by State DPAP Units; (c) quarterly account summaries would be
submitted to the Central DPAP Unit, New Delhi, not later than two month after
the reporting period; (d) auditors satisfactory to IDA would be, employed to
audit project accounts annually; and (e) the audited project ac1counts,
together with the auditor's comments, would be submitted to IDAwithin six
months of the close of each financial year.
4.59      Assurances were obtained.from GOI as follows:   (a) the Central
DPAP Unit would maintain separate project accounts and records ifor the funds
at its disposal, adequate to reflect expenditure and progress by each exe-
cuting agent under the central component of the project; (b) ICAR would
maintain.a separate account for project funds at its disposal for which a
summary accounti would be maintained, by the Central DPAP Unit; (.c) the Cen-
tral DPAP Unit would maintain separate summary accounts for each project
district on the basis of summaries-submitted by the State DPAP Units not
later than two month after the reporting period.



- 23 -
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT V
A. DPAP in the Central Government
5.01      The DPAP Central Unit within the Department of Cooperatives and
Comunity Development, New Delhi, provides overall direction for the Drought
Prone Areas Program. Functions of the Central Unit under the project would
be:
(a) Monitoring of performance, including the solicitation
and review of regular performance reports;
(b) Ensuring adherence to technical, financial and economic
norms for activities to be financed under the project;
(c) Liaison with financial institutions and the identifi-
cation and resolution of problems hindering the flow
of credit in project areas;
(d) Planning and administration of training activities;
(e)  Identification of applied research requirements and
liaison with various agencies carrying out research
activities.
5.02      To carry out these functions, the Central Unit would be strengthened
by the addition of senior specialists (Deputy Commissioner level) in the fol-
lowing disciplines: livestock, dry farming and soil conservation, irrigation
and economics. 2/   An assurance was obtained that these posts would at
all times be filled by personnel whose qualifications and experience were
acceptable to IDA. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that
quiRlified nominees had taken up their respective responsibilities in these
positions. In addition, an Interdepartmental Coordination Committee would be
established under the Chairmanship of the Secretary, Cooperatives and Commu-
nity Development and an assurance to this effect was obtained. Meeting
quarterly, this committee would review performance in the various sub-sectors
of the program, ensure consistency of technical norms with those of other
programs, particularly irrigation, and advise DPAP officials of developments
in respective departments which would have a bearing on program implementation.
1/   Details of project organization are presented in Annex 15.
2/   Present staffing of the Central Unit is discussed in Annex 1. The
primary responsibility of the project economist would be monitoring
and evaluation (see para 5.10).



- 24 -
B. State Level DPAP Organization
5.03      DPAP at the state level is typically administered by a small cell
in the department that has been assigned the primary responsibility for
rural development. Headed by a special secretary or deputy secretary, this
unit has some technical expertise but functions principally in a planning,
budgeting and supervisory capacity. It maintains close contact with the
state planning commission and the development departments to ensure the
inclusion of program activities in the annual work programs of executing
departments. Regular reports of financial and physical performance are
submitted to this unit by district officers and the unit is expected to
make representation to executing departments to ensure the timely execution
of program works. However, this latter function has been hampered by the
absence of a regular forum in which DPAP staff can meet with department
authorities. Assurances were obtained that each project state would
establish an interdepartmental coordination committee for this purpose. This
committee would be chaired by the Secretary of the department responsible
for DPAP and would include, as members, Directors of all departments executing
works under the program, as well as representatives from the state planning
commission, finance department and the managing directors of the State Land
Development Bank and the Apex Cooperative Bank.
C. District Level DPAP Organization
5.04      In the past, there has been considerable overlap among the various
state and center programs that have been applied to drought prone areas, while
some key problems have remained untouched. Even within DPAP, investment
components have not always been coordinated, nor did they always address the
specific problems and potentials of individual districts. Among the explana-
tions for this can be included:
(a) insufficient planning, brought about by the need to
redress immediate problems such as unemployment;
(b) application of common standards and criteria across all
regions covered by a given program;
(c) lack of coordination among development departments
despite the integral relationship of various investments
in the economic development of a given district.
5.05      District Development Authorities.  The above problems can be
resolved by strengthening district-level development administration, and
delegating to the district the resources and authority for project planning
and coordination. The approach will be to establish District Development
Authorities (DDAs) to coordinate and supervise development activities in
drought prone districts. Details of the organization, staffing and functions



- 25 -
of DDA's are presented in Annex 15. Assurances were obtained that state
governments would establish DDAs with membership, powers and organization
satisfactory to IDA. Drafts of the Cabinet Orders to create DDAs were
presented for IDA comment during negotiations.  Requisite features of the
constitution of DDAs would be the provision for carry over of unused program
funds from one fiscal year to another, and the delegation of power to project
managers as described in Annex 15. Assurances were obtained that qualificationrs
acceptable to IDA would be required throughout the project period for Project
Managers of DDA's (para 4.56).
D. Project Execution
5.06      All public sector works under the project would be executed by
existing development departments and agencies of the state governments.
Where required, additional establishment costs have been included in the
project, but in all cases line authority within departments would be main-
tained. Some on-farm development such as well improvements, which would
not be financed by IDA, would be executed by private contractors. The
smallholders and agricultural laborers subsldy program would be administered
by the DDA, 1/ and coordination among departments would be facilitated by
a right of inspection to be vested in the manager of the authority.
E. Project Monitoring
5.07      A number of components of the proposed proj ect are experimental
in nature. While it is felt that each component would generate benefits
for the rural population of these areas, a detailed system of monitoring and
evaluation must be undertaken to assess the impact of the project on the
needs of each district as a whole. Furthermore, innovations in project
management must be evaluated to determine the merit of extending the con-
cept to other districts as proposed by GOI. If all. the promoters of this
project, including the Bank Group are to benefit fully from their experience
with it, then it must be recognized that, because of its complex nature,
the IDA supervision workload will be greater than normal.
5.08      Performance Reporting. Monthly financial and physical performance
reports would be prepared by the DDA of each district. These would compare
1/   Bijapur is presently included in the MFAL program, and a separate
agency will continue to administer the program until it is wound up
in 1976. Thereafter the Bijapur DDA would assume responsibility for
subsidy administration.



26 -
budgeted and actual performance and would include narrative explanation of
variance. Monthly reports would be submitted to the State DPAP Unit. in
addition, quarterly reports for each project district would be prepared by
the State DPAP Units for submission to the Central DPAP Unit arid to IDA.
5.09      Annual Plans.  As a guide in the annual budgeting for the project
and to promote district planning, the DDA would be required to prepare annual
plans with the following major components:
(a) Summary of works and programs completed under DPAP;
(b) Detailed outline of works and programs to be taken
up under DPAP in the coming fiscal year;
(c) Outline of other development activities to be taken
up in the district in the coming fiscal year;
(d) Description of the interdependence of various programs;
and
(e) Explanation of procedures to be followed to ensure
coordination of interdependent activities.
Assurances were obtained that state governments would furnish to IDA ^or
comments: (i) at least two months prior to the beginning of the fiscai. year
the program of works to be executed under the project; and (ii) not later than
September 30 of each fiscal year statements containing information oni programs
related to DPAP and procedures to coordinate them.
5.10      Central Government Project Evaluation. An important fuxnction of
the Central DPAP Unit would be the evaluation of project activities to deter-
mine if stated objectives were being realized; for example, whether uneinploy-
ment was being reduced, if agricultural production was increasing and being
stabilized, and the numbers and types of farmers benefiting under the ..o
gram. Operating responsibility for this task would be assigned to vhe croj-
ect economist of the Unit. However, much of the actual analysis -WcouLd be
undertaken by institutions such as agricultural universities or institutes
of management. Their involvement would afford an independent pe-nip-ct.va
on evaluation and would promote an awareness of the needs anid t-bon.,uars 'Jf
district programs among individuals who might participate .n such, ;ro's
in future.  Funds for this purpose would be included in the central a-.=
tion under the project.  Details of the project evaluation process,  c.luud-
ing the role of independent institutions, would be finalized in ccri.i-on
with IDA.



- 27 -
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Financial Results
6.01      In assessing revenues, the yields and prices presented in Annex 16
have been used. Market rates prevailing at the time of the appraisal
(November 1973) have been used for all cash expenditures. It has been assumed
that the farmers' terms of trade would remain constant.
6.02      Financial models have been prepared for all components involving
on-farm development or investment on public land for commercial exploitation.
The prevailing interest rates (usually around 9.5% but lower in some districts
for specific investments) have been used in debt service calculations. Cash
flow projections are presented in Annex 17. The rates of return, summarized
below, are satisfactory. Sensitivity analyses, summarized in Annex 17,
Table 1, shows rates of return on a number of investments to be marginal or
unsatisfactory with a revenue decrease of 25%. Although best estimates of
revenues are based on average yields including bad years, the analysis con-
firms that a succession of drought years early in the project period could
considerably retard farmers response and hence project implementation.
Type of Investment                                      Rate of Return
Sheep development - Communal Block (100 ha)                  75%
Soil conservation and livestock development -
Farm Model (4 ha)                                       36%
Soil conservation and livestock development -
Farm Model (10 ha)                                      42%
Pasture development - Governmental pasture
unit (100 ha)                                           11%
Pasture development - Seed farm (400 ha)                     15%
Sericulture - (one hectare farm)                             33%
Horticulture - Mixed orchard (1 acre)                        15%
Fisheries                                                    20%
Irrigation - Tubewell with electric pump (20 ha farm)        31%
Irrigation - Tank (4 ha farm)                            Above 100%
Soil conservation - (4 ha farm)                              39%
Dry farming                                              Above 100%
6.03      Another measure of the attractiveness of project schemes to farmers
would be the return to the additional family labor employed. From all the
on-farm activities under the project the additional income per man-day of
family labor would be Rps 4 or more (Annex 17). This additional income would
prove a sufficient incentive for the farmers given prevailing wage rates in
the project area.



- 28 -
Increased Agricultural Production
6.04      Irrigation development would increase the annual agricultural pro-
duction in the six districts by some 30,000 tons of food crops with a value
of about Rs 30 million (Annex 18, Table 11). The introduction of improved
tecinology to dry farming should increase crop production, (mainly sorghum,
millet, oilseeds and pulses) in the project area by about 22,000 tons worth
about Rs 20 million. Soil conservation works under the project should bring
about at incremental annual production of more than 6,400 tons of foodgrains
and cash crops valued at about Rs 5.7 million. Pasture development would
result in increased production of some 67,500 tons of saleable fodder each
year, with a value of more than Rs 5 million; annual milk production would
increase by 80,000 tons, valued at Rs 97 million.   Sheep development would
result in additional annual production of 475 tons of wool and 2,400 tons
of mutton valued at Rs 4.2 million and Rs 6 million respectively.
Employment
6.05      Employment creation for unskilled labor would result both from
construction works and exploitation of the newly created assets. Most of
the investments to be made under the project are labor intensive and would
provide substantial employment for landless laborers and underemployed
cultivators. Soil conservation works (construction and repair of bunds,
check dams, farm ponds) undertaken under this project would require some
15 million man-days of unskilled labor. Similarly, tank and canal irri-
gation would create some 6 million man-days of employment, and pasture
development another 2 million man-days. This total of 23 million man-days
of employment for the execution of major physical works above is equivalent
to about 85,000 full-time employment opportunities over the five-year proj-
ect period. Upon completion, these assets would require an increase in oper-
ating labor. The dry farming program would require that an additional 3.3
million man-days be used on farm operations. Farm exploitation on contour-
bunded lands would require an incremental 800,000 man-days per year for the
maintenance of the bunds. Similarly, irrigation development would create
an additional 1,300,000 man-days of yearly employment as a result of increased
crop production. This total of 5.4 million additional man-days of permanent
employment is equivalent to about 20,000 additional full-time employment op-
portunities.
Impact on Government Revenues
6.06      By its nature and objectives this is not a project from which to
expect significant direct recoveries of public sector outlay. However, by
mitigating the impact of the future droughts, the project would reduce the
need for government supported famine relief and thereby result in a saving
of public funds. Only rough estimates of these possible savings can be made
since the incidence and effects of drought cannot be accurately predicted.
Under conservative asstumptions (Annex 18), the saving in public expenditure
would be in excess of Rs 40 million during the project period.



- 29 -
6.07      Furthermore a proportion of costs would be recovered under two
major components. Fifty percent of the cost of bund construction on private
land would be recovered from farmers (about Rs 28 million). Farmers benefiting
from irrigation tank construction would also repay operation and maintenance
costs and part of the capital cost. Because of the diversity of systems and
rates of payments (water rates, betterment levy and crop cesses) it was not
possible to estimate the precise extent of capital cost recovery.   However
with current practice it is unlikely to exceed 20% and even this reflecrts
a recent significant increase of rates. These are now kept under consmtant
review in recognition of the need to improve the capital recovery position.
Because the project's irrigation component is but one of many and represents
only a small part of the irrigation program of participating states it was
not considered appropriate to seek assuirances that recovery rates would be
further increased.
Number of Beneficiaries
6.08      It is estimated that the project would improve permanently the
income of some 225,000 rural households, most of which belong to the poorest
segment of the population (Annex 18). Taking the average household as five
persons then over 1 million people, or more than 10% of the population of
the six districts, would be permanently benefited by the project.
Indirect Benefits
6.09      Areas to be brought under forestry, pasture and bunding programs
would be about 625,000 ha. These measures would arrest the process of soil
erosion which now removes about 6 inches of soil from cultivated areas every
10 years.  Fisheries, sericulture and horticulture, as well as improved live-
stock husbandry, would reduce the dependence of the rural population on dry
farming, thereby rendering beneficiaries less dependent on thle vagaries of
the monsoon; and fish, fruit and dairy products would improve the variety
and quality of rural diets. Measures to improve the flow of credit other
than those expressly to assist smallholders would substantially increase
overall on-farm investments and the use of improved inputs for agricultural
production, and the results of applied research under the project would
improve the technologies of pasture development and dry farming. Finally,
innovations in district level project management should greatly improve the
effectiveness of development efforts in these areas, and experience gained
under this project would prove useful in extending similar programs to other
areas of the country.
Project Risk
6.10      Farmer response to technical innovation and cooperation, and the
effectiveness of institutional change within government, are difficult to
quantify and likely to vary in relation to factors lying outside project
management control, e.g. weather, political factors, etc. Despite such
risks the proposed project is worth undertaking on economic and social



- 30 -
grounds. The project would exploit the best available potentials for sig-
nificantly improving the economic condition of very poor rural families
and it would help develop and disseminate dryland technologies adapted to
the circumstances of India's drought prone areas.
Economic Returns
6.11      An economic rate of return has been calculated for each category
of investment under the project and sensitivity analyses have been carried
out to appraise the possible impact of the key uncertainties bearing on these
investments. Methodology and statements are presented in Annex 18. Results
were all found to be satisfactory, and rates of return for major components
are summarized below, based on a Rs 1 per day shadow price for unskilled
labor: sheep development, 17% rate of return; dairy development, 37%; pasture
development, 12%; irrigation - tubewell, 17% and tank, 26%; soil conservation,
22%; and dry farming, 14%.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIOWS
7.01      During credit negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  Consultants would be employed with qualifications and experience
and on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA to advise on:
(i) pasture development (para 4.10);
(ii) calf rearing centers (para 4.30);
(iii) bagasse treatment (para 4.32);
(iv) pasture research (para 4.39);
(v)  agrometeorological research (para 4.40).
(b)  The following positions would be filled at all times by
candidates with qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA:
(i)  senior agricultural economist for the agricultural
economics research program (para 4.38);
(ii) senior specialists in soil conservation and dry farming,
irrigation and economics for the Central DPAP Unit
(para 5.02);
(ili) Project Managers of DDAs (para 5.05).



31 -
(c) ARC would prepare district banking plans for each project
district (para 4.48) and would appraise and sanction proposals
for institutional financing under the project in such phasing
and volume as would facilitate implementation (para 4.53).
(d) Interdepartmental committees would be established at the
central and state levels to coordinate DPAP activity (paras
5.02 and 5.03).
(e) Semidetailed ground water surveys would be undertaken in
project areas in Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra (para 4.04).
(f) Separate groups of extension staff would be employed for the
dry farming component and state governments would meet the
fertllizer requirements of this component (paras 4.16 and
4.17).
(g) By-laws for primary sheep growers societies would be finalized
in consultation with IDA (para 4.20).
7,02      It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that candidates
with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA had been appointed to
the senior specialist positions in the Central DPAP Unit and had taken up
their duties (para 5.02).
7.03      It would be a condition of disbursement against any project cost
in each state that duly constituted DDAs had been established in each project
district of the state and that project managers of the rank of Additional
Collectors had been appointed thereto (paras 4.56 and 5.05).
7.04      It would be a further condition of disbursement that only half
of the eligible expenditures on tank construction would be disbursed pending
receipt by IDA of certification that CAD had commenced in accordance with
the approved plans, thereafter full disbursement would be made (paras 4.05
and 4.56).
7.05      With the indicated assurance the project would be suitable for
an IDA credit of US$35 million.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Background on Drought Prone Areas Program
Historical Development
1.        The Drought Prone Areas Program (DPAP), formerly known as the
Rural Works Program, was introduced in 1970-71 by the Central Gsvernment.
Its basic objective was the creation of Rural employment through government-
executed construction works. Fifty-four districts in 13 states were
selected for the program on the basis of three objective criteria:
(a) level and periodicity of rainfall;
(b) intensity and past occurrence of drought; and
(c) proportion of irrigated area to total cultivated area.
Priorities established by GOI for works under DPAP were as follows:
(a) irrigation - medium or minor;
(b)  soil conservation, pasture development and affor-
estation; and
(c) roads - not to exceed 25% of District allocations.
Although program works were to have been limited to the creation of permanent
assets upon which further development could be programmed, the relief employ-
ment needs of the selected districts during the past three years led state
governments to ignore overall development strategies in the sanctioning of
works, and the result has been the creation of many low priority, non-produc-
tive assets. One billion rupees were budgeted for the Program for the four-
year period 1970-71 to 1973-74. Approximately Rs 610 million were spent under
DPAP from 1970-71 through 1972-73, and it is expected that most of the Rs 390
million balance will be disbursed during 1973-74, the last year of the initial
program and of the Fourth Plan (1969-74).
Current Objectives and Scope
2.        Over the past four years, DPAP has evolved from a purely employment
oriented program to one which is intent on "drought-proofing" districts with-
in the scheme. To mitigate the effects of future drought, multi-sectoral
district plans have been prepared with the objective of stabilizing both



ANNEX 1
Page 2
production and employment under the prevailing conditions of erratic rain-
fall. Plans are based on the resource potential of individual districts,
and works to be taken up by various departments and agencies of government
are to be coordinated by a district level development authority. A number
of elements of this strategy have been identified for specific attention:
(a) restoration of ecological balances;
(b) development and management of irrigation resources;
(c) soil and moisture conservation and afforestation;
(d) re-structuring of cropping pattern;
(e) changes in agronomic practices;
(f) livestock development;
(g) provision of drinking water supply;
(h) development of rural communications;
(i) development of small/marginal farmers and agricultural laborers.
All of the above, with the exception of drinking water and rural communica-
tion works are within the purview of DPAP. The original 54 districts have
been retained and individual talukas in an additional 18 districts have been
included under the program for the Fifth Plan.
Organization
3.        At the Center, DPAP is administered within the Cooperatives and
Community Development Department. 1/ The unit itself is staffed by a Direc-
tor, Deputy Commissioner, Under Secretary and support staff. DPAP has to
date relied on technical expertise from other branches and departments of
government for the evaluation of scheme proposals. However, during the
preparation of district plans and the definition of DPAP projects for the
next five years, it has become increasingly apparent that the DPAP unit
must also have a core of senior experts in the major sub-sectors, such as
dryland farming, if the tasks of project preparation and coordination are
to be effectively accomplished.
November 49 1974
1/   Although the project appraised for IDA consideration consists primarily
of agricultural investments, DPAP finances a broader range of invest-
ments including, for example, rural electrification; hences it loca-
tion is the Cooperatives and Community Development Department.



AN?EX 2
Page 1
INDI
DROUGHT PRONT' AEAS PROJECT
Other Develpnent Pro;raxus injcuht Prone Areas
A.  Central Gov:ernmnenit Prcgras
1.        Basic Minimum Needs Program (BIPX. This program was introduced
in the Fourth Plan as a ve.hicle for the financing of a m-inimum level of
socially desirable facillties such as cinkiing water, public health facil-
ities and primary schloolsO  Ic7:, the resources available to the program
were inadequate to make a mfajor i'mpac't during the Fourth Plan, and a mkajor
expansion is envisaged for the p      1:ifd  974-79. The Draft Fifth Plan has
allocated Rs 28,000 million Mf     M.r I3BPO  The functions of the program have
been overhauled to avoid any duplication wi th other on-going programs;
under the Fifth Plan, BI4NP 4il'. b  curncernod exclusively with drinking
water supply, nutrition, rural ro0. ds, health centers, primary schools,
housing and rural elect     I.i-: on.  In addi_.:on to a budget of Rs 28,000
million within BMP, rural e.::-:' ficas fL will benefit of an amount of
Rs 4,000 million provided uiider thte b2I-:al Electrification Corporation.
As they have now been redefivefd the functions of BMNP do not overlap
with those of DPAPo  However, tJ.ie:ce mast be close coordination of activ-
ities under these programs0
2.        Crash Scheme for Rural ELojment: (CSO). Road construction and
soil conservation works are the 1-:>inciv`al elements of this program, ini-
tiated in 1971-72. Rs 312 millionl were spent in 1971-72 anld Rs 520 mil-
lion in 1972-73; about 80% of this outlay was incurred on roads, CSRE
is usually implemented at the State level by the same secretariat respon-
sible for DPAP. CSRE will be discontinued under the Fifth Plan; GOI is
of the view that the other centu-a'. schemes would provide sufficient employment
opportunity to pre-empt the need "or any crash scheme.
3.        Small Farmer DeveLNienM. Ag        DA).  SFDA was started in
1971-72 with a five-year budge~: o.C Rs 15 million for each of 46 &istricts
throughout the country having la.>ge concentrations of small farmers--de-
fined as those having five acrea s  less of irrigated land or 7-1/2 acres
or less of unirrigated land,, The cen,:al fuinds constitute a 25% subsidy
to the farmer on the purchase of a vari-ei:y of farm inputs and improve-
ments. The balance of such pu.'C-r!u-i:-c,S;, is flrianc-micd through participating
banks or credit societies.a at *c,  rt-Jil :Ln.-resC rates.
4.        Marginial Farmars and Af -:i*zmiL: ural Laborers (1.-.AL). MFAL is
similar to SFDA and was                  la..ea-:ed n l  ar^ aier. Forty-one districts have
been selected (no overlai.) wJi :li'D?i) and eaah has been allotted Rs 10 mil-
lion to assist marginal i`armec.3 '2-1,!2 acres or less irrigated, 5 acres or



ANNEX 2
Page 2
less unirrigated) and agricultural laborers (50% of income or more from
agricultural employment). The central funds constitute a 33-1 /37 subsidy
on the purchase of inputs and improvements similar to those under SFDA;
this percentage is increased to 50% in the case of community wells. Items
financed for agricultural laborers include milk cows, tools and equipment.
Inputs for cottage crafts are also financed.
5.        Under the Fifth Plan the administration of SFDA and MFAL have
been merged, and the total number of districts under the SlFDA/MFAIL scheme
will be increased from 87 to 160; a budget of Rs 2,000 million is tentatively
provided.
6 .       Tribal Development Agencies,  Initiated in 1971-72, this program
for selected t'ibal areas is similar to SFDA and MFAI. Expenditure unlder
the Fourth Plan is likely to be Rs 50 million. Under the Fifth Plan, this
program will be continued within its six existing project areas and, possibly,
a few others. No physical overlap exists with the DPAP districts taken up
under this project.
7.        Desert Development Program.  This program of pilot projects was
taken up in four desert districts in Haryana, Gujarat and Rajasthan to test
the results of the research carried out by the Central Arid Zone Research
Institute. Various works involving a total outlay of nearly Rs 20 million
were executed: minor irrigation, development of pastures, soil conserva-
tion, afforestation.
8.        Pilot Projects on Dryland Far.ing. The Fourth Plan provided
Rs 200 million for 24 pilot projects of 3,200 to 4,000 hectares each,
located throughout the country. They serve as demonstration-cum-training
grounds for the various dryland farming techniques and to test the efficacy
of the new techniques devised by the research centers, Ten of the 24 pilot
projects are located in DPAP districts; four of these (Jodhpur, Sholapur,
Bijapuir and Anantapur) are withinr the purview of this project.
9.        Programs for Small Scale Indijstries,, Several programs currently
exist to encourage the village and small-scale industries. The Rural In-
dustries Projects, administered by the Ministry of Industrial Development,
encompass 49 projects and 62 others should be started under the Fifth Plan.
Technical assistance is being offered through the Small Industries Service
Institute while financial assistance is being provided through commercial
banks. The Rural Artisan Program is being operated by the Ministry of
Industrial Development in about 90 areas, to pronmote im:proved skills in
traditional occupations. The I-,"aadi and Village TnoduLs cr!es Commission
was set up by GOI at the National level. State boards of this Commission
extend interest-free loans to cooperatives for activities such as weaving
and spinning, carpentry, pottery, rice milling and others. Finally the Credit
Guarantee Scheme, sponsored by GOI, provv:irs government guarantees to
commercial banks for loans to small artisa.n0s



ANNEX 2
Page 3
B. Famine Relief Works
10.       Relief works are the responsibility of the states but the magnitude
of the task usually requires that grants, advances, and loans be taken from
the Center. During the past years of consecutive drought, relief expendi-
tures in most of the project districts were higher than Plan expenditures on
development programs. In 1970-71, in Jodhpur district, relief expenditures
were seven times as large as Plan expenditures. At the height of the 1972
drought, more than 10% of the rural population of all prsject districts was
employed at relief sites. Sholapur was the hardest hit, at 25%. At the all
India level, expenditures on drought relief were nearly Rs 4,200 million for
the period 1969-70 to 1971-72; for 1972-73, the expenditure will be above
Rs 3,700 million.
11.       The primary objective of the relief works has been employment
creation. Unfortunately, this has resulted in the financing of some proj-
ects whose productivity is subject to question. Examples include roads
which have been washed or blown away, contour bunding without proper sur-
veys, metal-breaking until present stocks are sufficient for many years,
and tank desilting at prohibitive total cost. The mission believes that
the proposed 2-tier concept of district development planning will bring
about significant improvements in the quality of relief works. Under this
proposal, district development plans would consist of:
(a) a "core"l of works to be undertaken irrespective of
climatic conditions; and
(b) a "shelf" of works, the schedule of which could be
retarded or accelerated in accordance with the need
for relief employment. In all cases, plans, specifica-
tions and economic justification will have been worked
out in advance.
C. Projects of International Agencies
12.       IDA Projects.  In addition to the three Agricultural Credit Proj-
ects in Maharashtra, Karnataka (Mysore) and Andhra Pradesh (Credits 293-IN,
278-IN, and 226-IN, respectively), there may be some geographic overlap of
the proposed DPAP project with the Karnataka Dairy Project (Credit 482-IN)
and the proposed Rajasthan Dairy Project, which has been appraised. However,
there would be no duplication of financing under these projects and aspects
such as technical norms would be consistent.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
13.       World Food Program (WFP). The 12 regular WFP projects currently
operating in India can generally be divided into Operation Flood, 1/
institutional feeding, lifestock and poultry development, and food-for-work
programs. Operation Flood is designed to increase the quantity and quality
of fluid milk entering the markets of large cities. Food-for-work projects
are the next largest WFP activities, based on the principle of providing the
ingredients of a balanced diet to workers and their families on selected
projects at about half of the cost of such foodstuffs in fair price shops.
In most cases this is achieved by providing give basic rations per worker
per day in lieu of 50% of the normal cash wage. The remaining 50% is paid
in cash by the State or Central Government.
14.       Other International Agency Projects.   In drought prone areas, the
emphasis of other,international agency projects has been on the provision
of adequate drinking water. UNDP, WHO and UNICEF, for example, have provided
drilling rigs to Rajasthan. One other aid program, that of American Care,
appears to be working particularly well in Mysore. Under this project,
school children and pregnant and nursing mothers receive one prepared meal
per day on the school premises.
D. Program Coordination
15.       The focal point of development efforts at present is the State
Plan, a five-year. program based on a sectoral and departmental approach to
development needs. The Planning Commission of each state is responsible
for the solicitation of sectoral proposals from State Departments, and for
modification of the Plan in accordance with the availability and priorities
of Central funds which would be extended to augment state resources. Plan-
ning Commissions are then responsible for monitoring progress during the
plan period and for vetting and integrating expenditures which lie outside
the State Plan, and which have been, to date, poorly coordinated with it:
(i) relief expenditures, and (ii) Centrally-funded programs. The mission
endorses the view of government that stronger district level coordination
is essential if the impact of these many programs is to be maximized. It
would be therefore an essential function of district development authori-
ties to be established in project districts to coordinate other programs
as well as oversee the execution of DPAP.
November 4, 1974
1/   This program provides India with skim milk powder and butter fat to be
used in milk balancing by dairies in Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta and Madras.
Proceeds from the sale of these commodities are to be used by govern-
ment in dairy development.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
District Surveys
1.        The purpose of this Annex is to present thumbnail sketches of the
six districts which comprise the project area (for locations see Map). Impor-
tant statistics are presented in Table 1. More detailed subsector informa-
tion will be found in Annexes 4 through 10. The districts will be discussed
in two groups, the two Rajasthan districts (Jodhpur and Nagaur) and the
four Deccan Plateau districts (Ahmednagar, Sholapur, Bijapur, Anantapur).
The former are much more arid and have less agricultural potential than the
latter.
The Rajasthan Districts
2.        Jodhpur ranges from near desert in the west to land with marginal
cropping potential in the east. Rainfall is both low, annual average 360 mm,
and erratic and the predominant sandy soil has a low moisture retention
capacity. Only 2.5% of the cultivated area is irrigated, compared to the
all-India average of 22%. Full development of known resources would only
triple this area. On the one hand, the only rivers are seasonal, thus scope
for tank construction is limited; on the other, 80% of the available ground-
water is too salty.
3.        Reflecting the district's low development potential, the popula-
tion by Indian standards is sparse -- 51 persons per km2 (ppkm2) and average
farm size is high -- 11 hectares. The cropping dattern is dominated by
the drought resistant pearl millet which on average occupies two-thirds
of cropped areas. Nevertheless production mirrors the erratic rainfall
with foodgrains having fluctuated from a high of 226,000 tons in 1967-68 to
a low of 31,000 tons in the following year. With a high incidence of drought
induced crop failure, famine relief expenditure is high and reached a peak
of Rs 85 million in 1969-70. Development expenditure that year was only
Rs 18 million.
4.        Again reflecting the semi-arid environment, livestock are important
in the district's economy, this is particularly true of sheep and goat/Cs of
which there are about 1.3 per head of human population, two to three times
as many as in the better endowed project districts on the Deccan Plateau.
5.        There has been little development of marketing infrastructure in
the district. There are primary markets at Bilara and Pilpar anid a terminal
market at Jodhpur. They are scheduled for improvement but at present have
limited facilities. There is no organized marketing of milk and livestock,



ANNEX 3
Page 2
though a 100,000 liter milk balancing plant is under construction in Jodhpur.
Most of the marketed sheep and goats are exported on the hoof to Delhi,
Ahmedabad and Bombay.
6.        The. cooperative movement is the primary source of agricultural
credit. However only 30% of farmers, typically those with larger holdings,
are primary credit society members. Management generally is not good and
overdues stood at 35% 6n June 30, 1972. Long-term credit is extended through
two primary land development banks (Jodhpur and Bilara); each has less than
2,000 members, overdues are about 49%.
7.        Nagaur is adjacent to the western border of Jodhpur, to which
district it is very similar. It has a slightly higher rainfall, average 380
mm per year, and supports a somewhat greater population, 77 pp km2. However,
irrigation development is less, 2% of cultivated area, and potential equally
limited.
8.        Crop production is erratic, foodgrains varying from 103,000 tons
in 1968-69 to 339,000 tons in 1970-71, and famine relief expenditure high,
Rs 30 million in 1970-71. As in Jodhpur, livestock are important in the
economy with 1.5 head of sheep and goats per head of human population.
9.        The development of marketing infrastructure is marginally better
than in Jodhpur whilst the coverage of the cooperative movement is about
the same, 30% of farmers being members of primary societies. The overdue
situation of primary societies is worse, however, being 45% on 30th June 1972.
The Deccan Plateau Districts
10.       Ahmednagar is categorized as semi-arid with an annual average
rainfall of 580 mm. Soils range from lateritic red clays to black cotton
soils with considerable areas of the latter truncated through erosion; all
have much greater moisture storage capacity than the Rajasthan sandy soils,
About 12% of the cultivated area is irrigated, the majority of this from
wells. The potential for further groundwater development is limited with
about 83% of annual recharge being used. However, there is still scope to
develop tank irrigation.
11.       Population density is 134 pp km , much higher than the Rajasthan
districts, reflecting the better resource endowment, but still below the all-
India 178 pp km2. Average farm size is 4.1 hectares, but 40% of farms are
below 2 hectares and occupy only 10% of total area.
12.       Food grains continue to dominate the cropped area but sorghum,
40%, is more important than pearl millet, 27%, reflecting the better growing
conditions. Production however remains erratic with cereal output having
been 85% higher in 1969-70 than in 1971-72. Relief expenditures reached an
all time peak of Rs 87 million in 1972-73 when over 350,000 people were employed
at relief work sites.  Reflecting the better cropping conditions, livestock
are not as important to the district economy as in Rajasthan (para 4 above).



ANNEX 3
Page 3
13.       Marketing infrastructure is quite well developed.   Ten out of 13
talukas 1/ have main markets equipped with market yard, cattle shed, farmers'
rest house and godown, some also have sub-markets.   The markets are supervised
by Agriculture Produce Market Committees who also ensure that marketing
regulations are enforced. Each talula also has a cooperative marketing
society, the members of which are either credit socieeties or individual
farmers. These sell produce, as commission agents, provide inputs and supply
short-term credit against produce stored in market godowns.
14.       About 60% of the dis-rict's farmers are members of one of the
1,100 credit societies whose overdues stood at the relatively modest 24%
in June 1972.  In contrast only 13% of farmers are members of the Land
Development Bank, a figure which is, nevertheless, higher than in the other
project districts. LDB overdues, after debt rescheduling, were 47% in June
1972.
15.       Sholapur is contiguous with the southern border of Ahmednagar.
Bijapur, across the state border, is in turn contiguous with Sholapur.    The
three are very similar, with Sholapur and Bijapur favored by slightly better
rainfall and a greater predominance of deep black clay soils. These
factors are reflected in diminished reliance on pearl millet as a subsistence
grain crop.
16.       Anantapur is much the poorest of the project districts on the Deccan
Plateau. It has lower rainfall and the main soil type is a rather poor
red sand or sandy loam. For this reason, millets dominate the cereal
acreage; in Anantapur the main millet is Setaria italica a small seeded
millet of no significance in the other districts. Also reflecting the soil
type is the importance of groundnut in the cropping pattern, 32% of cropped
area.
17.       Partly offsetting a poor natural resource endowment, Anantapur has
a good irrigation potential (by project district standards 2/). About 13.5%
of cultivated area is presently irrigated and there is the potential to
double this. Surface sources are most important, with the partially completed
Tungabhadra High Level Canal Scheme dominating the picture.
18.  2    Relative to its potential, Anantapur is densely populated at 111
pp km . With holdings averaging 4.1 hectares, the farmers are the poorest
in the project area. As in the difficult environiment of the Rajasthan
districts, livestock are important in the farm economy. This is particularly
true of small stock of which there are twice as many as in the more favorable
Sholapur and Bijapur.
1/   Administrative subdivisions.
2/   The all-India level is 22%, that of Andhra Pradesh 27%.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
19.       The district's marketing infrastructure is not well developed.
There are only five regulated markets, one per 50,000 farmers, and 10 sub-
centers. None has facilities such as a market yard, scales or storage.
20.       Supplies of institutional credit are also only poorly developed.
Membership of primary credit societies covers only 30% of farmers; advances
are far below the levels in the other three Plateau districts, yet overdues
stood at 81% as at June 30, 1972. The picture with regard to long-term
credit and the Land Development Bank is a little better. Only 13% of
farmers are members, similar to the other districts; but overdues were only
10% as at June 30, 1972.
November 4, 1974



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
District Surveys - Basic Data
JODHPUR     NAGAUR      AHMEDNAGAR       SHOLAPUR    BIJAPUR     ANANTAPUR
Areas ' 000 Hectares:
Total                                2,253       1,767          1,,700          1,501      1,706        1,910
Raiiifed crop                           947        965          1,100           1,100      1,380          775
Irrigated                                24         20            150             115         48          120
Population (1971):
Number '000                           1,150      13260          2,270           2,254      1,985        2,120
Density - per kIm2                       51         71            134             150        116          111
Holdings:
Thumber '000                            100        125            310             220        247          262
Average size - hectare                   11         11.4            4.1             5.5        5.9          4.1
Main Soil Type(s)                        Sandy      Sandy     Red lateritic clay/   Black     Black      Red loams/
Black clay          clay      clay        sands
Rainfall - Average (mm)                    366        380            580             600        550          560
Main Crops:
Cereal area '000 Ha                    644         656            880             836        842          426
Cereal yield kg/Ha                      200        200            315             340        330          270
Pulse area '000 Ha                      246        250            154             143        110          100
Pulse yield kg/Ha                       170        170            250             250        250          250
Oilseed area '000 Ha                    57          58             55             121        166          248
Oilseed yield kg/Ha                    100        100             200             250        300          350
Livestock '000 Head:
Cattle                                  426        577            851             552        547          635
Buffalo                                  48        136             53              83        219          185
Shoats 1/                             1,360      1,846            873             652        643        1,251
Credit - Primary Societies:
Membership - % farmers                   30         30             60              66        - 49          30
Outstanding - Rs million                  8.9       10.7          211.7            76.7       51.0         28.3
Overdues - %                             35         45             24              47         52           81
Credit - Land Development Banks:
Membership - % farmers                  C 4        < 2.5           13              18          7           13
Outstanding   Rs million                 5.4         4.0           94.5            76.9       33.3         66.0
Overdues - %                            49          46             47              26         20           10
j Sheep and goats



A.NNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Climate in the Dro     Prone Areas
introduction
1.        Until very recently climate was considered to be average weather
which did not vary significantly from year to year or decade to decade.
Various factors, however, have demonstrated that climate is a resource
which may be used, misused, modified, despoiled or even ignored, and most
important, that the climatic resource does vary and can vary significantly. 1/
2.        Recent climatic variations (in the Sahelian area, for example)
have shown that the climatic resources in an area cannot be ignored with
impunity; moreover, changes could be occurring in the climatic resource
base of some areas which could have serious if not catastrophic consequences.
Such could be the case in some areas of India; and, although there is no
convincing evidence that significant climatic trends are occurring, the
fact remains that significant year-to-year changes in the climate have
occurred, and will continue to occur. Such variations are not only important
to agricultural production, but also to investments that could be made,
and the consequences of failing to take account of these variations are
obvious. This annex summarizes those meteorological and climatological
aspects of dryland fanring which are considered to be of importance to the
Drought Prone Areas Program.
Rainfall-/
Rainfall Distribution
3.        The dryland farming areas of India are usually said to be part of
the semi-arid zone of the world and annual rainfall data are usually quoted
to indicate the degree of dryness. But this approach has little if any
meaning, for the rainfall throughout the dry-farming areas of India is
extremely variable and the so-called normal rainfall seldom occurs. What
does occur is a series of daily (arnd weekly) rainfall which does not fit a
1/ See Fortune Magazine, February 1974, pp. 90-95, 142-152.
2/   Data are discussed in terms of "standard weeks", their relation to
calendar weeks is shown in Table 1.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
normal distribution. The weekly rainfall distribution is in fact quite
markedly skewed and this neces8itates an analysis using the incomplete
Gamma distribution.
Rainfall Probabilities
4.        The probabilities of various amounts of rain in each week of the
year have been computed, using the incomplete Gamma distribution, for more
than 200 stations in India including 100 in the dry-farming areas. Data
for five stations 1/ in the project area are given in Tables 2-5.
5.        At all five stations shown, for all weeks of the year, the
rainfalls with a 50% probability (Table 2) are relatively low, most being
less than 20mm which is considerably less than the potential evapotranspira-
tion which could occur. In contrast, there is a 20% probability (Table 3)
that weekly rainfalls exceeding 50mm will occur in most areas during many
weeks of the growing season. Even higher rainfalls are not uncommon. Tables
4 and 5 indicate that there is only about a 30% probability that the weekly
rainfall could exceed 20mm and that there is about a 20 to 30% probability
of a weekly rainfall of 50mm or more during the main growing season.
High Rainfall Intensities
6.        A further aspect of the rainfall patterna is the high intensity
rainfalls, and the incomplete Gamma distribution of the 10% probabilities
of weekly rainfall is given in Table 6. This shows that at all 5 stations
listed there is a 10% probability that the weekly rainfall will exceed about
75mm during several weeks of the monsoon season. At Sholapur, for example,
there is a 10% probability that the rainfall in weeks 37, 38 and 39 will
exceed 120mm. Such information is essential in aWsessing the necessity for,
and appropriate design of, drainage systems and erosion controls in the
dryland farming areas.
Practical Use of Rainfall Probabilities
7.        The practical use of the weekly rainfall probabilities per se is
limited. They suggest cropping potentials which are unnecessarily pessimistic
even for the drought prone areas (para 5). 2/ The followirg examples will
further illustrate this:
1/   Jodhpur, Ahmednagar, Sholapur, Bijapur, Anantapur.
2/   Had probabilities been computed for a longer period, say three weeks,
there would have been some compensation for the erratic precipitation
hence the data would have been more useful. However no analysis of
rainfall, or more broadly climate, can reflect crop growth potential
because soil characteristics are ignored.



.ANX 4
Page 3
(i)  At Anaitapur the probability of a weekly rainfall of
over 20mm is highest in weeks 38 and 39, but even then
is only 50%. In 47 weeks out of 52 the probability of
at least 10mm of rain is less than 50%.
(ii)  At Bijapur the highest average weekly rainfall is 46mm
in week 38. However there is a 50% probability of less
than 27mm in this week and the extreme rainfalls over
68 years are 0 and 235mm.
8e        The problem with any analysis of rainfall data is that the
storage capacity of the soil is ignored. It is the amount of available
soil moisture, not incident rainfall, which governs crop growth. The
storage capacity of the soil is particularly important in areas such as
the drought prone areas of India where the rainfall pattern is extremely
erratic. The soil acts as a reservoir evening out some of the effects
of fluctuating precipitationi. This is well illustrated by Table 7 which
presents a weekly water balance for Sholapur.
9.        What the agricultural planner requires is the probabilities of
different soil moisture regimes.  These could then be fitted to consumptive
use data of different crops. The outcome would be information useful both
in planning the improvement of cropping practices and in predicting produc-
tion more accurately than is now possible. A proposed program to investigate
the possibility of producing soil moisture probabilities is outlined in
Annex 10.
Incidence of Droughts
10.       A drought index based on the methods used by Palmer (U. S.) has
been computed for several sub-divisions of the dry farming areas including
Interior Mysore South for the period 1901-67. A time series of the drought
index for Interior Mysore South is shown in Fig. 1, and although some periods
appear to be less droughty than others, the incidence of drought is generall,
quite severe. It should be noted that even with a monthly Palmer index of
zero, successful agriculture in many parts of the dryland farming areas of
India would be difficult.
Climatic Trends Variations
Seasonal Trends and Variations
11.       A considerable amount of research has been carried out in India
in assessing the significance of clixiiatic trends, cycles, and persistence.
However, except in a few cases, there is no convincing evidence that any
exist which could be used for prediction purposes. Nevertheless, in view
of the economic importance that such cycles, trends or persistence would have



ANNEX 4
Page 4
if they were in fact to have some predictability, it is considered that
further research in these areas should be encouraged. A possible research
program in this extremely important area "future climate" is outlined in
Annex 10.
Drought Cycles
12.       Monthly values of the Palmer index for 23 sub-divisions of India
have been computed from 1901 onwards. An analysis of these values shows some
persistence in drought occurrence in north India in the belt extending from
the Bihar Plains to East Rajasthan. In the peninsula, a similar feature
is seen in some areas where "cycles" corresponding in period close to the
quasi-biennial oscillation of 2.3 to 2.5 years are observed. Similarly,
periods closely corresponding to the sunspot cycle of 10.5 to 11 years are
indicated in Rajasthan West and Madhya Pradesh West. However, it is the
opinion of the Indian meteorologists that the research so far completed does
not encourage confidence of any periodicity in droughts which could be used
for prediction purposes.
Within Season Correlations
13.       One aspect of climatic variations and climatic presistence which
has not been studied in India to any great degree is the relationship of
the activity of the monsoon within a season. One such study for West Bengal
has been made, but in view of the importance of "within season" rainfall
and its distribution, a more intensive study of the correlations within a
monsoon season should be undertaken. This research, combined with the
suggested program of research on the probability of meeting the water
requirements of crops, as outlined in Annex 10, would be a most useful
application of climatological data.
Water Balance
14.       The discussion thus far has focussed on rainfall, the most important
climatic factor in the drought prone areas. However to optimize the agri-
cultural development of these areas, embracing irrigated and rainfed crop
production and livestock, an understanding of their total water balance is
necessary. This can be expressed as follows:
P   =    AE + SM + RO + GW
where P        precipitation
AE   =    actual evapotranspiration
SM   =    change in soil moisture status
RO   =    runoff
GW   =    addition to groundwater



ANNEX 4
Page 5
15.       Actual evapotranspiration is the combined loss of moisture from
the soil, by evaporation, and from the plant, by transpiration, and is
discussed more fully below (para 20).
16.       The critical importance of soil moisture strage in mitigating
the effects of highly erratic rainfall has been discussed (para 8).
17..      Groundwater recharg  and runoff account for the balance of the
incident rainfall.  In India nearly one-third of the irrigated lands depend
on well water. Optimizing groundwater recharge is therefore vital.
(Optimizing rather than maximizing since as raixifed cropping practices improve,
actual evapotranspiration will increase at the cost of ground water recharge.)
The control of runoff is very important in this regard. Table 8 shows two
recharge coefficients for Sholapur, R1 where allowance is made only for
evaporative losses and K12 where allowance is made for both evaporation and
runoff. This shows that in this instance elimination of runoff would virtually
double the water available for soil storage and groundwater recharge.
Evaporation Losses from Large Reservoirs
18.       Large areas in interior India receive scanty and uncertain rainfall
and are at the same time subjected to huge evaporative losses due to the
high temperatures.  For planning water storage and ensuring efficient manage-
ment it is therefore essential to obtain an estimate of water losses from
large and closed water bodies. Some data on annual evaporation rates are
shown in Fig. 2.
Crop Weather Calendars
19.       It will take a considerable time to determine the relationship
between rainfall and soil moisture regime for a wide representation of areas.
In the interim, crop planning must continue. Probably one of the best ways
of so doing is to relate an area's water availability periods to the water
demand profiles of different crops.
20.       Water availait     is expressed by relating precipitation to potential
evapotranspiratiot (PE).  In a simple categorization, periods could be
defined thus:
H        Humid, when P exceeds PE
M        Moist, when P is between P and 1/2 PE
MD        Moderately Dry, when P is between 1/2 PE and 1/4 PE
D        Dry, when PE is between 1/4 PE and 1/8 PE
As the ratio P:PE increases the actual evapotranspiration from a crop declines,
growth is retarded and at the extreme permanent physwiLogical damage and
death will occur. In fitting crop water demand profiles to water availability



ANNEX 4
Page 6
periods, cognizance must be taken of the crops critical growth period(s).
A compromise may be necessary between the fit of the critical periods(s) to
the most assured rainfall period and that of the overall water demand to
availability. Critical growth periods have been identified for several crops
in irrigation research programs; greater use should be made of these data in
planning for rainfed crop development.
Crop Research at ICRISAT
21.       Water, often too little and sometimes too much, during the entire
cropping season, or during short periods, is the major constraint to crop
production in the semi-arid tropics. It is considered that some of the
effects of the variability of rainfall could be alleviated by providing
optimum conditions for monsoon cropping along with the collection, storage
and efficient utilization of the excess runoff water. This involves the
management of the precipitation that falls within a given watershed.
22.       Part of ICRISAT's program therefore aims at the development of
"watershed-based farming systems" which are defined as "the optimum utiliza-
tion of the catchment precipitation through improved water, *oil and crGp
management for increasing and stabilizing production on the donor watershed".
Five experimental watersheds have been so far established for intensive data
collection on various farming systems and for monitoring of their water
balance.
23.       The work at ICRISAT will orovide some of the answers to "drought-
proofing" in DPAP areas of India. However it is considered that closer
collaboration between the meteorologists in the India Meteorological Depart-
ment and the staff at ICRISAT (which at present has no staff with expertise
in meteorology) would be beneficial.
Crop Production Forecasts
Local Yield Studies
24.       Crop yield predictions are now being made for a limited number of
localities by the IMD. This information is made available to Central Govern-
ment planning staff. Forecast formulae have so far been developed for 22
(meteorological) sub-divisions of India for rice, 6 for wheat, 2 for millet,
and 5 for sorghum. The formulae are kept under review and the errors between
the forecast crop and the actual yield are relatively small. The relatively
close agreement between the reported yield figures of rabi sorghum at Bijapur
and those estimated by regression techniques is shown in Fig. 3. It is
planned to expand forecasting to other areas and crops and to make the
information available to state level planners.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
National Crop Yield Studies
25.       In view of the overaLl importance to planners of knowing the
total agricultural production in India, it would seem desirable for addi-
tional analyses to be made of the relationship between weather in India as
a whole (the weather data from various stations would be required to be
weighted according to the importance of that station/area to the national
production of specific crops) and total production of specific crops. Hope-
fully, such analyses could lead to a predictive model at the national level
and supplement the area models already available,.
Weather Forecasting
26.       At present weather forecasts of longer duration than 2 to 4 days
are not made in India, and although the World Weather Watch, and the Global
Atmospheric Research Programme will in time lead to longer range forecasts
being possible, it would not be realistic to assume that such forecasts will
be made at aIn operative level for at least a few years. It should be noted
that long-range monsoon forecasts are made each year, but these are based
on statistical procedures, and are not claimed to be more than 70% accurate.
27.       The position with long-range weather forecasts is therefore that,
although convertional weather forecasts cannot for the present provide any
long-range prediction of expected climatic conditions, research into the
dynamic meteorology of the summer monsoon is continuing in India, and a
Monsoon Experiment (MONEX) is expected to take place in 1977 as part of the
Global Atmospheric Research Programme (GARP). An initial MONEX experiment
was made in May/June 1973, and a further experiment is planned for 1974.
Hopefully, these experiments will provide some of the answers which are
needed to fully understand the dynamics of the monsoon, such an understanding
being considered necessary before any successful long-range forecasting can
be expected. Nevertheless, as has already been pointed out, the economic
importance of having some knowledge of next season's monsoon is so great
that it is perhaps justifiable that change in emphasis be made, so that
much more effort is given to climatic forecasting rather than weather
forecasting.
Weather Modification
28.       Weatiher modification (in the form of rain making) activities have
been carried out in India over the last 20 years with varying degrees of
success. However both the India Meteorological Department and the Institute
of Tropical Meteorology at Poona believe it is a feasible proposition.
Both are actively supporting further work in weather modification. It



ANNEX 4
Page 8
would appear from the work that has been done that the technical knowledge
for further weather modification is available in India, and in view of the
relatively low cost of such activities, it is probable that the return in
terms of increased agricultural production, from producing rain in those
specific circumstances where it is technically possible to do so, would be
well in excess of the cost involved.
29.       The role of dust in the atmosphere over the Rajasthan desert should
also be mentioned in any discussion of weather modification. Again, opinion
is divided over the real role of dust over the Rajasthan desert, but it
certainly appears to be worthy of more investigation.
Education
30.       A noteworthy feature of agrometeorology in India is that although
there is an excess of studerits trained in agriculture, there is at the
same time insufficient students in meteorology to even meet the needs of the
IMD. This imbalance is now being recognized and from 1974 it will be
compulsory for all courses in agriculture at universities in India to include
meteorology and agrometeorology in their curriculum. The ICAR has also
agreed to establish departments of agrometeorology at all universities,
within the next decade, and it is clear that the future for agrometeorological
research in India is considerably brighter than it has been. Nevertheless,
a problem remains that too few of those trained in the meteorological aspects
of agriculture actually get into the field or into state organizations.
State/Central Government Activities
31.       It is considered that state organizations must have a much greater
appreciation of the value of weather information (at present only one state
employs an agrometeorologist). The IMD has taken an active role in selling
meteorology to the various state governments but the response from these
governments has not been very positive. At the same time a greater role
could be played by the IMD in assessing and analyzing state agricultural
problems, for at present the emphasis of the IMD is on national activities
such as aviation and public forecasting. A much greater liaison with state
agricultural and planning officials is therefore highly desirable. This
would probably require separate staff to appraise and analyze agricultural
and planning problems specific to the individual states, but it is considered
that this would lead to a greater use of meteorological information in a
manner which would result in a much greater appreciation of the variability
of the climatic resources.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
Conclusion
32.       The overall impression from an analysis of the climate of the
dry-farming areas is that in any decade there will be 2 or 3 seas6ns with
more than adequate water (and in 1 or 2 seasons excessive rainfall with its
associated problems), 3 or 4 seasons with adequate water, and 2, 3 or 4
seasons with inadequate water. This means that the total agricultural pro-
duction in 3 years must meet the needs of the people for 4 years. Planners
must therefore take account of the fact that in about 3 season1s out of 10,
the available water will be such that agricultural production will be
severely reduced.
33.       As noted in a report prepared by FAO for the 17th session of
the FAO Conference held in Rome in November 1973, the Director-General
of FAO in his statement to the Press on 1 February 1973 said that "it is
intolerable that this world of the 1970s, with all its scientific progress
and its slowly growing sense of common purpose, should go on enduring a
situation in which the chances of enough decent food for millions of human
beings may simply depend on the whims of one year's weather". But the hard
fact is that since man cannot control the weather, he must learn to live
within the earth's climatic income.  The climatic resources of an area must
therefore not be ignored but taken into account in any planning, and cateful
attention must be given to the fact that the climatic income next year will
not be the same as the climatic income in the year after next. The alternative
- that of not taking into account the realities of the meteorological and
climatological situation - can only lead to catastrophic consequences for
millions of people as has often happened in the past.
November 4, 1974



ANNEX 1i
Table 1
INDIA
DRUGHIT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Climate in the Drought Prone Areas
Standard Weeks
Week No.                     Dates          Week No.                  Dates
1        January             1-7           27         July            2-8
2                            8-14          28                         9-15
3                           15-21          29                        16-22
L                           22-28          30                        23-29
5                           29-4           31                        30-5
6        February            5-11          32         August          6-12
7                           12-18          ,3                        13-19
8                           19-25          3L4                       20-26
9                           26-4 *         35                        27-2
10        March               5-11          36         September       3-9
11                           12-18          37                        10-16
12                           19-25          38                        17-23
13                           26-1           39                        24-30
11        April               2-8           h0         October         1-7
15                            9-15          41                         8-1)4
16                           16-22          42                        15-21
17                           23-29          43                        22-28
18                           30-6          14                         29-h
19        May                 7-13          45         November        5-11
20                           14-20          46                        12-18
21                           21-27          47                        19-25
22                           28-3           48                        26-2
23        June                4-10          49         December        3-9
24                           11-17          50                        10-16
25                           18-24          51                        17-23
26                           25-1           52                        24-31
* In leap year the rweek No. 9 will be 26 February to 4 March, i.e. 8 days
instead of 7.
*$ Last week will have 8 days, 24 to 31 December.



ANNFJX4
Table 2
INDIA
DFtOUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Climate in the Drought Prone Areas
Weekly Rainf als: 5% _Probability (mm)
Week No.                           JODHPUR  BIJAPUR   AHMNAGAR    SHAIOPUR   ALNANTAPUR
1-19     Jan. 1-7 through
MaY 7-13                     0        0           0          0          0
20       May 14-20                    0        0           0          0          4
21           21-27                    0        4           0          2          9
22           28-3                     0        5           0          2          6
23       June 4-10                    0       17          20         13         10
24            11-17                   0        7          17         16          0
25            18-24                   0        7          16        .19          I
26            25-1                    2        7          17         18          6
27       July 2-8                     8        8          '5         15          3
28            9-15                    6        7           9         14          3
29            16-22                  12        6          14         20          6
30            23-29                  13       10 11                  19
31            30-5                   12        6           9         14 I
32       Aug. 6-12                   1.        3           5          9          0
33            13-19                   6        5           5         13          6
34            20-26                  11        6           7         7'2         6
35            27-2                    6        6           9         15
36       Sept. 3-9                    0        7          15         17          7
37             10-16                  0       14          18         23          8
38             17-23                  0       27          29         29         2!,
39             24-30                  0       32          21         28
1O0      Oct. 1-7                     0       12           8         10         1-!
41            8-14                    0        9           4          2         Ji
42            15-21                   0        3           0          2
43-52    Oct. 22-28 through
Dec. 24-31                   0        0           C          0          0



ANNEX L
Table 3
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Climate in the Drought Prone Areas
Weekly Rainfalls:  20% Probability (mm)
Week No.                           JODHPUR  BIJAPUR   AHMEDNAGAR  SHOLAPUR ANANTAPUR
1-12     Jan. 1-7 through
March 19-25                  0        0           0          0          0
13       March 26- Apr. 1             0        3           1          1          0
IL       Apr. 2-8                     0        7           1          4,         2
15             9-15                   0        9           2          5          h
16             16-22                  0        6           3          4          7
'17            23-29                  0       12           h          6          4
18             30-6                   0       ' '          3          4         15
19       May 7-13                     2        1           0          4         12
20            14-20                   5       12          77         10         24
21            21-27                   0       23          13         18         35
22            28-3                    5       27          15         25         29
23       June 4-10                    3       44          53         LO         37
24            11-17                   9       25          50         43         12
25            18-24                  18       30          52         46         12
26            25-1                   17       27          56         50         23
27       July 2-8                    41       28          50         38         13
28            9-15                   3h       22          30         39         18
29            16-22                  50       23          42         5L         31
30            23-29                  51       38          34         49         26
31            30-5                   52       28          32        3D7         26
32       Aug. 6-12                   51       17          2'         38         17
33            13-19                  37       28          21         43         33
34            20-26                  60       30          36         47         43.
35            27-2                   53       35         4h          59         33
36       Sept. 3-9                   28       39          58         56         23
37             10-16                 39       50          66         80         h9
38             17-23                  9       78          78         83         96
39             24-30                  6       72          70         79         67
40       Oct. 1-7                     0       50          43        4W          51
41.           8-1l                    0       44h         32         31         6.
42            15-21                   0       23          22         28         27
h3            22-28                   0       28           9         24        .3
4W            29-h                    0       21           5         12         27
45       Nov . 5-11                   0       13          12         10         27
46            12-18                   0        6           5          7         17
47            19-25                   0        5           5          1         10
h8       Nov. 26 - December 2
through Dec. 24-31           0        0           0          0          0



Table 4
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Climate in the Drought Prone Areas
Probability of Weekly Rainfalls of > 20mm
Week No.                            JODHPUR  BIJAPUR AHMEDNAGAR   SHOLAPUR  ANANTAPUR
1-L4     Jan. 1-7 through
A-r. 2-8                     0         0           0          0         0
15       Apr. 9-15                     0       10           0          0         0
16            16-22                    0        0           0          0         0
17            23-29                    0       10           0          0         0
18            30-6                     0       10           0          0        10
19       MaYr7-13                      0        0           0          0        10
20           14-20                     0       10           0         10        20
21           21-27                     0       20          10         10        30
22           28-3                      0       20          10         20        20
23       June 4-10                     0       40          50         30        30
24            11-17                   10       20          40~.       40        10
25            18-24                   10       30          40         40        10
26            25-1                    10       20          40         40        20
27       July 2-8                     30       20          40         40        10
28            9-15                    30       20          30         40        10
29            16-22                   40       20          40         50        20
30            23-29                   40       30          30         40        20
31            30-5                    hO       20          30         40        20
32       Aug. 6-12                    40       10          20         30        10
33            13-19                   30       20          20         40        20
34            20-26                   40       20          30         40        30
35            27-2                    30       30          30         40        30
36       Sept. 3-9                    20       30          40         40        20
37             10-16                  20       40          40         50        20
38             17-23                   0       50          50         50        50
39             24-30                  10       60          50         50        50
40       Oct. 1-7                      0       40          30         30        40
41            10-16                    0       30          20         20        40
42            15-21                    0       20          20         20        20
43            22-28                    0       20          10         20        30
44            29-4                     0       20          10         10        20
45       Nowv 5-11                     0       10          10         10        20
46            12-18                    0        0          10         10        10
47            19-25                    0        0          10          0        10
48-52    Nov. 26-Dec. 2
through Dec. 24-31           0         0           0          0         0



ANNEX
Table 5
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Climate in the Drought Prone Areas
Probability of Weekly Rainfall of $ 50mm
Week No.                           JODHPUR  BIJAPUR  AHMEDNAGAR SHOLAPUR ANANTAPUR
1-2      Jan. 1-7 through
Mayl4-20                     0        0           0          0         0
21       May21-27                     0        0           0          0        10
22           28-3                     0        0          20          0       10)
23       June 4-10                    0       10          20         10        10
24            11-17                   0        0          20         10         0
25            18-24                   0        0          20         10         C
26            25-1                    0        0          20         20        0
27       July 2-8                    10        0          20         10         0
28            9-15                   10        0           0         10         0
29            16-22                  20        0          10         20       10
30            23-29                  20       10          10         10         0
31            30-5                   20        0          10         10         0
32       Aug. 6-12                   20        0           0         10         0
33            13-19                  10        0           0         10       10
34            20-26                  20       10          10         10        10
35            27-2                   20       10          10         20        10
36       Sept. 3-9                    0       10          20         20         0
37             10-16                 10       20          20         30        10
38            *17-23                  0       30          30        30         30
39             24-30                  0       30          20        30         20
40       Oct. 1-7                     0       20          10         10        20
41            8-14                    0       10          10         10        20
42            15-21                   0        0           0         10         0
43            22-28                   0       10           0        10        10
44            29-4                    0        0           0          0         0
45       Nov e5-11                    0        0           0          0        10
46-52    Nov. 12-18 through
Dec. 24-31                   0        0           0          0         0



ANNEX 4
Table 6
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Climate in the Drought Prone Areas
Weekly Rainfall: 10% Probability (mm)
Week No.                            JODHPUR  BIJAPUR  AHMEDNAGAR  SHOLAPUR ANANTAPUR
1-11     Jan. 1-7 through
Mar. 12-18                   0         0           0          0         0
12       Mar. 19-25                   1         8           1          2         2
13            26-1                     2        9           8          6        10
14       Apr. 2-8                     0        12           4          7         9
15            9-15                     0       20           7         12        12
16            16-22                   2        14          13         10        18
17            23-29                    2       22          10         1h         8
18            30-6                     2       20          15         14        31
19       May 7-13                     5        13          10         10        23
20           14-20                   11        22          17         20        42
21           21-27                    4        39          26         22        55
22           28-3                    14        46          28         45        50
23       June 4-10                   11        64          79         61        52
24            11-17                  22        38          77         66        25
25            18-24                  32        49          80         70        22
26            25-1                   30        42          85         77        36
27       July 2-8                    69        43          78         57        22
28            9-15                   58        34          46         59        29
29            16-22                  85        38          64         82        55
30            23-29                   85       64          51         74        46
31            30-5                    89       50          54         57        43
32       Aug. 6-12                    86       31          41         64        35
33            13-19                  64        48          36         67        58
34            20-26                 100        52          64         79        78
35            27-2                    96       62          71         99        57
36       Sept- 3-9                   48        70          94         86        45
37             10-16                  75       78         111        133        87
38             17-23                 18       118         118        126       157
39             24-30                 31       100         107        120       102
40       Oct. 1-7                      6       81          78         70        78
41            8-14                     0       75          55         58       102
42            15-21                    1       40          45         52        45
43            22-28                    0       54          23         51        64
44            29-4                     0       45          20         35        49
45       Nov. 5-11                     0       32          38         28        58
46            12-18                    0       18          25         25        32
47            19-25                    0       12          22         12        23
48            26-2                     0       12          11          9        12
49       Dec. 3-9                      0        2           3          0        10
50            10-16                   0         7           0         14        15
51            17-23                   0         5           5          2        15
52            24-31                   0         0           0          4         0



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE ARE  PROJECT
Climate in the Drought Prone Areas
Weekly Water Balance of' Sholapur (May 21st - September 30th)--1971
Standard
Week      PE       P      P-PE      ST      65T      AE        D       S
-------------------------------- mm------------------------------------
21      37.9      7.0    -30.9     0.0       0.0      7.0     30.9    0.0
22      30.7     27.0     -3.7     0.0       0.0     27.0      3.7    0.0
23      27.5      2.0    -25.5     0.0       0.0      2.0     25,5    0.0
24      34.8      1.0    -33.8     0.0       0.0      1.0     33.8    0.0
25      24.4      0.0    -24.4     0.0       0.0      0.0     24.4    0.0
26      26.1      0.0    -26.1     0.0       0.0     0t0      26.1    0.0
27      30.4     11.0    -19.4     0,0       0.0     11.0     19.4    0.0
28      31.5      L.O    -30.5     0.0       0.0      1.0     30.5    0.0
29      26.6     11.0    -15.6     0,0       0,0     11.0     15.6    0.0
30      30.5      0.0    -30.5     0.0      0,0       0.0     30,5    0,0
31      30.3      2.0    -28.3     0.0      0.0       2.0     28.3    0.0
32      29.0     19.0     -9.0     0.0      0,0      19.0      9.0    0.0
33      28.3      0.0    -28.3     0.0      0,0       0.0     28,3    0.0
34      26.1    180.0    153.9   150.0   +150.0      26.1      0,0    3,9
35      22.1     23.0      0.9   150.0      0.0      22.1      0,0    0,9
36      29.0      2.0    -27.0   123.0    -27.0     29.0       O00    0.0
37      32.7      0.0    -32.7    90.3    -32.7      32.7      0.0    0,0
38      33.3     16.0    -17.3    73.0    -17.3      33.3      0.0    0.0
39      23.5    150.0    126.5   150.0    +77.0      23.5      0.0   49.5
PE    = Potential Evarotranspiration
P     =  Precioitation
ST    =  Soil moisture storage (assumed capacity 150 nma)
4ST    =  Change in soil moisture storage
AE    =  Actual evapotranspiration
D     = Water Deficit
S     =  Serplus



ANEX 4
Table 8
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Climate in the -ought Prone Areas
Mean Monthly Recharge Coefficient of Rainfall for Evaporative
Depletion       and for Evaoration/Runoff Depletion (K.)
SHOLAPUR
Rainf'all  K     K2
(mm)
January                         5      .35    .18
February                        4      .18    .09
March                           5      .14    o07
April                          13      .13    .06
May                            27      .23    .11
June                          115      .38    .19
July                          125      .45    .22
August                        114      .47    .23
September                     190      .60    .30
October                        75      .35    .25
November                       26     .35     .19
December                        8      ,20    .09
Annual                        708



Figure 1
INliA
DRO0UGHRT PRONE J?AP)JECT
jthe aog -ht Proe .      Areas
-60. -
!-40--
""                                                ___ __ __
1904  05   06   07   08    09   10   II   12   13    14   15    I6
-40
97    l18  19   20       2-     23   24   25    26   27   20   29
z
T
Z <o3                                                      .
-4-0
1943  44      45  46  4i   48   49   50 -       5I2  53    54   so
1956  57   50   .59   34   5 Gl 32   63   34 65      40  64 61        69
Y YE A R
.DROUGHT SPELLS OF IN4TERIOR MYSORE SOUTH
gSEVERE DROUGHT (<-3-0)           EXTREMdE DROUGFIT (,<-4 0)



Figure 2
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Climate in the Drought P~rone Areas
Total Annual Lake Evaporation -(cm)
61-70'          75                 85'      ?         ___     L00'
Ic,                                 I
/                                  10
~782
~~I             0
.17
T) 6=
r-                                                 tI--   .--,
3          aC~ X                                             s ;
| i        X~~~~l C ~ t  c~2
t  A) X                                O67
6 f ____      7    __                  _ _    X



Figare 3
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREA PROJECT
Climate in the Drought Frofte Areas
'0
W.
T:==:w a, ^
cc u
c-- - - - - - - -
.-t==-* X                            I
_<                C-H
~~ ^ H
s--                             H
m~-          .            If
71- -- -
a  i  ##   AP



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Irrigation Development
A. Proposed Groundwater Development
Resources
1.        The aquifers beneath the project area include three main types of
rock formations: sandstone and limestone in Rajasthan, basaltic lava in
Maharashtra and Karnataka, and granitic in Andhra Pradesh. The available
quantities of water, as well as qualities, differ even within the same
district area, depending on the nature of fracture trace and the-lineaments
in the rock formation. However, their seasonal rises and falls are similar,
resembling that of rainfall with a lag time of' about two months.  Maximun
accumulations occur in October/November and lowest levels are experienced
in May/June.
2.        A very large aquifer has been found in the Rajasthan sand-and
lime-stone formation at varying depths from 10 m to 100 m.   However, in the
two project districts--Jodhpur and Nagaur-- water has been found satisfactory
for irrigation purposes from less than 20% of the available aquifer, the
balance is too salty, contains highly crop toxic boron, or is available only
in small quantities sufficient for drinking purposes. Field observations
indicate that the recharges from rainfall vary from 0.60 m to 1.40 m, and
that about 5% of this is extractable. On this basis, the annual extractable
amount in Jodhpur has been estimated at about 235 Mm3, of which 60% (140 Mm3)
remains as surplus above the requirements of the 3,000 existing wells in
the district (Table 1). In Nagaur, about 160 Mm3 is extractable yearly,
80% (130 Mm3) of which is now surplus (Table 2).
3.        Tubewells with an average depth of 100 m would yield about
160,000 m3 per year. Dug cum bore wells would yield about 93,000 m3 per
year and 73,000 m3 per year in Jodhpur and Nagaur respectively.1/ A dug
cum blast well in Nagaur would yield about 16,000 m3 per year.2/
1/   These are presently dug wells 4-6 m in diameter, 20 m deep which would
be deepened by having a 12" bore sunk through their base; 45 m and 20 m
in depth in Jodhpur and Nagaur respectively.
2/   These are presently dug wells, 6 m x 20 m, which would be deepened 8 m
by blasting.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        In Ahmednagar and Sholapur districts in Maharashtra, the
weathered and disintegrated traps, cracks, crevices and joints present
in the basaltic formation allow rain water to percolate and form ground-
water storage. These waters have a wide range of dissolved solid; many
are too salty (over 2,000 ppm), contain high sodium (over 5,000 ppm) and
are not suitable for irrigation. To date, field observations have been
inadequate to accurately assess available irrigation resources.   However,
the extractable amount has been tentatively estimated at 163 Mm3 in the
three selected watersheds of Ahmednagar, but only 67 Mm3 is now available
as surplus (Table 3). In Sholapur, on the other hand, only 120 Mm3 is
extractable with 50 Mm3 in surplus (Table 4). Field data show that a good
existing dug-cum-bore well 20-25 m deep has a yield of up to 60,000 m3/year.
Since the rock formation generally exposes itself near to the surface, a dug
well of 10-15 m depth might yield up to 12,000 m3/year if properly sited.
5.        The main aquifer of Anantapur district in Andhra Pradesh is located
in a granitic complex with shallow weathered and fractured zones (15 m).
There are now more than 60,000 wells in the district with a total command
area of about 80,000 ha.   Field surveys have been inadequate for accurate
resource determination but the Geological Survey of India has tentatively
demarcated a new potential groundwater zone covering about 67,000 ha. A
dug well in Anantapur of 10-15 m depth, properly located, should yield about
12,000 m3 per year. The density and.spacing of wells under the project would
be subject to criteria presented in Appendix 1 of this Annex.
Comyonents
6.        Groundwater development in project districts would be substantially
larger than that included in the project. Only those wells benefitting small-
holders, for which a subsidy is to be provided, have been identified as
project works.
7.        Jodhpur: About one-hundred fifteen tubewells would be constructed
for groups of smallholders and 300 dug-cum-bore wells for individual farmers.
Typical costs are presented in Tables 5 and 6 respectively. In addition, two
air hammer drilling rigs costing Rs 3.75 million would be financed for the
Rajasthan Groundwater Board and based in Jodhpur. 1/
l.        bLagaur.  About 60 tubewells would be constructed in Nagaur.  Deep
crystalline formations overlying the sandstone in this district are not suited
to air hammer drilling. Costs would therefore be much higher, and the finan-
cial assistance to beneficiaries correspondingly larger. Banks are, at
present, unwilling to finance more than Rs 30,000 toward the cost of a tube-
well for any one borrower, but the average cost in Nagaur is estimated to be
1/   The cost of drilling 12" wells is currently about Rs 180 per meter
using cable and rotary rigs. On the basis of experience with small-
diameter air hammer rigs, the cost of 8" wells with this type of
equipment could be reduced to about Rs 115 per meter.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Rs 45,000 per well. In other states, such installations are.generally
operated as state tubewells, and watei charges are not sufficient to
meet investment and operating costs. The mission supports private
sector ownership facilitated by the proposed subsidy.   One-hundred
twenty-five dug-cum-bore wells and 175 dug-cum-blast wells would also
be provided under the project. All beneficiaries would be groups of
smallholders. Typical construction costs appear in Tables 5 to 7.
9.        Ahmednaqar:  About 265 dug wells would be deepened and provided
with pumpsets. Blasting rather than boring would be used to provide over-
night storage capacity in the well, necessary because of slow percolation
rates. About 265 pump installations would also be financed. Typical con-
struction costs appear in Tables 7 and 8.
10.       Sholapur:  About 220 dug-cum-blast wells and about 480 new dug
wells would be constructed in this district. Typical construction costs
appear in Tables 7 and 9.
11.       Anantapur:  About 375 dug wells would be constructed on small-
holdings in Anantapur.  Construction costs are presented in Table 9.
B. Pr     ed Surface Irrigation Development
Resources
12.       There is very limited scope for new medium and major surface
irrigation schemes in the poject area. A number of works have now been
completed or are under construction however, and there is a need for
command area development in these schemes.. The mission recommends that
authorities give priority to the preparation of such programs, for which
district core funds under the project could be used.
Gopmpnents
13.       Designs and specifications have not been finalized for all project
tanks, but locations have tentatively been selected for the following works:
Ahmednagar, 4 tanks with a command area of 900 ha; Sholapur, 9 tanks, 2,5000
ha; Biiapur, 12 tanks, 5,000 ha; and Anantapur, 4 tanks; 570 ha. The command
area of A11 tanks would be developed at the same time as tank construction;
specifically, land levelling, channel siting and construction, channel lining
as required, and drainage would be undertaken (para 21), Development costs
of a imodel tank are presented in Table 10.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
C. Project Implementation
Financial Assistance
14.       Groundwater development under the project would be limited to
smallholders for whom a subsidy would be paid by the District Development
Authority., In-most cases this would be 25%, although marginal farmers--
those with one ha or less of irrigated land--would receive a 33-1/3% subsidy.
Executing Agencies
15.       Groundwater development in Rajasthan,would be carried.out by the
Rajasthan Groundwater Board which would be reimbursed the financed portion
of expenditures upon completion of installations. In other states, ground-
water works would generally be carried out by private contractor.s, under
the supervision of the state irrigation department. Subsidies w6uld be paid
by the DDA to the financing institution upon completion of works', thereby
reducing,the beneficiaries debt balance.  Tank construction woultd be carried
out by state public works departments under technical supervisioti of state
irrigation departments. Cosmmand area development for tanks would be done
by public worlks departments, state agro-industries corporations br private
contractors., under the supervision of irrigation and agriculture departments.
In the case of tubewells, command area development would be carried out by
the Rajasthan Groundwater Board in consultation with the Department of
AZ.;riculture.
Technical Norms
16.       Groundwater development tn Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh
involves a range of investments similar to those financed under current IDA
Agricultural Credit Projects in those states. Under the proposed project,
governments would extend financial assistance only for works which Comply
with technical norms specified under respective credit projects.  In the
case of Jodhpur and Nagaur, project works would be subject to the norms and
specifications of the Rajasthan Groundwater Board.  The construction of tanks
would be subject to state irrigation department norms, as would land ievell-
ing and channel installation.
Investment Norms
17.       As a guid:e in the selection of viable irrigation development, a
series of'investment norms are presented in Table 11 (1973 prices), for the
range of irrigation works to be constructed under the project. In exceptional
cases where these norms are to be exceeded, state DPAP units should undertake
a cost/benefit evaluation to confirm the viability of the specific proposal.
Pstii>nted operating costs, for use in financial and economic analyses, are
given in Table 12.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Resource Surveys
18.       To protect against over-exploitation, semi-detailed groundwatc'r
surveys would be undertaken and maintained in each project district for the
duration of the project. Surface irrigation potential would be verified for
each watershed in which tanks are proposed by the collection of stream flow
and rainfall data for not less than one year prior to construction.    This
data would be used to "ground proof" hypothetical derivations.
19.       In the absence of groundwater legislation to protect both the
resource and those who use it, the mission endorses the position to be taken
under the ARC project now being appraised; that is, that the country be
divided into zones on the basis of the intensity of groundwater exploitation,
and that no further investment be financed in areas where current extraction
exceeds safe proportions of known recharge. Investments under DPAP would
be subject to these conditions.
Command Area Development
20.       The small command area of a dug well is typically the least
difficult to develop and farmers themselves, using family labor and careful
ploughin practices, can develop a fairly efficient plot over a period of
years. Large tubewells represent a substantial private capital expenditure,
and the added burden of simultaneous command area development could amount to
a prohibitive outlay. However, tubewells under the proposed project would
be sold to groups of smallholders who would receive a 25% subsidy. CAD
would also be undertaken on these wells or a similar number of other small-
holder wells at the subsidized rate. Tstimated costs of CAD appear in
Thhle 13.
21.       The greatest impact of command area development is to be realized
in the case of tank schemes. Ideally, land holdings would be consolidated
and reshaped during land levelling, but the mission recognizes tlv legal
and political difficulties in such an undertaking. However, substantial
development can take place without the adjustment of property boundaries,
and the value of ra!)id development is such that simultaneous CAD would be
a condition of IDA disbursement against the cost of tank construction.
Specifically, a master plan would be prepared for each tank scheme, pre-
senting technical.design and phasing for both the tank and command area
works, and a scheme would be presented to a credit institution, and approved
by it, for the financing of on-farm works. Upon approval of these, con-
struction of the tank could begin, but IDA woul/d not disburse against
eligible costs without certification that land levelling had begun in
accordance with the approved design and financing plans.
Benefits
22.       To ensure the broadest possible distribution of berefits under the
projc~ct, irrigation would be developed in accordance with the following
criteria



ANNEX 5
Page 6
(a) cropping patterns in tank command areas would exclude
crops with high intensity irrigation requirements.
Legislation to this end exists and should be enforced;
(b) only one well, or improvements thereto, would be developed
in the properties of one land owner; and
(c)  land holdings in tank command areas would be brought into
compliance with land ceiling legislation within 18 months
of construction starting.
Farm models have been developed for each of the proposed types of investment
using cropping patterns based on crops with low intensity irrigation require-
ments.(Annex 16). These showv that all are financially and economically viable.
Project Costs
23.       Table 14 presents a summary of the physical works to be undertaken
and their costs, which total Rs 85 million.
November 4, 1974



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Irrigation Development
Density and Spacing Criteria for Wells
Density of Wells (Dw)
Density of wells in a specific groundwater potential zone would
be limited by the following expression, unless local conditions justify
otherwise:
Dw   =  SY x 106
Ig.Ai.Az
where     Dw   =  Density of wells in wells per km2 of the potential zone
SY   =  Safe yield in Mm3/year in the potential 1/
Ig   = Gross irrigation demand in mr3/ha/year
Ai   = Irrigated area in ha/well
Az   = Area of the groundwater potential zone in km2
Syacin of Wells
Spacing of wells in a specific groundwater potential zone would
be limited by the following expression, unless local conditions justify
otherwise:
S    =  I,Aiz
SY
where     S    = Allowable spacing of wells in m; the other notations
are the same as previously given.
1/   Safe Yield would be defined as annual pumpage from aquifers possible
without producing any undesired result such as:
(a) mining of groundwater which will occur when the pumpage con-
sistently exceeds the recharge to the aquifers;
(b) lowering of groundwater level to a point where pumping is
uneconomical;
(c) degrading the quality of water as a result of pumping beyond
the rate which produces water of inferior quality; and
(d) interfering with prior water right of others, which will
occur when the well is too close to others.
November 4, 1974



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
SAFE Y)ELDS AND GROUNDWATER BALANCE FOR JODHPUR AQUIFERS
--------------------------------Existing Conditions ---------------------------------------------     -- Proposed    -------------------
No. of                  No. of
Bullock        Annual   Pumped      Annual     Total               1/             No. of        Annual    No. of 3/   Annual       Total    Surpluis after
Location         Zone Are-      Wells       Discharge Wells         Discharge   Discharge Safe Yield    Surplus   rutbe Wells Discharge   )CB Wells  Disclarge   Dischar e  Prn-ct
-3-- MmhBrem                                                                                           Mm
His                                      His        Hi          i          HsHsMi                                                      m
Bilara            A    161      - - - - - - Assessed by UNDP - - - -- -- - -     12.00       24.00       12.00  )    80         13.20         -          -14.19                 1.91
(Borunda)         B    245          400       2.50         450        24.70      27.20       31.30       4.10   )                             30        0.99
Bhopalgarh        A    780          300       4.50         225        16.90      21.40       38.60       17,20       50          8.00         70        2.31       10.31       6.89
Shergarh          A    620           83       0.62          15         1.08        1.70      19.84       18.14  )    40          6.40        L00        3.30        9.70      30.02
B    460           50        0.37           3        0.13        0.50      22.08       21.58  )
Balesar           A    430          117       0.87         152        10.94       11.81      13.76        ].95       60          9.60        200        6.60       16.20      14.75
B    775          100       0.75         138         7.45       8.20       37.20       29.00
Osian             A    548          450       4.45          60         1.98        6.43      34.25       27.82       70         11.20        200        6.60       17.80      20.11
B    238          350       3.46          40         1.32       4.78       14.87       10.09                                                     _
Total              4,257        1,850      17.52       1,083        64.50      94.02      235.90      141.88      300 2/      48.'iO       600 4/    19.80       68.20      73.68
Av.Bish./Well mi3/yr            9,500                 60,000                                                  160,000                  33,000 5/
1/  The safe yield was derived in the following manner:
Zone    Area      Annual Recharge     Specific Yield    Extraotable (Safe Yield)
is m.                              %               Mi-
Bilara           Bl       140          1.30                 5               9.10 )   31.30
B2       105          1.41                15              22.20
Bhopalgarh       A       780           0.99                 5              38.60
Shergarh         A       620           0.64                 5              19.84
B       460           e.96                 5              22.08
Balesar          A       430           0.64                 5              13.76
B        775          0.96                 5              37.20                                                             '
Osian            A        548          1.25 (1969)          5              34.25                                                                                                          is
B        238          1.25                 5              14.87                                                                                                         FJ
2/ Total number of wells including those completed (21 wells) and expected to be installed in the areas where Rural Electrification would be developed in ftutture
(166 wells); the net number of the project wells would be 113 wells.
3/   Dug-Curu-Bore wells.
4/   About 50% of these wells would be included in the project.
5/   In addition to 60,000 m3/yr



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
GROUNDW4ATER BALANCE FOR NAGAUR AQUIFERS
-        xisting Conditions -------   ---------------------------- N.oN. Proposed    - -------------------------------Surplus
'No. o f                 No. of                                                           Surplus
Annual      Safe  l/                 Tube       Annual        DCB        Annual       No. of 3/     Annual       Total          after
Localion        Zone Area            Draft     Yield   -     Surplus    Wells       Discharge                Dischar      DCBT Wells    Dichar       Di            Project
Didwana          A     244           4.38       23.45        23.07  )     50          8.00           100         1.32           -            -           9.32         44.44
B    431            1.63       32.32       30.69  )
Ladnu                  800           L.28        B.54         7.26        20           3.20           -           -             -            -           3.20          4.06
Merta            A     593           6.75       31.31        24.56  )     50          8.00            75         0.99           -           -            8.99         28.39
B    283            1.04       13.86       12.82  )
Degana           A     384           1.50        15.36       13.86  )     20          3.20            25         0.33           -            -           3.53         13.88
B    100           0.45         4.00        3.55   )
Parbatsar        A     105           3.00        7.87         4.87  )     10          1.60            50         0.66         350           2.77         5.03          9.59
B    838           13.25       23.00        9.75  )
Total              3,778          33.28      163.71       130.43       150 2/      24.00           250 4/      3.30         350 5/       2.77         30.07        100.36
Av. Discharge/Vell-m3 /yr                                          160,O00                      13,000 6/                 8,000 7/
.' z
1/ Assessed in the same manner as in Table 1.
2/ Total number of wells including those completed (26 wells) and expected to be installed in the area where Rural Electrification would be developed in ftuture (65 wells);
the net number of the project wells would be 59 wells.
3/ Dug-Cum-Blast Wells
4/ 5/ Only about 50% of these wells would be included in the project.
6/ In addition to 60,000 m3lyr,
7/ In addition to 8,000 m3/yr.



IN D I A
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS. P'ROJE(CI
GROUNDWATER BALANCE FOR AHMEDNAGAR AQUIFERS
-      -- Existing Condirionls -  --                               -- --      t-Proposed    -
No. of      No. of         Total                                           Total extract                                     Surplus
Catchment Area        Pumped      Bullock        Annual                             1/      2/   able (Safe                No. of      Annual      after
Location                           2       tWells.     Wells           Draft     Rainfall     EXLractabli  Return       Yield)     Surplus      Wells  3/  Discharpe    Pro'ect
mm                                               - - - -s- -- - - - - -Nm--------------------------- --          m3        '
Ahmednagar           GV-116     316            179         699           6          490          L4         -   3          11          5            80        10            4.0
126     498          1,271         650          21           529.        24         + 13           37         16           260         3.1          12.9
SA-6        113           126          290          3           533          5.         -  1           4           1           20         0.3           0.7
" -7        47             51          148          1           560          2             0           2           1           20         0.3           0,7
Partner              (V-106     259             57         461           3          533          12         -  2           10          7           100         I.2 ?.8
-114     228             46          98           1          497          10         -   2           8          7           115         1.4           5.6
-115     396            171         779           6          495          18         -   3          15          9           165         2.0           7.0
BM-16       221           176        1,057          8           457          9             0           9           1            8         0.1           0.9
-15      419            489.      2,057          17          457          17            0           17          0            -           -             -
Karjat               SA-15      225            249         319           4          444           9            0            9          5            30         0.4          4.6
" -16      222            441          870         10          457           9          +  I          10          0            -           -             -
BMf-32     287            548         680           9           393         10         +   7          17          8           130         '.h           h.4
" -31      276            299          646          7           393         10          f  4          14           7          130         1.b           't /,
Total                                      4,103       8.754          96                                                163         67         1,058 4/     13.0         54.0)
Av. Discharge/Well-mi /yr                 12,000       5,400                                                                                  12.000
1/ Based on 9% of basin rainfall, which is approximately eqtuivalent to 5% of aouifer's recharge.
2/ From bunded areas and irrigation after effluence losses.
3/ Based on Groundwater Board: Capacity of each weLl is 12 ac-ft/year or 14,800 m3/vr (adopted L2,000 m /yr).
4/ 527 wells would be Dug-cum-Blast wells and 531 would be for pump installation, onlY about 507 of these wells woutld be inicluided in the-project.



INDIA
1)RUL'CIIT P[R1MJ: PlEAS pPC'JETr
GROUINDWATER BALANCE FOR SHOLAPUR AQUJ FERS
---Existing Conditions------------------------                 -------------------- -- -lroposed ----------------------
No. of         No. of       Total                                No. of                  No. of                  Total       Sturpltus
Catclcment           Pumped          Bullock      Annual     Safe  1/                 New Dulg     Annual      Dug-Cuti    Aiintnal   Annual      After
Location              No.-     Are       Wells          Wells-       Draft      Y            Surplus      Welts -     Dicarge     Blast       DischargeDshareProect
Walsang              B1M-138    368         836           759           17         20          3           160          2           57          0.4        2.4           0.6
MIobol               SA-29      310         227           775           8          14          6            80          L           47          0.3         1.3          4.7
Piliv               BM-99       347         646           870          15          12         -
Pangri              SA-32       350         243           623           8         18          8            110          1            2           -         1            7
Pimpalner           BM-80      266          161           876           7         10           3            60          1           50          0.3        1.3          1.7
Jeuir                MI-64     225          104           355           4         10          6            140          2           54          0.3        2.3          3.7
Kole                BM-115      160          44           366           3          7          4             80          1           65          0.4         1.4          2.6
Marwade             BM-108      374         251           666           8          17          9           130          2           43          0.3        2.3           6.7
saindarii           BM-136      178         183           453           5          9           4            90          1           47          0.3         1.3          2.7
Nanaj               SA-37       262         423           789          11          13          2           100          1           74          0.5         1.5         0.5
Total                                   3,118         6,532                                              950  2                  8439 3
Av. Discharge/Well m3 /yr                                                                             12,000                   6,000
l/ Assessed in the ,.ame mano-r as in Table 3.
2/ 3/ About 507/ of these wells would be included in the project.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION COSTS FOR TUBE WELL IRRIGATION SCHEMES
J O D    H  P U   R                         N  A G A U R
100-m depth, discharging 160,000 m /year,   100-m depth, discharging 160,000 m /year,
serving 20 ha/well                          serving 20 ha/well
Air-Hammer Ri&             -    -           Cable-Tool Rig
Total for                                   Total for               Project Total      Foreign Component
"NORM"            113 Wells-               "NORM"             59 wells
Rs/well           Rs million                Rs/well           Rs million          Rs million US$ 1,000   US$ 1,000     %
8,"     11,5001/ 7,600 21            O.85       12" 2       17,800              1.05                 1.90       232
Drilli-ng
Puimp and Motor - 15 hp            11,500  11,500               1.30                   11,500             0,68                  1.98       241          48
Electrical Connection               3,000   3,000               0.34                    3,000             0.18                  0.52        63           6
Failure - 15% of                    2,300   2,300               0.26                    3,500              0.21                 0.47        57
drilling cost
Engineering - 30% of                3,500   3,500               0.40                    5,300              0.31                 0.71        87
drilling cost                        .                    -          -
Subtotal                   31,800 27,900                3.15                   41,100             2.43                  5.58       680          54
2 Rigs                                 -                3.75                       -                -                   3.75       457         457
Contingencies - 10%                 3?OO    2.800               0.70                    400                0.24                 0.94       115           5
Total                       35,000 30,7C0               7.60                   45,2)0              2.67                 10.27    1,252         516       41%
1/ With Rig Depreciation.
2/ 3/ Without Ri.g Depreciition.
Ii>st
r,



INDLA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTiON COSTS FOR DUG-CUM-BORE WELL IRRIGATION SCHEMES
J O   D H   P U   R                               N  A  G A   U  R
20-m Existing Depth -    3                      20-m Existing Depth -    3
45-m deepening, discharging 93,000 m /year,     20-m deepening, discharging 73,000 m /year,
servin,g 12 ha/well                 -ev-  -      -   eing l0 ha/well     _  -__
Electrical Wells          Diesel Wells          Electrical Wells          Diesel Wells
Total for               Total for               Total for               Total for            roj    Total          Foreign Component
"NORIM'  100 wiells-    "NORM"  200 wells       'NORM"   63 wells-      "NORM"   62 wells               _t-
RsIwell Rs million      Rs/well  Rs million     Rs/well  Rs million     Rs/well  Rs million     Rs million US$ 1,000        SSIJOOO C-LO
Drilling 12" v                      6,700      0.67        6,700       1.34         2,500      0.16         2,500      0.16           2.33         283            57
Pumps and Motor - 10 hp             5,000      0.50        4,000      0.80          5,000      0.32        4,000       0.25           1.87         728            46
Electrical Connection               3,000      0.30            -         -          3,000      0.18            -         -            0.48           59            6
Diesel Engine - 10 hp                  -         -          7,500      1.50            -         -          7,500      O.47           1 97          240           48
Installation                           -         -          1,000      0.20            -         -          1,000      0.06           0.26          33
Engineering - 30% of                2,000      0.20         2,000      0.40           700      0.05           700      0.05           0 70          84
drilling cost
Subtotal                   16,700      1.67       21,200       4.24        11,200      0.71       15,700       0.99           7.61         927           157
Contingencies - 10%                 j,700      0.17        2,100       0.42         1,100      0.07         1,600      0.10           0.76           93           16
Total                      18,400      1.84        23,300      4.66        12,300     078         17,300      1.09           8,37      1,020            173        17%
->3



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION COSTS FOR DUG-CUM-BLAST WELL IRRIGATION SCHEMES
N   A   G   A   U   R               A R M E D N A G A R    S H O L A P U R
20-rm Existing Depth, 8-m Blasting            7-m Existing Depth_5-m Blasting_
8-m Blasting, discharging 16,000 m3/year,    discharging 12,000    dischirging 5,000
serving 2 ha/well                    m3/year,              m /year,
serving 2 ha/well                            serving I ha/well
Electrical Wells        Diesel Wells         Electrical Wells       Bullock Wells
Total for             Total for              Total for            Total for         Project T-tal       Foreign Component
"NORIM    88 wells-    "NORM"   87 wells-    "NORM"   263 wells-   "NORM"   220 wells-
t?s/%jell  Rs million  Rs/well Rs million    Rs/well Rz million    Rs/well Rs million     Rs million US 1,000    US$ 1,000    %
Blasting 6-m ,                      4,200       0.37      4,200       0.36       4,200       1.10     4,200       0.92           2.75      336
Pump and Motor - 7hp                4,000       0.35      3,000       0.26       4,000       1.05        -          -            1.66      203          40
Electrical Connection               3,000       0.26         -          -          300       0.08         -         -            0.34       41
Diesel Engine - 7   hp                 -          -       5,000       0.44          -          -          -         -            0.44       54          10
Installation                           -          -       1,000       0.09          -          -         -          -            0.09       11
Engine-ring - 5% Blasting             200       0.02        200       0.02         200       0.05       200       0.04           0. J       15
Subtotal                   11,400       1.00     13,400       1.17       8,700       2.28     4,400       0.96           5.41      660          50
Contingencies - 10%                 1,100       0.10      1,300       0.12         900       0.23       500       0.10           0.54       66       -5
Total                      12,500       1.10     14,700       1.29       9,600       2.51      4,900      i.06           5.95      726          55      8%
-tu



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
ESTIMATED INSTALLATION COST OF PUMPS IN DUG WELL IRRIGATION SCHEMEES
A   H   M   E   D   N   A    G   A   R
15-m Depth
discharging 12,000 m5|year,
serving 2 ha/well
Electrical Wells        Diesel Wells
Total for             Total for           Project Total      Foreign Component
"NORM"  133 Wells-    "NORM"   132 Wells-
Rs/well  Rs million   Rs/well   Rs million     Rs million US$ 1,000   US$ 1,000    %
Pump and Motor - 7hp                  4,000       0.53      2,100       0.28            0.81        92         19
Electrical Connection                   300       0.04                     - -          0.04         5
Diesel Er.gine                           -          -       4,100       0.54            0.54        61         12
Installation                                        -       2,000       0.26            0.26        31
Engineering                              -          -          -          -               -          -
Subtotal                     4,300        0.57      8,200       1.08            1.65       189         31
Contingencies - 10%                     400       0.06        800       0.11            0.17        19          3
Total                         4,700       0.63      9,000       1.19            1.82       208         34     16%
Hco.
co



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION COSTS FOR DUG WELL IRRIGATION SCHEMES
S   H   0   L   A   P   U   R            A N A N T A P U R
15-m Depth
discharging 12,000 m /year, serving 2 ha/well
Electrical Wells        Diesel Wells          Electrical Wells
Total for             Total for               Total for          Project Total       Foreign Component
"NORM"  238 Walls-    "NORM"  237 Walls-      "NORM"  375 Wells-
Rs/well Rs million    Rs/well Rs million      Rs/well Rs million      Rs million US$ 1,000   US$ 1,000     7
Blasting 6-m ^                       7,500      1.79       7,500     1.78          7,500      2.81            6.38      777
Failure                               400        0.10        400     0.10            400      0,15            0.35       42
Pump and Motor - 7 hp                4,000       0.95      2,100     0.50          4,000      1.50            2.95      360          72
Electrical Connection                  300       0.07         -                      300      0.11            0.18       23
Diesel Engine                           -          -       4,100     0.97             -          -            0.97      119          24
Installation                           -          -        2,000     0.47             -          -            0.47       58
Engineering - 5% Blasting             300        0.07        300     0.0-           300       0.11           0.25       31
Subtotal                   12,500        2.98     16,400     3.89         12,500       4.68          11.55    1,410          96
Contingencies - 10%                  1,200      0.30       1 700     0.39          1,200       0.47           1.15      141          10
Total                       13,700       3.28     18,100     4.28         13,700       5.15          12.70    1,551         106     7%
, X
'. Ul



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
ESTIM4ATED CONSTRUCTION COSTS OF TANK LRRIGATION SCHEMES
A Tank Scheme - 10-m High Dam, Reservoir Capacity 2 Mm      serving 400 ha
" NORM"                              Total
A Tank Scheme         4 Tanks     9 Tanks      12 Tanks      4 Tanks        Project Total        Foreign Component
(400 ha)  (400 ha)       (900 ha)   (2,470 ha)   (5,000 ha)     (570 ha)
Rs '000    Rs/ha        AHMEDNAGAR    SHOLAPUR    BIJAPUR      ANANTAPUR  Rs million   US$ 1,000    US$ 1,000     /
-- - - -- - -- ----------Rs million------------------
Land Acquisition                        206        510   )
Dam                                     727      1,800    )
Spillway and outlet                     215        550     )     3.29         9.04       18.30         2.10        32.73       3,990          100
Main Canals                             118        300 0
Engineering - 15%                       190        500   )
Subtotal                      1,451/    3,6601!          3.29        9.04        18.30        2.10         32.73      3,990          100
Contingencies - 15%                     218       540            0.49         1.33        2.75         0.31         4.88         598           15
Total                         1,674     4,200            3.78       10.37        21.05         2.41        37,61      4,588          115   2.5%
1/ With Equip.ient DepreciaLion.
I-. U
0,



Sl'MIIARY '1 CISIS t)F '"Oid' -SiT 8LI1 FOR lID'SR _1i_CllAI'N SCHEMES
(All figures are rounded.)
Area
Discharge-          Served  Cstscton Csth         Annusl o  H M      Enemgy the -gs/Oil- _           General Features
ha      Ba/scheme R./A.    R'3ho*0/h,        Bs/schgme  R.,/h.
1. Tube Well .1   cusec)                           160.000 m 'yr
Constructed by-
(a)  Air-Ha-mer Rtg,                                               20     35,000     1,800     6,900     450      6,800    335 (757. O&M1    8" 6 wl15 hp Submersible Pump,
Electrical Operatio-lODHPUR                                                                                                           100-m depth
(b) Cable/Rotary Rig,                                              20     45,000      2,300     9,100    450      6,800    335 (757 O&M)     12" 6 W/15 hp Submersible Pump,
Electrical Operation-NAGAUR                                                                                                           100-m depth
tcr  Air-Hammer Rig,                                                20     62,000     'l,100   26,206   1,300    20,000  1,OO (75Z O&M)     12" 6 ./15 hp Lineeshft Pump;
Diesel Operetion-NAGAt R 1/                                                                                                           100-m depth
(d) Cable/Rotary Rig,                                               20    70,000      3,500    26,200   1,300    20,000  1,000 (75% O&M)                "      .
Diesel Operatio-NAGAUR 1/
2. Dug-Cum-Bore Well
A. Deep Type                                     93,000 m /yr
(a) Electrical Operation-ODHBPUR                                   12     18,400     1,500     2,700     226      1,500    125 (557 OEM      12" 6 w/10 hp Centrifugal Pump,
Existing 20-rn + 45-rn Boring
(b) Diesel Operation-JODHPUR                                        12     23,300    1,900      7,300    600      4,100    340 (557 O&M)                 "
B. Medium Type                                   73,000 mn /yr
(a)  glectrical Operatioa-NAGAUR                                    10     12,300     1,200     1,800     180       800     80 (457. O&M)    w/Whp Centrifugal Pump
Existing 20-r + 70-m Boring
(b) Diesel Operation-NAGAUR                                        10    17,300      1,700     5,200    520       9,250   228 (45% O&M)
3. Dug-Cum-Blast Well
A.   Deep Type                                   16,000 m /yr
(a)  Electrical Operation-NAGAUR                                     2     12,500     6,300     1.000     500       250    125 (25%7 O&M)   6-r 6 w/5hp Centrifugal Pump
Ex sting 20-r + 8-r Blasting
(b) Diesel Operation-NAGAUR                                          2     14,600     7,300     2,600   1,300       t80    825 (257 o6m)
B. Medium-Type
(a)  Electrical Operation-AHMEDNAGAR             12,000 m3 /yr       2      9,600     4,EOO       BOO    400        140     70 (15Z O&M)     6-rn 6 Shp Centrjifgej pump
(b   .l.  p.rt-HLPR500.3                                                                                                       Exis-ting 7-rnt+ 5-n_Blasting
(b)  Bullock Operarion-SHOLAPOR                  5,000 m /yr        1      5,000     5,000      1,700  1,700    Rs 13/day Bullock            6-r  d w/Existing 7-r + 5-n Blasting
4. Dug Well (Blasted)                                12,000 r 3/yr
(a)  Electrical Operation-SHOLAPUR and ANANTAPUR                    2      13,700     6,900      600     400      .150-130  70 (15% O&M)     6-r n  15-m depth w/5hp Centrifugal Pomp
ib) Diesel ?leration-S-.HO;LA1VR                                    2     18,000     9,000      1,600    800         300   150 (20% oEM)
5. Pump Installation
(a)  Elecirical Operation-JODHPUR                13,000 rn3fyr       2     8,000     4,000       700      350       120     60 (15% OEM)     15-r depth w/5hp Centrifugal Pump
Electrical Operation-AHMEDNAGAR             12,000 rn/yr        2      4,700     2,400      740      350        150    75 (807. O&M)    15-rn depth
(b)  Mlesel Operat-on-AHMEDNAGAR                 12,000 m /yr        2      9,000     4,500      b mOO    500        3O      ?59 (f07 O&M)   15-m depth
6. Tank                                    2 ft.3 - Gross Storage      400   1,500,000    3,600))                                               (10-r  Higl Dam
Main (anal                             200 lit/sec (7 -user3       400     160,000      400)    570,000 m                                              of Fill
7. CorMand Area Developuent                                            20      30,000    1,500      3,000    150
1/ For cpacison only-nut included in the project.                                                                                                                                       saT



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
ANNUAL COSTS FOR WELL SCUEMES
--Depreciation-
Pump &
Motor/                     Lubri-           Attend                              --------Features--------- Peak                        ha.
Well    Deisel   Repair   Energy    cant   Grease      ant      Fuel   Bullock   Total WaterSupply        Pump      D,.    Energy/lwh  Irrig.  served
-------------------------------------------Rs-------------------------------------------   m3/year    Type:Head:hp m     Jhr    Rs '    o/ha
1. Tube Well (D   100 m)
Jodhpur: Air hammer       520    1,200      100     6,800 --------------300                               8,920    160,000    Sub.--60--15   40        0.13    8,000     20
Nagaur:   Cable tool      700    1,200      100     6,800 ------------300 -----------                     9,100       "             "         "          "       "
Diesel          700    3,000      500     -           1,800-----       200    20,000           26,200       "       TLS --60--20    "                  "
2, DCB (D = 20 + 45 m)
Jodhpur:  Electric        190      600      250     1,500          130            50        -             2,720     93,000    Cent,-45--10   25          "     8,000     12
Diesel          190    1,380    1,150       -           380            100    4,100             7,300          "                    I                  "
DCB (D = 20 + 20 m)
Nagaur:   Electric         70      600      250      800            70            50        -             1,840     73,000    Cent,-32--10   20          "     8,000     10
Diesel           70    1,380    1,150       -           21.0          100      2,240            5,150       "              "
3. DCBT (D = 20 + 8 m)
Nagaur:   Electric        100      420      175      230            20            50        -               995     16,000    Cent.-25-- 7   15          "     8,000      2
Diesel          100      9O3      750        -           60            100       640            2,550       "                       "
4. DCBT (D = 7 + 5 m)
Ahmednagar:  Electric      80      400       LOO     140            20            50        -               790     12,000    Cent.-10-- 5   15        0.175   6,000      2
Sholapur:    Bullock        -       -         -        -             -             -        -     t,700   1,700      5,000        - 10 -      6
5. DW (D = 15 m)
Sholapur & Anantapur:      80      400      100    150/130          20            50        -               790     12,000    Cent.-13-- 5   15    0.175/0.15  6,000      2
Electric
Sholapur:    Diesel        80      800      300       -             50           100       300            1,630     12,000    Cent.-13-- 5   15
6. Pump Inst. (D = 10 to 15 m)
Jodhpur:     Electric       -      400      100      120            20            50        -               690     13,000    Cent.-13-- 5   15        0.13    6,000      2
Ahmednagar:  Electric       -      400       100      150           20            50        -               720     12,000                             0.175
Diesel         -      800      300       -            50            100       350            1,600
Consumption Rates:             3                                   Purchasing Costs of Machinery:
1) Lubricant 0.042 lit/1,000 m /m-head @ Rs 3.00/lit                  Submersible Pump & Motor     15 hp  Rs 11,500
2)  Grease    0.004 lb/1,000 m3/m-head @ Rs 15/lb                     Centrifugal Pumiip & Motor   10 hp  Rs 5,000
3)  Fuel Oil  2 lit/l,000 m3/m-head @ Rs 0.91/lit in Maharashtra      Centrifugal Ptump & Motor     7 hp  Rs 4,000
4)  Ground Water Board Annual Charges Rs 300/yr for TLbewell          Centrifugal Pump & Motor      5 hp Rs   3,500
Notes:  Lubricant & Grease Charges include waste and rounded          Centrifugal Pump & Motor      3 hp Rs 3,000
DCB = Dug-Cum-Bore Well                                       Turbine Lined Shaft          20 hp  Rs 30,000
DCBT = Dug-Cum-Blast Well                                     Centrifugal Pump & Diesel    10 hp Rs 11,500
DW = Dug Well                                                 Centrifugal Pump & Diesel     7 hp  Rs 8,500
D = Total Depth of Well                                       Centrifugal PumDp & Diesel    9 hp  Rs 7,500                                                                 >
D= 20 + 45-m showing 20-m as existing depth, 45-m deepening.  Centrifugal Pump & Diesel     3 hp  Rs 5,000
tD X



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION CoSTS OF CONEAND AREA DEVELOPMENT WORK
"NORM" - 20 ha                                  Total for Each Type of Scheme
Quantity Unit Cost       Total                      -  -   -  - Rs   Million                                    rotal
-          - Rs        Rs   Rs/ha                   Tube  e-.Is 3,440 ha    Tanks 8L94O ha                     12,380 ha        US$ 1,000
Lined Water Cour3ea.z/       1,450 m     5-00    7,250   370                             1.27               3.30                              4.57              557
Field Channels               5,000 m     1.00    5,000   250                            0.86                2.23                              3.09              377
Land Leveling                  20 ha      500   10,000   500                             1.72               4.47                               6.19             755
Water Storage Tank Unit       1 unit    1,000    1,000    50                            0.17                0.44                              0.61               76
Engineering - 15!                             3,500   180                            0.62                1.60                              2.22              270
Subtotal                                  26,750 1,350                            4.64               12.04                             16.68            2,035
Contingencies - 10%                           2,670   150                            0.46                1.20                               1.66             203
Total                                     29,420 1,500                            5.10               13.24                              18.34           2,238
Rounded                                   30,000 1,500
H_UR-___            Total for Each District
JODHPUR -     AGAUR    AlMEDNAGAR   SHOLAPUR      BTJAPUR   ANANTAPUR
(2,260 ha)  (1,180 ha     (900 ha)   s2,470 jal   (5,000 ha)   (570 ha)
Lined Water Courses                                      370       0.83        0.44         0.33        0.91         1,85        0.21          4.57             557
Field Channels                                           250       0.56        0.30         0.22        0.62         1.25        0.14          3.09             377
Land Leveling                                            500       1.13        0.59         0.45        1.23         2.50        0.29          6.19             755
Water Storage Tank                                        50       0.10        0.06         0.05        0.12         0.25        0.03          0.61              76
Engineering - 15%                                    180       0.41        0.21        0.16         0.44        0.90         0.10         2.22              270
Subtotal                                                   3.03         1.60        1.21         3.32        6.75         0.77        16.68            2,035
Contif,gencies - 10%                                 150      0.30         0.16        0.12         0.33        0.67         0.08          1.66             203
Total                                           1,500       3.33        1.76         1.33        3.65         7.42        0.85         18.34           2,238
1/ With soil cement.
>>
a x
I- in



ANNEX 5
INDIA                                        Table lb
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
SUMMARY OF WELL AND TANK SCHEMES
Jodhpur        Nagaur       Ahmed      Sholapur      Bijapur      Anantapur      Total
WORKS
Tabe Wells                           1/           2/
Number of ProJect Wells *         113            59             -           -             -           -          172 weLls
Project CAD-ha.               @20ha-2,260   @20ha-1,180                                                        3,iO ha.
DCB Wdells
Nuwber of Proposed Wells          0oo           250             -          -             -           -           850 wells
irrigated  Area-ha.          C,l2ha-7,200   @lOha-2 ,500                                                       9, 7O0 ha.
Number of Project Wells           300           125             -           -             -          -           425 we'ls
Irrigated Area-ha.            @12ha-3,600 @lOha-1,250                                                          4,85c ha.
DCBT Wells
Numper of Proposed^ Wells          -            350           527      L39-Bullock        -          -         1,316 wells
Irrigated Area-ha.                         @ 2ha-700       @2ha-1,05Lt @lha-,i39                  *            ?2'93 ha.
Number of Project Wells            -            175            263     220-Bullock       -           -           658 wells
Irrigated Area-ha.                         @ 2ha-350      @2ha-526    @1ha-220                                 l,09, h.
New Dug Wells
Number of ?roposed WYells          -             -             -          950             -         750        1,700 wells
Irrigated Area-ha.                                                    @2ha-1,900              rw2ha-1,50C      3,hOO ha.
Numb=r of Project Wells            -             -              -         "75            -          375          850 we2'.s
Irrigated Area-ha.                                                   2W2ha-950                 @2ha-750        '
Pump Installation
Number of Proposed Wells           -             -            531          -             -           -           531 wells
Irrigated Area-ha.                                        @2ha-1,062                                           1,Of% nr .
Number of Project Wells            -             -            265           -            -           -           2/- wells
Irrigated Area-ha.                                        92ha-530                                               r30 ha.
Tank
Number of ProAect Tanks            -             -              4            9           12           4            '9 tan)ks
Project CAD-ha.                                               900 ha    _,L7C ha      5,000 ha      570 ha     8,9At. ha.
TOTAL FOR WELLS
'Wells
Nuimber of Proposed Wells         7'3           459          1,058      1,389            -          750        u,59
Irrigated Area-ha.              9,Lh6c        4,380         2.116       .,'39                     1,500       19,5'9'
Number of Project Wells           ll3           359           5?8          '9S           -          375        2,370
irrigated Area-ha.              5,860         2,780         1,056       ',170                       750       11,6'.
Project CAD-ha.                 2 ,260        1,180
TOTAL FOR TANKS
Tanks
Number of Project Tanks                          -              I           9            12          It           29
Project CAD-ha.                                               900       2,L70         5,000         570        8,9hO
OVERALL TOTAL
Wells + Tanks
Proposed Irrigated Area-ha.     9,It60        4,380         3,016       Lt,809        5,000       2,070       28,735
Project Irrigated Area-ha.      5,860         2,780         1,956       3,640         5,000       1,320       20,556
Project CAD-ha. 2/              2,260         1,180           900       2,It70        5,000         570       12,380
COSTS - Rs million
Tabe Wells                        3.15         24.3            -           -             -           -           5.58
2 Rigs                            3.75           -             -           -             -           -           3.75
DCB Wells                         5.91          1.70           -           -             -           -           7.61
DCBT Wells                         -            2.17          2.28        0.96           -           -5.4
New Lug Wells                      -             -              -         6.87           -L.68                  11.55
Pmp Installation                   -             -            1.65         -             -           -           1.65
Tanks                              -            -             3.29        9.0L         18.30        2.10        32.7'
CAD                               3.03         1.60           1.21        3.32          6.75        0.77        16.:6
TOTAL                                   7.90           8.43       20.19         28L.96
l/ Project Tube Well in Electrified Area - 134t - already completed 21 - 113
5, it      a         '         1   -  a 85  -          I     2(-    59
2/ Project CAD includes only those under Ttube Well and Tank comnands.
* (Project includes all proposed tube wells)
Notes:
i. DCOB = Dug-cum.-bore well
ii. DCOBT = Dug-cum-blast well
iii. CAD - Comnmand Area Davelopment
iv. Only 50% of each proposed work is included in Project, except for tube wells and tanks.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Watershed Management
1.        Conservation programs to date have been carried out mainly on
arable lands. Their benefits have been literally eroded by runoff from
the untreated slopes of the upper catchment. Conservation and land
management practices cannot usually be planned and.executed satisfactorily
on discrete areas of particular land capability classes. What is required
is the planning and execution of the complementary conservation and
management systems appropriate to each land class within a watershed.
This would be the basis for all project activity.
Survey of Land Resources and Land Use Capability
Background
2.        Appraisal and mapping of the soils provide a basis for the
establishment of land capability classes. In the drought prone areas this
is necessary to enable the planning and application of a package of agro-
nomic, cultural, and soil and water conservation practices that is
appropriate for each land use class.
3.        Land use capability maps group soils according to their poten-
tial for plant growth. This is determined by the inherent soil
characteristics plus factors such as climate, topography and degree
of erosion. Soil moisture rather than nutrients is the limiting factor
for plant growth in the project area. Soil physical properties, through
their influence on the soil moisture regime, are therefore more important
than chemical properties, though properties such as salinity may be
locally significant. Slope is particularly important through its effect
on soil and water loss. The severity and nature of soil erosion also
influences the land use capability. In the drought prone districts, water
erosion -- gullying and sheet erosion -- is generally much more significant
than wind erosion.
Proposed Work Under the Project
4.        A reconnaissance soil survey has been carried out in Anantapur.
However, there is need for soil surveys in the other five districts and for
the preparation of land use capability maps in all districts. The project



ANNEX 6
Page 2
would provide the capacity for land use capability mapping of the entire
area of each district priority being given-to project areas. This would
enhance the quality of development planning carried out by the District
Development Authorities.
5.        The main requirement is for reconnaissance soil surveys,
probably at a scale of 1:50,000, to be used as a basis for the preparation
of land use capability maps. 1/ In practice this would mean the mapping
of soil associations. Land use capability maps based on reconnaissance
soil surveys would be sufficient for general land use planning. In addi-
tion detailed soil surveys of irrigation areas would be necessary. In this
case, soil types would be mapped, requiring a scale of about 1:8,000. Air
photos should be used for soil mapping wherever they are available. Photo
interpretation would increase the speed and accuracy of mapping and would
be particularly useful in the drought prone areas where soil patterns and
soil boundaries are not obscured by forests, etc.
6.        The detailed staffing and equipment costs of a survey unit for
each district are set out in Table 1. The total cost would be about
Rs 307,000 during the first year and thereafter about Rs 187,000 per year.
Such a '6it could be expected to cover 600,000 to 700,000 ha of recon-
naissance survey per year, as well as doing any detailed survey that might
be required.
7.        The system of land classification to be used is defined in the
Soil Survey Manual of the All-India Soil and Land Use Survey Organization.
This distinguishes four classes of land suitable for cultivation (Classes I
to IV). Class IV is defined as marginally cultivable land suitable for
cultivation only in rotation with pasture. Class V land includes mountain
meadows and is very well suited to pasture and livestock. Classes VI and
VII include steep lands defined as being suitable for either pasture of
forestry; but the mission recommends that most of this land be devoted only
to pasture (para 13). Class VIII land includes barren mountain tops defined
as being suitable for wildlife, recreation and watershed,
1/                       Phasing of District Soil Surveys
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4
Bijapur             600,000   600,000   560,000 
Sholapur            600,000   600,000   302,000
Ahmednagar          600,000   600,000   504,000     -
Jodhpur             700,000   700,000   700,000   150,000
Nlagaur             700,000   700,000   367,000     -



ANNEX 6
Page  3
Foreswtry
Present Situation
8.        Most of the hill country, belonging to Classes V to VIII, is
government land under the control of the Forest and Revenue Departments.
The woody vegetation originally present on the hills and uplands of drought
prone areas has largely been destroyed as a result of long-continued
exploitation. The trees and shrubs have been removed for timber and
firewood. The pastures, too, have been severely depleted by excessive
livestock grazing and burning. Depletion of the vegetative cover has
been accompanied by marked deterioration of the environment. Water erosion
has been so severe that the soil that remains is generally very thin and
patchy, rock outcroppings are common, and there are many erosion-gullies.
These hills and uplands are now the source of much of the runoff water
that causes erosion on the valuable arable lowlands. Thus improvement
of the vegetative cover on the highlands, to reduce runoff, is an, essential
step in the development of an integrated program of soil and water con-
servation for an entire watershed.
9.        To protect the environment against further deterioration, the
Forest Department has embarked upon a program of re-afforestation.on some
of the hill country. The procedure used to aid the establishment and
growth of trees indicates how unfavorable the environment is for tree
growth.  Large contour trenches are dug at intervals of 20 to 30 feet.
These are commonly 1-1/2 feet deep, with sloping sides such that they are
about 1-1/2 feet wide at the bottom and 2-1/2 feet wide at the top. About
half of the excavated material, largely consisting of rock fragments but
including a little soil, is put back into the trench--the remainder being
mounded along the downhill margin. Transplants are then placed in the
trenches and tree seed scattered on the mounds.
10.       Denudation is not confined to the hills.  The lowlands have
also been rendered treeless in pursuit of timber and fuel. The consequences
are threefold. Crop growth is retarded, through the unrestricted passage
of hot, dehydrating winds which cause rapid depletion of soil moisture.
Wind erosion adds to the ravages of the already mentioned water erosion,
this is particularly severe in Rajasthan. For lack of alternate fuel,
dung is burned thus precluding its use as manure.
11.       An intensive program of re-afforestation in the lowlands is
required to combat this problem. This need is recognized by GOI whose
concern is reflected in a recent report of the National Commission on
Agriculture. 1/ The social forestry component of the proposed project
would make a start in this direction.
1/   Interim Report on Social Forestry, National Commission on Agriculture,
GOI, August 1973.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Proposed Work Under the Project
12.       The forestry component of the proposed project would have three
main elements: tree planting in conjunction with pasture development in
the upper catchment; small plantations on government land in more favorable
environments; and social forestry.
13.       Although the hilly lands are no longer well suited for the growth
of trees even the shallow soils are capable of supporting good stands of
grass, provided adequate protection is given from excessive grazing and
burning. This also offers the additional advantage of being more effective
than woody vegetation in protecting hillslopes against water erosion in
arid lands. For these reasons, government effort on the uplands should be
diverted mainly to pasture production, using contour furrows and re-seeding
techniques described in para 28-29.
14.       This is not to deny that there is a place for re-afforestation
on the hills. Where there is enough soil to adequately support the growth
of trees (soil, other than rock fragments, more than 12 inches deep),
trees or shrubs could be planted in the contour furrows along with grass.
About 2,000 ha, in pockets of land suitable for trees, would thus be planted
in the upper catchments of Ahmednagar, Sholapur, Bijapur and Anantapur. To
the cost of pasture development (para 29) would be added Rs 75 per hectare
for deeper planting trenches plus the cost of seedlings (para 20 below).
15.       Small plantations covering about 2,000 ha would be planted in
better areas of government land where the objective would be to increase
building material and fuel supplies per se. Costs would be about Rs 300 per
hectare (Rs 125/ha for fencing; Rs 175/ha for planting trenches) plus seedlings.
16.       Social forestry would involve establishment of 500 ha of woodlots
on village common lands. This would be done with the agreement of panchayats.
Techniques and costs would be the same as for the government plantations and
costs would be wrt by the Forest Department. The care of the woodlots would
however be left to the panchayat under departmental guidance. Also in colla-
boration with panchayats the Department would plant about 300 km of wind
breaks along roads, railway lines and canals at a cost, for planting labor,
one or two protective waterings and a thorn shield, of about Rs 1,000 per km.
17.       Individuals would be encouraged to develop small private woodl1.ots
and to plant trees along their boundaries to provide fuel and to serve as a
wind break. Seedlings, to a maximum of 500 per farmer, would be provided free
by the Department.
18.       In the four southern project districts the planning and
implementation of conservation, pasture and forest development programs on
public lands is the responsibility of the Forest Department. Despite the
fact that the project proposes a marked shift on emphasis, in upper catchment



ANNEX 6
Page 5
areas, from trees to pasture, the Department should continue to have this
responsibility. The discipline and motivation of departmental staff is
noteworthy and wuol.d do much to ensure the success of the proposed pasture
and forestry component of the project.
19.       To enable the Department to undertake this ambitious program, it
is proposed to provide funds for the creation of a Deputy Conservator of
Forests Office in the four districts with a forestry program. In Rajasthan,
where the project would be concerned only with pasture development, a similar
office would be funded to provide the incremental staff needed for the Jodhpur
and Nagaur programs. This office would be attached to the Sheep and Wool
Department. Details of staffing and costs are given in Table 2. All planning
would be undertaken in close consultation with the Soil Conservation Department
to ensure that the conservation works in the upper and lower reaches of the:
catchments were complementary.
20.       In the four districts with a forestry program, five hectares of
additional nursery capacity would be developed to provide the ne':essary
seedlings. 1/ Costs are given in Table 3.
Dryland Pastures
Present Situation
21.       At present, pasture is found in three distinct areas:   (a) public
lands; (2) privately-owned lands on which arable farming is no longer, or
only very rarely, carried out; and (3) village common lands.
22.       Pasture on Public Lands.  The public lands that support pasture--
government forest lands and government revenue lands--are mainly hilly
areas with steep slopes, shallow soils and often large amounts of rock out-
crop. These characteristics have precluded cultivation. In the land
capability classification they would belong to Classes V to VIII. Because
of long periods of over-exploitation, the pastures on these public lands
now largely consist of unproductive perennial grasses of low palatability
and nutritive value. Deterioration in the condition of the pastures has
been brought about by a combination of factors, including overgrazing
and excessive cutting and burning. The dominant pasture species is usually
spear grass (Heteropogon.contortus) which is moderately palatable in its
early stages of growth but which rapidly loses palatability on seeding.
In addition, there are places on the hills where the aromatic, unpalatable
Cy bopogon colaratus is dominant. Mole palatable and productive grasses
such as Schima nervosum have almost disappeared or hlave been greatly
suppressed.
1/   In order to meet the varied demands for fuel, timber and browse, a range
of species would be grown. These might include: Eucalyptus spp., Acacia
tortilis, A. nilotica, A. victorede, A. arabica (babul), Ziziphus jujuba,
A. nummularia, Azadirachta indica (neem), Albizzia lebbek, A. amara,
Tamarindus indica. Prosopis juliflora (mesquite), commonly used in the
past as a windbreak, is a pernicious weed and should not be grown.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
23.       Pasture on Privately Owned Lands. Privately owned pasture is on
lands that have been abandoned to cropping because of repeated crop failure.
Their productivity, at best marginal for crop production in the beginning
because slopes were too steep or the soils too shallow, has been further
reduced by severe gullying and sheet erosion. These abandoned areas, often
referred to as old fallow lands, carry only very poor quality pasture and
are often little better than wastelands. The pasture consists mostly of
unproductive, largely unpalatable annual grasses. Aristida spp. are
prominent. In terms of the land capability classification these areas
probably belong to Class IV.
24.       Pasture on Village Common Lands.   -ie village blocks or village
common lands are areas administered by local panchayats for communal grazing.
They are located near the villages and may fall into a number of capability
classes. As a result of continued overgrazing, palatable grasses have
largely disappeared and been replaced by low quality weed communities--
dominated in Rajasthan, for example, by Tephrosia.
25.       Although some attention has been given to pasture development
on government lands, it is considered that much greater emphasis should be
placed on improvement of this resource potential on all district lands
unsuited to cultivation. To date most development has been based on the
control of grazing, burning and cutting on some government forest lands.
Because the original palatable, productive grasses have largely disappeared,
protection alone cannot be expected to restore a good quality pasture.
26.       The few minor attempts made to establish better pasture grasses
have employed unsatisfactory and costly techniques whichl could not be
replicated on a large scale. Little attention has been given to research
into the improvement and management of dryland pastures in the drought
prone districts.
Pasture Development Propsed in the Project
27.       Improvement of the dryland pastures in most cases would have as
its primary objective the provision of a better fodder supply. However,
there would be an additional important benefit to be gained by improving
the pastures; the better grass cover on the hills would reduce runoff
and would be an essential component of an integrated conservation program
for an entire watershed. Under the project, pasture improvement would
be carried out on about 90,000 ha in the six districts. 1/ Areas would
first receive appropriate conservation treatment followed by re-seeding
with productive, palatable species. Thereafter simple management would
be imposed to control grazing, cutting and burning.
28.       The technique for pasture improvement would involve digging
furrows on the contour wherever there was sufficient soil or loose rock.
1/   Jodhpur 16,000 ha; Nagaur 5,000 ha; Ahmednagar 20,000 ha; Sholapur
15,000 ha; Bijapur 15,000 ha; Anantapur 18,000 ha.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
Such furrows would generally be hand dug although alternatively a single-
furrow reversible mould board plough could be used. Seed of the desired
improved grasses would then be broadcast into the furrows. Complete
clean cultivation of the land for seed bed preparation cannot be justified
because of its cost; it would, furthermore, create an erosion hazard
because of the slope on 0ost of the areas.   The use of fertilizers also
cannot be justified at present because of their high cost and shortage of
supply.
29.       V-shaped furrows dug by hand about 9 inches deep, one foot wide
at the top and spaced 15 feet apart would cost about Rs 75 per ha. A wider
spacing might ultimately prove sufficient, especially on flatter lands, for
spacing would partly be determined by runoff. However, more rapid spread
of the improved grasses to the areas between the furrows would occur with
closer spacing. Furrows provide an ideal habitat for seedling establishment.
Competition with the natural grasses and weeds is removed when the furrows
are dug; the furrows catch runoff water and they also protect the seedlings
from drying winds and from wind-borne sand in areas with sandy soils. For
maximum efficiency the furrows must follow the contours of the land. They
should be turned slightly uphill at the ends and across gullies so that
water does not spill out into these vulnerable areas. The usual practice
when installing contour furrows is to survey and peg contour lines about
60 feet apart. Furrows are first dug along these surveyed lines. The
intervening furrows, at whatever spacin,g is selected, are then dug using
the original furrows as guidelines.
30.       Little information is as yet available on grasses suitable for
re-seeding, but buffel grass (Cenchrus ciliaKis) and Cenchrus setigerus
show considerable promise. 1/ These grasses are drought resistant, pala-
table, productive and would be expected to compete successfully with grasses
such as Heteropogon contortus. Three kgs of seed, costing Rs 12 per kg,
should be sufficient to replant one hectare. At present, no suitable legume
is available for incorporation into the pastures in the drought prone
districts.
31.       Furrows should be prepared in the dry season, and re-seeding
done after the opening rains of the monsoon. By the end of the first
monsoon Cenchrus would be established and producing seed. Stocking could
then commence, initially at a rate of about 2 sheep per ha. After one or
two years the stocking rate would be raised to the maximum level, about
4 sheep per ha. Grazing would be continuous, not rotational; and, at
stipulated rates, improved pastures would be able to meet year-round
fodder requirements, thus obviating the need for migration. Although
yields would vary considerably, expected averages would be 3/4 ton per ha
1/   Types 357 and 358 of Cenchrus ciliaris and type 157 of C. setigerus
are recommended by the Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
during the first year, 1/ 1 ton during the second, 1-1/4 ton during the
third, rising to maximum production of about 1-1/2 tons in the fourth year.
32.       The furrows would gradually silt up. To sustain the pasture
yields, and for soil and water conservation purposes, new furrows should'
be dug between the old ones every 6 to 10 years.
33.       Many of the gullies that cause damage to the arable lowlands
begin in the hills where the pasture aievelopment would be undertaken.
Wlilst improved grass cover would reduce runoff, these gullies should
nevertheless be rehabilitated to complete the conservation program. Dry
stone check dams should be built in the upper parts of the gullies; only
in exceptional circumstances should these exceed 4 feet in height and
25 feet in length. They should always be provided with a central notch
to discharge excess water; otherwise side-cutting would occur leading
to failure of the structure. It is estimated that check dams would cost
an average of Rs 37 per hectare of treated catchment.
34.       The survey and planning of works for the pasture improvement
program would be carried out by the responsible department with additional
staff being provided for as described above (para 19). Provision has also
been made for four seed multiplication farms, each of 400 ha, to provide
seed of dryland pasture species for the re-seed4ng work. One would be
developed in each state. Staffing and costs of setting up a seed multiplication
f arm are set out in Table 4.
35.       Management of pastures would be an essential part of their
improvement. To facilitate management on government lands and village
commons, boundary fencing would be erected around areas to be developed.
The cheapest and most effective type of fencing is post and wire, the
specifications of which are set out in Table 5 2/. It would not be
necessary to fence improved pasture on private lands.
36.       Most of the areas of public land to be developed would be under
the jurisdiction of the Forest Department which would continue to manage
them. Areas of revenue lands to be developed would be adopted by the
Forest Department in order to provide for their long term management.
In both cases the forest guard service would control the use of the
pastures and collect grazing/cutting fees. These would be set by the
Forest Department, with the advice of the District Development Authority,
1/   The assumption is made that the present average yield of dry forage
from the pasture lands is 3/4 ton per ha. No significant yield increase
is expected from the re-seeded land by the end of the first growing
season, although nutritive value would increase as a result of the
improved varieties.
2/   Live fencing, currently advocated in some areas, is not considered to
be adequately stock proof.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
in keeping with pasture quality, demand, etc. Management of pastures on
common lands would be provided for under the sheep program. The only charge
individual farmers would bear for pasture improvement on their lands would
be the subsidized rates for soil conservation works. Extension advice
and grass seed would be provided free.
37.       The mission found that there was insufficient experience among
departmental and research staff to carry out the proposed pasture develop-
ment program. Provision would therefore be made under the project for
the engagement of two internationally recruited consultants for three
years. One would be primarily concerned with the design and launching
of an applied research program on pasture improvement and management (Annex 10).
The second consultant would provide technical guidance on the pasture and
sheep development programs (Annex 8).
Soil and Moisture Conservation on Arable Lands
38.       Moisture is the limiting factor for crop growth in the drought
prone areas, where the climate is characterized by low, unreliable rain-
fall and a short rainy season. Successful dryland farming is, therefore,
dependent upon efficient moisture conservation and utilization. UJltimately
it is the amount of rainfall stored in the soil that determines plant growth
rather than the rainfall itself. 1/ Soil conservation is also critical in
these areas, where severe erosion frequently occurs as a result of high
intensity rainfall on bare cultivated land early in the monsoon.
39.       The objective of soil and moisture conservation is to reduce
the rate and quantity of rainfall runoff. Various physical works, cultural
and cropping practices are used to maximize infiltration and to discharge
residual water slowly at safe locations. This task is made more difficult
in the project districts because of the high intensity rains which are a
feature of the drought prone areas. Water losses due to runoff depend
upon the slope, the physical condition of the soil surface and upper soil
layers, and the nature of the plant cover. Physical structures such as
bunds, contour furrows or check dams break up long slopes and retard
runoff, thus allowing more time for infiltration. Even a simple operation
like cultivating the land on the contour helps by roughening the soil
surface in lines at right angles to the direction of the slope. As much
of the soil surface as possible should be protected by plant cover during
the rainy season.
Present Position
40.       Major soil losses have already occurred in the drought prone areas
of India as a result of water erosion. In Maharashtra, for example, it has
been estimated that only 17% of the land has slightly eroded soils, 31%
1/   See research proposal Annex 10.



ANEX 6
Page 1 0
being moderately eroded and 38% severely eroded. Loss of soil by water
erosion has been accelerated as a result of the cropping of unsuitable
land with steep slopes or shallow soils, failure to cultivate on the
contour, depletion of natural pastures on hills and uplands, and removal
of forest for timber and firewood.
41.       The focus of soil and water conservation on the arable lowlands
to date has been the construction of earth bunds. Nominally, these are
contour bunds, intended to retain all rainfall in situ. However, authorities
recognize that it is not possible to retain all the water from rains of high
intensity, so surplusing structures, generally stone slab weirs, have been
installed in most bunds. These add about 25% to the cost of the bunding
operation. The position of the outlet weirs in the contour bunds is dictated
by the undulations in the topography and deviations of the bund from the
contour (para 42). An attempt is made to install a weir in the bunds
wherever water tends 'to pond. In practice this commonly means that weirs
are located in positions where the excess water is discharged from bund to
bund over the soil being prepared for cropping, or on which the crop is
growing. This is the worst possible situation, because the subjected soil
surface is bare and loose or, at best, poorly protected under the crop
because of inter-row cultivation for weed control. Inevitably, sheet
erosion and gullying take place.
42.       As far as bund alignment is concerned, the state soil con-
servation services, in their standards for contour bund construction,
usually state that the only permitted deviations from the contour are:
(a) not more than 6 inches when crossing a narrow
ridge;
(b) not more than 12 inches when crossing a narrow
gully or depression; and
(c) not more than 6 inches to avoid excessive sinuosity
and sharp angles in bund lines.
In practice, greater deviations than those specified are frequently allowed,
primarily at the insistence of the farmers who prefer that bunds delineate
property boundaries on regular shaped plots. Unfortunately this often leads
to a situation in which the bunds actually make it impossible for the farmers
to cultivate on the contour. This is unacceptable, for the bunds should
provide guidelines to the farmers for proper contour cultivation. In many
cases the problem could have been mitigated by more careful planning.
However much of the conservation work was undertaken as a famine relief
operation in which the expedient of employment creation often precluded
thorough planning. Hence the project's philosophy of providing sufficient
planning capacity to create a shelf of works against future needs (para 46).
43.       In spite of the surplusing arrangements, high intensity rains on
soils of low permeability still frequently cause ponding behind the bunds.



ANNEX 6
Page 1 1
This leads to frequent bund failure with severe soil losses. Ponded water
also delays cultivation and sowing operations. A study on the effect of
bunding on crop yields was carried out at Bellary from 1960 to 1967. 1/ The
average rainfall in the area is about 500 mm. It was found that contour
bunding decreased average yields of sorghum, cotton and safflower by 25%, 30%
and 39% respectively. The decrease was explained by delay in the cultural
operations and crop damage due to stagnant water above the bund. In an
attempt to alleviate the problem of ponding, land levelling is sometimes
carried out; that is, soil is moved into the low sites on the uphill side
of the bunds. This expensive operation to correct a deficiency in the
bunding system cannot be justified, especially with extensive cultivation of
lands of low productivity.  The design of conservation works must be location
specific to suit the topography, rainfall and soil conditions of an area.
(This need is in fact recognized to some extent in Maharashtra where graded
bunding is undertaken in areas of higher rainfall.)
44.       Standards for the design of contour bunds and the quoted costs of
construction vary somewhat from state to state and with local conditions.
In Rajasthan, common dimensions for bunds, when first built, are 6.5 feet wide
at the bottom and 2.5 feet high, and a cross-section of 10 square feet. With
a 250 foot spacing the estimated cost of bund construction is Rs 185 per ha.
For the other states common dimensions are: bottom width, 10 feet; height,
2.75 feet; and cross-section, 14 square feet. With these specifications and
a 250 foot spacing, the average cost of bund construction is about Rs 200 per
ha. 2/ Although there is some variation, farmers are typically charged 75%
of the cost of bunding. They are allowed to repay in the form of a 15 year
loan bearing interest at 6%. Recovery rates vary but are generally below
50%.
45.       The bunds are generally poorly maintained.   Maintenance is the
responsibility of the farmers, but the soil conservation service should
stress the necessity for repairs to be carried out promptly when damage occurs.
Failure of even one bund can cause serious damage to the entire system during
times of heavy rains. At present no attempt is made to stabilize the bunds
by planting grass on them. The bunds themselves therefore tend to be eroded
by water during heavy rainfall.
Proposed Work Under the Project
46.       The project would finance the construction of conservation works
on about 230,000 ha 3/ in the six districts. Funds would also be provided
for the repair of the bund system on about 135,000 ha 4/ in Ahmednagar and
1/ Soil and Water Conservation Research 1956-1968, ICAR, New Delhi.
2/ Costs are lower in Rajasthan because of the more easily worked sandy soils.
3/   Jodhpur 15,000 ha; Nagaur 15,000 ha; Ahmednagar 40,000 ha; Sholapur
50,000 ha; Bijapur 80,000 ha; kiantapur 30,000 ha.
4/ Ahmednagar 60,000 ha; Sholapur 75,000 ha.



ANNEX 6
Page 12
Sholapur. There is greater need for repair work in Maharashtra because of
the longer history of conservation work there. The project would also
provide the incremental staff to carry out the topographical surveys,
planning and supervision of construction for the conservation program.
Sufficient staff would be provided to allow survey and planning in excess
of project work requirements. Thus a shelf of works of good quality would
be available for use in future famine relief programs. It is estimated
that this would necessitate the addition of one Divisional Soil Conservation
Office and four Sub-Divisional Offices to each district. The estimated cost
of incremental staff is shown in Table 6.
47.       As stated above the design of soil conservation works should be
location specific. At present the data base is inadequate to permit the
development of detailed specifications and it will be some time before current
and planned work provides additional data. However it is considered that
contour bunding should be restricted to areas receiving less than 600 mm of
annual rainfall and with fairly permeable soils. In terms of the soil classi-
fication generally used by state soil conservation services, this means only
shallow and medium soils. 1/ In other areas graded bunds should be used. In
Rajasthan sandy soils with high permeability predominate. In the project
area of Anantapur only medium soils occur, again with good permeability.
However in the other three districts a range of soil types occur and there
would be need to develop graded bunds over about 25% of the area.
48.       The contour bunding should be more carefully planned and executed
than heretofore. The planning phase is particularly critical, and in each
sub-divisional office two assistant agricultural officers above the normal
complement would be provided to improve planning quality as well as quantity.
49.       The contour bunding system should be made to conform to existing
departmental specifications which are generally satisfactory. The only
exception is that the system must be designed to discharge surplus water into
pre-selected and safe waterways rather than at random as is present practice.
This need is recognized by Indian officials and extra attention to planning
should ensure that it is met.
1/   For soil conservation purposes, soils are classified thus:
(i) soil depth less than 9", shallow soils
(ii)  soil depth 9" to 18", medium soils
(iii) soil depth 18" to 36", medium deep soils
(iv) alluvial soils with less than 30% clay, alluvial deep soils
(v) soil depth over 36" and/or over 30% clay, deep heavy clay soils.



ANNEX 6
Page 13
50.       In graded bunding water disposal 's integral to the syrstem and
not a problem. Grades should normally range from one foot per 1,000 feet to
4 feet per 1,000 feet; the steeper grades being used where large volumes of
excess water are expected, such as below a stony hilltop or in very long
bunds. A grade of 2 feet per 1,000 feet would generally suffice on the
arable lowlands of project districts. Deviations from the praded bund alignment
could be allowed to avoid excessive sinuosity, but it would be essential to
maintain sufficient fall for water to flow along the entire length of the
bund. Length should not normally exceed 1,500 feet, as the danger of over-
loading and bund failure increases with length. Since graded bunds do not
impound water, their cross-section, site for site, can be less than that
of a contour bund. On average a 10 square foot cross-section with a 6.5 foot
base and 2.5 feet high should suffice. The horizontal spacings used for
contour bunding would be satisfactory.1/ A technically sound layout which
would not be unacceptably disruptive to farming operations would require
careful planning. The extra staff to be funded under the project would provide
capacity for this.
51.       The waterways, into which bunds discharge runoff, are a critical
part of the conservation system. Natural shallow drainage lines are the best
waterways. However, because of the intense pressure on cultivated land,
gullies would sometimes have to be used. Drop structures and check dams would
be provided to prevent bund outlets eating back or the gully eroding further.
When natural drainage is not available, a waterway must be prepared. The
gradient should be as low as possible. Low banks should be built on either
side to prevent overflow onto adjoining land. It may sometimes be necessary
to construct a waterway along a property boundary, and in this case the
boundary bund could be used as one bank.   The actual width of the artificial
waterway would depend on the size of the watershed it drains, but generally
would be between 15 feet and 30 feet. Waterways should be planted with a
protective cover of grass and for this purpose Cenchrus ciliaris and C. setigerus
would generally be satisfactory.
52.       The importance of adequate protection and maintenance of conserva-
tion works, particularly waterways, cannot be over emphasized. This is not
given at present and erosion is the result. Wlilst it is recognized that
farmer education is the best means of ensuring protection, it is considered
that by itself it is not enough. One errant farmer can wreck a system. To
prevent this, legislative powers are needed by the soil conservations depart-
ments. The need is recognized and GOI has recently appointed a Land Conmis-
sioner who would, inter alia, examine this question and prepare recommendations.
1/   Slope Percent      Vertical Interval (feet)     Approx. Spacing (feet)
0 -     1                    3.5                      350
1 -     1.5                 4.0                       320
1.5-    2                   4.5                       250
2  -    3                    5.0                      200
3  -    4                    5.5                      170
4  -    5                    6.0                      130
5  -    6                    6.5                      120



ANNEX 6
Page 14
53.       It is estimated that bunding would continue to cost on average
about Rs 200 per hectare. Savings from the elimination of some surplusing
weirs and on the smaller earthworks of graded bunds would be offset by
additional work on waterways. For works of this sort with a considerable
public benefit, a large element of subsidy is justified. In view of this
and in order to be more realistic than in the past with regard to recoveries,
several states propose a 50% subsidy on bunding works. The present method
of recovering charges involves the Departments of Agriculture and1 Revenue in
voluminous and time-consuming paper work. The Government of Maharashtra is
examining this issue and tentative proposals for converting to a fixed land
development levy have been made. The further examination of the issue should
be encouraged.
Water Harvesting
Farm Ponds
54.       As part of the recent upsurge of interest in dryland farming, there
has been considerable focus on water harvesting. As a result, farm pond
construction has been taken up in all areas of the Pilot Projects on Dryland
Farming. This program has been received with enthusiasm by farmers (who are
not at present charged for farm ponds).
55.       Farm ponds would fit well into a conservation system with planned
water disposal through protected waterways, collecting runoff for subsequent
protective irrigation. The project would provide funds for a pilot program
of pond construction in the three districts where soil types would be suitable.1/
Phasing would be:
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5        Total
Sholapur         10      30      60     100      150      350
Ahmednagar       10      30      60      100     150      350
Bijapur          10      30      60      100     150      350
56.       Ponds would be about 40 m x 20 m and 3 m deep with a 0.5 m freeboard
and would cost about Rs 5,000.  It is anticipated that on average they would
store sufficient water for one irrigation to two hectares at the end of
November.  An irrigation to jowar at this time would coincide with flowering,
a critical period for moisture demand. In some years enough water would be
stored to give a supplemental irrigation to one hectare of kharif crop also.
In order to benefit from the ponds, farmers would have to hire pumps. The
estimated costs and benefits are set out in Appendix I. The project would
provide funds for pumps to be purchased and held for hire at agro-service
centers.
1/   Soils would be too permeable for pond construction in the project areas
of Jodhpur, Nagaur and Anantapur.



ANNEX 6
Page 15
Nalla Flooding
57.       It is current practice in Maharashtra to build substantial bunds
across the lower reaches of water courses (nallas) where they are wide and
relatively flat bottomed. These have a twofold objective, to impound water
and trap silt. Some of the water is expected to add to groundwater recharge
via percolation and some to be held in the silt. The latter is expected to
build up and be cultivable, hence reclaiming a portion of the water course.
Funds for the expansion of the program were requested in the original project
but the mission recommends against the practice of nalla flooding.
58.       With the integrated watershed approach to conservation proposed
under the project, large volumes of silt laden water should not accumulate
in the lower reaches of water courses. Soil and water should be conserved
in situ where they belong. No special provision is therefore made for nalla
flooding. To the extent that no conservation system can be perfect, there
might be occasions when sufficient water would pass through a water course
to merit impounding for supplemental irrigation. There would be no objection
to small nalla bunds being built for this purpose.
Dune Stabilization
59.       In Rajasthan wind erosion is a major problem. It has been suggested
that the air over the State is the dustiest in the world. The project's
conservation programs and allied efforts under famine relief should help remedy
the problem. However it will be many years before the control of wind erosion
can be effected. Meanwhile, limited areas will continue to be threatened by
sand dune movement. The project would fund a small program of dune stabili-
zation in Nagaur District to protect valuable arable land and small townships
against dune encroachment.
60.       The area to be stabilized would be perimeter fenced using post and
wire fencing of the type described for pasture improvement (para 30). A
lattice of brush wood barriers would then be built at a spacing of about 3 m.
This would reduce wind velocities at ground level. At the onset of the monsoon,
rooted slips of Lasiurus sindicus would be planted in the protected spaces of
the lattice. Occasional seedlings of drought resistant tree species could
also be planted (Acacia tortilis, A. senegal, Zizyphus nummularia). These
could be established using the clay/sand/manure brick techniques developed
at the Central Arid Zone Research Institute.
61.       Dune stabilization on the above basis would cost about Rs 500 per
hectare. The project would provide funds to stabilize 1,000 ha of dunes.
Nove.mber 4, 1974



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX I
Page     I
INDIA
DROIVGT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Watershed Management
Farm Ponds
The average size of pond would be: 40m x 20m x 3m deep.
With a 0.5m freeboard this would give a capacity of about 2,OOOm
Assuming the pond was kept full by precipitation to end October /
and allowing for evaporation at the rate of 10mm/day through Ngvember, the
amount of water available for irrigation would be about 1,750m s   This
would be sufficient for one protective irrigation to two hectares.
The cost of excavating a pond would be approximately Rs 5,000.
Assuming a 50% subsidy, 9.5% interest and a 15 year loan, the
repayment on the pond would be Rs 320 per year.
Farmers would have to hire a pump in order to irrigate from a pond.
These would be made available at Agro service centers. A small pumpset
with accessories (2H1P with 200 gal/min capacity) would cost Rs 2,600.  The
loan repayment would be Rs 675, assuming a 5 year loan at 9.5% interest.
Conservatively assuming each pump only served eight farmers each would have
to be charged about Rs 125 to cover repayment and dues and a mark-up for
the Center. Operating costs (for 35 hrs per farm) would add Rs 100 to this,
Total hire charges would thus be Rs 225.
1/   This would require a runoff of only 4cm from a catchment of 5 ha, thus
even in years of low rainfall (the average exceeds 600mm per year) the
ponds would be recharged.



ANNEX 6
APPENDIX I
Page     2
The minimum benefit of a pond to the farmer, a$suming no change
other than the irrigation to two hectares of jowar, would be:
Rs
Incremental production, 8 qtls & R90/qtl     720
Repayment on pond                            320
Hire of pump                                 225
545
Incremental income                         175
November 4, 1974



ANNEX 6
Table 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Watershed Management
Cost of District Land Capability -- Soil Survey Unit
Unit Cost          Year 1             Year 2-5
Rs          No.      Rs         No.       Rs
A.  Investment
Jeeps                           27,000         2   54,000                  --
Survey equipment                                   25,000                  --
Camp eauipment                                      7,000
Office furniture                                    5,000                  --
Telephone                        1,000         1    1,000                  --
Typewriter                       3,000         1    3,000                  -
Miscellaneous                                       5000--
Total Investment Cost                           100,000                  --
B. Operating
Staff Salaries:
Head of unit                     10,200        1   10,200          1   10,200
Assistant chemists                5,400        2   10,800          2   10,800
Research assistants               5,400        4   21,600          .>L  21,600
Junior draftsman                  3,120        1    3,120          '    3,120
Field assistants                  2,580        4   10,320          4   10,320
Typist                            2,340        1    2,340          1    2,340
Tracer                            2,040        1    2,0)0          2    240.-;0
Drivers                           2,040        2    4,080          2    4,080
Survey laborers                     900        8    7,200          8    7.200
Class IV servants                   900        4    3 600          4    3600
Sub-Total                                        75,300              75,300
Staff Allowances.
Dearness allowances                                45,000              45,OOC
Interir relief                                     10,500              10,500
Rent allowances                                    13,500              13,500
Travel and medical                                 6L 00               -6 000
Sub-Total                                        75,000              75,000
Other:
Office rent and lighting                            6,000               6,000
Office running                                      6,750               6,750
Vehicle running                                   _2)4000                 000
Sub-Total                                        36,750              36,750
Total Operating Cost                              187,050             187,050



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Watershed Management
Cost of Forcst Department Staff
Unit Cost      Year 1            Year 2           Year 3           Year 4            Year 5
Unit         Rs      No.         Rs  No.         Rs   No.          Rs   No.          Rs   No.          Rs
A. Investment
Jeep                                 No        27,000       3     81,000
Office equipment                                                  15,000
Survey equipment amd tools            --           --      --     15,000
Total Investment Cost                                          111,000
B. Operating
Salaries:
Deputty Conservator of Forest   Man yr.       8,400       1      8,400     1      8,400     1       8,400    1       8,400     1       8,400
Forest Range Officer i/                       4,800        7    33,600     7     33,600     7      33,600     7      33,600    7      33,600
Deputy Range Officer                          3,600       5     18,000     5     L8,000     5      18,000    5      18,000     5      18,000
Forester                                      2,400      10     24,000    10      4,000    10      24,000   10      24,000    10      24,000
Junior Engineer                                3,600      2      7,200     2      7,200     2       7,200    2       7,200     2       7,200
Assistant Engineer                             2,400      2      4,800     2      4,800     2       4,800     2      4,800     2       4,800
Draughtsman                                   1,800       2      3,600     2      3,600     2       3,600     2      3,600     2       3,600
Forest Giuard                      "          1,000      10     10,000    20     20,000    30      30,000   40      40,0o0    50      50,000
Head Clerk                                    2,400       I      2,400     1      2,400     1       2,400    1       2,400     1       2,400
Clerks                                        1,400       8     11,200     8     11,200     8      11,200    8       1l,200    8      11,200
Typist                              "         1,100       3      3,300     3      3,300     3       3,300    3       3,300     3       3,300
Driver                              "         1,000       3      3,000     3      3,000     3       3,000    3       3,000     3       3,000
Laborers                            "           750      10      7,500    10      7,500    10       7,500    10      7,500    10       7,500
Sub-total                                                    137,000          147,000           157,000          167,000           177,000
Allowances:
Dearness                                                        90,000          100,000           106,000           112,000          119,000
Other                                                           10,000           10,000            12,000           13,000            14,000
Sub-total                                                    100,000          110,000           118,000           125,000          1$3,000
Other:
Jeep running (20,000 km @ Rs 0.65)  Vehicle  13,000       3     39,000     3     39,000     3      .9,000     3     39,000     3      39,000
Office running                                                  10,000           10,000            10,000            LO,000           10,000
Maintenance and repair of
equipment (20%)                                                   -            3,000             3,000'           3,000             3,000
Sub-total                                                     49,000           52,000            52,000            i2,000           52,000
Total Oerating Cost                                            286,ooo          309,000           327,000           344,000          362,000
1/  In the economic analysis these costs are apportioned:  25% to pasture; 25% to forestry and 50% to conservation, because a major, though
unquantifiable benefit of the pasture program would be conservation.
2/ All range officers would receive training in pasture development techniques.  However two, additional to the normal office complement,
wo-uld receive more idvanced training.  They would be particularly concerned with pasture development on village common lands.               (D
ro 01



ANNEX 6
Table 3
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Watershed Management
Costs of One Hectare Forest Nurgser-
Rs
A. Investment
Dug well with pump     .                           10,000
Fence                                               2.2500
Sub-Total.                                     22,500
Contingencies                                  2 ,50
Total Investment Cost                              15J,000
B.  Operating
Labor                                              10,000
Fertilizer and pesticide                            4 ,500
Materials   ,                                      45,000
Maintenance and repair                  .           2,000
Total Operating Cost    s                          61,500
-/ Polythene sleeves (400,000)       40,000
Soil                              2,v000
Maniure                           1.,500
Tools and equipment
45,000



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Watershed Management
Seed Multiplication Farm -  H40 Hectare -
Unit Cost        Year 1            Year 2            Year 3             Year 4             Year 5
Unit         Rs      No.           Rs   No.           Rs   No.          Rs   No.           Rs   No.           Rs
COSTS
A. Investment
Land purchase                 Ha        5,000       400   2,000,000
Fencing                       Km        5,000        10      50,000                --                 --                --
Houses and buildings           -          -                  50,000                --                 --                --
Farm equipment 2/              -          -                  15,000                --                 --                 --
Jeep  2/                      No       27,000         1      27,000                --                 --                --
Land preparation  3/           Ha         200       360      72,000
Seed - 6 kg/Ha                Kg           12     2,160      260                   --                -
Total Investment Cost                                     2.2)40,000               --                 --                --
B. Operating
Salaries - Manager         Man yr.      6,000         1       6,000     1       6,000      1       6,000     1       6,000      1       6,000
Permanent Labor     t        1,500         4       6,000      4      6,ooo      4       6,000      4      6,000      4       6,000
Casual Labor    Man days         4                    --. 4,000     16,000  5,000      20,000  6,000     24,000  7,000      28,000
Jeep running                  -           -                   5,000            12,000             12,000            12,000             12,000
Maintenance                   -           -                      --            11,500             11,500            11,500             11,500
Miscellaneous                 -           -                   5,000             5,000              5,000             5,000              5,000
Total Operating Cost                                         22,000            56,500             60,500            64,500             68,500
REVENUE
Seed 4/                     Ton        12,000                    --           216,000            345,600           432,000            432,000
Hay 57                      Ton            80                  --              21,600             28,800            36,000             43,200
Total Revenue                                                  --           237,600            3744,400          L68,oon            475,200
1/ One in each state.
2/ Replaced every 7 years. Farm equipment mrinimal since no recurrent cultivation.                                                                  C
3/ By hired equipment.                                                                                                                              CD
4/ Yields assumed per hectare  50 kg; 80 kg; 100 kg.                                                                                                 c
:/ Yields assumed per hectare 0.75 ton; 1.0 ton; 1.25 tons; 1.b tons. Sold in situ to be cut
and carted by buyer as is current practice on government land.



ANNEX 6
Table 5
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Watershed Management,
Specifications and Cost of Fencn   fr Pasture Deveqlopment
Specifications:     4 strands 10-gauge plain galvanized wire
1 strand 12-gauge galvanized barbed wire
Posts every 3 meters
Straining posts eveny 99 meters
Cost per 100 meters:                                        Rs
Plain wire e Rs 90 per coil of 800m      90
Barbed wire (c. Rs 88 per coil of 400m  45
32 posts ,i Rs 4                       225
2 Straining posts C Rs 20               75
Materials                         435
Labor for erection                 65
Cost per 100 meters                    500



ANNEX 6
Table 6
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Watershed Management
Cost of Soil Conservation Service Unit
DIVISIONAL OFFICE
Unit Cost        Year 1           Years 2-5
Rs        No.         Rs    No.         Rs
A. Investment
Jeep                           27,000       1      27,000                --
Office equipment                                   13,000                --
Total Investment Cost                            40,000                 --
B. Operating
Staff Salaries - Front Office
Deputy Director of
Agriculture (SC)            9,300       1       9,300     1       9,300
Assistant Accounts Officer    3,900       1       3,900 -   1        3900
Sub-Total                                      13,200            13,200
Staff Salaries - Operational
Assistant Agricultural Officer
Officer                    3,900       1       3,900     1       3,900
Manager                       3,240       1       3,240     1       3,240
Superintendent Grade II       2,340       2       4,680     2       4,680
I Division clerks             1,670       5       8,350     5       8,350
II Division clerks            1,150       5       5,750     5       5,75o
Typists                       1,400       2       2,800     2       2,800
Agricultural Assistants       1,650       2       3,300     2       3,300
Draftsman                     2,340       1       2,340     1       2,340
Tracers                       1,300       4       5,200     L       5,200
Driver                        1,260       1       1,260     1       1,260
Laborers and watchmen           830       6       4,900     6 -     4980
Sub-Total                                      45,800            45,800
Staff 'Allowances
Dearness                                         42,000            42,000
Travelling                                       10,000            10,000
Other                                             8,000             8,000
Sub-Total                                      60,000            60,000
Other
Office rent and lighting                          5,000             5,000
Vehicle running                                  12,000            12,000
Office running                                    4,000             4,000
Sub-Total                                      21,000            21,000
Total Operating Costs                           140,000           140,000
1/ One per District



ANNEX 6
Table 6
Page 2
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Watershed Management
Cost of Soil Conservation Service Unit
SUB-DIVISIONAL OFFICE
Unit Cost        Year 1         -  ears 2-5
Rs        No.         Rs    No.         Rs
A. Investment
Jeep                           27,000       1      27,000                --
Office equipment                                   11,000                --
Survey instruments and tools                       56,000
Total Investment Cost                            94,000                --
B. Operating
Staff Salaries:
Agricultural Officer (SC)     4,100       1       4,100     1       4,100
Assistant Agricultural
Officers                   3,730       8 &'   29,8!Q     8      29,840
Superintendent, Grade II      2,320       1       2,320     1       2,320
I Division Clerks             1,670       1       1,670     1       1,670
II Division Clerks            1,150       2       2,300     2       2,300
Typists                       1,400       1       1,400    1        1,400
Field Assistants              1,300      30      39,000    30      39,000
Assistant Draftsman           1,500       1       1,00     1       1,500
Tracer                        1,300       2       2,i600    2       2,600
Drivers                       1,260       1       1,260     1       1,260
Laborers and watchmen           830               7.4 o     9       7_470
Sub-Total                                      93,460            93,460
Staff Allowances:
Dearness                                         70,000            70,000
Travelling                                       15,000            15,000
Other                                             9,54o            9,540
Sub-Total                                      94,540            94,540
Otherz
Office rent and lighting                          6,000             6,000
Vehicle running                                  12,000            12,000
Instrument repair and
replacement                                    5,000             5,000
Office running                                    5,000            5,000
Sub-Total                                      28,000            28,000
Total Operating Costs                           216,000           216,000
/    4 per District
/ Two more than normal complewent to ensure capacity for sound planning.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
ImpoigDryland Farmuing
Background
Farm Size and Income
1.        Dryland farming as practised by the typical farm family in the
drought prone areas is an extremely marginal business. Despite an average
farm size in the arid districts of Jodhpur and Nagaur of about 11 ha, and
about 4-5 ha in the other four semi-arid districts, the average income de-
rived from crops is only in the range of Rs 1,000. 1/ Many families are
much worse off than these average figures would suggest. Farm size distri-
bution, shown in Table 1, is skewed toward smaller units. From 25% to 45%
of farms in the four semi-arid districts are less than 2 hectares. Even in
the two drier districts, from 25% to 33-1/3%o of farms are below 5 hectares
in size.,
Crpping Patterns
2.        The composite cropping patterns of the six districts are shown in
Table 2. Individual farm patterns vary markedly and the district patterns
vary from year to year mainly in reflection of climatic variation. Thus in
a year of good rainfall, the area under the longer duration, more productive
crops such as sorghum, pigeon pea, groundnut and cotton will be high; when
the monsoon is poor, the short duration cereals and pulses will predominate.
3.        The cropping patterns reflect the predominantly subsistence orien-
tation of production and the dependence on drought resistant but relatively
unproductive crops. Sorghum and pearl millet 2/ together occupy 60% to 80%
of the cropped area in most districts with pear.l millet particularly impor-
tant (64%) in Rajasthan. In Anantapur there is heavy dependence on Setaria
italica 3/ which, with sorghum and pearl millet:, brings the cereal area to
1/   Gross income is given since the major inputs, other than a small
amount of 'own' seed, are family labor and bullock power.  To the
extent that land or bullocks are rented, the situation is worse.
2/   Pennisetum typhoides, locally called bajra.
3/   A minor millet locally called .korra.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
55% of cropped area. Pulses are important in all districts providing pro-
tein in the largely vegetarian diet. However, in addition to their nutri-
tional role, they provide a flexijility in the cropping pattern which is
vital in combatting at least some of the vagaries of climate. Thus the
farmer will plant some pulses, particularly a longer-term type such as
pigeon pea, as part of his planned program; in addition, short-term types
such as horse gram will be planted to derive at least some production from
a delayed or subnormal monsoon.
4.        The oilseeds of sesame and safflower also fulfill a dual role,
meeting nutritional needs and imparting flexibility to the cropping pattern.
Groundnut is grown to a limited extent in most districts but is significant
in Anantapur where it occupies about one third of the cropped area. The
importance of groundnut in Anantapur is related to the large proportion of
free draining red soils found there in contrast to the heavy black clays
which characterize.Ahmednagar, Sholapur and Bijapur. Despite the presence
of free draining soils, the crop is not important in the Rajasthan districts
because of inadequate rainfall.
5.        Relatively little land is f allowed in the districts of Ahmednagar,
Sholapur and Bijapur. Of the six project districts, these are most favored
in terms of soil type, land form and climate. By contrast about 30% of the
farm land in Jodhpur and Nagaur, and only slightly less in Anantapur, is
occupied by fallow. In the two former districts this is due to the arid
climate and consequent relatively large farms with low intensity of land
use. In Anantapur the large amount of fallow is due mainly to the existence
of large tracts of thin, infertile gravelly soils which are only cropped in-
termittently.
6.        Virtually all farmers own some livestock,   These depend for rnuch
of their food requirement, particularly during the dry season, o n crop by-
products. The balance of feed is obtained from common pastures, little is
derived from crops grown for feed per se,  The imiportance of by-7 ,rCducts
for stock feed influences cropping patterns. Sorghum is the preferred
cereal because of the feed value of the stalk and is therefore planted in
areas better suited to pearl millet. Leafy varieties of sorghum are pre-
ferred to higher yielding but less leafy types; the leafy varieties are
also of longer duration and therefore riskier. The need for stock feed
induces farmers to plant crops even under very poor conditions, typically
delayed monsoon, since at least some stock feed can be salvaged from crops
which fail.
1arming Practices
7.        In the drought prone areas farming practices are idit e well
adapted to the harsh environment, enabling a large popul.atiorn to wrest a
living from very small farms. For example, as stated earlier, crops with
different maturation periods are manipulated in the rotation to cope with
erratic rainfall. Mixed cropping to reduce risk is also normal. The
present crop substitution practices could certainly be improved upon, but



ANNEX 7
Page 3
it is only recently that research has been focused on this field and compre-
hensive recommendations have yet to emerge. Reseach is discussed in Annex 10,
but it should be mentioned here that it is also only recently that the plant
breeder has begun to improve on the varieties grown in the drought prone
areas. The only dramatic breakthrough has been the release of the pearl
millet hybrids.
8.        Cultivation is still carried out with traditional ox-drawn im-
plements; a wide blade harrow for land preparation, a simple 3 or 4 tine
seeder for planting, and a narrow blade or tined harrow for intercultiva-
tion. The system has advantages in that land preparation is quite rapid
and the seeder gives line planting which facilitates inter-row cultivation,
thus reducing weed competition. The disadvantages, as yet to be adequately
addressed in the research effort, are the preparation of a flat seed bed,
undesirable in terms of both soil and moisture conservation, and poor plant
populations resulting from uneven seeding and germination.
9.        As the foregoing would imply, there is little use of purchased in-
puts for rainfed production in the drought prone areas. A little improved
seed is purchased, particularly that of hybrid millet, but fertilizer and
pesticides are seldom used.
Crop Yields
10,       Crop yields in the project districts are very low, reflecting the
hazards of farming there. Details of estimated average yields by district
are given in Table 3. Cereal yields are in the range 250 to 350 kg/ha;
pulses, 200 to 250 kg/ha; oilseeds, excepting groundnut, around 200 kg/ha;
and groundnut about 400 kg/ha, unshelled pods. Average yields are but a
poor indicator of crop performance in areas with an erratic rainfall pat-
tern. Unfortunately more meaningful, reliable data are not available, but
weather-induced fluctuations of at least 50% around these means certainly
occur, giving rise to the periodic famines which characterize the drought
prone areas.
11.       The trend of yields over time is a good measure of an area's
agricultural performance. Again sound data are scant; such as there are,
however, indicate that average yields in the project districts are static
or declining. Data from Anantapur (Table 4) show this to be true for
sorghum, groundnut and cotton; in contrast pearl millet yields are increas-
ing, probably due to the widespread acceptance of the hybrids.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
The Extension Service
12.       The structure of the extension service varies among states, par-
ticularly as to the division of staff between local government authorities
and state departments of agriculture and to the extent that agricultural
universities involve themselves in extension. 1/
13.       At the operational level, which is of most concern to DPAP, the
district staff is headed by a District Agricultural Officer (DAO). He must
serve a farming community usually in the range of 150,000-200,000 households.
The DAO is usually supported by a group of subject matter specialists. At
the block level there is usually an Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO)
who would be an agricultural graduate with perhaps five years experience.
Each block will contain from 10,000 to 20,000 farmers. Technical control
of AEO's is the responsibility of the DAO, a departmental officer; but ad-
ministrative control lies with the Block Development Officer. (BDO), an em-
ployee of the local government body.
14.       The lowest level of extension worker is the Village Level Worker
(VLW), usually a tenth grader who receives two years training at a special
VLW training center. There are about 10 VLWs per block. They, too, are
under the administrative control of the BDO but they are the field level
representatives of many departments. Thus their responsibilities range
over public health, family planning, cooperatives, collection of statistics,
secretary to the panchayat, agricultural extension and more.
15.       Three weaknesses of the extension effort require.particular atten-
tion:
(a)  Inadequacy of Programmint.. Typically the extension worker
is simply left to exhort farmers to "do better" over a wide
range of activities. His efforts are dissipated where they
should be focused on a few activities where the biggest
gains are to be expected. In the absence of a specific
program, the worker has no target against which to measure
his own achievement and supervisors are unable to assess
performance.
(b) Divided Control. This is most pronounced and serious at the
level of the VLW. Since he serves several masters, the good
worker is overtaxed, while there is great scope for poor
workers to simply play off one agency against the next.
Work programming is difficult and answerability limited.
1/   Within states "ordinary" districts, as all project districts are,
are subject to less intensive effort than districts which are the
focus of special schemes such as the Intensive Agricultural District
Program and the Intensive Agricultural Area Program.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Tacit admission of the unsatisfactory riature of the pres-
ent arrangement can be, seen in many states where, for
the implementation of special schemes, a separate cadre
of extension workers has been created with sole responsi-
bility to the agricultural department.
(c) Staff/Farmer Ratio. There are simply too few staff
relative to the number of farmers they must serve. This
is true at all levels but again particularly so at the
village level. The VLW cannot possibly serve 1,000 fam-
ilies or more, over his wide range of responsibilities,
with any degree of effectiveness.
Other Services and IpnuSpplies
16.       Credit channels and the role of the cooperative movement therein
are discussed in Annex 14. However it must be emphasized here that no
agricultural development program can be effective without a smooth flow
of cred.it. Where the development program is aimed at large numbers of
small farmers, it is almost axiomatic that this necessitates the involve-
ment of cooperatives. At present both cooperatives and commercial banks
see dryland farming as a high risk outlet for their funds; their confidence
must be won. The present extension efforts are failing to bring financial
institutions and potential borrowers together within the framework of a
technologically sound program.
17.       Perhaps the most commonly heard complaint in the drought prone
areas at the present time is the unavailability of inputs. Fertilizer
presents the biggest problem, but seeds and pesticides are also often not
available. The present complainaants are farmers who can irrigate; dryland
farmers seldom use cash inputs, however, the supply problems must be overcome
if dryland farming is to be transformed. The chronic fertilizer shortage,
which will continue to affect India for the next few years, is one of the
main reasons for limiting the size of the dry farming project compocnent.
Clearly, at a time when fertilizer is in critically short supply, it must
be used to best advantage--namely in the irrigated and assured rainfall
tracts. The provision of limited quantities to a pilot dry farming program
would however be sound. Such a program should lay firm foundations for a
wider effort at a time when fertilizer is expected to be readily available.
Project Proposals
The Project Area
18.       Under the project, dry farming development would be undertaken
on a pilot scale only, closely linked to the dry farming research project
and subject to careful monitoring and evaluation. In keeping with the
land use and conservation principles outlined in Annex 6, the geographic
unit for development would be the watershed. In the project districts of



ANNEX 7
Page 6
the Deccan Plateau, where average holding size is betueen 4 and 5 ha, two
or three watersheds embracing about 7,500 holdings would be selected. In
the more difficult environment of Rajasthan, the initial effort would be
confined to blocks in Nagaur District where rainfall is somewhat more reli-
able. Here again watersheds containing around 7,500 holdings would be se"-
lected. The area covered would be larger than in the Deccan region because
the average holding is about 10 ha.
19.       There are several reasons for limiting the size of the initial
effort. As indicated in Annex 10, only a limited package of improved
technology can be derived from the preliminary findings of the recently
launched All-India Coordinated Research Project for Dryland Agriculture.
The extension mechanism needs to be restructured and the new approach
tested in the field. Credit at present does not reach the small dryland
farmer. New cooperative channels must be developed and the confidence of
financial institutions, currently chary of investing in high risk dry
farming, needs to be won. Finally there is the acute shortage of fer-
tilizer which is expected to last for the next several years; clearly the
limited supplies should, in the main, be used to best advantage in irrigated
and assured rainfall areas.
The Approach
20.       In the pilot program, more intensive supervision could be provided
than would be possible in a large scale development effort. A high level of
supervision should ensure that the impact of the limited available package
of technology would be sufficient to stimulate farmer interest and partici-
pation. By undertaking a pilot program immediately, the years pending a
full range of research results and freely available fertilizer supplies
would be used to advantage. New extension methods would be tested and fur-
ther refined. Improved credit flows would be established.
21.       Close links would be established between the staff of tl-.e pilot
program and those of the research stations of the Dryland Research Project
located in project districts. (At present there are stations in jodhpur,
Sholapur, Bijapur and Anantapur. A station is to be established shortly in
Ahmednagar in collaboration with the Mahatma Phule Agricultural University.)
These links would ensure that extension workers were continually exposed to
research developments and, conversely, that the researchers observed the i.r-
pact of their recommendations in the field and were kept abreast of field
level problems. The agricultural economists to be provided under the re-
search component (Annex 10) would also be closely involved in the monitoring
and evaluation so essential if a pilot program is to pave the way for devel-
opment efforts on a large scale.
The Package of Technolo-
22.       Extension recommendations must be location specific.  Given the
diverse conditions in the project area, it is impossible to detail specific
recommendations here. It is only possible to outline the nature of the re-
commendations and the principles which should govern detailed specifications.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
23.       The overriding principle should be to concentrate effort on each
area's main crops and on those factors of production through which the great-
est yield impact can be achieved. Only through such a focusing of extension
effort would it be possible to achieve the visible yield improvements neces-
sary to stimulate widespread farmer interest in the program and, in so doing,
provide the job satisfaction essential to the maintenance of staff enthusiasm.
24.       A second major principle derives from the benefits of the package
approach per se. M1ost improved practices, when applied together, interact
to produce benefits greater than the sum of the parts. Thus the improved
variety can only express its full yield potential when planted at the cor-
rect time, with proper cultural practices and adequate nutrition. The ex-
tension program must be planned so as to make this clear to the farmer, to
dissuade him from adopting isolated practices. It would also be essential
to impress on farmers that improved technology cannot eliminate weather-
induced fluctuations in arnual yields; the aim can only be to reduce these
and to improve average levels of production.
25.       The essential base for improved dryland farming is adequate soil
and moisture conservation, The extension staff would complement the work
of the soil conservatiorn E.: vice by advising farmers on the necessity for
a soundly planned, well rmii.;rLtained network of conservation works. These
are however but a second line of defense. More important, and of more im-
mediate concern to extencs:lon staff, is the need to emphasize the benefits
of contour cultivation, nautely soil and moisture conservation in situ rather
than behind intermittent bunds.
26.       Research on cultural practices has been inadequate (Annex 10).
Nevertheless there are a number of basic practices which can and should
be emphasized. Early cultivation will improve infiltration rates when
the monsoon breaks and will reduce soil erosion. 1/ The importance of a
good crop stand must be stressed with attention focused on seed rate, seed-
ing method and the use of good quality seed. Where appropriate, as in the
case of sorghum in shoot fly infested areas, seed dressing must also be in-
cluded in the extension package. Mulching will improve soil moisture reten-
tion and should be advocated wherever suitable material, such as millet husk,
would be available. (Exotic practices such as plastic and vertical mulching,
seen on research stations, should not feature in extension recommendations or
demonstration plots.) Finally the importance of clean weeding, to reduce
compeUition for moisture, must be stressed. This is normally a matter of
inter-row cultivation with bulloc1-s. However some areas are infested with
deep rooted perrennial weeds, often couch grass. Farmers should be encour-
aged to clear these by hand. The mission sees no justification for mecha-
nized deep plowing as advocated in some areas.
1/   Immediately before the onset of the monsoon, soils are hard and bullocks
weak. Earlier harvesting, when crops are physiologically mature, and
stubble cultivation, may be a useful attack on this problem (see Annex 10).



ANNEX 7
Page F_
27.       Time of planting is an important issue. However, under the
erratic rainfall conditions of the drought prone areas it is difficult
and time consuming to conduct research on this subject. To date the only
conclusive finding to emerge from the research program is that yields of
the rabi crops in the black soil regions of the Deccan Plateau could be
improved if planting were done three to four weeks ahead of the traditional
time. This would be part of the package for the region.
28.       For a number of crops the researchers have established cutoff
dates beyond which planting is likely to lead to failure. In some cases
shorter duration crops which could be planted with less risk have been
identified. The extension package must be planned with sufficient flexi-
bility to permit these crop substitution, risk reducing, practices to be
put across to farmers.
29.       Improved hybrid or varietal material is available for most crops
now grown by the farmer. However, as stated above, the extension program
should be restricted to each region's major crops; varietal recommendations
should therefore be restricted to these. They should also be limited to a
narrow range of varieties for each crop. This is particularly important in
the case of pulses and oilseeds where the plant breeder has made less impact
than on cereals and where, in consequence, several varieties are available
differing little in yield potential. Restricting the range of varietal
material to be recommended would not only simplify extension and demonstra-
tion work, it would also simplify seed supply.
30.       The ongoing and past research programs have clearly established
that the use of fertilizer increases yields of most crops grown in the
drought prone areas. What remains to be determined is the profit maaximiz-
ing dose. Pending this determination, it would be reasonable to recommend
conservative doses which, though suboptimal, would be profitable. For the
cereals, sorghum and pearl millet, recommended doses should be of the order
of 25 kg N per ha. Where phosphate is deficient the recommended dose should
be about 15 kg P 05 per ha. There appears to be no evidence to suggest a
deficiency of potassium in any of the project districts.
31.       Numerous trials have been conducted on different methods of
applying nitrogenous fertilizer. Results have been erratic and no prac-
tice has been shown superior, in terms of yields, to basal dressings at
time of planting. Nevertheless it is recommended that farmers be advised
to split the nitrogen application to cereals. The second dressing would
only be applied upon the arrival of a good monsoon. The cost of crop
failure would thus be reduced. Again it must be emphasized that the ex-
tension program should not be complicated by dabbling with such fanciful
practices as the foliar application of urea, a recommendation now in vogue
in some areas.
32.       The fertilizer recommendations for pulses should be of the order
of 10 kg N and 15 kg P205 per ha. Those for oilseeds in the range of 15 kg
N and 15 kg P205 per ha.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
33.       Pest outbreakls present an occasional problem. As mentioned above,
shoot fly, the most serious pest of sorghum, can be satisfactorily controlled
by seed dressing with carbofuran. Other than this, existing recommendations
and departmental pest control procedures are satisfactory and should be con-
tinuedt.
The Extension Service
34.       The extension service would be reorganized and expanded in project
areas. The aim would be to create a discrete cadre of extension staff. They
would work at all times with clearly defined programs and objectives. It
would thus be possible to monitor and evaluate program and staff perform-
ance.  This in turn would lead to improved programming and manpower maage-
ment; and staff able to make measurable achievements would derive greater
job satisfaction.
35.       The use of Progressive Farmers (PF) would be introduced as the
final link in the extension chain. This would have a twofold objective:
to widen the disseminaction of information and to increase program credi-
bility through the close involvement of respected members of the community.
Progressive Farmers nust be chosen from groupings which reflect the range
of farm sizes and castes.
36.       Staff and farmer training would be critical to the success of the
extension program and is discussed in Annex 11. Suffice it to say here
that training would be job oriented rather than academic. The aim would
be to give each worker a clear understanding of his role and his specific
program and objectives.
37.       The oganization of the extension service is shown in Chart 1.
The District Agricultural Officer (DAO) would be the head of the extension
service, although he would devote onily a portion of his time to project work.
The DAO is supported by a group of subject matter specialists who would be
available as needed to support project field staff and no additional spe-
cialists would be necessary.
38.       Each district is divided into development blocks and a Block
Development Officer (BDO) is at present administratively responsible for
goveniment efforts therein. Under the project, field level extension staff
would be divorced from the control of the BDO. 1/ Because of the small size
of the program, it would not be necessary, initially, to establish a block
level pzost in the extension service. If, however, the program were success-
2ul, then ex,pansion would rccquire the creation of such a post to decentral-
ize some of the workload of the DAO.
1/   Like the VLW (para 14) the BDO is a multipurpose functionary who is
unable to devote a significant share of his time and attention to
agricultural exctenfsion.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 0
39.       Under the project an Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO) would
be responsible for the extension program in each watershed, where he would
be assisted by five Village Extension Workers (VEWs). The present qualifi-
cations for AEO posts, agricultural graduate with 5 years experience, are
satisfactory. The VEW could be a recent agricultural graduate, many of
wnom are unem-ployed, a well qualified agricultural diplomate or he could
be drawn from the ranks of the existing VLWs. Academic qualifications
should be a secondary consideration to obtaining sound, well motivated staff
keen to achieve the job satisfaction associated with successful development
efforts. It would be essential, in this context, that officers for the
program be selected on the basis of interest and experience rather than
seniority.
40.       Each VEW would work with about 16 Progressive Farmers, each of
whom would represent about 30 farmers. The selection of PFs should be left
to the villagers after the objectives of the project had been explained and
discussed with them, re-selection would take place annually. Thle project
staff would have to retain the right of veto over selections however. The
present VLWs would be able to give valuable assistance in organizing meet-
ings to publicize project activity, select PFs, etc. The incremental staff
requirement and cost of the extension service are shown in Table 5.
41.       Extension program guidelines and objectives would be approved by
the District Development Authority (DDA, para 5.07). The first year's pro-
gram would be based on the recommendations of technical staff. However,
once the project was underway, the programming exercise would start with
post-harvest evaluations of performance by AEOs and VEWs. These, the find-
ings from project evaluation work, and the latest research results would be
used by a small team of technicians, built around the DAO and Chief Scien-
tist, to develop proposals for the next season. These would then be put
before the DDA. After any necessary modification and clearance they would
form the basis for the pre-season staff training sessions.
42.       The detail of the extension program would be determined by the
DAO in accordance with the guidelines agreed by the DDA. Because of the
uncertainty of the rainfall, the annual program as outlined would have to
have ample flexibility. Programming of day-to-day operations would be
undertaken in the course of field visits by the DAO and AEOs.
43.       The operation of the extension pro ,ram would be governed by the
need to ensure the closest possible contact ';etween the farmer and the ex-
tension worker and between worker and supervisor. At all levels, emphasis
would therefore be placed on field visits which would be made according to
a fixed schedule. This would be particularly important in the case of the
VEW since farmers must know of his movements in order to have frequent,
ready access to him.
44.       It is proposed that the DAO visit each watershed twice per month.
One visit would be to the office of the AEO. VEWs would attend and progress
and problems would be discussed and the following month's program agreed.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 1
The second visit would be to accompany the AEO on one of his routine field
trips to keep the DAO in touch with field activity. The DAO would involve
the district subject matter specialists in the field work as need arose.
As the program expands, this intense supervision of field work would have
to devolve on an officer at block level (para 38).
45.       The AEO would be responsible for all extension activity in a
watershed.  It is proposed that the AEO visit each of his VEWs fortn.ightly,
accompanying them in their field work and giving guidance as necessary. In
addition the AEO would have a monthly meeting in his office with his VEWs,
which the DAO would attend, for progress review and program planning. A
second monthly meeting with all VEWs would be held in the field, alternating
among VEW areas, to discuss specific problems, see particularly good farm-
ers, etc. The AEOs would be supplied with a motorcycle to give them neces-
sary Liobility. In some districts the research station might want to run
adaptive trials in the watersheds. These would then also be the responsi-
bility of the AEOo
46.       The VEW would be expected to see each Progressive Fairmer fort-
nightly. This would require four days per week on field work, visiting
two PFs per day. Since distances to be covered would be small, the VEW
would use a bicycle for transport.
47.       The Progressive Farmers, in addition to the demonstration value
of their farms, would keep in close touch with their group of about thirty
farmers. They would provide simple technical advice and would arrange for
the group to attend demonstrations and to meet or be visited by the VEW.
The incentive for farmers to become PFs would be their increased prestige
within the community. This would be enhanced by providing special training
and a number of educational visits for PFs each year. In addition the PFs
would be given inputs valued at Rs 100 each year to be used on demonstra-
tion plots.
48.       Demonstrations would be an important feature of the extension pro-
gram. IL is proposed that there be two types of demonstration plots, both
the responsibility of the VEW. At an accessible location near each vil-
lage, 1/ on a rented plot of at least one ha, a comprehensive demonstration
would be run to show the benefits of applying the best available techno-
logy to the entire farm system. This plot would be a visible demonstration
to the village at all times, in addition it could be used as required through-
out the year to show particular aspects of technology.
49.       Simpler and smaller demonstrations would be run on the holdings
of Progressive Farmers. (In the course of time the aim would be to make the
entire farm the demonstration.) These would be used in the training of the
30 farmers in the PFs group. Details and costs of the demonstration plots
are shown in Table 6.
1/   Excluding hamlets with populations below 200 families.



ANNEX 7
Page 12
50.       Adequate and timely supplies of credit and inuts.would be vital
to the success of the program. It would be a major responsibility of the
extension staff to see that these were available. They would work closely
with the staff of credit institutions: farmerst service centers, coopera-
tives and commercial banks. It is anticipated that the institutions would
come to regard the dryland farmer as a safer investment once he was backed
by a sound extension program. The credit mechanism should gradually develop
toward the pattern of a supervised credit scheme there the security deriv.es
from the recommendation of the extension worker. Securing inputs would be
largely a matter of adequate forward planning. Estimates would be built up
through the various levels of the extension staff and procurement arranged
by DAOs through district supply officers. This would be done as part of
the work of the District Agricultural Production Committee which currently
prepares input requirement projections.
51.       Existing sources of seed would be able to supply the small needs
of the pilot program. However, as expansion took place, additional seed
production might have to be organized. Similarly there should be no problem
in arranging for the small quantities of fertilizer needed initially despite
overall slhortages. However, there should be no question of expanding the
program until fertilizer is readily available.
Anticip?ated Impact of the Dry Farming Program
52.       The program would be aimed at about 40,000 farmers in 10 to 15
watersheds and spread through five of the six project districts. However
not all farmers would participate in the program. The anticipated buildup
of participation, from the start of operations in an area, is as follows:
Percent of Farmers Participating
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7
5     12.5     25     37.5     45       50      55
Thus at full development, in year 7, it is estimated that about 20,000
farmers would be benefiting from the program.
53.       The response of the individual farmer would also be gradual, he
would try out a new practice on a part of his farm and increase the area
devoted to such practices as he became convinced of their merit. Individ-
ual farmer response is estimated to grow as follows:
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3
Ha----------
Nagaur                  1       3       6.5
Other districts         1       2       3.5



ANNEX 7
Page 13
The assumed maximum area involved is less than the total cultivated area
because of fallow and because it is assumed that farmers would continue to
grow some crops not included in the program.
54.       The anticipated farm level impact of the program is shown in the
models at Tables 7 and 8.
November 4, 1974



Chart 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE~ AREAS PROJECT
aiation o       x,nnion Servc
Department of Agriculture
Di strict
Devel2opm.ent__                        _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _
Authorityj------------------
1                  District Agricultural
Officer
Research
Station
Agricultural               A-              E
Extension
Officer
"VW~            V"Illage,                  EW           'VEW
16 PFs      16 PFS    16 Prog~ressive Fams16 PFs                      16 PFs



INDIA
DRiOUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
IMroving Prland Farming
Farm Size Distribution
< 2 ha         Z 3 ha            <4 ha           < 5 ha          <6 ha              O 10 ha      < 12 ha
% of    % of    % of   % of      % of   % of     % of   % of     % of    % of    % of    % of    % of    % of
District      Holdings Area    Holdings Area   Holdings Area   Holdings Area   Holdings Area    Holdings Area   Holdings Area
JODHPUR         7.4      na      13.2    na      17.9    na      26.5     na     30.0     na       --     5- 56.7         na
NAGAUR          7.5      na      15.2    na      21.2    na      32.3     na     36.4     na      --              66.8    na
AHNEDNAGAR     41.6     9.9      --              65.8   26.5      --      --     79.0    42.6     --      --      --      --
SHOLAPUR       30.8     5.4       --     --      53.6    17.5     --      --     70.2    31.9     --      --       --     --
BIJAPUR        25.4     5.0      39.6   10.9     50.9   17.5     59.2    23.8     --      --      83.4   52.8      --     --
ANANTAPUR      45.0    10.1       --     --       --      --     76.1    32.2     --      --      90.0   55.2



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Improving  rand Fanaing
Composite Cropping Patterns in Project Districts
JODHPUR & NAGAUR         AHMEDNAGAR             SHOLAPUR              BIJAPUR       -      ANANTAPUR
% of                  %of                   % of                  % of                  % of
% of Cropped          % of Cropped          % of  Cropped         % of Cropped          % of Cropped
Crop                      a    Farm   Area     Ha.   Farm   Area     Ha.   Farm   Area     Ha.   Farm   Area     Ha.   Farm   Area
Sorghum                  0.3      3      4     1.6    -40     43     2.6     64     68     1.6     40     44     0.5     15     23
Pearl millet             4.5     45    654     1.i4    35     38     0.3      8      8     -0.6    15     17-    0.2      7      9
Setaria millet            -             --                                                                       0.5     15    '23
Wheat  0. --                                    --      --     --    -       --            0.3      7      8             7-     -
Pulses                   1.8     18     26     0.5     12     14     0.5     12     13     0.3      8      8     0.3     10     13
Groundnut                --      --     --     --      -- .          0.2      6      6   -0.2       5      6     0.7     25     32
Sesame                   0Xl      4  .   6.    --      --     --      -      --     --     --      --     --     -       --     --
Safflower                --      0-   .        O .2     5 -          0.-2     5      5     0.2      5    6       --      --     --
Cotton                   --      --     --     --      --     --     --                     .4     10     11     --      --     --
Minor crops. and fallow  3.0     30     --     0.3      8     --     0.2      5     --     0.4     10     --     0.8     28     --
Totals v             10.0    100    100     4.0    100    100     4.0    100    100     4.0    100    100     3.0    100    100
Average District
Farm Size         11.7                   4.1                   5.5                   5.9                   4.2-
1/ The sizes chosen are nearer the mode than the mean
in order better to represent the majority of farms.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Ixiproving         Farmin
Estimated Average Crop Yields
(-Kg per heetare)
CrJp TODHPUR & NAGAUR                   -AIDNAGAR         SHOLAPUR        BIJAPU-R      ANiANTAPUR
Sorghum                  120                 350            350             350             300
Pearl millet             200                 275             275            275             250
JWheat                                        4-C0                                           --
Setaria v*iilet           -                   --              --             --             250
Groundnut                                    4 -00                          40 h0O          350
Pulses                   170,                250             250            250             200
C otton                   --                  --             --             200
Sesame                   1 00
Safflower                 --                 200             200            200
CD L~



Table 4
I I4DIA
DROUGHT PONEi AREAS PiROJECT
Improving Dryland Farming
*Curop Growth Rates   Anantaur,
Crop               Area            Yield           Production
- -- ercent change per annim --------
Sorghum   .         -0.98          -0.01             -0 .99
Pearl millet       -1.21           +) .31            -0.83
Groundnut           -O.62          -3.58             -3.97
Cotton             -4.27           -2.34             -6. '19



ANNJEX 7
Table 5
INIIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Improving Dryland Farmin
Incremental Cost of Extension - District. /
Unit Cost       Year 1        Years 2-5
Unit        Hs        No.       Rs    No.       Rs
A. Investment 2/
Demonstrations - large 3/       No.      3,000        30   90,000              --
Office equipmvent - AE0         Set      1,000         3    3,000             --
Office equipment - VEW          Set        500        15    7,500             --
Motorcycle - AEO                No.      8,000         3   24,000              --
Bicycle - VEW                   No.        600        15   . 9,000            --
Total Investment Cost                                   133,500             --
B. Operating
Salaries
A ri. Extension Officer       Man yr. 4,000          3   12,000      3   12,000
Cferk                           "      1,200         3    3,600      3    3,600
Village Extension Worker               3,000        15   45,000     15   45,000
Laborer                                1,000        30   30,000     30    30,000
Sub-Total                                              90,600          90,600
Staff Allowances
Dearness                        --       --              81,500          81,500
Other                           2- --                    28,500          28,500
Sub-Total                                             110,000         110,000
Other
Office running                No.      1,700        18   30,600     18   30,600
Motorcycle running            No.      2,400         3    7,200      3    7,200
(12,000 km/yr @ Rs 0.20)
Demonstrations - large 3/     No.      1,000        30   30,000     30   30,000
Demonstrations - small  3/    No.        100       240   24,00O    240   24,oo0
Training visits 4/            No.        500        20   10,000     20   102000
Sub-Total                                             101,800         101,800
Total Operating Costs                                     302,400         302,400
1/  Project cost is 5 times District cost.
2/ Assume 5 year life for demionstration implements, motorcycle and bicyle;
assume 10 year life for office equipment.
3/  See Table 6.
4/  Education visits for extension staff and Progressive Farmers using hired buses.



ANNEX 7
Table 6
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
.I IgR  vin2 Drsland Farming
Cost of Demonstration Plots
Large Plot O-One Ha
Unit    Unit Cost      No.          Rs
Capital
Fence                      m          3.75        400       1,500
Imlplements                                                 1.500
3,000
Recurrent
Rent 2/                    ha       500             1         500
Fertilizer                 kg         2.50         40         100
Seed                                                           25
Bullock hire            per day      10.00         20         200
Pesticide             .25
Miscellaneous                                                 150
1,000
I/  Set of local implements (plow,' blade harrow, seeder,
blade hoe, tine hoe) plus combined seed/fertilizer drill
and sprayer.  Assume 5-6 years life.
2/  Plots would be leased for the 5 year duration of the project
to ensure continuity.
Small Plot -.0.5 Ha
. .RS
Recurrent
Fertilizer                                                     50
Seed                                                           12
Pesticide                                                      14
Miscellaneous                                                  24
100



INDIA
DROUGHT PRON? AREAS PROJECT
Improving        Farmin
Four Hectare Farm Model l/
Cropping Pattern                                      Production      -
2/                     Year 3 &         ied                                     Year 3 &
roYe                             02     Year 1   Year 2   Thereafter      Kg/Ha      Year 0    Year 1    Year 2    Thereafter
----------Ha ----------------------------------               ---- Kgs ---------------------
Sorghum - traditional          1.          05        --         --           4OO        600       200                     --
- improved              --         1.0      1$5        1.5           750          --      750     1,125       1,125
Millet - traditional           1.3         1.3      0.8          --          315        410       410        252          --
- improved               --          -     c 05         1.3           600         --        --       300         780
Pulse - traditional            0.5         0.5      0$5         --           290        145      145       145           --
- improved                --          --       -         05            500         --        --        --         250
Oilseed - traditional          0.2         0.2      0.2         --           230         46        46        46           --
- imprrved              --          --       -         0.2           400         --        --        --          80
Fallow/minor crop              0.3         0,3      0.3        0.3           850        255       255        255         255
Bund - plantec  grass          0.2         0.2      0.2        0.2         2,000        )J00      400       400         400
f/ To represent conditions in Ahmednagar, Sholapur, Bijapur and Anantapur.
/   Year 0 = without project. In order to show the ixneremental impact of the crop improvement program,
the twithout projectt case assumes bunding.
/ Traditional present practices
Improved - the application of a package of technology as described in the text.
Ii! The 'traditional' yields include the 15% impact of bunrding.
CD



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
IMproving Pr land Farming
Four Hectare Farm Model
Pro Forma Income Statement
Year 3 &
1/        Year 0           Year 1         Year 2       Thereafter
Price -              Value          Value          Value            Value
Unit      Rs        No.       Rs      No.     Rs     No.     Re     No.      Rs
Sales
Sorghum                                Kg       0.90      600       540    950     855  1,125   1,013  1,125    1,013
Millet                                 Kg       0.80      410       328    410     328    552     442     780      624
Pulse                                  Kg       1.12      145       162    145     162    145     162    250      280
Oilseed                                Kg       1.40       46        64     46      64     46      64     80      112
Forage - from fallow                   Kg       0.06      255        15    255      15    255      15    255        15
Forage - from bund                     Kg       0.08      400        32    400      32    400       2    400       32
Total Sales                          1~141                                     11456          1,728           2,076
Costs (excluding labor) ./
Seed   /                                                             39             89            123             167
Fertilizer   /                                                       --             84            168             274
Pesticide   ./                                                       --             10             20               40
Interest. on annual credit ()20                                                                    33              51
Tctal Costs                                                        39            203            3144            532
Net Income                                                        1,102          1,253          1,384            1,544
Incremental Income                                                   --            151            282              442
Labor - man days                                                    350            430            500             525
1/  Prices from Annex 16.                                                                               Kgs nutrient-per ha
2/ Labor omitted because the requirement can be met by family, hence no cash cost.        L   Crop      N       P        K
3/ Sorghum - traditional: 7.5 kgs/ha @ Rs 0.70/kg (grain price)
- improved:  7.5 kgs/ha ( Rs 2/kg + Rs 40/ha for   carboforan treatment           Sorghum   25     15        0
Millet - traditional:   2.5 kg/ha @ Rs 0.70/kg (grain price)                              Millet    25     15        0
- improved:  2.5 kg/ha @ Rs 8/kg                                                   Pulse     10  ' 15         0
Pulse - traditional:  Rs 50/ha     ) Representative figures for a range of types.         Oilseed   15     15        0
- improved: Rs 100/ha        )  'Traditional' figures reflect grain value
Oilseed - traditional:  Rs 20/ha   )  'Improved' seed replaced only every 4 years.         One kg of2 nutrent (N or P) priced
-ipovd      Re 40/ha      '                                                      at Re 2.10 -the retail price in
Oct. 1973. (The price of the main
nitrogenous fertilizers is fixed by
/ Rs 20 per ha, only portion of farm treated annually.                                         0OI under the Essential Commodities
Act.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE ARES PROJECT
Improving Dryland FaLnin
Ten Hectare Farm Model-/
,-   &/    ate                                       Production
Year 3 &        Yield                                  Year 3 &
Year 0    Year 1    'Year 2   Thereafter      Kg/a     Year 0    Year 1    Year 2    Thereafter
--------                                                       -  Kgs --------------
iI-illet - traditional        4.5       3.5       240         --           230    1,035        805       460         --
- imaproved             --       140       2.5        4.5          450       --        450      1,125      2,025
Pulse - traditional           1.7       1.7       1.2         --          200       340        340       240         --
- ixproved              --         --       0.5        1.7          350       --          --       175        595
Oilseed - tradiltional        0.3       0.3       0,3                     115        35         35        35         --
- imprved             --         --        --        0.3          300       --          --        --         90
Fallow/minor crop             3.0       3.0       3.0        3.0           850    2,550      2,550     2,550      2,550
Band - planted grass          0.5       0,5       0.5        0.5        1,500       750        750       750        750
1/ Representative of the project area in iagau- Disstrict.
J I



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Improving Dryland. Farming
Ten Hectare Farm Norle1
Pro Forms Income Statement -
Year 0          Year 1         Year 2Y              &
Price           Value          Value           Value          Value
Unit             No.     Rs     No.      Rs     No.     Rs      No.     Rs
Sales
Millet                                 Kg    0.80   1,035      828 1,255    1,004   1,585   1,268  22025   1,620
Pulse                                  Kg    1.12     340      381    340     381    415      465    595     666
Oilseed                                Kg    1.40       35      49     35      49      35      49     90     126
Forage - from fallow                   Kg    0.06   2,550      153  2,550     153  2,550      153  2,550     153
Forage - frcm bund                     Kg    0.08     750       60      0      60     7=O      60    750      60
Total Sales                                              j471             1,647 l---& 2,625
Costs (excluding labor)
Seed                                                           108            117             170            272
Fertilizer 2/                                                   --             63             179            368
Pesticide                                                       --             10              30             60
Interest on. annual credit                                      --             18              36             67
Total Costs                                                 108             208            41~             767
Net Income                                                   1,363          1,439           1,580          1,858
Incremental Income                                             --              76             217             495
Labor - man days                                              400             400             450            500
1/  See footno tes to Table 7.               cK    t    t
2/  Lower rates for Nagaur        Crop        N       P      K
lillet    20       10      0                                                              ii
P.se        8      12      0                                                             oq
0    d-j.  10      10      0
CX)D



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDTA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Livestock Production
Livestock in Drought Prone Areas
1.        The Indian farmers' principal interest is the production of food
crops. This is particularly true of drought prone areas wlhere, due to
generally low and erratic yields, average production barely meets subsistence
requirements.  Under these conditions farm. animals are not just a source of
farm power or family food supply, but become the major, and often only,
source of cash income. In order to reach a higher cash income; to have
insurance against crop failure in years of drought--when stock are sold to
obtain staple food; and, not least, in response to the tradition of communal
pasturage; farmers keep the maximum possible number of stock.
2.        Over long periods these conditions have led to a critical stock
feed supply situation: all by-products from arable farming, all forage
material from fallows; wastelands, forests, etc., are used for ruminants;
virtually nothing with a potential feed value goes to waste. Critical
overgrazing and degradation of all non-arable lands is the common situation,
and the major traits of all stock are low productivity but the ability to
survive and reproduce under permanent conditons of underfeeding.
Livestock Production
3.        In 1970-71 livestock constituted about 14% of the total output of
agriculture in India, which in turn was about 45% of net national production.
Agriculture contributed about 35% of exports of which about 5% was livestock
products. These are poor performances from the very high livestock popula-
tion--177 million cattle, 56 million buffalo, 44 million sheep and 70 mil-
lion goats.
Cattle and Buffalo
4.        Cattle are the most important farm animals, both numerically and
commercially, being kept for milk production and for draught power.
Estimated cattle numbers in the six districts of the project are listed
in Table 1. Statistics indicate that cattle numbers have remained rather
stable during recent years.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.        Cattle ownership is widely dispersed.  The average farm in the
Rajasthan districts would have about 4.5 head of cattle; in the other
districts, where average farms are smaller (4 ha versus 10 ha), the average
farm has about 2.5 head of cattle.
6.        The important draught breeds in the project area are Khillari,
Hallikar and Kherigarh. Milk production is mainly based on dual purpose
breeds like Rathi, Tharparker, Kankrej and Hariana. The dairy breeds,
Sahiwal, Red Sindhj and Gir are found mainly in the herds of city milk
producers.
7.        Performance of indigenous breeds is generally low.   They are slow
maturing, with first parturition at about 4 years, and have low milk yields.
Average milk production potential of the dual purpose breeds is estimated
at 800-1,000 liters in 220-240 day lactations, and that of draught breeds
at about 600 liters in 200 day lactations. Cows of all breeds need the
calf at foot in order to induce let-down.   At present, much lower average
yields are attained on most farms due to inadequate feeding and faulty
cattle management. Average calving rate is about 55-60%. Calf mortality
up to one year of age is very high, about 20%.
8.        The only husbandry system of importance to the project is that
of the traditional small farmer, who uses cattle as draught power for his
arable farming. He raises his own replacements and all cows are milked
during lactation periods; thus milk production is a by-product of raising
draught animals. Most of the dry fooder, cereal straw and other crop
residues, and a portion of the little concentrate fed for milk, are pro-
duced on the farm.  During the rainy season, cattle are herded on :ran,Lruianal
grazing lands, and after the harvest stubbles are grazed.   Throughoo,it, the
year this husbandry system provides only very low-quality roughagewa'0d:ch
is hardly sufficient for the animals' maintenance requirements. Irwar-{{\Cised
milk production would therefore depend mainly on concentrate feeding.
9.        There is a considerable number of buffalo il the project area
(Table 1). However buffalo are inefficient milk producers relative to
cattle because of their higher body weight and longer intercalving period.
Official government policy therefore discourages the expansion of milk
production from buffalo, in consequence they play a secondary role in the
proposed project.
Sheep and Goats
10.       There are about 16 million sheep on the plains of the northwest
and 21 million in the peninsula region. About 20% of the sheep in the
northwest and 10% of those in the south are migratory. Sheep numbers in
the project districts are listed in Table 1. Typically, sheep are owned
by the smaller farmers or landless families in flocks of 20-30 if kept in
sedentary husbandry, and of 40-50 per shepherd in migratory husbandry.
11.       Good quality carpet wool is produced in the northwestern plains.
This area is also the hometract of some of the outstanding indigenous fine



ANNEX 8
Page 3
wool breeds. Sheep in the project districts outside Rajasthan produce mostly
coarse and colored wool. Anantapur district has a large percentage of hair
sheep. Average yield of greasy wool is about 0.8 - 1.0 kg in three clips
per year. Because of the seasonality and marginality of feed supply none
of the indigenous breeds has been improved successfully for mutton production.
However some significant breed differences exist in the final weight of
mature ewes, ranging from 20 to 35 kg. Lambing takes place throughout the
year but, due to the better quality of grazing during the wet season, the
main lamb crop is born at the onset of the dry season on a declining plane
of nutrition. On average, about 50 single lambs are weaned per year from
100 mature ewes and mortality up to 2 years of age is about 25%. Yearling
rams weigh between 15 and 20 kg.
12.       Sheep are kept to utilize sources of roughage which are insuffi-
cient to sustain cattle; they are, therefore, always dependent upon the
more marginal fodder source. In sedentary husbandry, sheep are grazed on
government or community owned waste lands in the vicinity of their owners'
homesteads during the crop grovwing season (August-January), and on crop
stubble from February to June. No grazing fees are paid. In migratory
husbandry, pooled flocks travel long distances between their custo3mary
sumner (wet) and winter (dry) season grazing grounds. Important migratory
routes in the project area are between wet season rangeland grazing in
Jodhpur and Nagaur districts and dry season forest grazing in the central
regions of India. Grazing fees have to be paid to the state forest depart-
ments for winter forest grazing. In both migratory and sedentary husbandry
systems the dry season feed supply is critical; mobility and ability to
survive are the most important traits of all breeds.
13.       Goat numbers in the Droject districts are listed in Table 1.
During the recent years of drought, goat numbers. have increased considerably.
In Jodhpur district, for instance, the goat population increased by 80%
between 1966 and 1972.  Goats can survive periods of drought because they
browse on shrubs and vegetation which is unpalatable to cattle and sheep.
But, in their ability to survive, the goats frequently destroy the final
remnants of the vegetative cover. In the project districts goats are always
kept in mixed flocks together with sheep. Their preponderance may be taken
as an indicator of range degradation, or vice versa.   Goats are superior to
sheep in their reproductive performance and similar in growth rate. They
are therefore good for mutton production, particularly in poorer environments.
Feed Situa tion
14.       The two project districts in Rajasthan carry an average 3.3 sheep
units per hectare of total surface area 1/. In the other districts this
f:igurce is 4.3 sheep units per ha (Table 1). These figures indicate the most
serious impediment to livestock development in all drought areas; tile present
rate of overstocking with low producing animals. The severity of feed
1/   Sheep unit: Nature ewe with lamb plus her proportion of female replace-
ments and rams. Conversion: one buffaloe equals 10, one head of cattle
8, sheep units.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
shortage is most acute for sheep as they rely on rangeland, wasteland
or stubble "grazing" throughout the year. The reduction of their numbers
during recent years, while other farm animal populations stagnated or in-
creased (goats), indicates the critical balance of their feed supply. An
outline of the feed balance in the project area is given in Appendix I.
Disease Situation
15.       Livestock in India has been periodically decimated by outbreaks of
infectious diseases.   In the past, rinderpest was the most serious disease,
and its virtual eradication has been a major achievement. Foot-and-mouth
is now considered to be the most important infectious disease. It rarely
causes heavy mortality in indigenous animals but is nevertheless costly,
as the repeated attacks reduce milk yields, fertility and working ability,
16.       Haemorrhagic septicaemia causes many deaths among cattle and
buffaloes. An effective vaccine is available, but not in sufficient
quantity. Entero-toxemia occurs in sheep during the rainy season; an
effective vaccine is now being produced. Considerable losses occur among
sheep and goats from pneumonia when flocks are crowded into yards or sheds
overnight; these losses are the result of mismanagement rather than a
specific infection. Sheep pox is endemic and sometimes causes losses among
flocks on the open range. Black quarter, along with anthrax and tetanus
are also endemic but locally produced vaccines are available.
17.       External and internal parasites occur but are not a major problem
in the dry project areas among indigenous stock. However control measures
would have to be adopted to safeguard improved stock kept under more in-
tensive management.
Marketing and Prices
Milk
18.       Milk and milk products are by far the most important sources of
animal protein in India and are acceptable to practically all segments of
the population. However daily per capita consumption is low, only about
114 grams compared with 730 grams for the U.S. In the rural areas cows
are traditionally milked for family milk supply. Surplus milk is converted
into ghee which can be stored. The ghee is sold to middlemen who collect
it at about monthly intervals. At present they pay about Rs 15/kg of ghee;
thus the farmer realizes Rs 0.60 or Rs 1.15/kg for cows' or buffaloes' milk
respectively 1/. The ghee is sold in the towns at Rs 18-20/kg. Rural
dairying is an activity in which women have almost sole responsibility.
They normally also receive the cash income from the dairy enterprise.
1/   1 kg of ghee requires 25 liters of cows' milk or 13 liters of buffalo
milk.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
19.        Milk producers in and around (10-15 km) urban areas sell fresh
milk twice daily to middlemen who supply fixed groups of customers. Normally,
only one middleman comes between the producer and the consumer, the so-called
"dudhia" who is frequently an employee of the milk producer. Often milk is
diluted with water which results in price differentials even among the
customers of the same middleman. Retail prices vary considerably with
season being highest during the hot part of the year from March/April to
September. Typical retail prices of slightly adulterated milk would be:
April - Sept.   Nov. - March
Cows' milk per liter         Rs 1.70 - 2.00   Rs 1.30 - 1.60
Buffaloes' milk per liter    Rs 2.20 - 2.50 Rs 1.80 - 2.00
The producers would receive the above prices minus about Rs 0.10-0.15 for
the middleman. These prices are high relative to average income levels
and indicate that the demand for fresh milk remains unsatisfied.
20.       Government schemes for the collection, processing and marketing
of milk have started in most project districts. One, in Jodhpur, has been
prepared with the assistance of the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB)
and is being developed according to the AMUIJL pattern 1/ by a NDDB spearhead
Team. In the other project districts, however, the pattern of development
is simpler, probably because they do not have the characteristics of poten-
tial milk sheds. There governments have introduced a few modest resources
like milk collection routes, chilling centers, etc., which create a regular
outlet of milk in rural areas at ex-farm prices exceeding the utilization
value of milk for ghee. These government sch'emens may be considered as
precursors to a full fledged dairy development along the AMUL pattern.   In
all schemes, cows' milk is purchased from producers at Rs 0.80 - 1.210/liter,
depending on season and state, and is retailed at Rs 1.30 -1.60/liter.   All
government schemes ration the sale of milk to consumers.
1/   AMUL means "priceless, beyond va"Xlue" in Hindi and is an abbreviation
of Aniand Milk Union Ltd. It is the union that serves 783 village
cooperative societies made up of about 225,000 member-families in Kaira
District, Gujarat State.  It is also known as the Xaira District Milk
Producers Cooperative Union, Ltd., with its headquarters at Anand
city.  The formation and operation of AMUL is outside the influence
of Government, and its operation has been so successful that Government
now uses it as the model for dairy developments in other areas of
India.  The Union serves all its village cooperative societies in the
day-to-day execution of their functions. It manages the resources
needed to process the milk collected in the villages and to provide
villagers with low-cost concentrate feed, milh: transport, veterinary
service, artificial insemination service, and extension and management
guidance. The Union has a management board made up of nine members
representing the societies, the District Cooperative Bank, the District
Registrar, three individual members and a dairy expert.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
21.       When farmers are assuired of a better price for their milk than they
currently get through selling ghee, they will have an incentive to use con-
centrates. This is essential to increase milk production. Farmers at pre-
sent pay Rs 800-900 per ton for concentrates.
Live Animals
22.       All rural areas have established, regular livestock maikets where
surplus animals are sold. Draught oxen are often sold in pairs at an average
price of about Rs 1,500. Dairy cows are sold by milk yield at about Rs 100
per liter of milk yielded in 24 hours. Prices are the same for cattle and
buffalo. For religious reasons there is a ban or severe restriction on
cattle slaughter in most states (none less than 15 years of age) and very
little beef is consumed. Most that is eaten comes from buffaloes, since
there are fewer restrictions on their slaughter. This impedes the disposal
of unproductive stock. Despite a need for changes in the slaughter policy,
to reduce the large number of unproductive cattle and Duffaloe which cur-
rently consume about one-half of the total livestock feed resources, it is
unlikely that material changes will take place in the foreseeable future.
Increasing numbers of farmers, however, have a materialistic attitude towards
the disposal of undesirable cattle. In such transactions cull cows are sold
for about Rs 50, i.e., the value of the hide.
23.       Goats and sheep can be slaughtered in all registered abattoirs;
these are always managed by municipalities. The butcher-retailers purchase
the animals they need for the next day a few hours prior to the early
morning slaughter. This transaction takes place in a market which is
always close to the slaughterhouse and where animals have been driven or
trucked by middlemen. The slaughtering is carried out by staff of the
abattoir at a fee from the retailer to the municipality of about Rs 0.50
per sheep or goat.
24.       Farmgate prices for sheep vary beLween Rs 1.00/kg liveweiaht for
culled ewes and Rs 2.00/kg liveweight for inale weaners. The price in village
markets goes up to about Rs 3.00/kg livel.,eig,ht. Retail prices of mutton in
the large cities vary between Rs 6.00 and 7.00/kg (bone-in).
Wool
25.       Nearly all.wool is marketed through middlemen; the wool grading
and marketing centers which have been established in some states have not
been able to obtain a significant market share due to their administrative
inflexibility. Producers obtain about Rs 5.00 per kg of coarse wool and
up to Rs 15.00 per kg of fine wool. About 16-18 million kg of fine wool is
imported annually by large woolen mills which manufacture for re-export.
These mills are operating at only 40% of capacity because the quantity of
wool they can import under GOI imposed ceilings has declined with increases
in the world wool price. There is therefore a strong demand for domestic
fine wool.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
Supporting Services -
26.       The state departments of animal husbandry have primary responsi-
bility for the formulation and implementation of livestock development
programs and for the organization and execution of veterinary and extension
services. Various GOI authorities issue broad development guidelines and
programs based on them are frequently given GOI financial support in sub-
sequent 5 year plans. However, program implementation remains the sole
responsibility of the states. In the project area Rajasthan has a Depart-
ment of Sheep and Wool in addition to its Department of Animal Husbandry.
Veterinary Services
27.       Each district has about 10 veterinary hospitals which are sup-
plemented by mobile veterinary units and veterinary dispensaries. Veterinary
services are coordinated by the District Animal Husbandry Officer, a fully
qualified veterinarian who is technically supervised by the Department of
Animal Husbandry, but administratively answerable to the Collector.  All
veterinary services are free of charge; however, the limited availability
of biologicals and of funds for field work seriously impedes the effectiveness
of the service.
28.       Veterinary diagnostic facilities are limited.  Some states plan the
establishment of disease investigation laboratories which assisted by mobile
veterinary units, would investigate stock losses to determine the presence
of notifiable infectious diseases.
29.       The Indian Veterinary <esearch Institute (I\VRI) at Izatnagar
has overall responsibility for the production and standards of vaccines.
It is supported by 15.production centres for biologicals of which there is
one in each of the states participating in the project.
Extension
30.       Animal husbandry departments have concentrated their efforts on
disease control, artificial insemination and the implementation of GOI
sponsored development schemes. The Rajasthan Department of Sheep and Wool
works mainly on wool marketing and grad-ing.  An effective livestock pro-
duxction extension service does not exist in Indi.a,
31.      There is a serious shortage of staff qualified to advise on
-ivestock production. Most officers entering Government service in the
livestock sector have been trained at colleges of veterinary and animal
sciences. These colleges normally have two wings at the undergraduate
level, one for veterinary science and one for animal production, but major
emphasis in teaching is on veterinary matters. There is an urgent need
for specialized training in modern techniques of livestock production,
feeding and management in semi-arid areas.
1/   Research is discussed in Annex 10.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
32.       At the district level, information is disseminated through the
veterinary hospitals and dispensaries. Little attempt is made to reach
farmers in their villages. Livestock officers working in government
development schemes do go into the villages, but there are too many far-
mers (1,500-2,000) per officer.   Similarly, Village Level Workers have too
many farmers to deal with, and livestock production is only a minor part
of their wide responsibilities.
Education and Training
33.       India has 21 veterinary colleges with an annual outturn of
veterinarians adequate for foreseeable needs. However few of the graduates
from agricultural universities and colleges major in animal husbandry. More
will be needed to support future livestock development programs. The
National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) at Karnal provides under- and
post-graduate training in dairying.
Artificial Insemination
34.       The development of AI facilities for cattle and sheep is con-
sidered a major tool for production promotion. This is consistent with the
view expressed in government policy that a rapid and massive infusion of
exotic blood is essential for increasing production. This approach may be
correct for improving the dairy qualities of cattle in well-watered areas.
However the merit of upgrading cows to be milked in drought prone areas
needs further consideration. So also does the use of AI in sheep. Obviously,
expensive imported rams could be used more fully with AI. However, the
techniques of semen conservation and distribution needs further investigation.
Also real difficulties exist in heat detection and assembly of ewes for
insemination under the present systems of sheep husbandry.
35.       The number of cattle inseminations carried out annually at present
is about 3.4 million. Most of these involve liquid semen, although some
frozen semen is used in intensive crossbreeding areas. Conception rates
vary tremendously, from abcet 20% to 70%, reflecting considerable variability
in management and technique, and indicating great scope for improvement,
especially with respect to timing of inseminations.
Government Schemes
36.       India has at present 62 Intensive Cattle Development Projects
(ICDP). Some states have just started with Intensive Sheep Development
Projects. The approach in the Intensive Cattle (or Sheep) Development
Projects is to improve infrastructure and services in a package program.
This starts off, for instance, with veterinary services, artificial inaemi-
nation, provision of fodder seeds, etc., and may go as far as establishing
milk collection routes, chilling centers or small milk processing units.
All services are provided by Government.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
37.       Under the Small Farmers Development Agency (SFDA) and the Marginal
Farmers and Agricultural Laborers Project (MFAL), dairy animals, mainly
she-buffaloes, are provided to eligible families on a part grant, part loan
basis. Some states also have ram-distribution schemes under which cross-
bred rams, owned by government, are loaned free of charge to sheep owners
duri-ng the breeding seasons.
Bilateral and Multilateral Support
38.       Programs to upgrade local dairy stock and to improve feeding,
husbanidry and to provide a better market outlet have been assisted by
Denmark, Germany and Switzerland in Mysore, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala
respectively. High quality dairy animals have been imported under assistance
from Australia and the USA. Significant contributions in animal husbandry
education and research have been made by USAID.  In the sheep sector, the
Australian Government is providing capital and technical assistance for the
establishment of fodder seed and ram multiplication farms. Russian capital
aid has been used for the importation of considerable numbers of Russian
Merinos,
39       'Multilateral aid to dairy development has been concerned with
breed improvement (FAO/UNDP at Haringhata), dairy plant equipment (UNICEF
at Kaira), feed rhill equipment (Freedom from Hunger Campaign at Kaira), feed
grain donation (WFP at Kaira), the donation of skim milk powder and butter
oil (WFP in "Operation Flood" see para 42), and technical assistance in the
field of dairy engineering to the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB)
by FAOa FAO/UNDP projects continue to assist the development of the Grass-
land and Fodder Research Institute at Jhansi and its sub-stations, and have
assisted the development of woul grading and marketing centers in Rajasthan
and othier states with major wool-sheep populations.
Governmexnt Plans and Policies
40.       During the first three Five-Year Plans (1954-1969), GOI expended
Rs 22.1 mnillioin for all agricultural programs. Of this, 8% was spent for
animal husbandry and dairy development. During these years, when all programs
were justly biased towards food grain production, the major achievement in
the livestock sector was the formulation of GOI and state dairy development
po ic:ies a
41.       During the Fourth Five-Year Plan which termnAlnted March 31, 1974,
expenditures for animal husbandry have been about Rs 780 million and for
-i,ilk r,ocessing and distribution about Rs 820 million.  The latter consists
ma.  y of Qperat :.on Flood,  The World Food Programme (WFP) is providing over
a 5 v-'.Lr ;o-iod (1969 to 1974) 126,000 tons of skim milk powder and 42,000
tons of butter oil for recombination into liquid milk at processing plants
in NeA DeiTihi, Bombay, Calcutta and Madras. Profits from the sale of this



ANNEX 8
Page 1 0
milk are to be used to finance developments which aim at improving milk
processing facilities and increasing milk supplies to these four largest
cities in India.  Imbalances in the supply and demand would be removed
through a National Milk Grid. Operation Flood is managed by the Indian
Dairy Corporation (IDC).
42.       In general, the first four plans' objectives have not been
reached. Many of the dairy plants erected are operating at 60% of capacity
or less. This shortfall reflects a more serious problem, namely a growth
rate of only about 2% per year in milk production since 1951. This has
been inadequate to keep pace with population growth; per capita consumption
of milk fell from 130 grams in 1951 to 114 grams in 1970. Planners now
recognize that there has been little incentive to produce milk.   The farmer
usually had to sell, via middlemen, to a government-owned dairy which was
inefficiently run and set low prices, reflecting a consumer rather than
producer orientation. To improve matters GO and state governments are now
encouraging the setting up of producer cooperatives based on the experience
of AMUL. This is a commercial approach that provides attractive financial
and social incentives for farmers to go into dairying.
43.       Under the up-coming Fifth Five Year Plan, dairy development is to
receive unprecedented priority; a total expendiLture of Rs 7,000 million has
been proposed. The basic thrust will be on programs that will integrate
the industry from the farmers' level to the consumer. Most of the funds
will come from domestic sources but significant contributions are expected
to be received from multilateral and bilateral sources. WFP will continue
to support Operation Flood. Also, for the first time, the Bank Group is
providing support to this sub-sector by financing AMUL-type developments
in a number of states and by aiding the Drought Prone Areas Project under
which first steps towards AMUL-type developments will be taken in these
drier areas.
44.       The Fifth Five-Year Plan also gives unprecedented importance to
sheep development. Rs 50 million has been earmarked for new 'developments
in this sub-sector. The intentions are to raise the income of sheep owners
who normally belong to the poorer section of the rural population, to
supply the type of wool which now has to be imported for the local manufac-
turing industry, and to produce more and better quality mutton for urban
areas. Probably of even greater importance would be the objective to
develop systems of rangeland reclamation and utilization which can be
applied under different ecological conditions and which would bring about
that measure of farmers' participation without which wider developments in
this sector are impossible.



ANNEX 8
Page 11
Dai   Developmert Proposals
Village Societies
45.       Major activity under the project would center around the work of
Spearhead Teams 1/. These would be mobile units which would publicize pro-
ject activity an_d assist groups of willing farmers in the formation of pro-
ducer cooperatives. For five years after formation the teams would help
manage societies and provide them with technical services. Each team,
working out of the office of the District Animal Husbandry Officer, would
take care of 40 societies. The composition and cost of a team are shown
in Table 2. Teams would be trained at AMUIL where existing facilities would
be adequate. The greatest increment of teams under the project would be
seven in year two (Table 3).
46.       The work of the teams would be governed by the following para-
meters:
(a) promotion of societies would be restricted to groups of
farmers who reside in one village or several neighboring
villages and own at least 300 mature cows; and
(b)  a potential milk collection route would have a minimum
of eight societies within a route length of approximately
120 km.
Investments, operating expenses and projected cash flows for primary
societies are showni in Tables 4a, b and c. Projected buildup of milk
volumes is presented in Table 5.
Farm Development
47.       It is anticipated that farmer participation within a group would
build up as follows: year 1, 50%; year 2, 67%; year 3, 75%. Production
from indigenous cattle would be encouraged because the typical farm in the
project area has no irrigation for the perennial production of green fodder,
a prerequisite for keeping crossbred cows. 2/ In order to improve their
incoTne, and the volume of milk supplied to the collection system, participating
farmers would be encouraged to buy an addiitional cow. Cows would be purchased
at traditional village livestock markets. Within each district, purchases
would be spread over three or four years. The total number of cows to be
Utiaantferred in any year would vary between 1% of all adult females, in Nagaur,
and 5% in Sholapur and Bijapur. It is not expected that thcse transfer ra.tes
would increase cows' prices beyond the anticipated levels of Rs 600 each in
dajasthan and Rs  ,,Q00 each in the other states. Spearhead Teams would assist
farmers to obtain loans for this purpose.
1/   This development technique is a feature of the AMUL pattern to be used
for dairy development throtughout India.
2/   A minor;ity of farmers would have irrigation facilities which would enable
them to keep crossbred cows or improved buffalo. HoTever such animals
will be in short supDly, hience expeasive, for several years. All project
eCt.nates are therefore conservativel- based solely on the indigenous
animal .



ANNEX 8
Page 12
48.       In Rajasthan, cow numbers on the typical 10 hectare farm would
increase from two to three. On the typical four hectare farm in the other
districts, cow numbers would increase from one to two. Overall this would
represent an increase in animal units of about 7% in Rajasthan and 25% in
the other districts.
49.       Increased feed demand would be met in two ways.   It is expected
that all farm-produced fodder would continue to be a by-product of crop
farming. However yield increases of 15% to 20% would be expected to result
from soil and moisture conservation measures (Annex 6). Secondly, the
farmers would be encouraged to feed concentrates.
50.       The feeding of concentrates would clearly become attractive with
the development of a reasonably priced outlet for milk under the project.
With concentrates fed at the rate of half a kilogram per liter of milk sold,
increases in lactation yields would be expected to occur rapidly since they
would be based only on improvements to the animal environment.
51.       The requirement of concentrates under the project would build up
rapidly, by 30% over pre-project levels in year one and 200% in year two.
It is assumed that requirements for the first two or three years could be
met by existing processing and distributing systems. Thereafter, if the
project were successful, additional investment in processing and distribution
would be required.
52.       As a result of improved disease control, together with improved
management and feeding, calving rate would be expected to increase from 60%
to about 75%; adult mortality to decrease from 10% to 3% and mortality of
immatures to decrease from 20% to 10%. Age at first calving would also
be expected to fall from 48 to 36 months.
53.       On-farm investment, other than the cow purchase, would be
minimal -- consisting of an expansion of the cattle shelter and the pur-
chase of a set of simple dairy equipment. Details of on-farm investment,
operating costs and sales are given in Tables 8a and b for 10 hectare and
4 hectare farm models respectively.
District Level Deveipment
54.       Full scale dairy development along AMUL lines involves the or-
ganization of primary producers' societies into cooperative unions which
own and operate milk and feed processing facilities and provide veterinary
and AI services, etc. This project would markedly improve the level of
dairy development. However it is not possible at this time to predict
with confidence when the level of development reached would generate the
requisite cash flows for financially self supporting unions providing the
complete range of services. For this reason it is proposed that initially
the operations of Spearhead Teams and artificial insemination centers,
mobile veterinary units, milk transport and chilling plants remain in the
public sector. If and when adequate cash flows were generated the chilling
plants should become the nuclei of cooperative unions responsible also
for milk transport and the organisation, and possibly supply, of inputs.



ANNEX 8
Page 13
Finally, if the level of development were to permit, the operation of AI
and veterinary services should be absorbed by the unions. In the formation
of unions the assignment of assets as state governments equity, loan or
grant contributions to the unions capital should be determined in relation
to the need to launch a financially viable enterprise, they should not be
overburdened with interest or debt service payments. In Andra Pradesh,
Karnataka and Rajasthan the Spearhead Teams would work in close association
with the newly established dairy development corporations.
55.       Milk transport within the districts would use contract truckers.
These would operate twice daily on fixed routes with an average length of
about 120 km. The trucks would also be used to transport inputs to parti-
cipating villages as required. Transport would be organized by the District
Animal Husbandry Officer advise& by Spearhead Teams.
56.       Milk transport outside the districts.   All milk surplus over local
ma Set demands would be diverted to installed processing plants within the
state 1/. In order to facilitate transport by road tankers to these plants,
one chilling plant would be established in each district at the points from
where the twice daily milk collection routes originate. 2/ The average dis-
tance from the chilling plant to the dairy would be about 100 km. Pending
their transfer to cooperative unions the operation of chilling plants would
be the responsibility of District Animal Husbandry Officers. Plant opera-
tives would be trained undLr the auspices of the NDDB at a suitable facil.icy
in the area concerned. At full development, in year nine, about 120 societies
would be established in Jodhpur and 40 in Nagaur. They would deliver about
75,000 liters of milk daily to the dairy plant in Jodhpur. About 80 societies
would be established in each of the other districts 3/. At full development,
these would be supplying on average abou-L 50,000 liters per day. The invest-
ment and operating costs for tne chillLng plants and the costs of transport-
ing milk from the districts to the outside dairy plants are shown in Tables
9a and b.
1/   The dairy plants are located at Jodhpur in Rajasthan, at Poona in   {aharaash-
tra, at Dharwar in Karnataka, and at Karnul in Autdhra Pradesh.
2/   Jodhpur district would not require a chilling plant as the milk coll ec-
tion routes there originate from the dairy plant.
3/   DeveloDment of Primary Societies
Johdpur Najaur Ahmednagar Sholapur Bijapur Anantapur
Year 1           40       --        40
Year 2           80      40         40         40       40       40
Year 3           --       --        --         40       40       40
Total.        120      40        so          80       80       80
Note: PMarticipation in Primary Societies: Year 1 -- One half of farmers
Year 2 --- Two thirds of farmers
Year 3    Thfee fourths of



ANNEX 8
Page 14
57.       Anrimal disease control measures would be improved by establishing
one mobile veterinary unit for each group of 40 societies.  In accordance
with AMUL practice, vehicles for the units would be rented. Veterinary
services would be provided to farmers at no cost. The buildup and cost of
the mobile units is shown at Table 10.
58.       Artificial insemination (Al). Whilst the project areas are not
considered suitable for milk production from crossbreds, indigenous cows
could be used to produce crossbred calves for sale. This would permit
farmers in the drought prone areas to participate in the profitability of
crossbred dairying whilst helping meet the shortage of crossbred animals
needed for dairy developments in the better watered areas. To meet this
objective the project would expand the AI service in the project areas.
Currently thisc   ers only for the upgrading of indigenous stock. The project
would finance the construction or expansion of five AI centers, one in Ra.jas-
than and on in each of the other four districts. Each center would purchase
10 exotic breed dairy bulls, necessary additional buildings would be constructed
and an irrigation well would be dug and equipped in order to ensure an adequate
year round supply of fodder. Investment and operating costs of an AI center
are shown in Tables lla and b. Fresh semen would be distributed by the
milk trucks and inseminations conducted by a trained staff member of the
cooperative society.
59.       Calf rearing centers. Crossbred animals are generally sold as
in-calf heifers. However the crossbred calves bred in the drought prone
areas should not be reared on farms without irrigation as they could not be
kept oni a satisfactory plane of nutrition.  To increase the supply of
crossbred heifers the project would undertake the development of nine calf
rearing centers, one in Rajasthan and two in each of the other districts.
These would be cooperative undertakings by either primary milk producers'
societies or by existing sugar cane producers' cooperative societies. An
internationally recruited consultant would assist in the planning of one or
two initial centers. Hi would also train project staff who would plan other
centers, help obtain credit for inte-res-ed coc3' ties, and subsequently assist
with management.  (Proposed qualifications and job description are given in
Appendix 2.)
60.       Details of investment requirements are g-`van in Table 12a. Major
itemns are irrigation development to ass -ue suppics of perennial fodder and
calf houses. Total cost w6uld be about Re 2OC0,000 per center. The centers
would break even after two years of opera2tLor.A and would therefore require
loans for two years' working capital. It is assumed that some one-month
old calves would be purchased but the majority of calves would be available
only at an age of six months, i.e. at the end of their dams' lactations. In-
calf heifers would be produced at a cost of about Rs 1,500 compared to cur-
rent retail prices well above Rs 2,000. The centers would be operated by
specially trained managers who would be supervised and advised by project
staff working out of the offices of the District Animal dusbandry Officer.
Operating details are shown in Table 12b.



ANNEX 8
Page 15
61.       Sugrcane baaasse treatment. 1/ The project would finance a pioneer
phase of pressure-heat treatment for bagasse by establishing one treatment
unit at an existing cooperative sugar mill in the District of Ahmednagar.
It would be operated by the mill and convert bagasse, now used for hard
board production, into higher value fodder for cattle. The pilot unit would
have a capacity to treat about 30 tons of bagasse per day. The treated
product would have an energy value similar to good quality alfalfa hay and
would be worth about Rs 40 per ton. An internationally recruited consultant
would be engaged to assist with the design and start-up of the pioneer
unit.  (Proposed qualifications and job description are given at Appendix 3.)
A three-monthi local engineering consultanc,   included in the cost of
establishiiLig the unit which would become fin._Aally viable during the first
year of its operation. The investment and operating costs of the pilot plant
are shown in Table 13.
Sheep Development Proposals
Pasture Developmenlt
62.       The project would finance the development of blocks of degraded
communal grazing lands which are at present administered by local. panchayats.
These areas, which would be not less than 100 hectares each, would be fenced,
contour furrowed, seeded with improved grasses and provided with stock water
supply. 2/ The techniques of pasture/rangeland improvement are described in
1/   A typical sugar mill with a capacity of 2,000 tons of cane per day
would have 7,000 tons of excess bagasse per year. This estimate is
based on the assumption that Indian cane has, on average, about 15%
fibre of which 13% is needed for generating the heat required to
produce plant-white sugar. In other words, 2% of the "cane-in" can
be considered as excess fibre. In the past, up to 10,000 tons of
bagasse has been sold by a typical mill at about Rs 10/ton for the
production of hardboard. It is proposed to convert about 50% of
this (about 30 t/day) into cattle fodder with an energy value of good
quality alfalfa hay, by subjecting the bagasse for about 20 minutes
to temperatures of about 160%C under pressure of 90/lbs/sq. in. This
treatment has been proven to render the cellulose of bagasse digestible
to ruminants. The equipment required for this would be a pressure
cooker of about 2 ton capacity, an overhead rail with single trolly,
about 5 steel bins to be placed in the pressure cooker, and equipment
for roller-drying the bagasse-hay after treatment. The treated bagasse
would then be sun-dried. It would have an estimated market value of
Rs 40/ton.
2/   In some areas of Rajasthan the units may average 200 ha in size, allow-
ing higher costs for the development of stock water supply.



ANNEX 8
Page 16
A.nnex 6. The total development costs of a 100-hectare unit would be about
Rs 57,000 (US$80 per hectare) (details in Table 14). The areas to be
developed should not exceed 25% of the total area of such land available
to a village community so that: (a) stock which could not be accommodated
on the improved land could continue to be grazed along traditional lines,
and (b) villagers could compare the productivity of their stock when sub-
jected to different levels of feeding and management.
63.       Large areas of degraded fallow land are privately-owned. These
lands have been ploughed in the past, but frequent crop failure has discouraged
the continuation of annual cropping.  From a land capability point of view
such areas should be reconverted to grassland. Many farmers recognize this
and it is anticipated that it would be possible to persuade farmers to under-
take pasture improvement to the extent that about 10% of the total degraded
lands to be improved would be privately-owned. The typical property to be
developed would be about 10 hectares. The techniques of grassland improve-
ment would be the same as for the 100-hectare units but average development
cost per hectare would be much lower (US$16) as it is assumed that fencing
and stock water supply would not be necessary (details in Table 15).
64.       It is assumed that at full development, from year 3, one hectare
of improved pasture land would sustain four mature sheep units, or their
equivaler. . Pasture growth will be strictly seasonal, the estinated yield of
1,500 kg dry matter per hectare being produced during the monsoon. In some
villages pastures would be used seasonally, in order to make the best
possible use of crop by-products. However, in most instances, a year-round
use of improved pastures would be undertaken. The project would introduce
a lambing season at the beginning of the monsoon and sales of weaners at the
beginning of the dry season.  In this way the feed requirements of the flock
would be synchronized to a considerable extent with vegetation growth.
Village Producers' Societies
65.       To be of lasting benefit the improved pasture would nieed sound
management complemented by improved sheep husbandry, stock quality and
disease control. Producers' cooperatives would be established for each
100 hectare unit to provide a management unit and a channel for technical
assistance. Proposed draft bye-laws are given at Appendi): 4. Membership,
hence participation in the scheme, would be voluntary. Equity would be
purchased in cash or kind. The latter would consist of ewes of breedable
age, subject to health inspection and valued on the basis of a liveweight
price for which shares of an equivalent face value would be issued. Thus
should any member wish to withdraw from the society he would receive a
cash value for ohares, he would not be able to withdraw his sheep which
would have become the society's property. Preference would be given to
members purchasing shares in kind. However any one member would only be
allowed to purchase that share of the society's equity equal to the. ratio
of his sheep numbers to the total number of sheep owned by all intending
members.



ANNEX 8
Page 17
66.       Guidance on the day-to-day management of village cooperative units
and the provision of health supplies would be the responsibility of unit
managers who would each look after about three societies. In addition, the
unit managers would provide veterinary services for all non-participating
village livestock. In all activities, unit managers would be responsible
to, and receive backstopping from, the Service Centers (para 70).
67.       As a result of improved nutrition, husbandry and disease control,
it is anticipated that weaning rates would increase from 50% to 70%; adult
mortality rates would fall from 10% to 5% and immature immortality from
25% to 15%. With improved breeding, wool yields would go up by about 60%
and considerably higher prices would be obtained for finer wool. Body growth
performance would improve by 40 to 50%. Flock projection and production
parameters for a 100-hectare unit model are given in Table 16. Yields,
prices and anticipated revenue from wool and mutton are given in Tables 17a
and b for the 100-hectare and 10-hectare models, respectively.
68,       Despite the attractiveness of the economics of improving pasture
and sheep production (Annex 18) it is considered that strong financial
incentives would have to be offered to persuade farmers to participate in
this scheme. Government would therefore subsidize the cost of capital
improvements and of the unit managers for the first five years. Furthermore,
as the most telling incentive, farmers would be guaranteed for the first
four years a minimum return for each share purchased in kind.
69.       A projected cash flow for a primary society is given in Table 18.
Given accee3 to the requisite working capital loans, up to Rs 2,500 for
the first two years, societies could pay farmers on a rising annual scale.
The guaranteed income is within the anticipated level of operating surplus,
hence little risk attaches to its being offered. The guaranteed income in
year one is calculated to be about 10% above the present gross production
value per ewe. 1/ The incomes would be increased thereafter at the rate of
Rs 2 per ewe per year through year 4. Incomes should be held at this level
and a reserve fund built up to cove'r bad years. Any operating surplus after
payments to the reserve would be distributed to members as a bonus payment.
Service Centers
70.       The implementation of the project's sheep development component
would be the responsibility of Service Centers to be established in each
district under the Animal Husbandry Department. These would publicize
project activity, assist groups of interested farmers in the formation of
cooperative societies, help manage societies and provide them with inputs
and technical services. The centers would be staffed aad equipped to give
1/ The value of present annual production of one ewe is estimated at:
1 kg wcool (Rs 5.00) from herself plus 0.3 kg of wool (Rs 1.50) from
female followers; plus 5 kg liveweight (Rs 8.80) from 1/4 male weaner
plus 6 kg liveweight (Rs 7.50) from ewe culling; totalling Rs 22.00-
23.00 per ewe, per year.



ANNEX 8
Page 18
assistance in the improvement and management of grasslands, stock husbandry,
veterinary services and marketing of wool and mutton for about 50 societies.
They would also supply crossbred rams to the societies, and in some cases
actually operate ram multiplication farms. Center managers would undergo
specialized training before taking up their assignments. The investment and
operating costs of a service center are shown in Table 19. Five centers
would be established in Rajasthan and on in each project district of other
states (details in Table 20). Three of the centers in Rajasthan would be
outside the Districts of Jodhpur and Nagaur; they would be pioneer phases
of similar developments in the southeastern and northeastern districts of
the State.
71.       Technical Assistance. Large scale rehabilitation of common pasture,
and the organization of livestock owners for its utilization, has not been
attempted in India to date. It is unlikely, therefore, that there would be
available in India anyone with the requisite training and experience to
guide the planning and implementation of such an innovative and difficult
program. It is proposed that an internationally recruited consultant be
engaged for three years, to be attached to the central unit of DPAP in New
Delhi, to be responsible, under the Director of DPAP, for launching the
sheep and pasture [program. Proposed qualifications and job description are
given at Appendix 5.
Ram Multiplication
72.       In order to ensure the supply of crossbred rams to participating
village societies, the project would develop in each state one ram multipli-
cation farm on an existing government sheep station. The techniques of
pasture/rangeland improvement would be the same as described in Annex 6;
however, some irrigated fodder production would be required to cater for the
needs of the purebred stud rams which would be obtained from existing govern-
ment farms. These would also require special protection against ambient
heat from April to July in order to keep them fertile and sexua'Lly active.
The average farm size is estimated at 400 ha and the additLicnal investments
per farm over a three-year period would total about Rs 460,000 or about
US$150 per hectare (details in Table 21).
73.       About 500 two-year old crossbred rams could be released annually
after year two (details in Table 22). Rams surplus to the requirements of
the project would be used in other DPAP districts of the State. As there i.s
no proven strategy for the genetic improvement of Indian sheep, indigenous
ewes would be brought to replace culls. 1/ Meanwhile GOI should undertake
to establish the niost suitable level at which to stabilizye the proportion
of exotic blood in the flocks of the drought prone areas (also see para 35,
Annex 10, Research).
1/   For simplicity the tables show replacements from crossbred hoggetts.
Since these would be more valuable than inligenous animals, this is a
conservative simplification.



ANNEX 8
Page 19
74.       After year 2, the revenue from ram, wool and mutton sales would
exceed the operating expenses of the ram multiplication farms. Details are
shown in Tables 23 and 24.
November 4, 1974



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Livestock Development
Livestock Feed bialance in the Project Area
1.        If it is assumed (a) that the average liveweight of a sheep unit
is 25 kg and (b) that the dry matter requirement of ruminants fed coarse
roughages is about 3% of their liveweight, then the total dry matter require-
ments of all farm animals in the project districts would be about 12.5 million
tons per year.
2.        This compares with the following dry matter production estimate:
Total Area     Average Yield    Total Production
Type of Land         ha '000         t DM/ha           t '000 DM/Year
Arable dryland       6,500            1.00 /a            6,500
Irrigated land         500           3.00                1,500
Fallow lands         1,750           0.75                1,300
Wasteland and
Forestland         2,100           0.75                1,600
Total               10,850                              10,900
/a   Estimate based on yield of straw plus stubble grazing,
The annual contribution to livestock feeding from concentrates, i.e.,
cereal and pulse offals and by-products, is estimated to be equivalent to
1.5 million tons of roughage per year, bringing the total to about 12.4
million tons of dry matter (roughage quality).
3.        An analysis of the roughage production on the typical farms in
the project districts indicates that it would meet only part of the needs
of the present cattle and buffalo populations. (Rajasthan 75%; Ahmednagar
60%; Sholapur 100%; Bijapur 70%; Anantapur 50%.) The balance, plus the
entire feed requirements of small stock, must be provided from outside the
farm.
November 4, 1974



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Livestock Development
Draft Terms of Reference for Calf Rearing Consultant
1.        The consultant would be employed by the Government of India and
attached to the central unit of DPAP within the Department of Cooperatives
and Community Development in New Delhi.
2.        The consultant would be engaged to undertake a phased assignment,
totaling 10 months spread over three years and requiring up to six visits to
India.
3.        Phase 1 - Planning.   The consultant would plan a pilot calf
rearing scheme. This would entail, but not necessarily be limited to:
(a) Preparation of a design for calf rearing centers, suitable
for local conditions and materials, and site specifications;
(b) Detailing a set of operating procedures from calf procurement
through to sale, paying particular attention to feeding regimes
geared to locally available feed supplies;
(c) Proposing organizational and management systems for the centers
compatible with their incorporation into the cooperative move-
ment.
4.        Phase 2 - Implementation and Training.   Subsequent to the erection
of the first center, the consultant would return to India to assist in its
start-up and to train local staff to operate the scheme. His duties would
include, but not necessarily be limited to:
(a) Operating the center through to the introduction of the second
batch of calves according to the procedures defined during Phase
1.
(b) Training sufficient local staff to continue operating the center
and to start at least two more centers.
5.        Phase 3 - Follow-up.   The consultant would be required to visit
the scheme annually for three years to review its operation with local manage-
ment. With respect to each visit, the consultant's duties would include,
but not necessarily be limited to;



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 2
(a) Visiting all operating centers to review performance,
(b) Proposing any necessary changes in center design,
operating procedures or organization and management,
to increase operating efficiency;
(c) Proposing any further in-service training of staff which
would increase operating efficiency.
6.        In addition to the three follow-up visits described above, the
consultant would be required to undertake one further visit, should he be
called upon to do so, in the event that a major operating problem were to
arise, the resolution of which. would require the consultant's assistance.
November 4, 1974



ANNEX 8
Appendix 3
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Livestock Development
Draft Terms of Reference for Bagasse Treatment Consultant
1.        The consultant would be employed by the Government of India and
attached to the central unit of DPAP within the Department of Cooperatives
and Community Development in New Delhi.
2.        The consultant would be engaged for two months to plan the introduc-
tion of bagasse treatment at one cooperative sugat mill in the State of
Maharashtra and to assist in the implementation of the scheme. The assign-
ment would include, but not be limited to, the following specific duties and
responsibilities:
(a)  Specifying to a local engineer the equipment required for the
pressure/heat treatment of bagasse and assisting him in the
design of such equipment and in the integration of this unit
into the other activities of the mill;
(b) Training staff of the mill in the operation of the bagasse
treatment unit; and
(c) Advising and training various district staff on suitable ways
of feeding treated bagasse to cattle.
November 4, 1974



ANNEX 8
Appendix 4
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Livestock Development
MODEL BY-LAWS FOR A PRIMARY SHEEP GROWERS' SOCIETY
General
(1)  The name of this society is ...................... Sheep Growers'
Cooperative Society Ltd. and its registered address is at
.............. .Taluka ................District ...........
Any change in address shall be communicated to the District
Registrar, Cooperative Societies within 30 days. The address
can only'be changed by amending the by-laws.
Definitions
(2)  (a)  Definitions and use of terms in these by-laws shall
be those specified in the (State) Cooperatives Act.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of 2(a), the following
terms of a specific nature appearing herein shall be
defined as:
(i) Primary Sheep Growers' Society. A joint farming
cooperative established with objectives as in
Section III of these by-laws.
(ii) Livestock specified for the purpose of equity
contributions.
A female sheep of breedable age and of sound health
and frame as shall be determined by a qualified
inspector selected by the Managing Committee or
its appointed predecessor.
(iii) Unit Manager. A full-time employee of the (State)
Department of (Animal Husbandry) who shall, under
the supervision of the District (Animal Husbandry)
Officer, render technical and marnagerial assist-
ance to primary sheep growers societies.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 4
Page 2
IlII.  Ob jectives
,'3)  The objectives of the society shall be:
(a) For the direct benefit of members,
(i) to develop and manage pasture lands sold, leased
or ceded to it,
(ii) to establish and manage a sheep flock on such
lands for which purpose the society's rights
shall include:
a.   purchase and sale of sheep and sheep products
b.   application of good husbandry practices to the
breeding, health care, selection and culling
of animals within such flock.
(b)  For the benefit of all sheep growers in (       ) village;
to provide breeding, health, and marketing services,
the type and quantity of, and charges for, such
services to be determined by the Managing Committee in
consultation with the Panchayat and District (Animal
Husbandry) Officer, due consideration being given to the
society's strength, capacity, and the interests of the
society' s membership.
(c) To engage in such other activities as shall be required
to accomplish the above objectives.
IV.   Resources
(4) Resources of the society may be obtained by:
(a) Grants in cash or kind by the Government of (State)
(b) The issue of shares to:
(i)  Government of (State), for which payment may be
made in cash or operating assets,
(ii)  Private individuals, for which payment may be made
in cash or specified livestock (para 2(b)(ii)),
in which case the value of shares given shall be
determined on the basis of live weight at a price
per kg to be fixed by the Managing Committee or
its predecessor, such price to be approximately
the highest seasonal level for the locality;



ANNEX 8
Appendix 4
Page 3
(c) Loans,
(d)  Donations, and
(e)  Entrance fees.
(5)  (a)  The amount of share capital other than that subscribed
by the (State) government shall not exceed (a figure
equal to the value of the mature sheep units necessary
to fully stock the society's pasture land at full
development), to be divided into equal shares -- with a
face value of Rs 5.
(b)  The rate at which subscriptions to said capital shall
be accepted shall not exceed the anticipated build-up
rate in the carrying capacity of pasture lands managed
by the society, as determined by the Managing Committee
on the advise of the Unit Manager.
(6) The funds of the society whet1 not utilized shall be deposited
as per Section ( ) of the (State) Cooperative Societies Act.
V.   Membership
(7) (a) No person shall be a member unless:
(i)  He is a resident of the village, is 18 years of
age or more and is competent to contract,
(ii) His written application in the prescribed form for
membership 'has been approved by the majority of
the managing committee,
(iii)  He has taken at least one share and paid an entrance
fee of one rupee,
(iv) He is not bankrupt and is not legally disabled,
(v) He is not criminally convicted for moral terpitude.
(b)  Further to the provisions of 7(a) a preference shall be
given to sheep owners wishing to purchase equity with
specified livestock, such preference to consist of a
3-month advance subscription period.
(c)  No individual member eligible to receive shares under
7(b) shall be permitted to purchase in kind a proportion
of the society's private equity (in total or any
single offering) greater than the ratio of his sheep



ANNEX 8
Appendix 4
Page 4
numbers to the total number of sheep owned by all
intending members. 1/
(d) Application for shares shall be made in writing and
shall be disposed of by the Managing Committee.
Note: The provisions of 7 (a, b, c, and d) shall
apply to the initial and all subsequent invita-
tions to subscribe to share capital of the
society.
(8)  The-liability of any member shall not exceed the value of
his subscribed shares, both paid and unpaid.
(9)  Any member may withdraw from the society at any time by
submitting his resignation to the Managing Committee uind
getting it approved, but such approval shall not be given
while he is in debt to the society or is a surety to
another member. In case a member has no outstanding dues
with the society or he is not a surety to another member,
his resignation will be considered as accepted after one
month from the date of his resignation even if the Managing
Committee has not approved it.
(10)  (a)  A member of the society may be expelled, by a
resolution passed by three fourths majority of the
members entitled to vote among those who are present
at a general meeting held for the purpose, for the
following reasons:
(i) if he is a persistent defaulter,
(ii) if he wilfully deceives the society by false
statements,
(iii) if lie intentionally does any act likely to injure
the credit of the society,
(iv) if he persistently dishonours the suggestions and
resolutions of the Managing Committee,
(v) if he does not reside in the area of operation of
the society regularly or ceases to possess any of
the qualifications for becoming a member.
1   Readers of these draft by-laws should be aware that state cooperative
societies acts generally contain an overriding provision that no member
shall be allowed to purchase more than 20% of a society's equity.



ANNEX 8
Appendixc 4
Page 5
(b)  Before expulsion a member shall be given an opportunity
to present his case before the general meeting and the
resolution of the general meeting shall be approved as
per Section (    ) of the Cooper'ative Societies Act.
(11)  (a)  The membership of a person shall be treated as
discontinued for any one of the following reasons;
but the concerned member of his nominee shall be
informed of this decision within 15 days:
(i) on death,
*(ii)  if his resignation is accepted by the Managing
Committee,
tiii)  if share(s) belonging to him are transferred to
another member,
(iv)  if he is expelled according to Section ... of the
(State) Cooperative Society Act.
(b) When a person ceases to be a member, the society shall
refund all his dues within six months.
(12)  Share certificate(s) having separate serial numbers shall
be issued every shareholder. If a shareholder fails to
pay the share amount/installment of it as decided by the
Managing Committee within 30 days, such share(s) shall be
forfeited as may be decided by the Managing Committee and
the paid amount of such forfeited share(s) shall be
credited to the reserve fund. However, before forfeiting
such shares, the shareholder shall be informed in writing
15 days in advance.
(13)  A member, after holding share(s) for one year, with the
approval of the Managing Committee, can transfer his share(s)
to another member(s); but for this he shall have to apply
15 days in advance in the prescribed form showing the
acceptance of the buyer of the share(s). Share transfer
shall not be completed unless an entry is made in the share
transfer register and a transfer fee of 24 paise is paid to
the society.
(14)  Share(s) of members expelled as per by-law No. 10 shall be
forfeited by a resolution, of the general meeting.
(15)  A member is entitled to receive back an amount equivalent
to the face value of his share(s), less any outstanding
dues, after completion of two years of his possession of



ANNEX 8
Appendix 4
Page 6
the share(s); provided, before making the claim, the person
shall have to give three -!oiths' prior riotice to the
society. However, the total amount of such refundable share
capital shall not exceed one tenth of the total paid-up
share capital as shown on 30th June of the previous year.
(16) When refunding the value of shares under para 15, l:he
provisions of para 44 for guaranteed bonuses shall not
apply, in lieu whereof, the dividend shall be determined
on the basis of actual performance of the society without
state government contributions during the current fiscal
period, prorated for the period during which the shares
are held.
(17) A member of the society can nominate any person except an
employee or officer of the society to receive his sKare,
interest and other dues from the society after his death.
No fee shall be charged for the first such nomination,
but thereafter, for any transfer or change, a fee of
25 paise shall be charged. Such nomination paper shall be
signed by him in presence of two witnesses.
(18) On the death of a member, the amount standing to his credit
by way of share or other, subject to deductions on account
of his liabilities, shall be paid to his heir nominated by
him or in the absence of such nomination, to any other person
who according to the Managing Committee is entitled to
receive the amount as heir or legal representative of the
deceased member on his executing a deed of indemnity to the
society. The amount z,f fixed deposit shall be paid back
at the expiry of the period in such cases.
VI.   General Mleeting
(19-27) As provided under State Law.
VII.   Managing Committee
(28) (a) The elected 'Nanaging Committee of the society shall
be of nine members according to schedule (b) of the
by-laws of the society; of which one third of the
members shall retire every year.
(b) The membership of the Mlanagilng Committee shall include
not less than one appointee of the state governmeint who
shall be the Unit Manager whose jurisdiction shall
include this society.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 4
Page 7
(c) The presence of more than one half of the members of
the Managing Committee shall form a quorum.
(29-38)   As provided under State Law.
VIII. Chairmarn/Secretary
(39-41)   As provided under State Law.
IX.   Distribution of Profits
(42) The gross profit of the previous year shall be declared
in the annual general meeting and the following deductions
shall be nmade from it:
(a) Debt service on loans and interest on deposits
(b) Working expenses of the society
(c) Losses
(d) Depreciation on building and other assets
(e) Bad debts sanctioned by the Managing Committee and
approved by the District Registrar
(f) Contribution, if any, to staff provident fund and
staff gratuity fund.
(43) The balance remaining after these deductions shall be
treated as net profit. The net profit shall be distributed
as follows:
(a) A sum not less than 25% shall be taken to the reserve
fund.
Note: Society shall. be exempted from this provision
for at least four full years of operation as
determined by the Registrar.
(b)  Ci)  For the first four years of operation a dividend
and bonus to shareholders whose purchase of shares
shall have been made with eligible livestock
(para 7(b)), the total of which shall not be less
thati an amount determined according to the follow-
ing schedule:



ANNEX 8
Appendix 4
Page 8,
Year 1:         25% of share value
Year 2:         27%
Year 3:         29%
Year 4:         31%
Note: Any shortfall in earnings required to meet
this provision shall be made up by the (State)
government in the form of a grant or equity
contribution.
(ii) After the fourth full year of operations, the
payment to shareholders under para 7(b) shall
be determined by the Managing Committee.
(c) To pay the shareholders, whose purchase of shares shall
have been made in cash as dividend, a sum not exceeding
9% of their paid share capital.
(d) Residual earnings shall be distributed among shareholders
and funds as prescribed by State Law.
X.   Miscellaneous
As prescribed by State Law.
November 4, 1974



ANNEX 8
Appendix 5
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Livestock Development
Senior Pasture and Sheep Development Officer
Qualifications
1.        Suitable candidates would be graduates in agricultural science
with at least 10 years' experience in pasture and sheep-husbandry in the semi-
arid/arid tropics. This experience would include exposure to the problems
of livestock and pasture improvement in a developing country, preferably
embracing societies practicing communal grazing.
2.        Candidates must be willing and able to travel extensively since
they would be required to spend at least one-third of their time in the
field.
Job Description
3.        The Senior Pasture and Sheep Development Officer (SPSDO) would be
attached to the central unit of DPAP within the Department of Cooperatives
and Community Development in New Delhi and would be responsible to the
Director of DPAP. Whilst having Program-wide responsibilities, the main
focus of the SPSDO would be the pasture and sheep development programs in
the six districts of the IDA assisted Drought Prone Areas Project. 1/
4.        The SPSDO's responsibilities would include, but not necessarily
be limited to:
(a) Assisting state government staff to prepare pasture and
sheep development proposals and subsequently assisting with
the implementation of approved programs, in particular,
assistance in:
(i) selection of sites for the development of 100-hectare
pasture units;
(ii) choice of pasture species, establishment techniques,
fence and yard design;
(iii)  design of pasture and animal management systems;
1/   Jodhpur, Nagaur,.Ahmednagar, Sholapur, Bijapur and Anantapur.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 5
Page 2
(b) Evaluating, and recommending to the Director, state
government annual plans for pasture and sheep development
to be financed under DPAP;
(c) Assisting state government staff to plan, develop and
operate pasture seed and ram multiplication farms;.
(d) The planning and organization of, and participation in,
training programs for the state government staff responsible
for the pasture and sheep development programs;
(e) Monitoring the performance of the pasture and sheep develop-
ment programs.
5.        The SPSDO would liaise closely with people and institutions con-
cerned with pasture and sheep development in India. In particular, he
would cooperate with the team of pasture agronomists to be established in
the All-India Coordinated Research Project for Dryland Agriculture.
November 4, 1974



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Livestock Numbers in DPAP Districts
Area        Cattle            Buffaloes          Sheep            Goats            Total
2             Sheep              Sheep             Sheep           Sheep             Sheep    Sheep Units
km2    Head    Units 1/   Head    Units 2/   Head    Unit    Head    Units    Head     Units    Per Hectare
Jodhpur      (1Q00)             22,530     426      3,408     48        480      682     682     8003/    800   1,956     5,370       2.4
(%)                                     63                 9               13        31     15               100
Nagaur        ('000)            17,667      577     4,616    136       1,360     850     850     996-     996   2,559     7,822       4.4
(7)                                     59                17               11               13               100
Rajasthan Districts ('000)    40,197   1,003      8,024    184      1,840    1,532   1,532   1,796    1,796   4,515    13,192       3.3
(7                             61                14               12               13               100
Alimednagar  ('000)             17,035     851      6,808     53         530      299    299     574      574   1,777     8,211       4.8
(M)                                     83                 6                4                7               100
Sholapur     ('000)             15,021     552      4,416     83        830      230     230     422      422   1,287     5,898       3.9
(X3                                     75                14                4                7               100
Bijapur      ('000)             17,056     547      4,376    219      2,190      307     307     336      336   1,409     7,209       4.2
(Y)                                     61                30                4                5               100
Anantapur    ('000)             19,100     635      5,080    185      1,850      862     862     389      389   2,071     8,181       4.3
%)                                      62                23               10                5               100
Other Districts      ('000)   68,212   2,585     20,680    540       5,400   1,698   1,698   1,721    1,721   6,544    29,499       4.3
(%)                            70                18                6                6               100
1/ One head equals eight sheep.
2/  One head equals ten sheep.
31  Estimated from average sheep to goat ratio in Rajasthan.                                                                                    M
Sources:  District DPAP Reports and Mission estimates                                                                                           X



ANNEX 8
Table 2
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
DairV Development
"Spearhead Team" Development and Operation
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4     Year 5
-                   Rs '000 ------------------
A. Investment
2 Jeeps at Rs 40,000                 80
Total Investment                  80
B.  Operating Expenses
Rent of building                       .5        .5        .5        .5         .5
Fuel  1/                             2790      27e0      27.0      27.0      27.0
Repairs and maintenance   2/         16.0      16.0      16.0      16.0      16.0
Miscellaneous                        10        1.0       1.0       1.0        1.0
Staff:
1 Leader, Rs 1,500/month  3/         18e0      18.0      18,0      18.0      18.0
1 NDDB official, Rs 1,500/month 3/ 18.0        18.0      18.0      18.0      18,0
8 Assistants, Rs 1,000/month   3/    96.0      96.0      96.0      96.0      96.0
2 Drivers, Rs 400/month  3/           9.6       9.6       9.6       9.6       9.6
Travel expenses  4/                   5.0       5e0       5,0      50        5.0
Other staff (6 x Rs 200/month)       12e0      12.0      12,0      12.0      12_0
Total Operating Expenses         203e1     203,1     203o1     203.1     203,1
1/ At 300 days x 100 km; 15 liters gasoline/100 km; Rs 3/liters; Rs 13,500
per vehicle-
2/  20% of investment costs,
3/ Including frin.ge benefits.
4/ Rs 500 each.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Dairy Development
Spearhead Teamsu Required
Year 1       Year 2       Year3        Yeare            5 Year 6           Year 7       Year 8
Jodhpur       -1                   3            3             3           3           2           --
Nagaur                -             1            1            1           1           1           --
Ahmed agar             1            2            2            2           2           1
Sholapur              --            1            2            2           2           2
Bij Ppur.             --            1           2             2           2           2            1 1
m,antapur            --            1            2             2           2           2            1
Total                 2            9           12            12          12         IQ             3
Annual Increment       2            7           3             -                      (2)          (7)          (3)
.F



ANNEX 8
Table 4(a)
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Dairy Development
Primary Society Investment and Operating Expenses
Year 5
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3    Year 4    Onward
Investment Costs
Milk Testing                         1,200
Insemination Crate                     500
Veterinary First Aid Kit               200
Office Furniture and Equipment         300
Miscellaneous                          300
Total                             2,500
Operating Expenses
Secretary (Rs 150/month) 1/          1,800     1,800      1,800     1,800     1,800
Veterinary Assistant (Rs 125/month) 1,500      1,500      1,500     1,500     1,500
Helper (Rs 75/month)                   900        900     1,800     1,800     1,800
Office Running                         500       500        500       500       500
Milk Testing                           900      1,200     1,500     1,800     2,000
Miscellaneous                          300        300       300       300       300
Total                             5,900     6,200      7,400     7,700     7,900
Milk Transportation Cost
Per Route  2/                      100,000   100,000    100,000   100,000   100,000
Per Primary Society   3/            12,500    12500     12,500    12,500    12,500
Total Recurring Expenses               17,500    18,700     19,900    20,200    20,400
1/ Also undertakes artificial insemination.
2/ Trucks contracted at Rs 1.00 per Inm, travelling a route of 125 lcm twice daily,
Rs 250 x 365 = Rs 91,200; say Rs 100,000/truck.
3/ 8 Primary Societies along one route.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Cash Flow of Typical Milk Producers' Cooperative Society
Rajasthan
(All values in Rs '000)                                              Year 7
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3     Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Onward
Milk Sales ('000 liters)                          45.9      82.1      127.4     146.3     165.9     171.1     172.9
------------------------------------ Rs 'O ----------------------------
Sources of Funds
Capital Grant                                  2.5      --        --         --
Paid up Capital   1/                            .8        .2         .1      --        ----                --
Operating Revenues:
(a) Retention of Milk (12 paise/liter)      5.5       9.9      15.3      17.6      19.9       20.5      20.7
(b) Commission on Cattle Feed (2%)           .5        .8       1.3       1.5       1.7        1.7       1.7
Total Funds                                9.3      10.9      16.7      19.1       21.6      22.2      22.4
Uses of Funds
Capital Investment                             2.5      --        --        --         --        --        --
Operating Expenses                             5.9       6.2       7.4        7.7       7.9       7.9       7.9
Audit Fees                                     0.1       0.2       0.3       0.3        0.3       0.3       0,3
Transport Cost   2/                           --        --        --        12.5       12.5      12.5      12.5
Total Expenditures                         8.5       6.4       7.7      20.5       20,7      20.7      20.7
Annual Operating Surplus (Deficit)   3/            0.8       4.5       9.0       (1.4)      0.9       1.5       1.7
Accumulative Operating Surplus   4/               --          5.3      14.3      12.9      13.8      15.3      17.0
1/  Rs 10 per member
2/ Government grant during first three years.
3/ Working Capital up to Rs 1,000 would be required during initial months.
/   The gross profits of the typical society would be divided at the Annual General Meeting of members as follows:
first deductions are uLade for (a) interest on outstanding loans; (b) audit fees; (c) contribution to staff
provident fund of employees; (d) bad debts, losses, etc. Of the remaining net profits: (a) 25% 'is kept in a
reserve fund; (b) dividends in shares are paid not exceeding 9% of paid up share capital; (c) other allocations,
(about 15%) for social profits may be stipulated. About 65% of the remaining balance would be distributed among
the members proportional to the milk supplied by them, and the rest would go into funds related to the Society's
activities.
_ac



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Cash Flow of Typical Milk Producers' Cooperative Society
Four-Hectare Farm Districts
Year 8
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7     Onward
Milk Sales ('000 liters)                          59.4     104.9     157.1     171.7     213.9     231.5     239.4     240.3
----------------------------------- Rs '000 --------------------------------
Sources of Funds
Capital Grant                                 2.5       --        --                  --
Paid up Capital 1/                            1.5         .5        .3      --        --        --        --        --
Operating Revenues:
(a) Retention of Milk (10 paise/liter)     5.9      10.5      15.7      17.2       21.4      23.2      23.9      24.0
(b) Commission on Cattle Feed (2%)          .6       1.0       1.6       1.7        2.1       2.3       2.4       2.4
Total Funds                               10.5       12.0      17.6      18.9      23.5      25.5      26.3      26.4
Uses of Funds
Capital Investment                             2.5      --             --        --        --             --        --
Operating Expenses                             5.0       6.2       7.4       7.7       7.9       7.9       7.9       7.9
Audit Fees                                     0.1       0.2       0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3       0,3
Transport Cost 2/                             --        --        --        12.5      12.5      12.5      12.5      12.5
Total Expenditures                          7.6       6.4       7.7      20.5      20.7      20.7      20.7      20.7
Annual Operating Surplus (Deficit)   3/            2.9       5.6       9.9      (1.6)      2.8       4.8       5.6       5.7
Accumulative Operating Surplus 4/                 --         8.5      18.4      16.8      19.6      24.4      30.0      35.7
1/ Rs 10 per member
2/ Goverrment grant during first three years.
3/  Working capital up to Rs 1,000 would be required during initial months.
4/  The gross profits of the typical society would be dii7ided at the Annual General Meeting of members as follows:
first deductions are made for (a) interest on outstanding loans; (b) audit fees; (c) contribution to staff provident.
fund of employees; (d) bad debts, losses, etc. Of the remaining net profits: (a) 25% is kept in a reserve fund;
(b) dividends in shares are paid not exceeding 9% of paid up share capital; (c) other allocations, (about 15%) for
social profits may be stipulated. About 65% of the remaining balance would be distributed among the members propor-
tional to the milk supplied by them, and the rest would go into funds related to the Society's activities.
0 o



INDILA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Dairy Development
Total Project Production of Saleable Milk
('000 t/year)
Before
Development    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6     Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10
Ra iasthan
3,000 Farmers 11                    1.3           1.8       2.7       4.0       4.2       4.7       4.7       4.7       4.7       4.7       4,7
10,000 Farmers                       4.3          4.3        6.1       8.9      13.2      13.9      15.7      15.7      15.7      15.7      15.7
3,400 Farmers                        1.5          1.5       1.5       2.1       3.0       4.5       4.7       5.3       5.3       5.3       5.3
1,200 Farmers                       0.5          0.5        0.5       0.5       0.7       1.1       1.6       1.7       1.9       1.9       1.9
17,600
Total Milk                          7.6          8.1      10.8      15.5      21.1      24.2      26.7      27.4      27.6      27.6      27.6
Milk at Rs 0.60/1L                7.6          6.3       2.0       0.5      --        -         --        --              -   --
Milk at Rs 1.201L                --            1.8       8.8      15.0      21.1      24.2      26.7      27.4      27.6      27.6      27.6
Concentrates required              1.9           2.5       4,9       7.8      10.6      12,1      13.4      13.7      13.8      13.8      13.8
Female cattle purchased            --        3,000    10,000     3,400     1,200        --        --        --
Other Districts (Total of 4)
6,000 Farmers                       1.3          2.4       3.4       *4.8      4.7       6.2       6.4       6.4       6.4       6.4       6.4
26,000 Farmers                      5.6           5.6      10.3      14.7      20.6      20.4      26.8      27.8      27.8      27.8      27.8
27,000 Farmers                      5.8           5,8       5.8      10.7      15.3      21.4      21.2      27.9      28.8      28.8      28.8
10,000 Farmers                      2.2           2.2       2.2       2.2       4.0       5.7       7.9       7.9      10.3      10.7      10.7
3,000 Farmers                      0.6           0.6       O.6       0.6      0o6        1.2       1.7       2.4       2.4       3.1       3.2
72,000
Total Milk                         15.5         16.6      22.3      33.0      45,2      54.9      64.0      72.4      75.7      76.8      7-6.9
Milk at Rs 0.60/L                15.5         14.2       8.6       2.8       0.6      --        --        --        --        --        --
Milk at Rs 1.20/L                --            2.4      13.7      30.2      44.-6     54.9      64,9      72.4      75.7      76.8      76.9
Coticentrates required              3.9          4.8       9.1      15.8      22.5      27.5      32.0      36.2      37.9      38.4      38.5
Female cattle purchased            --        6,000    26,000    27,000    10,000     3,000          -      --
Total Project
Total Milk                           23.1         24.7      33.1      48.5      66.3      79.1      90.7      99.8     103.3     104.4     104.5
Milk-at Rs 0.60/L                  23.1         20.5      10.6       3.3       0o.6     --        --        --        --        --
Milk at Rs 1.20/L                  -- 4.2                 22.5      45.2      65.7      79.1      90.7      99.8     103.3     104.4     104.5
1/ Farmers are grouped according to the anticipated phasing of participation.
-o



JTi,GUGF! .G7.-X L-LEA' T.MOJECT
Daiiry Devcc api 2ent
Parameters of Cattle Performance
Before                                                       Year $
Development   Year 1     Year 2     Year 3       Year h4     and after
Calving rate (%)                     60        60         60          70           75            75
.Mortality above 1 year (%)          10         10          8          5            3             3
TALortality up to 1 year (%)         20        2.0        15          12           10            10
Cow culling (<)                      8          8         12          15           15           15
HeiLer culling (%)                   5          5          8          10           10            10
Age at first calving (months)        48        48         48          42           36            36
Milk sales (indigenous cattle
kg/lactation)  /                300       300        450          60          600           600
1/ Assuming 150 kg/lactation retained for family use and calf rearing.
Cz
.D



ANNEX 8
INDIA                                             Table 7 (a)
DROUGHT PRONE AUHAS PiROJECT
Dairy Development
Raj,asthan Districts
:ercd Development Pro,ections --  ".,-Farm Units)
Before                                                          Year 6
Development Year 1      Year 2      lear 3     Year 4    Year 5   and after
Cows
On hand                                 100        100        1L5         135        133       129       150
Plus purchiases                          --         50         -           --                             --
Plus new calf heifers                    20         20         20          22         21        46        25
Total mated                             120        170        165         15?        154       17'       17-
Less deaths                              12         17         13           8                              5
Less sales                                8          8         17          16         20        20        20
On hand at end                          100        14-::      135         133        129       130       150
Heifers
3-4 years on hand                        23         23         26          24         35
Less deaths                               2          2          2           1         --        --        --
Less sales                                1          1          2           2                   --        --
On hand at end                           20         20         22          21         31        --        --
Heifers
2-3 years on hand                        26         26         26          37         18        22        29
Less deaths                               3          3          2           2          1         1         1
Less sales                               --         --         -           --          2         3         3
On hand at end                           23         26        29           35         15                  25
Heifers
1-2 years on hand                        29         29         a1          19         30        3;.       30
Less deaths                               3          3          a           1          1                   1
On hand at end                           26         26         37          18         29        29        29
Calves
Born during year                         72        102         99         110        116       131       131
Less deaths                              14         20         15          13         12        23        13
Less heifer calves sold                  --         --         23          18         22        29        29
Less bull calves Gold                    --         17         22          29         32        39        39
On hand at end                           58         24         20          20         20        20        20
Males
1-2 years on hand                        29         29         2.          20         20        20        20
Less deaths                              15         '5         ' 2          7          4         4         4
On hand at end                           26         26         22          19         19        19        19
Males
COver 2 years on hand                   149        149        1;49        149        149      1i9        149
Less deathis                             15         15         12           7          4         4.        1
Less sales                               11         '1         1J          15         15        '         15
On hand at end                          149        1LI9       149         1)49       12?       1a2       149
Bulls
On hand                                   2          2          3           3          3         3         3
Plus purchases                            1          2          1           1          1         '         1
Subto tal                                 3          4          4.          4          4                   4
Less deaths                               -         --                     --              --             --
Less sales                                '                    --           1         --         1         1
On hand at end                            2          3          3           3          3         3         3



ANNEX 8
Table 7(b)
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Dairy Development
Four-Hectare Farm Districts
Herd Development Projections -- (100-Farm Units)
Before                                                  Year 6 &
Development Year 1    Year 2    Year 3   Year 4 Ye&r 5 onward
Cows
On hand                            100        100      190       170     154     147      200
Plus purchases                      --        100       --        --      --      --
Plus new-calf heifers               20         20       20        19      21.     82       37
Total mated                        120        220      210       189     175     229      237
Less deaths                         12         22       17         9       5       7         7
Less sales                           8          8       23        26      23      22       30
On lhand at end                    100        190      170       154     147     200      200
Heifers
3-4 years on hand                   23         23       23        24      47      --        --
Less deaths  1/                      2          2        2         1       1                --
Less sales                           1          1        2         2       8      --       --
On hand at end                      20         20       19        21      38      --        --
Heifers
2-3 years on hand                   26         26       26        49      51      42       42
Less deaths                          3          3        2         2       2       1        1
Less sales                          --         --       --        --
On hand at end                      23         23       2h        47      44      37       37
Heifers
1-2 years on hand                   29         29       33        54      L3      43       43
Less deaths                          3          3        4         3       1       1        1
On hand at end                      26         26       49        51      42      42       42
Calves
Born during year  2/                72        132      126       132     131     272      178
Less deaths                        14          26       19        16      13      17       18
Sales of heifer calves              --         --       --        16      17      36       38
Sales of bull calves                --         29       33        38      39      57       60
On hand at end                      58         77       74        62      62      62       62
Males
1-2 years on hand                   29         29       24        20      20      20       20
Less deaths                         3           3        2         1       1       1        1
On hand at end                      26         26       22        19      19      19       19
Males
Over 2 years on hand               149        149      149       149     19L9    14)      149
Less deaths                         1.;        15       12         7       4       L        4
Less sales                          11         11       14        15      15      15       1,
On hand at end                     149        149      149       149     149     1i9      149
Bulls
On hand                              2          2        6         6       6       6        6
Plus purchases                      1           5        1         2       2       2        2
Subtotal                            3           7        7         8       8       8        8
Less deaths                        --           1       --         1      --       1       --
less sales                          1          --        1         1       2       1        2
On hand at end                       2          6        6         6       6       6        8
1/ Mortality rate applied to 6-mnnth period in years 3 and 4.
2   Eouals aumber of lactations in that year.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Dairy Development
Rajasthan, Ten-Hecta.re Farm Investent an-d Income Statement
(All values in Rps '000)
Year 5
Before      Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Onward
Inve-stment                                                               RS ----------------------------
Bunding (10 ha at Rs 95)1                --            .95
Cow purchase (Rs 600/cow)                -            .60
Cattle Shelter and Tools                               .20
Total Investment                      --           1.75
Milk Sales (kg)                         432         612         891       1,320       1,392       1,572
Revenue
Crop Sales                               -1.014       1.15        1.15        1.15        1.15        1.15
Milk Sales 21                              .52         .73.       1.07        1.58       1i67         1.89
Livestock Sales                            .06         .09         .16         .16         .21         .21
Total Revenue                           .62          -         2.38        2.89        3.03        . .2
Operating Expenses
Crop Production 5/                         .06         .06         .06         .06         .06          .06
Concentrate Feeds  6/                      .11         .31         .45         .66         .70         .79
Maintenan..e, Shelter and Tools    ..01                            .0          .01          0          .01.
Total Operating Expenses              -17           .38         .52         .73         .7Z         .86
Net Income I./                              1.45        1.59        1.86        2.16        2.26        2.39
P .
1/  The p'nysical cost of bunding is Rs 185/ha.  A 50% subsidy is assumed on this investment,                     a'
/ Only the value of the grain has been taken into account.     The by-product (roughage) is used for
livestock consumption.                                                                                     O ,co
i/  Rs 1.20 per liter ex farm.
h/  Rs 50/cull cow; R hOO/'oreeding heifer; Rs 75/calf; Rs 200/cull oxen; off-take from Table 7(a).
Rs 65 for seed; no fertilizer, no pesticide, no hired labor.
t,  Rs l,000/t; 0.5 kg of feed per liter of mnilk sold; 0.25 kg/liter before development.
_1  Net income and cash-flow are presented in Annex 17, Table 6.   The financial rate of return is 42%.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PFlDJECT
DRair Develo    nt
Four Hectare Mxed Farm Investment and Income Statement
(All valUes in Rps '000)
Year 6
Before     Year 1      Year 2     Yer 3                  Year 5     Onward
---------------Rs .000-------------------------------------
Investments
Buding    4 ha at Rs 100)1              -           ..0                    -O                    --          --
Cow p'mchase (Rs 1,000/cow)            --           1.00       -           -- .
Cattle Shelter ard Tools                -.20                   ----
Total I    rn r                                  1.60ment  1- . 60
Milk Sales (kg>                       216         396         567         792        786      1,032       1,068
Revenue
Crop Sales 2/                             p8)4        92         .92         .92        .92        .92         .92
?Milk Sales 3/                            .26        .48          .68        .95        .9)4      1.24        1.28
Livestock Sales 7 /                             .                                       .1)4       .13         .1-4
Total Reveme                         1. . -
Operating Expenses
Crop Production i/                        -04        .04         .0)4        .0)4       .0)4       .0)4        .0)4
Concentrate Feeds   6/                    .05        .20         .28         .)40       .39        .52          53
Maintenance Shelter & Tools                          .01         .01         .01        .01         .01        .01
Total Operating Ecpenses               .09 _33_7
Net Inccvie 7f                             1.0)4      1.18        1.34        1.51       1.56       1.72        1.76
,   The physical cost of bunding is Rs 20fha      A 50% sbsl.dy is assumed on thhis investment.
2/ The cropping pattern is the same as presented in Annex 179 Table 15. But .here on1y' the value of the grain
has been taken into account. 'The by-product (roughage) is used for li-.estook coGnsumption.
R/  R  1.20 per liter ex-far-
14/ Rs 50/cull cow, Rs )400/breeding heifer, Rs 75/calf' and Rs 200/cull oxaen; of f-take from Table 7.(b).
5/ Rs 37 for seed, no fertiUiLere and pesticides, no hired labor.
/ Rs 1,000/t; 0.5 kg of feed/liter of miLk sold; 0.25 kg/liter Defore *1kTveloprent.
7/ Net incom-3 and cash-flow sare ~>resenrei La A   n  x 17, Table 5. The finacial rate of return is 36%.           c



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Dairy Development
Milk Chilling and Transport Investments and Expenses in Nagaur District
Year 7
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6     Onward
Fresh Milk Collected
1,000 ton/year                                     1.8        3.2       5.1       5.9       6.6        6.8
Ton/day in flush season                 --         6.7       12.0      18.6      21.4       24.2      25.0
Ton/day in lean season                  --          3.3       6.0       9.3      10.7       12.1      12.5
Investments for Milk Chilling
Capacities (1,000 liters/day)           --        10.0       10.0
------------------------------- Rs   000 --------------------------
Main Equiipment                         --        600.0     350.0
Fittings                                --        100.0      90.0
Land and Building                       --        80.0       25.0
Consultancies                           --        40.0       25.0
Total InvTestments                   --       820.0      490.0       -_-_                           -
Operating Expenses for Chilling Plant
Maintenance and Repairs   1/            --         --        40.0      65.0      65.0       65.0      65.0
Power and Water                         -         33.0       60.0      70.0      70.0       70.0      70.0
Chemicals                               --        18.0       25.0      30.0      30.0       30.0      30.0
Staff                                   --        55.0       60.0      65.0      65.0       65.0      65.0
Total Operating Expenses             --       106.0      185.0     230.0     230.0      230.0     230.0
Milk Transport Costs   2/                   --         80.0     120.0     135.0      170.0     210.0     210.0
1/  About 5% of investment costs, starting one year after investment is made.
2/  Transport over 100 km; Rs 1.25/km for 10,000 liter tanker; Rs 1.12/km for 7,000 liter tanker.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Dairjy- DeveloLment
Milk Chilling and Transport Investments and Expenses in Four-Hectare Farm Districts
Year 8
Year 1    Year       Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6     Year 7    Onwards
Fresh Milk Collected
1,000 ton/year                           2.4        6.6      10.5      13.2      15.4       17.8      18.8      19.2
Ton/day in flush season                  8.6       24.0      38.2      48.0      56.4       65.0      68.0      70.0
Ton/day in lean season                   4.3       12.0      19.1      24.0      28.2       32.5      34.4      35.0
Investments for Milk Chilling
Capacities (1,000 liters/day)           10         20
----------------------------------- Rs '000 ------------------------------
Main Equipment                         600.0      550.0
Fittings                               100.0       90.0
Land and Building                      100.0       50.0
Consultancies                           40.0       35.0
Total InvesLments                   840.0   - 725.0
Operating Expenses of Chilling Plant
Maintenance and Repcirs   1/            --         40.0      75.0      75.0       75.0      75.0      75.0      75.0
Power and Water                         33.0       85.0      95.0      95.0      95.0       95.0      95.0      95.0
Chemicals                               18.0       30.0      40.0      40.0      40.0       40.0      40.0      40.0
Staff                                   55.0       65.0      75.0      75.0      75.0       75.0      75.0      75.0
Total Operating Expenses            106.0     220.0      285.0     285.0     285.0      285.0     285.0     285.0
Milk Transport Costs   2/                   90.0      210.0     270.0     360.0      400.0     450.0     490.0     490.0
1/  About 5% of investment costs, starting in year after investment is made.
2!  Transport over 100 km; Rs 1.25/km for 10,000 liter tanker; Rs 1.12/km for 7,000 liter tanker.
CX c



ANNEX 8
*Table 10
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Dairy Development
Mobile Veterinary Units
Rs
A.  Recurring Costs
1 Veterinary Officer at Rs 1,300/month I/                15,600-
Attendant at Rs 300/month   1/-                           3,600
Medicine, Replacement of Equipment                       30,000
Hiring of Gars and Drivers'                              30.000
Total                                                 79,200
s;y          80,000
2/
B.  Number of Units Required
Year 1    ear 2     Year 3    Year 4
Jodhpur                   1        3          3         3
Nagaur                   --                   1         1
Ahmednagar                1        2          2         2
Sholapur                           1          2         2
Bijapur                  --                  .2        *2
Anantapur                --        1          2         .2
Total                  2        9         12        12
1/  Including fringe benefits.
2/ One unit serves 40 primary societies.



ANNEX 8
Table 11(a)
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Dairy Development
Artificial Insemination Centre
Investment Costs
Year 1
Unit Cost       No. ot    Costs
Unit          Rs          Units    Rs 1000
Fodder Production
Well and pgimp            no.          15,000          1       15.0
Land levelling            ha            5,000          2       10.0
Agricultural equipment    set           4,000          1         4.0
Draught oxen'             pair          2,000.         1         20
Bull Centre
Building expansion                        250        150       37.5
Bull shed      '          box           2,000.        10-       20.0
Vull exerciser            unit        20.0 Q,         1       20,0
Equipment                 set         100,000          1      100.0
Bulls                     head         12,000         10      120.0
Total                                                      328.0



ANNEX 8
Table 11(b)
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Dairy Development
Artificial Insemination Centre
Operating Expenses
Year 3
Year 1    Year 2    & onward
-------------------------------------RKs--------
1. Fodder Production
Pumping cost   1/                             300       300        300
Fertilizer   2/                             1,500     1,500     1,500
Maintenance well and pump   3/                 --     1,250      1,250
Maintenance equipment   4/                     --       200        200
Labor:
Foreman (Rs 2,400/m.y.)   5/              2,400     2,400      2,400
Laborers (Rs 2,000/m.y.)   5/             4,000     4,000     4,000
2. Bull Centre
Bull replacement   6/                          --        --     12,000
Concentrates   7/                          10,000    10,000    10,000
Medicine and Chemicals                      3,000     3,000      3,000
Veterinary equipment                        1,000     1,000      1,000
Replacement equipment                          --     5,000      5,000
Maintenance buildings   8/                     --     4,000      4,000
Miscellaneous                               5,000     5,000      5,000
Personnel:
Manager (Rs 24,000/m.y.)   5/            24,000    24,000     24,000
Veterinarian (Rs 15,600/m.y.)   5/       15,600    15,600     15,600
Assistants (Rs 6,000/m.y.)   5/          12,000    12,000     12,000
Attendants/Clerks (Rs 3,600/m.y.) 5/     10,800    10,800     10,800
Laborers (Rs 2,000/m.y.)   5/            12,000    12,000     12,000
Total                                   101,600   112,050   124,050
1/ Rs 150/ha
2/ Rs 750/ha
3/ 5% of investment cost, starting year 2.
4/  5% of investment cost, starting year 20
5/ Including fringe benefits,
6/ 3 bulls per year from local source at Rs 4,000 each, starting year 3.
7/ l/t per bull per year at Rs 1,000/t.
8/ 5% of buildings plus bull exerciser (Rs 80,000), starting in year 2.



ANNEX 8
Table 12(a)
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Dairy Development
Calf Raising Center - Investment Costs
Year 1
Cost Per     No. of       Cost
Unit       Unit (Rs)    Units      (Rs '000)
Fodder Development
Well and pump               Complete set      15,000        2           30.0
Irrigation development           ha            5,000       20          100.0
Wor1k animals               pair oxen          2,000        4            8.0
Equipment                        --           10,000        1           10.0
Cattle Stables
Phase 1 Stable                     2
(30-90 days of age)             m              200       20           4.0
Phase 2 Stable
(90-180 days of age)            m2             120       45           5.4
Phase 3 Pens
(6 months - 30 months)          m2              40    5,000 3/       20.0
Office and storage                m2             200       80           16.0
Equipment (scale, vet, kit,
etc.)               --                                   10.0
Total Investments                                                  203.4
1/ 1 m2 er calf; capacity is 20 calves in 4.5 waVes (cycles) per year.
2/  1.5 m  per calf; capacity is 30 calves in 4.0 waves per year.
3/ 5 m2 per heifer; open yard with shade areas.
Phasing of Calf Raising Center Development
Jodhpur   Ahmednagar    Sholapur   Bijapur    Anantapur   Total
Year I         --          1                                  1         2
Year 2          1          1             1         1          1         5
Year 3         --         --             1         1         --         2
Total         1          2             2         2          2         9



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Dairy Development
Calf Raising Center - Operating Expenses and Sales Projections
Year 2 -           Year 3         Year 4 & Onward
Unit Cost     No.       Cost    No.       Cost     No.       Cost
Unit          Rs        Units   Rs '000   Units   Rs '000    Units   Rs '000
A. Operating Expenses
Fodder Production
Fertilizer                 300 kg/ha Rs 2.50/kg     6,000      15.0   6,000      15.0    6,000       15.0
Pumping cost               ha         Rs 150/ha         20       3.0      20       3.0       20       3.0
Maintenance of well      well & pump   5% of invest              1.5               1.5                1.5
Maintenance of equipment               5% of invest               .5                .5                 .5
Labor:
Foreman                  man year   Rs 2,400          1       2.4        1      2.4        1       2.4
Laborers                 man year   Rs 1,200         10       12.0      10      12.0      10      12.0
Calf Raising
Calf purchase          180-day calf   Rs 600          400     240.0     400     240.0      400     240.0
Calf purchase           30-day calf   Rs 150          100      15.0      100      15.0     100      15.0
Fresh milk purchase     50 kg/calf    Rs 1.2/kg      5,000       6.0   5,000       6.0    5,000       6.0
Concentrate purchase   0.8t/heifer    Rs 1,000/t      200     200.0     400     400.0      400     400.0
Vaccination, etc.          animal     Rs 30/year      500       15.0     500      15.0      500      15.0
Labor:
Center manager           man year   Rs 5,000          1        5.0       1      5.0        1       5.0
Laborers                 man year   Rs 1,800           2       3.6       2       3.6        2       3.6
Maintenance buildings                 5% of invest               5.0               5.0                5.0
Total Operating Expenses                                         524.0             724.0              724.0
B. Sales
Heifers                    head       Rs 1,600                                             475 3i. 760.0
C.  Operating Surplus (Deficit)./                                   (524.0)           (724.0)             36.0
1/ The investments made in year 1, operation starts year 2.
2/  Total working capital required for first 2 years Rs 1,248,000, say Rs 1,250,000.
3/  Assuming 5% mortality.



ANNEX 8
Table 13
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Dairy Development
Ba asse Tratment
Year 2
Year 1      and after
----------Rs---------
Investments
Pressure cooker, steel drums for 2/t (10 m3)        65,000
Overhead loading-u;nloading equipment               15,000
Rollers                                              25,000
Steel Bins (5 at Rs 3,000)                           15,000
Total                                            120,000
Consultant Engineering                           10,000
Total Investments                            130,000
Operating Expenses
Bagasse (5,000 t @ Rs 10/t)                         50,000         50,Q00
Labor
Engineer (Rs 2,000/month)                          24,000        24,000
Foreman (Rs 500/month for 6 months)                6,000          6,000
Laborers (48 x 200/month for 6 months)             33,6.00       33,600
Replacement (10% of investment)                    13,000        13,000
Total Operating Expenses                     126 a 600      126,600
Sales
Bagasse Hay (10% loss, at Rs 40/t)                 180,000        180,000



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Sheep Development
Investment and Operating Costs - 100 Hectare Unit
Year 1   -             Year 2                Year 3                Year 4                Year 5                Year 6
Unit            Unit Cost                                                                                                                         Onwards
Rs.          No.        Rs.-        No.        Rs.        No.        Rs.        No.        Rs.        No.        Rs.        No.         Rs.
A.   Investment Costs
Conl.our furrowsii                     ha                 75           100        7,500        -           -         -           -         -           -         -           -         -            -
Grass sed                              kg                 12           300        3,600              -          -          -          -                -         -           -         -            -
Fencing-                               km             5,000              5      25,000         -           -         -           -         -           -         -          -          -           -
Water supply3/                          -                 -             -        10,000         -          -         -           -         -           -         -           -         -            -
Yards and draft4ng race                No             2,000              1        2,000        -           -         -           -         -           -         -           -         -            -
Tool   weighing equipment, etc.                                                     500        -           -         - 5-0
Rms                                   No                200              7       1,400         4         800          5      1,000          5      1,000          5      1,000
Motorbicycles                          No             8,000            1/3        2,700        -                      -               -                - -       -          -          -           -
rotal I ivustnient Costs                                                 52,700                   800                 1,000                 1,000                 1,000
B.  OaperatinCosts
Unit Manager -                         Mfan year      5,000            1/3        1,100       1/3       t,700       1/3       1,700       1/3      1,100        1/3      1,700        1/3      1,700
Stockmen                                  "            1,200             2        2,400         2       2,400         2      2,400          2      2,400          2      2,400          2      2,400
Shearing                        mature sheep unit          0.50        200          100       300         150       400        200        400        200        400        200        400        200
RamsF o                                No               200             -            -         -           -         -           -         -          -          -          -           5      1,000
Feed for rams6/                       kg                   1.00        210         210        300        300        390        390        390        390        390        390        390        390
Maintenance                             -                  -            -            -         -        3,700        -        3,700        -       3,700         -       3,700         -       3,700
Operation of motorbicycles8/            -                  -           1/3          500       1/3         500       1/3         500       1/3        500        1/3        500        1/3        500
Maintenance of mocorbicy -les9/         -                  -            -            -        1/3         530       1/3         530       1/3         530       1/3        530        1/3        530
Total  Operating Costs                                                    4,910                 9,280                 9,420                 9,420                 9,420                10,420
1/  Renewed every 10 years.
2/  Rs. 650 for labor; Rs. 1350 fcr wire; Rs. 3000 for posts and strainers.
3/  Dug well, wind mill and troughs.
4/  1 per 30 ewes..
5/ Manager supervises three 'inits, cost estimate includes fringe benefits; paid from a grant during initial five years.
6/ 7g kg per head per day for 60 days.
7/  10% of cost of fencinig, yard3 and water sttpply.
8/  10,000 kms per yrar '3 as. 0.15 per km for three units; paid from a grant during initial five years.
9/  Three units sharing; 70% of investment; start ing one year after inv.arstment is made; paid from a grant during initial five years.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Sheep Development
Investment and Operating Costs - Ten Hectare Private Farm
Year 3
Unit Cost       Yea:.-: 1      Year 2         onwards
Unit        Rs       No.        Rs   No.       Rs   No.       Rs
A. Investment Costs
Contour furrows -Ha                        75       10        750              --
Grass seed                      Kg         12       30        360              --
Ram  2!                         No.       200        1        200              --
Total Inves-tment Costs                                   1,310
B.  Operating Costs 3
Shearing                mature sheep
unit          0.50     20        10     30      15    40       20
Ram replacement 2/No.                     200        -          -   13:       70   1/3       70
'Feed for ram  4!.              Kg          1.OG    30         30    30       30    30.      30
Total1 Operating Costs                                       40            115            120
1/  Renewed every 10 years
2/Replaced every 3 years
3/Herding by fa-mily labor hence not a cash cost.                                                                  -
41 kg per day for 60 days



ANNEX 8
Table 16
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Sheep Development
Production Parameters and Flock Development - 100 Hectare Unit
Year 5
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4     onward
Production Parameters
Stocking rate per ha (mature sheep units) 1/       2         3         4         4          4
Mortality in ewes and rams (%)                    10        10         5         5          5
Culling rate in ewes (%)                          20        20        20        20         20
Culling rate in rams (%)                           -        10        33        33         33
Weaning rate (7% of mature ewes)                  50        60        65        70         70
Mortality in hoggets between weaning and
two years of age (%)                           25        25        20        15         15
Ewe Numbers
Breeding ewes beginning of year                  200       300       400       400        400
Ewes lost through mortality                       20        30        20        20         20
Ewes culled                                       40        60        80        80         80
Lambs weaned                                      90       162       247       266        266
Male weaners sold                                 45        81       124       133        133
Female weaners end of year                        45        81       123       133        133
Mortality in hoggets between weaning and
two years of age                               --        11        16        18         20
Hoggets added to female flock                     --        34        65       100        100
Surplus hoggets sold                              --        --        --         5         13
Village ewes added                               200       160       156        35         --
Ram Numbers
Rams at beginning of year                         --         6         8         8          8
Ramvs, purchased                                   7         4         5         5          5
Rams lost tbrough mortality                        1         1         1         1          1
Rams culled                                       --         1         4         4          4
1/ Mature sheep unit = ewe plus average weaner plus female replacement plus
proportion of rams (3%)



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Sheep Development
Revenue from W4ool and Mutton Sales --100 Hectare Unit
Year IYear 6
Yer1Year- 2                               Year 3                Year 4                 Year 5               and after
A. Yield .nd Price Parameters
1.  Ewqes -Aninual yield in kg
and price/kg                              1.5/.0V6.0o0                                     2.0/6.00              2.0/7.00               2.5/7.00               2.5/8.00
2.  Rams    Annuial yield In kg
and price/kg                              6.5/12.00                6.5/12.00               7.0/12.00             7.0/12.00              7.0/12.00              7.0/12.00
3. Weaners - A-nnual yield in kg
and price/kg                              0.4/10.00                0.5/10.00               0.6/10.00             0.7/10.00              0.7/10.00             0.7/10.00
4. Hioggets - A-nnual yield in kg
and price/kg                               -                       2.0/10.00               2.0/10.00             2.2/10.00              2.5/10.00              2.5/ 10.00
B.  Wool Sales                                                                                                                        R           gR                     gR
5.  Ewes                                       300       1,800       450         2,700        800         4,800       800        5,600     1.,000       7,000     1,000         8,000
6.  Rams                                        45         540        65            780         91        1,092        91        1,092         91       1,092        91         1,092
7.  Weaners                                     36         360        81            810       148         1,480       1.86       1,860        186       1,860       186         1,860
8.  Hoggets                                     -    --     -         68            680        130        1,300       231                     283,80                280
Sub-to,tal                                 381       2,600       664         4,970      1,169        8,672     1,308       10,862      1,560      12,782     1,560        13,782
ET. Mutton
A. Yield and ,lrice_Par,,neLc.rs
1. Ewes - Liveweight in kcg and
2  price in Rs/kg                              35/2.00               40/2.00                   4512.00                50/2.00                 50/2.00               50/2.00
2. Rams - Liveweight in kg and
price i-n Re/kg                             -   -                 70/2.50                   75/2. 50               75/2.50                 75/2.50               75/2.50
3. Male weaners - Liveweight in kg
and price in Re/kg                          18/3.00               20/3.00                  22/3.00                 24/3.00                 26/3.00               26/3.00
4. Hoggets - Liveweight in kg and
price in Re/kg                              -    -                -                         -   -                  30/3.00                 30/3.00               30/3.00
K~g.         Res~                   Re         Kg.          Res                    Re         Kg          Kejg                 -~Re
B.  Mutton Sales
5.  Ewes                                     1,400       2,800     2,400         4,800       3,600        7,200    4,000         8,000     4,000        8,000     4,000         8,001,
6.  Rams                                        --           --       70            175        300          750       300          750        300         750       300           750
7.  Weaners                                    810       2,430     1,620         4,860      2,728         8,184     3,192        9,576      3,458      10,374     3,458        10,374
8.  Roggets (for breedi-ng)                     --                     ------                                         150          450        390       1.170       390           17
Sub-Total                                2,?If)      5,230     4,090         9,835       ,28        16,134     7,642       18,776      8,148      20,294     8,148         20,294
Total Revenue from Wool and MNutton                           7,830                  14,805                  24,806                 29,638                 33,076                  34,076
a.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Sheep Development
Revenue from Wool and Mutton Sales - Ten Hectare Private Farm
Year 6
Year 1              Year 2             Year 3              Year 4              Year 5            and after
Kg            Rs    Kg           Rs    Kg            Rs     Kg            Rs    Kg            Rs    Kg            Rs
A. Wool Sales
Ewes              30.0         180     45.0       270     80.0        480     80.0        560    100.0         700    100.0        800
Rams               6.5          78      6.5        78      7.0         84      7.0         84      7.0         84       7.0         84
Weaners            3.6          36      8.0        80     14.4        144     18.9        189     18.9         189     18.9        189
Hoggets                                 6.0        60     12.0        120     22.0        220     27.5        275      27.5        275
Sub-Total       40.1        294     65.5        488    113.4        828    127.9      1,053    153.4      1,248     153.4      1,348
B. Mutton Sales
Ewes             140           280    240         480    360          720    400          800    400          800    400           800
Rams               -                                      75 1/       188     --           --     --            --     75          188
Weaners           72           216    160         480    264          792    312          936    338         1,014    338        1,014
Hoggets           ---                                                                             30            90     30           90
Sub-Total      212          496    400          960    699        1,700    712        1,736    768        1,904    843         2,092
Total Revenue                  790              1,448               2,528               2,789               3,152                3,440
1/ Recurring every 3 years                                                                                                                    (
-Sc



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Sheep_Development
Cash FLow Projection of Typical L0O-Heetare Units
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9
--------- --------------------------------- Rs '000 ------------------------------------
Revenue
Wool Sales                          2.6       5.0     8.7     10.9     12.8     13.8      13.8    13.8      13.8
Mutton Sales                         5.2     9.8      16.1    18.8      20.3     20.3     20.3     20.3     20.3
Total Revenue                     7.8     14.8     24.8     29.7     33.1     34.1     34.1     34.1     34.1
Expenditures
Capital Investment                 52.7       .8      1.0      I.0      1.0      --       --       --       --
Operating Expenses                  4.9      9.3      9.4      9.4      9.4      Lo.4    1.0.4     ]0.4     10.4
Payment to Participants             5.0      9.7      15.0    17.1     18.2      19.3     19.3    19.3      19.3
Aludit Fees                          .5        .5       .5       .5       .5       .5       .5       .5       .5
Total Expenditures               63.1     20.3     25.9     28.0     29.1     30.2     30.2     30.2     30.2
Source of Funds
Capital Grant                      52.7       .8      1.0      1.0      1.0      --       --       --       --
Grant for Unit Manager              2.2      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      --       --       --        --
Operating Revenue                   7.8     14.8     24.8     29.7     33.1     34.1     34.1     34.1     34.1
Total Source of Funds            62.7     18.3     28.5     33.4     36.8     34.1     34.1     34.1     34.1
Operating Surplus                     (.4)    (2.0)     2.6      5.4      7.7      3.9      3.9      3.9      3.9
Accumulative Operating Surplus                 (2.4)      .2      5.6     13.3    17.2      21.1     25.0     28.9
/ Detail in Table 14.
/ Annual guaranteed payment per ewe brought into the unit (total 551) increases from Rs 25 in Year 1 at               H
Rs 2 increments to Rs 35 in Year 6.                                                                                C
H cI
co



ANNEX 8
Table 19
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Sheep Development
Investment and Operating Costs - Unit Service Centers
Year 1           Year 2
Unit         Unit Cost                         Onwards
No.     Rs.      No.     Rs.
A. Investment Costs
Veterinary equipment-         Set             1,000      1     1,000
Jeep                          No             40o00,)     1    L40,000.
Motorbicycle                  No              8,000o     1     8,000     -       -
Total Investment Costs                                        149,000
B. Operating Costs
Center AIanager              Nan Year        6,000       1     6,000      1     6,000
Veterinary Assistant                          4,000      1     4,000      1     14,000
Administrative Officer                        3,000      1     3,000      1     3,000
Other Staff                                              -     4,000      -     4,000
Fringe benefits                  -              --            102         -    10,200
Rent for office and store     No                600       1      600      1        00
Maintenance of vehiclesi/     Center          7,600       -       -        -    7,600
Transport cost3/              Center            -         -    6,50o       -    6,500
Total Operating Costs                                         34,300           41,900
1/ Renewed after 5 years.
2/ 20% of investment cost, starting one year after investment is made.
3/ 10,000 Im/year each vehicle; at Rs. 0.50/km for the jeep, Rs. 0.15/km for the
motorbicycle .



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AR-EAS PROJECT
Sheep Development
Pcoposed Phasing of IO-Hectare Uniits and of Service Centers
Year I                     Yea-i: 2                     Year 3                      Year 4                       Total
10o     1.0o                               loo 10        100     10                  100     10                  100     10
ha      tha                 ha       ha                  ha      ha                  ha      ha                  ha      ha
Areha            Centers    Units   Units    Centers    Units   Units     Centets   ITnits  'Units    Centers   Units   Units     Centers   Units    Units
Sclj.as ihan :
J.)dhplur              1         9       10        -         18      20         -        18       20        -    -             -        1         45      50
4Tagaur                -          -       -        1          9      10         -        18       20        -        18       20        1         45      50
Ot:ler districts       1          9      tO        1         18       20        1         36      40                  36      40         3        99     110
'rbar.:sht ra:
Ahqtednagar            1          9      10         -        18      20         -        18       20        -          -       -        1         45      50
Sholapur               -          -       -         1         9      10         -        18       20        -        18       20        1         45      50
Karnataka:
Bijapur                1          9      10         -        18      20         -        18       20        -          -       -        1         45      50
Andhra Pradesh:
Anantapur              1          9      10         -        18       20        -        18       20        -          -       -        1         45      50
TOTAL                  4         36      40         4        99     110         1        144     160        -        90      100        9        369     410
o co



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Sheep Development
Investment and Operating Costs - Ram Multiplication Farm
Unit                                                                               Year 5
Cost        Year 1              Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Onwards
Unit     Rs      No.     Rs '000    No.   Rs '000     No.   Rs '000    No.    Rs '000    No.   Rs '000
A.  Investment Costs
Contour furrows                          ha       75     395       29.6      --      -
Grass seed                               kg       12   1,185       14.2      --      --       --       --
Fencing  1/                              km    5,000       5       25.0       5      25.0     --       --
Yards and drafting races               unit    1,500       1         1.5      1       1.5      --      --
Shelters                               unit    2,000       1        2.0      --      --       --       --
Ram protection   2/                    unit    8,000       1        8.0      --      --       --       --
Extension of water supply              unit   15,000       1       15.0      --      --       --       --
Land levelling                           ha    5,000       3        15.0      2      10.0     --       --
Agricultural equipment                   set   4,000       1        4.0      --      --       --       --
Draught oxen                           pair    2,000       1        2.0      --      --       --      --
Rams                                    no.    1,500       8       12.0      20      30.0     15      22.5
Ewes                                    no.      150     813      122.0    628       94.2    125      18.8
Tools, weighing equipment, etc.          -     1,000       1        1.0      --      -.       --       --
Motorbicycle                             no.   8    000    1      - 8.0
Total Investment Costs                --259.3                                     160.7    - -      41.3
B.  Qperati- Costs
Farm manager                       man/yedr    5,000       1        5.0       1       5.0      1       5.0       1       5.0      1       5.0
Shepherds                             "        1,800       5        9.0      10      18.0     12      21.6      12      21.6     12       21.6
Labor, etc.                           "        1,200       5        6.0       6       7.2      7       8.4       7       8.4      7       8.4
Administration                        "        2,400       1        2.4       2       4.8      2       4.8       2       4.8      2        4.8
Fringe benefits                           --      --      --       13.4      --      21.0     --      23.9              23.9             23.9
Maintenance of structures   3/            --      --      --       --        --       5.2     --        7.8     --       7.8     --        7.8
Shearing fees                  mature sheep
unit          0.50   400         .2  1,200         .6  1,600        .8  1,600         .8  1,600        .8
Ram replacement                         no.    1,500      --       --        --      --       --      --        10      15.0     10       15.0
Pumping cost  4/                         --       --      --         .8     --         .8     --        .8      --        .8     --        .8
Concentrates for rams   5/               kg        1     400         .4   1,350       1.4  1,800       1.8   1,850       1.9  1,850       1.9
Operation of motorbicycles   6/          --       --      --        1.5      --       1.5     --       1.5      --       1.5     --        1.5
Maintenance of motorbicycles   7/         --      --      --       --        --       1.6     --        1.6     --       1.6     --        1.6
Total Operating Costs                                            38.7              67.1             78.0              93.1             93.1
1/  Rs 650 for labor; Rs 1,350 for wire; Rs 3,000 for posts and strainers.
2/  Rs 200/ram for coolers and excavations.
3/  10% of investment costs, starting one year after investment is made.
4/  Rs 150/ha per year.
5   50 kg per ram/breeding season.                                                                                                                    nm
6/ 10,000 km per year at Rs 0.15 per km.
7/  20% of investment, starting one year after investment is made.



ANNEX 8
Table 22
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJEGT
Sheep Development
Production Parameters and FLock Development - Ram
Multiplicntion FFnm
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3     Year4      Year 5
Onwards
Production Parameters
Stocking rate per 4 (mature sheep
unit)-                   2           3          4          4           4
Mortality in rams (%)                15          12         10         10          10
M4ortality in ewes (%)               10          10          5          5           5
Culling rate in rams (%)              -          10         15         15          15
Culling rate in ewes (,)             10          15         20         20          20
vveaning rate (%)                    50          60         65         70          70
Mlortality between weaning and two
years of age (%)                 25          20         15         10          10
'we N\fumbers
3reed.ing ewes beginning of year    400       1 ,200     1,600      1 ,o00      1,600
EVwes dead                           40         120         80         80          80
i'wes culled                         40         180        320        323         320
Lambs weaned                        180         648      1,040      1,120       1,120
Male weaners end of year             90         324        520        560         560
Female weaners end of year           90         324;       520        560         560
Two-year males for sale              67          72        275        468         504
Two-year females added to flock      67          72        275        400         400
Two-year females sold (surplus)       -           -          -         68         104
Ewes purchased                      813         628        125          -           -
Ram Numbers
Ramsat beginning of year             10           7         21         27          27
Rams purchased                        8          20         15         10          10
Rams dead                             1           3          4          4           4
Rams cul'led                         10           3          5          6           6
1/ Mature sheep unit = ewe plus average weaner plus female replacement plus
proportion of rams.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
SheepDeeo       en
Revenue from Rain Wool and Hutton Sales - Rarn Multiplication Far.
Yea-                      Year 2               .    Year 3                    Year 4               -    Year 5
-~Onwards
I. Breeding Animals
A. Liveweight and Prices
1.  Ramm     - Liv,eweight and price in Rs/animal       35/100                     50I19i)                   55/190                   55/190                     55/190
2.  Hoggets - Liveweight and price in Rs/animal         25/75                      30/100                   30/100                    30/100                    30/ 100
Ro s'000             No.       Es'O00          NO.       Rs'000          No.       ZCa'O00         NO.       Rs'000
B. Sales of Breeding Animals
3.  Rams                                            67          6.7            72        13.7          275         52.3          46B         88.9          504         95.8
4. Eoggets                                           -           -              -          -                   -                   68         6.8          104         10.4
sub-Total                                       67          6.7           72         13.7          275         52.3          536         95.7          608        106.2
I. Woo1
A.  Yields and Prices
1.  Ewes           - Annual yield in kg and
price in Bs/kg                    1.5/6.00                  1.5/6.00                 2.0/6.00                   2.0/7.00                 2.0/7.00
2.  Esma           - Annual yield in kg and
price in Rn/kg                    6.5/15.00                 6.5/15.00                 7.0/15.00                 7.0/15.00                 7.0/15.00
3.  One-year olds - Annual yield in kg    and
price per kg                     0.4/10.00                  0.5/10.00                 0.6/10.00                 0.7/10.00                 0.7/10.00
4.  Two-year olds - Annual yield in kg and
price per kg                      1.0/6.00                  2.0/10.00                 2.0/10.00                 2.2/10.00                 2.5/10.00
_ISE_         9           j~ Rs'000 kg  lRs'000 kg             Rs                        Es000 _kZ_   Rs'000kg     RIO
B.  Wool Sales
5.  Ewes                                             600        3.6            1820      10.8           3200       19.2           3200       22.4           3200       22.4
6.  Rams                                              52         .8            17.        2.6            252        3.8            260        3.9            260        3.9
7. Weaners                                            72         .7            324        3i2            624        6.2            784        7.8            784        7.8
8.  Hoggats                                          134         .8            288        2.9           1100       11.0           2059       20.6           2520       25.2
Sub-Total                                        858        5.9           2587       19.5           5176       40.2           6303       54.7           6764       59.3
III. Mutton
A.  Yields and Prices
1.  Ewes - Liv,eweight in kg and price in Es/kg         30/2.00                   35/2.00                   35/2.00                   3512.00                   35/2.00
2.  Rams - Liv,eeight in kg and price in Es/kg          50/2.00                    70/2.50                  75/2.50                   75/2.50                   75/2.50
RE~   s' 000          ksg      Es'000           kg       Ra00              A       Ra'000           kg       Rs'000
B. Mutton Sales.
3.  Ewes                                            1200        2.4           6300       12.6:         11200       22.4          11200       22.4           11200      22.4
4.  Rams                                             500        1.0            210         .5            375         .9            450        1.1             450       1.1
Sub-Total                                       1700        3.4           6510       13.1          t1575      23.3           11650      23.5            11650     23.5
Total Sales                                                    16.0                      46.3                     115.8                     173.9                     189.0



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Sheep Development
Cash Flow P.rojections of Ram Multiplication Farm
Year 6
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5     Onward
----------Rs 000D       ----------------
Revenuies
Sale of breeding animals              6.7      13-7      52.3      95 .7    i06. 2     106. 2
Sale of wool                         '5.,9     19,.5     4o.2      541..7    59-.3      59.3
Sale of mutton                        3.4.     13.1      23.3      23.5      23-.5      23.5
Total Revenues                     16.eo    -46A3     115..8    173.9     189.0      189.0
Expenditures
Capital investment                  259.3     160.7      41.3      -
Operating expenses                   38. 7     67.1      78.0      93.1      93.1       93.1
Total Expenditures                2-98..O   227.8    119,.3     93.,l     93.1       93.1
Source of Funds
Capital grants                      259.3     160.7      41-3      --        --
Operating revenue                    16.0      46.3     115.8     173.9     1$9.0      189.0
Total Source of Funds             275.3     207.0     157.1     173.-9    189.0      189.0
Operating Surplus                     (22.7)    (20.8)     37.8      80.8.     95.9       95.9
Accumulative OperatirLg Surplus                  (43-5)     (5.7)    75.1     171.0      26.6. 9
U 3



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
DIVERSIFICATION SCHEMES
Introduction
1.        All facets of the economy of drought prone districts are directly
or indirectly dependent on rainfall. However, there is a considerable
range of dependency, most critical being dry land cultivation, production
from which shows the greatest variation with rainfall changes. While we
must accept that in the foreseeable future most rural families will continue
to depend heavily on crop production, measures to diversify the economy
away from cultivation must be given considerable emphasis.
2.        The principal and merits of diversification are accepted by all
government officials, and funds for specific schemes would be made available
under DPAP. Only Bijapur, however, had prepared proposals su'fficiently to
enable appraisal by the mission, and these -- fisheries, sericulture and
horticulture, are detailed in this Annex. Other proposals, as prepared and
approved, would be financed from core funds to be made available to district
authorities. 1/
A. Fisheries Development - Bijapur
Project Description
3.        The fisheries sub-project in Bijapur would provide seed production
capacity and increased staff for the Fisheries Department in the District,
in order that 28 tanks, the five permanent rivers in the District and the
Narayanpur Reservoir can be stocked and maintained for commercial fisheries.
The project would also provide credit to fishermen for the purchase of nets
and boats, and credit to the Cooperative Union to establish ice plants, cold
storage and transportation for member societies. Total cost of the project
would be Rs 9.2 million (US$1.1 million) of which Rs 7.8 million would be
government outlay on works and establishment, Rs 1.2 million would be credit
through the cooperative structure, and Rs .2 million would be subsidy. A
summary of project costs is presented in Table 1.
1/   Proposals in excess of Rs 50,000 would require state level approval;
those over Rs 50,000 would require approval of the central DPAP unit;
and those over Rs 250,000 would be submitted to IDA.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Technical Description
4.        Species. Fisheries development would be based on three types of
carp: Catla, Rohu, and Mrigal. Although not native to the district, these
types have done very well in trials and commercial production under natural
water and feed conditions.   There is an abundance of feed for these omnivors,
principally phytoplankton, zooplankton, larvae and bottom flora. Catla
is the fastest growing type, often exceeding a weight of 1 kg at 12 months
of age, while the Rohy and Mrigal regularly attain 600 gms.in the same
period. 1/ Although some natural reproduction has been observed, artificial
reproduction is required to maintain good stocking levels.
5.        Seed Production. At present, the Karnataka Fisheries Department
operates a seed production farm at Tungabadra and another at Chitradurga.
In addition, large quantities of natural fry are purchased annually from
Calcutta. At Tungabadra, 2,000 mature breeders are regularly maintained.
During the breeding season, June-August, they are milked, and the fertilized
eggs placed in hatchery tanks.
6.        Nursery tanks are prepared one week in advance of spawn transfer
by fertilizing with a 10:1 mixture of cattle and poultry manure at the
rate of 1 mt/ha. This promotes the growth of natural feed in the tanks.
Spawn requires two-three weeks after hatching to reach a size of 1/2",
during which time a 50:50 mixture of oil cake and rice bran is fed daily
at a rate of 1-2% of body weight. The ideal density for nursery ponds is
10 million/ha; but due to shortage of space, 25 million is the current
density at Tungabadra. This is the principal contributing factor to the
40-45% mortality rate between spawn and fry. Three crops per year can be
raised in the nursery ponds during and immediately after the breeding
season.
7.        Fry are then transferred to large rearing ponds.   (At present,
small tanks and monsoon pools throughout the district are being used because
of a lack of proper facilities. Policing and quality control problems have
resulted.)  Ponds are stocked at the rate of 500,000 per ha and daily feeding
of oil cake/bran is done at the rate of 1-5% of body weight depending on
natural feed levels. Mortality rates during this period are quite high,
principally as a result of shipping stress. Fingerlings from Tungabadra,
for example, are shipped approximately 120 miles, while those from Calcutta
travel over 1,000 miles. With nearer seed farms, mortality could decline
from as high as 60% to 30%. Aftex two months, the 2" fingerlings are ready
for stocking. Stocking rates are generally below ideal densities since
1/   The mission visited the ancient city well of Bijapur -- 1-1/2 acres by
63' deep -- where 2,000 Catla fingerlings had been stocked about two
years before. Despite community effluents and disturbance, daily
catches include individual fish up to 4.5 kg.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
seasonal fluctuations in water level are so great. 1/ Stocking is done
usually between October and December at the following rates: tanks, 500/acre;
reservoirs, 100/acre; and rivers, 2,000/mile. Only three of the tanks to
be stocked under the project have been known to go dry in recent years, and
even in such cases current stocks would have achieved marketable weight
although the market prefers fish of 1 kg or more each. All rivers to be
stocked have perennial pools in the dry season. At full development, seed
production under the project would yield 9 million fingerlings per year
assuming current mortality rates. Requirements for the project area would
be 6.8 million, leaving a balance of 2.2 million to be sold at Rs 100/
thousanid.
Organization
8.        Karnataka Fisheries Department.  In Bijapur, the Fisheries Depart-
ment has an Assistant Director, eight Assistant Superintendents, two Assistant
Inspectors, 19 fishermen and 13 support staff. Table 2 presents incremental
staff requirements under the project. All fish resources are under the direct
control of the department except irrigation tanks less than 25 acres in area,
which are controlled by the local panchayats. Fishing rights in all cases
are by annual permit issued to cooperative societies or panchayats in the form
of a lease. Fees depend on productivity estimates, but amount to approxi-
mately 5% of the wholesale value of the annual catch. Fishing regulations
are effectively enforced under such leases. Size of fish is controlled by
net mesh regulation (minimum 2 1/2" mesh). Drag nets, dynamite and poison
are prohibited as is fishing during declared breeding seasons.
9.        Cooperatives. There are at present 10 primary fishing societies
in Bijapur with a combined membership of 673 fishermen and paid share
capital of Rs 11,000. Typically, the individual society has a rented office
in the village near the fishing grounds, to which fish are brought. Members
are paid immediately on a gross weight basis. 2/ A part or full-time sec-
retary manages the society and sells the fish, mostly for local consumption.
Nearly all members are marginal farmers or agricultural labourers, and thus
eligible for 33-1/3% subsidy on loans for nets under the MFAL Program.
Supplies such as floats and netting are stocked by the society. Typically,
a fisherman would require a 600 foot gill net with a retail value of about
Rs 350. However, he would make the net himself during about three months
of part-time labour from materials costing Rs 200 of which Rs 67 is provided
as subsidy. The balance is met as credit from the society, against which
regular deductions are taken by the secretary from the gross value of fish
delivered.
1/   At Tungabadra, excellent results are obtained at 2,000/acre with ferti-
lization and careful management.
2/   Rates are revised quarterly and information during field visits suggested
an annual range of Rs 2-2-1/2/kg.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
10.       Cooperative Union. Fisheries Department officers and cooperative
chairmen have begun to establish a Cooperative Union to be located at
Bijapur. Its principal function would be to provide marketing facilities
for member societies such as cold storage, ice plants, transportation, and
a fish market.
11.       Project Operations.  Under the project, the Fisheries Department
would regularly stock cooperative fishing grounds and provide extension
services and management assistance. In return, the society would pay 30%
of the wholesale value of its catch to the department, in lieu of piresent
arrangements whereby fingerlings are sold at Rs 100 per thousand and leases
are also purchased by societies. On average, this amounts to 15% of whole-
sale value, and catches are not as large as should be expected under the
project since there are now instufficient fingerlings to permit optimal
stocking. Fishermen would receive 50% of the wholesale value of the catch
(plus about 10% applied against loans) and about 10% would meet costs of
the society and the union. Additional revenue would accrue to the union in
lieu of commissions now paid to marketing agents. Societies and the union
would be eligible for credit from the Bijapur District Central Cooperative
Bank, and subsidies would continue to be paid to fishermen under MFAL.
arketing
12.       At present, most fish are consumed within the village of respective
societies, purchased from societies at a rate of about Rs 2.5/kg. Some
surplus is sent by regular public carrier to Bijapur where a commission
agent receives 25 paise per kg of fish sold by him, but poor transportation
and no storage facilities result in heavy losses and low prices. Fresh fish
sells in Bijapur for Rs 3-4 per kg gross weight. 1/ At present, about 600
tons of fresh fish are produced annually in Bijapur, all of which is con-
sumed within the district, as are 75 tons per year of imported marine fish.
The district has a population of 1.9 zillion which, at National Nutrition
Standards, should consme over 20,000 tons per year. This far exceeds what
should be construed as the realistic market in the near future. Of the 1.9
million people, approximately 40% are imeat eaters of which only about 25%
(assuming even distribution) have access to some fish during a part of the
year, This suggests a daily consumption rate of 13 grams by those meat
eaters having access to fish. Fish prices are only marginally less than
mucton and cross elasticity acts to stabilize relative prices. The project
would add 2,750 tons per annum or 400% to production volumes. Improved
transport and storage would increase availability which would in turn lead
to increased per capita consumption. New production volumes would be
consumed if 75% of meat eaters could be served and average consumption were
to increase to 20 grams per day. These estimates do not include population
increases over the 5-year buildup period or the excellent opportunities for
export to adjacent districts such as Sholapur.
1/   Large supplic!3 in Msrch, A'-pril and May, including imported coastal fish,
can depress p"ice2 'temporarily as low as Rs 2/kg.



k                   ANNEX 9
Page 5
Benefits and/Justifications
13.       The project would greatly increase the nutritional value of food
available to a large percenZage of Bijapur's population. In addition, it
would provide employment for approximately 1,000 fishermen, most of whom
are marginal farmers or ,gricultural labourers. Additional income per
family would be approximately Rs 1,900 per year which, when added to current
income, would give a total in excess of that officially deemed necessary
for rural family requirements. Table 3 presents a pro forma cash flow for
an average societyy, and the benefits to individual fishermen under different
yield assumptions. A cash flow is also presented for the Cooperative Union
(Annex 17, Table 11) and the Fisheries Department (Annex 17, Table 12), both
showing a positive cash flow after year 2 and a rate of return of 20%.
14.       These financial benefits to the project are substantial principally
because of the relatively low investment cost and the zero incremental cost
of tanks and reservoirs, which would continue to serve irrigation and
drinking water requirements. Benefits to individual fishermen are particu-
larly good since there is no cash outlay for the labour component, nor does
employment in fisheries detract from the families' ability to earn income
from marginal farming or agricultural labour.
B. Sericulture Development - Bijapur
Project Summary
15.       The sericulture sub-project would provide a multiplication and
extension cum demonstration centre in order to sponsor and guide the develop-
ment of silkworm production on small farms without irrigation in Bijapur.
The centre would be developed in year 1, and sericulture based on one
hectare of mulberry bushes would be introduced on 400 farms during the fol-
lowing three years. The total investment required per farm is about Rs
6,000, At full development the additional income per participant would be
about Rs 2,000 per annum, not accounting for family labour. Mulberry
planting material and disease-free-7-ayings would be provided from existing
and new stations, of the State Department of Sericulture. The latter would
also undertake overall training and supervisory responsibility in organizaing
and implementing the work of the Bijapur centre.
Background
16.       India ranks fifth among the silk producing countries in the world,
accounting for about .5 percent of the world's total production. In 1971,
India had about 100,000 hectares under mulberry trees or bushes and about
2,150 tons of silk were produced (21 kg/ha). Silk production in Karnataka



ANNEX 9
Page 6
alona accounted for 85 percent of the total. Currently, about 4.5 million
m2 of silk fabrics valued at about Rs 70 million, and about 600 t of raw
silk and silk waste, valued at about Rs 5.3 million are exported annually.
The market prospects for silk are considered to be good.
17.       Being a labour intensive industry, sericulture can play a significant
role in combating under or unemployment in rural areas. The labor employed
for one hectare under mulberry is about 1,000 man hours for mulberry growing,
1,800 manhours for mulberry leaf collection and about 2,800 hour for silkworm
ra#sing, totalling 5,600 manhour, or 560 man days per hectare.1/ Government
estimates indicate that the silk industry, including production, processing
and marketing, gave full or part-time employment to about 3.2 million Indians
in 1965/66. Most cocoon rearers are small and marginal farmers.
18.       In Karnataka, mulberry is grown in bnsh form, beirg planted at
2 x 2 feet under rainfed conditions. Saplings from the locally selected
variety Mysore 5 are available free of charge from government stations; the
closest to the project area is near Belgaum, about 130 miles from Bijapur.
Mulberry saplings are planted after deep digging at the onset of the monsoon;
leaf collection can start after 6 months; full leaf production is reached
after one year. All mulberry bushes are pruned back to a level of 3-4
inches before the monsoon starts; the pruned twigs are used as saplings for
new plantings.
19.       In Karnataka, sericulture has had state support for a long time.
The State Department of Sericulture has a network of certified seed producers
and provides all cocoon raisers with disease-free-layings. The average charge
is Rs 15 for 100 disease-free-layings. In a segregated area, the Mysore
oth variety has been maintained pure by banning the introduction of other
strains. At present, layings resulting from the crossing of females from
the Mysore variety with Japanese or Chinese male moths are distributed
throughout the state. Further research on crossbreeding local and exotic
strains for dryland conditions is under way, but so far bivoltine exotic
strains are recommended only for farms with irrigation.
20.       Humidity, temperature, freshness of mulberry leaves, shed ventila-
tion and spacing of caterpillars are important factors for. the speed and
efficiency of silkworm development. Under good management the worms pass
from first to fifth instar in 23-25 days and 100 disease-f ree-layings - there
are between 250 and 450 eggs in one laying - yield about 22 kg of cocoons
from mulberry production without irrigation.  It is estimated that without
irrigation, one hectare of mulberries will support about 1,200 disease-free-layings.
This would give about 260 kg of cocoons per hectare. At an average rendita of
1:12 this corresponds to the production of 22 kg of silk per hectare.
21.       Government undertakes to distribute disease-free seed; no private
seed can be sold without inspection.' Pebrine (Nosema bombyeis) is under
control, but under low humidity and when partly wilted leaves are fed, bacte-
rial and viral diseases affect the woims' digestion. Principal diseases are
1/   This is about double the labor requirement encountered in Korea.



ANNEX 9
Page 7
flacherie, grasserie and the above pebrine which cause mortality of up to
40 percent of hatched eggs. Government is considering the introduction of
centres for the rearing of chawkies (young silkworms) up to the second moult
in order to cut down mortality losses during first and second instar to 20-25
percent. The establishment of cooperatively owned and operated chawkie raising
centres could be considered at a later stage.
22.       The Khadi (Rural Industry) Centre at Bengari near Hubli, 120 km to
the south of Bijapur, iS the nearest silk reeling centre. The processing
facilities there are at present not fully utilized and it is proposed that
additional cocoons being produced under the sub-project in Bijapur would
be marketed in Bengari.
Proposed Developments
23.       A three-hectare sericultural farm would be established near
Bagalkot in order to serve as the centre through which Government support
would be char.nelled to the private cocoon raisers in the southern talukas of
Bijapur. This central farm would be provided with irrigation for year-round
mulberry leaf production,.I/ and have silkworm raising facilities suitable
for demonstration. The centre would be the home station for the extension
officers and would conduct in-service training courses for prospective
silkworm raisers. Administratively, the centre would be attached to the
State Department of Sericulture in Bangalore from where technical guidance
and supervision would be provided. The total investment for developing the
centre is estimated at about Rs 140,000 (Detail in Table 4). This includes
cost for land and irrigation development, silkworm management equipment and
for the extension and training functions of the station.
24.       The operating expenses for the farm and its extension and training
functions and sales projections for the center indicate a maximum annual
deficit in year 3 of about Rs 45,000. Over a five-year period the cumulative
net operating deficit of the center would be about Rs 158,000 (Details in
Table 5).
25.       The sub-project would finance the development of silkworm raising
on 400 farms. The development of these farms would be phased over three
years. Participating farmers would plant mulberry bushes on one hectare
of land without irrigation and would continue with their traditional dryland
farming on the other part of their properties. Total investments per farm
are estimated at Rs 5,700 of which about 20 percent for mulberry planting
occurs in the first year and the rest for silkworm management facilities in
year 2 (Table 6). Full productivity would be reached in year 3 when a farm
would produce about 260 kg of cocoons valued at about Rs 3,200. Total operat-
ing expenses, not accounting for about 450 man days of family labour, are
estimated at Rs 1,100-1,200 per annum (Table 7).
1/ A small part of the farm woul]d be under dryland mulberry for demonstration.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
26.       The production phase of the sub-project would provide employment
for about 400 families, most of whom are marginal farmers. The additional
labor requirements would give part time employment (110 mandays/year) to
another 400 persons. Additional income per participating farm family would be
approximately Re 1,800 per year (Rs 2,000 from one hectare of mulberry minus
Rs 200 from one hectare of present traditional dryland farming). The finan-
cial rate of return is estimated at 32 to 33 percent. The economic rate of
return of the sub-project is 20 to 21 percent.
B. Horticulture
Project Description
27.       The project would provide incremental nursery capacity for the
production of the following transplants:
Ber                  750,000
Mango                 40,000
Jackfruit             30,000
Sapota                10,000
Coconuts              10 000
840,000 11
/1   Some lime trees would also be planted in mixed orchards with
good 1 ziggat-aion     L     but the number is small, and
these would be provided fromn existing nurseries.
Nursery investment anid ope5:aitng expenses for a five year period would amount
to about Rs 725,000. In $din. n          assistant horticultural officers
and eight     .                      O vould be provided under the project.
Total project cacts would be about Re 1,191,000.    (Detailed in Table 8.)
Proj ect Operations
28.       The Kar'-te-ka Horticulture Department is one of the strongest and
most active in the coLintry. Although it has been operating in Bijapur District
for only six yeiaco  it             e L  stjtabl'shed six nurseries.  Project funds
would provide two ;      e  of  eiu:4aJ. nursery c pacity.    All transplants
would be raised in polythese bags and given free of charge to cultivators.
Transplants produced un-der the piciject would be used in four distinct programs.
29.       Ber: Thli   deep"-roo2reG fruit tree is well suited to poorer soils
in samiar id areas.  I.ts sElmall YEllow fruit is very high in vitamin C and
the tree itself is a g;Odl        of fodder and small firewood.   Under the
proect,tr 6'o1zl'' '{3 J  t8 > '     1+  b711's and boundaries and on private



ANNEX 9
Page 9
permanent fallow lands. The number of transplants given to any one land
owner would be limited to 50.
30.       Mango:  Mango requires more moisture than ber, although equally
suited to poorer soils, and its broad dense foliage cover renders it unsuit-
able for bund planting since it would compete with field crops for light.
Transplants would be placed in low corners or irrigated plots, around wells,
or along water courses. Any one farmer would be limited to 25 transplants
under the project.
31.       Coconut:  Coconut transplants would be placed around homesites
where domestic water waste would provide adequate moisture and along canals
and permanet water courses. Individual allocations would be limited to 25
transplants.
32.       Mixed Orchard:  As a commercial venture on irrigated land, mixed
orchards are very attractive. A mixture of some or all of mango, sapota,
jack and limes would be planted under the project. Establishment and
maintenance costs to production are estimated at Rs 3,000 (including fencing
but excluding cost of transplants) to be met by the farmer as equity or
borrowed as institutional credit. This cost could be offset by the produc-
tion of vegetables in the immature orchard. An operating statement for a
1-acre model appears at Annex 17, Table 10. Owing to the risk and price vola-
tility involved in fresh fruit production, it is not recommended that a
large share of any land holding be converted to fruit production. Furthermore,
becatuse of the no-cost provision of transplants, it would be essential to
spread project benefits as widely as possible. Therefore the number of trans-
plants to any one farmer for the establishment of a mixed orchard would be
limited to 100 -- the number required for a 1-acre orchard.
33.       Marketing:  Fruit prices are extremely elastic with income and
supply. In the absence of cold storage facilities, which the mission examined
and rejected as a project component at this time, prices would be low at the
time project produce is marketed. Nevertheless the mixed orchard proposal
shows a financial rate of return of 15% at the following assumed prices: mango
Rs 0.20 each; c'apota Rs 0.50 each; jackfruit Rs 1.00 each; lime Rs 0.03 each.
The current in-&,aqon price for ber is Rs 1/kg and project farmers are
expected to market half to two-thirds of their harvest at a farm gate price
of Rs 0.50. All produce would be sold in the villages and towns of Bijapur
district.
34.       Benefits and Justification:   Mixed orchards, as mentioned, show
a financial rate of return of 15% when compared with current cropping under
irrigation in Bijapur. Other project components show significant cash income
per family, but, especially in the case of ber, it is niot possible to
project with confidence the impact of significant volume irncreases on
market prices. In addition to cash income, the project would have other
significant benefits for participating farmers:



';ANNEX- 9
.P&ge "10
--   signif cant improvements in the v"ariety aAnd vitamin C
content of farmnfamily 'difes;
small firewood (in thecase 'of b"er, `estimated at Rs '4 per
tree per year);
--   fodder from 'beir (,Rs 2 per tree pe-r year');
-- windbreaks; a-nd
--  .shade :for animals and cultivato'rs'.
November 4, 1974



ANNEX 9
Table 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Fisheries
Summary of Project Costs
(Rs '000)
Total     Government
Investment  Direct Cost Cooperative Subsidy
'. Construction of rearing ponds, etc.
at Bhutnal Fish Farm:
(a) Rearing ponds size 30' x60' x4'            96
(b) Water supply arrangements                  24
(c Fishermen quarters - Two                    25
(d) Repairs and improvements to the
watchman's shed
150         150
2. Fish seed farm, Narayanpur:
(a) 50 Breeder ponds of size 75' x 125' x7'   600
'b) 100 Breeding ponds of 20 xlO' x3'         300
(c, Hatchery                                  120
fd) 200 nursery ponds of size 25' x50' x<   1,200
ie 500 rearing ponds of size a0' x83' xh'   1,980
Cf) Laboratory, packing shed stores, etc.     24C
L,44C       4,WiO
3. Fish production farm, Narayanpur:
200 Donds of 1 acre each                    2,000
2,000       2,000
L. 10 Taluk level nurseries of size
20' x 40' (h ponds + water supply)            360
360         360          ---         ---
5. Staff quarters, Narayanpur:
,a) Class I quarters                           60
(b) Class II quarters                         180
(c) Class III quarters                        492
'd) Class IV quarters                         288
1,020       1,020          ---         ---
6. Fishing Equipment
(a) 2,000 nets @ Rs 200                       400         ---           267        133
(b) 350 boats @ Rs 700                        245         ---           163         82
645         ---          430        215
7. Marketing and Storage
(a) 10/t ice plant and 20/t cold
storage--Bijapur                         442         ---          390         42
(b) 10/t ice plant--Narayanpur                252         ---           227         25
(c) 10 cold storage cabinets                  14           ---          130         1L
(d) 1 truck                                    96          ---           86         10
(e) 2 jeeps                                    96                        86         10
1,030         ---          929        101
Total Physical Works                 9,645        7,970        1,359        316
8. Fisheries Department
(a) Incremental staff (5 years)             1,565       1,565
'b  Initial operating expenses 1/             453         4531
2,918       2,018            -
9. Cooperative Societies
Initial working capital 2/                      25         ---           25        ---
10. Cooperative Union
Initial working capital                       121          ---          121        ---
Total Project Costs (Rs '000)       11,809        9,988        1,505        316
(us$ '000)
1/ Start up and operating costs until sufficient revenue is generated to
meet operating costs.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Fisheries
Fisheries Department - District Staff
Annual                Incremental      Total
Present    Salary    Additional Anmual Cost    Annual Cost
Positions  (Rs '000) Positions             L-Rs '000)---
Deputy Director                -         10.6        1          10.6          10.6
Assistant Director             1          6.0        3          18.0          24.0
Assistant Superintendent       8           .l1       4           16.4          49.2
Assistant Inspector            2          4.1        5           20.5         28.2
Fishermen                     19          2.0       21          42.0          80.0
Watchmen                       8          2.0       10           20.0          36.0
Superintendents                -          5c4        1            5.4          5e4
I Division Clerk               1          3.2        2            6.4          9.6
II Division Clerk              2          5.2        3           15.6         26.0
D)rivers                       1          2.2        2           4.4           6.4
Typists                        1          3.0        2           6.0           9.0
Stenographers                             3.9        2           7- 7. .8
173.1         292.2
Allowances and Benefits                                         139.9         236.1
TOTAL                     43                    56         313.0 /       528.3
1/ Staff costs under the project would be incremental salaries,
allowances and benefits 'or a period of five years; Rs 1,565,000.



ANNEX 9
T'able 3
INDIA
DROUGHT PRO)NE AREAS PROJECT
Fisheries
Model Primar,y Fishing Society
Fishing area:  200-acre tank     No. of fishemen:   20    Credit: @ 73g for 2 years
Investment by Members
Nets 20 @ 320                      6,400
Boats 7 @ 700                     4,900
Share capital 20 @ 38                760
12,060
Of which: Sub,'idy boats  1,633
nets   1,y3_40
2,973
Own labor       2 00
5'373
Credit required          5,927
11,300
Society Income Projections
Yield Assumptions
100 kg/acre  200 kg/acre   300 kg/acre
-(20        -. (4o tons     (60 tons-)
Reveme:
Sale of fish (Rs 2,000/ton)                    40,000       80,000       120,000
Repayment of loans to members (@ 10%)            3.L65       3,h65        3,L65
43,465       83,465       123,465
Expenses:
Payments to fishermen                           20,000      40,000        60,000
Payments to Department Fisheries               12,000       24,000        36,000
Repayment of loans to DCCB                      3,301        3,301         3,301
Ice (25% catch packed @ 1:1) Rs 80/t               400         800         1,200
Secretary                                       3,000        3,000         3,000
Overhead                                        1,000        1,000         1,000
39,701       72,101       104,50L
Net Income                                        3,764       11,364        18,964
Benefit to Individual Fishermen
Income from sale of fish after loan deduction    1.,000      2,000         3,000
Equipment repairs                                   50          70            90
Net Income z/                                   950       1,930         2,910
A Best estimate
2/ Fishing uses underemployed family labor and is conducted during 2easonal and
daily slack; therefore no explicit or opportunity cost of labor is attributable
to this activity.



ANE 9
Table 4
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PEROJECT
Sericulture Development
Demonstration Farm
Investment Projections
Year 1             Year 2
Unit     Unit    No.     Cost       No.      Cost     Total
Costs    Unnits Rs 1000     Units   Rs t000   Rs 7000
(Rs)
1.   ulbemj Plantation
Land preparation      ha       1,000       3     3.0        -      -          3.0
Well and pump       completeo 15,000     set    15e0        -      -         15.0
seti
Manure                ha         200       3      .6        -      -           .6
Transport of Q        ha         1 00      3      .3        -      -           .3
sapli-ngs 4
Planting              ha         200       3      .6        -      -           .6
2. Silkworm Mangement
Shed                             100     150    15.0        -      -        15.0
Stands               stand        60      30     1.8        -      -         1.8
Trays                 tray         5     200     1.0       -      -          1.0
Bamboo mountages    mountage      20      50     1.0        -      -         1.0
Tools                  set     1 ,000    one     1 .0       -      -         1.0
Sub-total                                       39.3        -               39.3
3.  &,tension
Offices                M2        200     150    30.0        -      -        30.0
Living quarters for     2
trainees          A            200     150    30.0        -      -        30.0
Motorbicyoles         one      8,000       3    24.0       2     16.o    0     .0
Sub-total                                       84.0        -   16.0       100.0
T_                                             1 "  23 .3       16.0       139.6



ANNE 9
INDIA                                  Table 5
DROUGHT PROIE AREAS PROJECT
Sericulture Development
Demonstration Farm
Operating Expenses and Sales Projections
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4
Onwards
Rs'OOO Rs'OOO Rs'OOO Rs'000
A. Operating Expenses
1.   MLlberry Production
Manure                                         -       .3      .3      .3
Fertilizer                                     -      1.5     1.5     1,5
Pwuping cost                                   .5      .5      .5      .5
Cultural operations                           3.0     4.5     4.5     4.5
Maintenance of pump                            -       .4      .4      .4
2.    Silkworm Production
Disease-Free-Layings                           a5     1.0     1.0     1.0
Labor                                          .8     1.5     1.5     1.5
Maintenance of equiMent -                      -      1.0     1.0     1.0
Sub-total                                     4.8    10.7    10.7    10.7
3.    Extension
a)   Staff
Station manager (Rs.6,000/my)                 6.o     6.0     6.0     6.0
Extension specialists (Rs.4,000m/my)          8.0    12.0    16.0    16.o
Fringe benefits (60 percent of salaries)      8.4    10.8    10.8    10.8
b)   Other
Ie-Ju (15,O00 mIa @ Rs.0.15 per unit/year)    6.7    11.3    11 .3   11 .3
Maintenance of motorbicycles 2/                -      1.2     2.0     2.0
Maintenance of buildings                               .6      .6      .6
Subsistence for trainees 3/                  15.0    22.5    22.5      -
Sub-total                                    44.1    64.4    69.2    46.7
Total                                        48.9     .1     79.9    57.4
Be Sales Projections
Sale of seed cocoons (Rs.20/kg)              20.0    40.0    40.0    40.0
C. Net Operating Deficit                               23.9    35.1    39e9    17.4
1/  10% of cost of pump.
2/  5% of investment, starting one year after investment is made.
i/  Rs 150  for 3 months in-service training; 100 trainees in year 1, 150 in yea   2 & 3.



ANNEX 9
Table 6
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Sericulture Developoment
One Hectare Farm (without irrigation)
Development Phasing and Investment Projections
A. Development Phasing
Demonstration No.
Farm       Farms
Year 1       1          -
Year 2       -         100
Year 3       -         150
Year 4       -         150
B. Investment Projections
Year 1          Year 2
Unit       Unit   No.    Cost     No.   Cost    Total
Jost   Units Rs'OOC   UniiU Rs0300   Rs'OOO
is .
1. Mul:berry Development
Land preparation-/    ha         600     1       .6            -         .6
Manure                ha         200     1       .2       -     -        .2
Transport of saplings ha         100     1       .1       -     -        .1
PlantingL/            ha         100     1       .1       -    -         .1
2.  Silkworm Management
Shed                  m2          50     -       -       50   2$5      2.5
Stands                stand       60     -       -       15     .9       .9
Trays                 tray               -       -      100     .5       5
MIountages            mountage    20     -       -        30    .6       .6
Tools                 set        200     -       -       -      .2      .2
Total                                          1.0            4.7      5 7
1/  Excluding family labor of 450 mai& days.



ANNEXL2
Table 7
UMDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Sericulture Development
One Hectare Farm (without irrigation)
Operating Expensas and Sales Projections
Before    Year 1     Year 2     Year 3
Onwards
(Rs.)      (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Oprting E.en es
1. Mulberry Cultivation
Manure                      -         -          100         100
Cultural .operationsi/      -         -         500         500
2. Silkworm production
Disease-Free-I ayings        -         -          60         120
Laborl/                     -         -         160          330
Maintenance                  -         -          -          100
Total                       -                   820        1,150
B. Sales Projections                                    (132 kg)   (264 kE,)
Cocoons sold (Rs. 12/lkg)                  .      1,584        3,168
1/ Excluding fanily labor of 450 man days.



Table5
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Horticulture
Project cost EstiniLates
I. Nursery Investment
Land - 2 hectares                                         12,000
Fencinr                                                    2 250
Well                                                      10,000
Buildings                                                -    5000
Sub-total                               29-.250
Contingencies
35,100
II. Nurser   Oprations 1/
Ber               750,000 @ .5                           3759000
Mango              40,000 @ 5.0                          200,000
Jackfruit          30,000 @ 3.0                           90,000
Sapota             10,000 @ 3.0                           30.,000
Cocomnts           10,000 @ 3 .0                          30 ,000
Total                               725,000
III. Other Departmental Establisbment
(a) Investment
4 Wheel drive vehicle and trailer                 35,000
Office equipment                                   5,000
Siiwootal                               40,0
ContLngencies s,
Tota,,l                             148,000
(b) Staff and Recurring
Assistart Horticultural Officers (4 @ 500)       120,000
Horticultuara:l Assistant (8 @ 175)               84,000
Benefits (@ 60% of salary)                       122,400
326,,400
Vehicle Fuel and Maintenance                      50,000
Office suppLies and serices                        7,500
Total                              383,900
Total Pret Costs
Investment;s                                              69,250
Recurring (5 years)                                    1,108,900
Contingencies                                             139850
Total                                              1,192,,100
1/  Production cost data to be ietailed during follow-up mission.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Agricultural Research
Backgroumd
1.        India's agricultural research effort is coordinated by the Indian
Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). Research stations are operated by
state departments of agriculture, by the agricultural universities and
directly by ICAR. Funds are provided from state plan allocations, from GOI
for centrally sponsored schemes and from ICAR itself which has income from a
cess on various commodities. ICAR appoints panels of scientists in the
various disciplines to veto and approve research proposals for funding.
Darland Agriculture Research
2.        The earliest efforts on dryland research began in the 1920's.
These led to a comprehensive, multi-location research project sponsored
by the Imperial Council of Agricultural Research. This project ran from
1933 to 1943 at several locations in the former states of Bombay, Hyderabad
and Madras and led to the development of packages of dry farming practices
named after the states. The Bombay Dry Farming Practices are perhaps best
known.
3.        The basic features bf these practices were:   bunding to conserve
soil and moisture; application of farm yard manure; deep ploughing once in
three years; shallow preparatory tillage and inter-row cultivation; low
plant populations in wide rows. The packages had marginal impact on pro-
duction. The estimated yield benefit of 15% to 20% on a low base of 200 kg
to 400 kg per hectare was insufficient to capture farmer interest. However,
there was a major lasting benefit in that the foundations were laid for the
soil and moisture conservation programs which have subsequently had wide
impact.
4.        Interest in dryland research declined for a time after the dis--
appointing impact of this early effort. The next major thrust came in the
early sixties with a concerted effort in plant breeding. A number of
centrally sponsored schemes were launched for the major crops--crop groups
(sorghum, millets, pulses and oil seeds) to develop improved varietal
material. A breakthrough was achieved in 1965 with the release of the
first hybrids of sorghum (CSH-1) and pearl millet (HB-1). These and later
hybrids have a yield potential well above that of local types. The hybrid
millets, particularly HB-3, have been well received by farmers in the drought
prone areas but the sorghums have had a poorer reception. They are inferior



ANNEX 10
Page 2
in grain quality and more susceptible to pests and disease than local types.
These factors, added to the dwarf habit which farmers identified with a
lower yield of the all-important fodder by-product, were sufficient to
create farmer resistance. However, recent work has produced hybrids and
varieties with better grain quality. In addition, it has been shown that
the major pest, shoot fly, can be controlled by seed dressing with carbofuran.
The way is now open therefore to improve sorghum productivity.
5.        Only marginal yield grains have been made through varietal improve-
ment in the oilseeds and pulses.
6.        The release of the sorghum and millet hybrids gave a new dimension
to yield potentials and led to a renewal of interest in dry farming research.
This culminated in the formulation, by ICAR, of the All-India Coordinated
Research Project on Dryland Agriculture. This is a centrally sponsored
scheme which was launched with Canadian financial and technical assistance
in 1970/71 1/. The proposals for the pilot dryland farming component of the
DPAP are in part based on the early findings of this project. More impor-
tantly, the indications from the early work, despite their inconclusive na-
ture, are such as to warrant the proposed pilot program under DPAP in the
confident expectation that later results will make it possible to add to
the package of technology which can be offered to the farmer. This should
coincide with the time when considerable experience will have been gained
from the pilot program. These two factors, a more comprehensive package
of technology and development experience, should then make it possible to
launch a full-scale development effort over a wide area.
7.        As indicated above, research has established the availability of
varietal material with superior yield potential. Work on crop nutrition has
also established that these superior types are responsive to fertilizer appli-
cation. Because of the short duration of the research effort and a failure
to examine the economic impact of technical findings, it is not yet possible
to make precise profit maximizing fertilizer recommendations. Nor has there
been time yet to conduct sufficient adaptive research to provide location
specific recommendations. Nevertheless, it is possible to make conservative
recommendations, safe for fairly wide areas, which will profitably increase
yields. These would have to be refined as further research results emerge.
8.        Sound work is underway to investigate optimum time of planting,
crop sequences, crop mixtures, and crop substitution to meet the vagaries of
the monsoon. More time is needed before this work can produce a full range
of recommendations.  However, it has already been established that yields
of rabi crops in the black soil regions of the Deccan Plateau would be
increased significantly if planting were advanced by 3 to 4 weeks. Also
some cut-off dates have been determined beyond which particular crops should
not be planted; some suitable shorter duration substitution crops have been
identified.
1/   A brief outline of the project is given at Appendix I.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 3
9.        Plant population and crop geometry are being investigated as are
planting methods to improve crop stands and fertilizer placement. These
are important fields of research. It is already clear that the new sorghum
varieties should be planted at higher densities than traditional types, but
work must continue to provide specific recommendations. However, this work
suffers from a major draback, it is geared to the present pattern of cul-
tural practices. It is considered that these practices could be consider-
ably improved and that failure to undertake adequate research on cultural
practices is one of the major shortcomings of the research effort.
10e       The present system of flat planting is not satisfactory either in
terms of moisture or soil conservation. Reliance on bunding is but a second
best answer. Water is impounded behind the bund rather than on the crop row
where it is required and considerable soil movement still occurs as evidenced
by the rapid silting up of borrow pits from which bunds are constructed.
11.       The second major shortcoming of the research effort, one already
identified by Indian officials, is the failure to examine adequately farm
systems and the economic aspects of technical findings. Trials are designed
and undertaken to address technical problems in the abstract without suffi-
cient understanding of farm practices, the rationale for these and the con-
straints within which the farmers must operate. Similarly the results of
trials are not subjected to sufficient economic analyses to determine recom-
mendations which would maximize profit with a tolerable degree of risk. In
fact there are many instances of recommendations being released to extension
workers which are geared to yield rather than profit maximization and which
are risky, having been based on trials of short duration which did not span
the full range of climatic variability.
Livestock Research
Dairying
12.       Much of the basic information needed for the development of the
dairy industry in India is provided by the National Dairy Research Institute
at Karnal and its regional stations at Bangalore, Bombay and Kalyani. In
addition, a number of agricultural and veterinary institutions carry out re-
search in dairying or in closely related areas. Important among these are
the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, the Indian Agricultural Research
Institute and the Allahabad Agricultural Institute. Research programs in
the dairy field have also been initiated at several of the recently estab-
lished agricultural universities and veterinary colleges.
13.       Much emphasis has been placed on research aiming at the genetic
improvement of dairy merits in cattle. To accelerate and coordinate this,
the All-India Coordinated Dairy Cattle Breeding Project was initiated. All
of the major crossbreeding programs throughout the country are a part of
this project. The results obtained to date have been dramatic. Under
proper management the Fl crosses mature more quickly than their indigenous
dams, produce their first calf at an earlier age, yield double or triple



ANNEX 1 0
Page 4
the amount of milk, and are more efficient utilizers of feed. Breeding
programs to establish and maintain the appropriate proportions of exotic
blood in subsequent generations are currently underway.
Sheep and Wool
14.       The Central Sheep and Wool Research Institute at Avikanagar has
been functioning for many years an4 is well equipped to conduct carefully
controlled experiments. In the past, much work has been devoted to problems
of wool quality, and to research support to wool grading and selling.   Stud-
ies designed to shaw how heavier yields of better quality wool can be obtained
are now in progress, making use of crossbreeding with imported rams. Data
from this work are however still insufficient to estimate the performance of
various types of sheep under different environmental conditions.
Animal Nutrition
15.       Research in animal nutrition has dealt with the composition and
nutritive value of Indian feedstuffs, including forages and by-product feeds,
and with the nutrition needs of cattle and buffaloes.   Much emphasis was on
basic studies concerning energy, protein and mineral metabolism. At present,
increased attention is directed towards the efficient use of agro-industrial
by-products. In all work so far, undue emphasis has been given to laboratory
and digestion/metabolism studies, too little to production-oriented research
with an economic bias.
Fodder Production
16.       The Grassland and Fodder Research Institute at Jhansi is the main
center for research on fodder production. Work is concentrated on production
systems for irrigated conditions utilizing perennial grasses or multiple
cropping of annxual forages. Unrder such conditions of intensity the total
annual yield of fresh material is high (100-200 tons per ha).   Little work
has been done to develop systems of fodder production under rainfed condi-
tions or where supplemental water is minimal.   Detailed studies to determine
the comparative economic advantage of growing forage as an alternative to
cash crops, have not been carried out. Other areas in which research is
urgently needed include the role of tropical and sub-tropical legumes in
rangeland improvement, the utilization of forages under grazing conditions,
and the preservation of surplus fodder.
17.       The Central Arid Zone Research Institute at Jodhpur is well situ-
ated to undertake investigations into the techniques of rehabilitating de-
generated vegetative cover in the extensive arid areas of West Rajasthan.
So far, work has been concerned mainly with the introduction of new grass
varieties.  Data on the productivity of native and improved grasslands when
protected and correctly grazed has not been produced. There is inadequate
information on the techniques and economic feasibility of improving the
productivity of dearaded rangelands.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
Benefits and Justifications
13.       The project would greatly increase the nutriti.onal value of food
available to a large percentage of Bijapur's population. In addition, it
would provide employment for approximately 1,000 fishermen, most of whom
are marginal farmers or agricultural labourers. Additional income per
family would be approximately Rs 1,900 per year which, when added to current
income, would give a total in excess of that officially deemed necessary
for rural family requirements. Table 3 presents a pro forma cash flow for
an average society, and the benefits to individual fishermen under different
yield assumptions. A cash flow is also presented for the Cooperative Union
(Annex 17, Table 11) and the Fisheries Department (Annex 17, Table 12), both
showing a positive cash flow after year 2 and a rate of return of 20%.
14.       These financial benefits to the project are substantial principally
because of the relatively low investment cost and the zero incremental cost
of tanks and reservoirs, which would continue to serve irrigaLtion and
drinking water requirements. Benefits to individual fishermen are particu-
larly good since there is no cash outlay for the labour component, nor does
employment in fisheries detract from the families' ability to earn income
from marginal farming or agricultural labour.
*B. Sericulture Development - Bijapur
Project Summary
15.       The sericulture sub-project would provide a multiplication and
extension cum demonstration centre in order to sponsor and guide the develop-
ment of silkworm production on small farms without irrigation in Bijapur.
The centre would be developed in year 1, and sericulture basedi on one
hectare of mulberry buc,6hes would be introduced on 400 farms duiring the fol-
lowing three years.  The total investment required per farm is about Rs
6,000, At full development the additional income per participant would be
about Rs 2,000 per annum, not accounting for family labour.  Mulberry
planting material and disease-free-layings would be provided f.rom existing
and new stations, of the State Department of Sericulture. The latter would
also undertake overall training and supervisory responslbility in organizaing
and implementing the work of the Bijapur centre.
Background
16.       India ranks fifth among the silk producing countries in the world,
accounting for about 5 percent of the world's total production. In 1971,
India had about 100,000 hectares under mulberry trees or busheis and about
2,150 tons of silk were produced (21 kg/ha). Silk production in Karnataka



ANNEX 10
Page 6
regions served by the centers. At present there is in-
adequate understanding of the rationale behind farmers'
actions, the resources available to them and the con-
straints within which they must currently operate, to
permit the design of a sound development or technical
research effort;
(ii)  to monitor the impact of new technology introduced
through programs such as DPAP. The aim would be to
identify constraints, at farm level or in the delivery
system of the program, which were reducing the impact
of the technology. The group would provide a feedback
mechanism enabling the research center to address such
problems;
(iii)  to assist in the design of technical research programs,
drawing on knowledge gained under (i) and (ii); and
(iv) to develop, for extension programs, economically and
financially viable packages of technology from the
findings of technical and their own economic research.
At present recommendations tend to advocate what is
technically possible rathler than what would be financially
sound for the farmer.
24.       The staff recruited to undertake this program would have to be
broad gauge agricultural economists. In particular they should have a
sound knowledge of agriculture and farm management.
25.       The economiat in the DPAI? cell in Delhi should work closely with
this team of agricultural economists. Much of the information required to
monitor the DPAP would be available from their studies. To ensure the
maximum complementarity of effort, the senior agricultural economist and
the economist in the DPAP cell should plan their work programs in close
consultation.
26.       It is considered that some of the ongoing research effort should
be redirected since it is felt that little of practical value could emerge
from current investigations of practices such as polythene and vertical
mulching or the foliar application of nutrients. Conversely greater effort
should be directed to improving ci..ltural practices.
27.       Wherever dryland farming has been well developed, ridge farming
is practised. Whilst it is recognized that power availability is a con-
straint, it is nevertheless felt that efforts should be made to develop
operations and implements to move cultural practices in this direction. In
this connection it should be borne in mind that the bullocks used to develop
new practices on research stations must bear some resemblance to the typical
farm animal. Those currently used are atypically large, well fed and hence
capable of greater fdraught. One possible way to facilitate improved cultural



ANNEX 10
Page 7
practices would be to harvest crops at the stage of physiclogical maturity.
The land could then be tilled whilst there was still moisture in the soil
and at a time when bullocks were strong after the rains.
28.       The scientists at ICRISAT 1/ have already begun experiments embrac-
ing ridge farming. Their cooperation should be sought to design an expanded
program of trials on cultural practices. If new cultural practices emerae,
they will probably necessite additional complementary work on crop geometry
and populations.
29.       A considerable volume of work is being done on crop nutrition and
there should soon be sufficient replication on which to base sound recom-
mendations. These can however only be of a regional value. Additional
locations will have to be used for simple trials to develop location specific
recommendations. Some of these could be located in the project watersheds
and placed under the agricultural extension officer.
Livestock Research
30.       Under the project, funds would be made available to ICAR for the
establishment of a small cadre of pasture agronomists in the All-India Coor-
dinated Research Project on Dryland Agriculture. The team would be headed
by an internationally recruited Senior Pasture Agronomist who would be
attached to the coordinating cell of the All-India Project at Hyderabad.
(Proposed qualifications and job description are given at Appendix 3.)
Research would be conducted at those centers of the All-India Project which
would have ecological conditions typical oL those prevailing in drought
prone areas; some investigational work would also be carried out, in the
form of operational research, on 100-hectare blocks being developed under
the project. Five pasture agronomists, each with a research assistant,
would be provided to undertake the field work. Staff and support costs are
shown at Table 2.
31.       The general objectives of the investigations would be:
(a) to determine the most suitable grass, and legume species
(including shrubs) for pastures in the different ecological
conditions occurring in the drought prone areas;
(b) to develop establishment techniques;
(c)  to examine fertilizer responses;
1/   The International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics,
supported by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural
Research and founded in July 1972 at 'Hyderabad.



ANNEX 10
Page 8
(d) to determine management techniques and stocking
rates for different conditions; and
(e) to examine the possibilities of developing year-round
fodder supplies.
The investigations would aim to develop financially and economically viable
methods of pasture improvement and management. In this area, as in others,
the past tendency has been to focus too much on technology rather than profit.
32.       The team should cooperate closely with other research authorities,
particularly with the Central Arid Zone Research Institute, in order to en-
sure a coordinated pasture research effort in India. They should also liaise
with, and support, the pasture development specialist and other staff work-
ing on the sheep component of the project.
33.       In livestock research two areas have been identified where a re-
direction of effort would be beneficial. In the field of dairy husbandry
more emphasis needs to be given to problems of calf raising. The general
objective would be to reduce calf mortality and the cost of calf raising.
Investigations should take into account the different bases for calf raising
as dependent upon ecological conditions, in particular the availability of
irrigation for year-round supply of green fodder.
34.       In the sheep sector, investigations should be directed to two
major problems:
(a) to determine what levels of exotic blood would be best
suited for sheep kept under different ecological and
management conditions, and to establish how these
appropriate proportions of exotic blood could best be
maintained; and
(b) to develop sheep management systems which would
synchronize, to the fullest extent possible, the
year-round fecd requirements of flocks with the
seasonality of fodder growth.
Agro-meteorological Research
35.       The project would fund a research program to determine the
feasibility of establishing location specific soil moisture regime prob-
abilities and hence, by relating these to crop water demand profiles,
the probabilities of success of different cropping patterns.
36.       It is recognized that several methods for doing related analyses
have been developed (Penman, Thornthwaite, Fitzpatrick, Baier and Robertson,
Shaw, Palmer) and, suitably modified, these could be used for crops and soils
in India. However they are mainly concerned with an assessment of the water
needs of various plants and little attention is given to translating this



ANNEX 10
Page 9
into information regarding daily growing conditions. Furthermore little
attention has been given to the problem of how the information could be
used by the agricultural planner to assess the probability of success of
specific agricultural enterprises. It is these latter aspects of the
proposed program vwhich are believed to be of paramount importance.
37.       Because of the somewhat conjectural nature of the research pro-
posal, and because it was impossible during the appraisal to assess the
data base 1/ adequately, it is proposed that the program consist of two
phases; phase two being conditional on a successful phase one. Staff and
cost details are given in Table 3.
38.       Under phase one an internationally recruited consultant would be
hired for three months to examine the program concept and the data base to
determine the program's feasibility.
39.       Phase two would commence with the further employment of the
consultant to prepare a detailed proposal for the program. (Draft terms
of reference for the consultant are given at Appendix 4.) Thereafter a
small research team would be established to undertake the program. It
would be the responsibility of the consultant to determine the size of
the team and the minimum period for which it would have to work to test
the concept adequately. For the purpose of estimating project costs, it
has been suggested: (a) that the team might consist of an agro-meteorolo-
gist Class I, as team leader, five agrometeorologists Class III and two
programmers; and (b) that the program would run for two and a half years
initially.
40.       Because the research team would be required to collaborate closely
with agricultural scientists and to obtain a great deal of data from agri-
cultural research stations, it is considered that they should be attached
to the ICAR rather than the IMD. This issue would be finalized at negotia-
tions.
41.       During appraisal one aspect of meteorological research was iden-
tified which it is considered merits higher priority than heretofore. This
could be achieved by a reapportionment of existing resources.
1/   Location specific data required for the program would include:   (a)
daily rainfall, (b) evaporation/transpiration rates, (c) runoff esti-
mates under different soil moisture conditions and rainfall intensi-
ties, (d) infiltration rates, (e) root density, (f) soil moisture
storage capacity, and (g) crop water demand and crop production re-
lated to moisture availability. Some data couid be developed during
the study but much would have to be available from the outset.



ANNEX 10
Page 10
42.       As is now becoming well recognized, the climatic resources avail-
able to man are both finite and subject to considerable variation 1/. More-
over, it is clear that the climatic resources of any area cannot be ignored,
and that a much greater attempt must be made to predict the availability of
climatic resources on a medium to long-term basis.
43.       In most areas of the world there has been little convincing
evidence that climatic variations are predictable. However, the economic
and social implications of a correct prediction of next season's climate
is so great that there must soon emerge a much more positive attitude to
the problem of the future climate--that is, it is no longer sufficient
for the meteorologist to say that the future climate is unpredictable.
What is needed in fact is an awareness by meteorologists that the future
climate is important to man, and that a real effort must be made by
meteorologists to assess the future climate in terms which the planner
can incorporate into the prediction of how much food can be produced.
44.       It is considered that there is an urgent need for a continuing
assessment of climatic variations in the dryland farming areas of India.
Initially such a program should focus attention on a critical assessment
of the statistical analyses of climatic variations in India that have
already been done, and this would be followed by an extension of these
analyses to cover all dryland farming areas of India. In addition, a
critical assessment of the causes of marked variations from the "normal"
rainfall should be undertaken.
45.       The most important and difficult part of the program would then
follow, this would be the development of methods which could be used to
predict the climatic departures from "normal" for periods of several months
to several years. If this program was carried out there would inevitably
be errors in some of the predictions given, but it is considered that the
implications of the present alternative--that of not providing any climatic
forecasts to Central Government planners--should no longer be considered
the best contribution that a national weather service can provide.
46.       To develop this program successfully would require the full-time
consideration of a group of climatologists (and associated supporting tech-
nical staff) who believe that solutions to the problem of predicting the
future climate can be found; but given the right support from the top-level,
it is believed that the return on any investment made in this field would be
far in excess of the cost.
1/   See Fortune, February 1974, pp. 90-95, 142-152.



ANNEX 1 0
Appendix I
Page I1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Agricultural Research
The All-India Coordinated Research
Project for Dryland Agriculture
Organization
1.        This project, sanctioned by ICAR in June 1970, operateu through 15
main centers, 8 sub-centers, one special center and a coordinating cell at
Hyderabad. The estimated project cost was Rs 26 million over 4 years, 1/ of
which the Government of Canada agreed to provide the equivalent of Rs 11
million in equipment and technical assistance.
2.        The centers were chosen to represent conditions over a range of
agro-climatic zones. India has been divided into eight climatic zones on the
basis of a moisture deficit index, 2/ and these zones are subdivided on the
basis of soils; alluvial, red and lateritic and black soils. The centers are
mainly in the drier zones 2-4, with a few in zone 5. The centers and their
climatic and soil characteristics are listed at Table 1.
Staffing
3.        The project coordinating cell at Hyderabad is staffed by both
Canadian and Indian scientists.  The Canadian staff consists of five special-
ists in the fields of Soil Physics, Agricultural Engineering, Farm Machinery,
Agronomy and Plant Nutrition. The Indian team consists of a Project Director,
a Project Coordinator, a Statistician, a Production Economist and a Meteorolo-
gist together with support staff. In addition, five posts were created for
counterparts to the Canadians, but these have yet to be filled.
4.        The staff of the coordinating cell assists centers with the design
and development of their research programs. Through regular field visits
they also assist in the conduct and analysis of the experiments, helping
overcome problems as they arise. The staff of the main centers consists of
a Chief Scientist, an Agronomist, a Soil Physicist, a Plant Breeder, an
Agricultural Engineer, plus Research Assistants and support staff. The staff
1/   The project is being continued into the Fifth Plan period. However
funding is undetermined, pending the review of the plan.
2/   Moisture Deficit Index -- P-PE    100    Where P - precipitation
PE                 PE - potential evapo-
transpiration



ANEX 10
Appendix I
Page 2
of the sub-centers is, -- an Agronomist, who is also team leader, a Junior
Engineer, a Junior Soil Physicist and again Research Assistants and support
staff.  The Special Center is headed by a Senior Plant Physiologist whose
team comprises an Agricultural Engineer, a Climatologist, a Systems Analyst
and an Insect Ecologist with Assistants and support staff. This unit under-
takes basic research in support of the field stations.
Research Program
5.        Whilst the research undertaken by each station differs in detail,
all follow a similar program. The experiments are divided into three series.
6.        The Soils and Agronomy series covers 8 types of experiments:   effi-
ciency of moisture utilization; crop sequences; crop mixtures; crop geometry;
studies on soil water intake; studies on soil compaction; mulching and ferti-
lizer use.
7.        The Crop Science series covers 3 types of experiments: variety
trials; new crop testing and crop substitution trials.
8.        The Agricultural Engineering series covers 5 types of experiments:
methods to increase moisture infiltration and storage; tillage practices;
vertical mulching; different methods of sowing and fertilizer application and
water harvesting and minimal irrigation trials.
November 4, 19 74



ANNEX 10
Appendix I
Table 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONIE AREAS PROJECT
Agricultural Research
'The Coordinated Dryland Project Research Centres
Average
Centre                                                            Soil TZpe     Rainfall
Main Centres:      A4oisture deficit zone 2 - deficit index  60% to -80%
1.  Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur, Rajasthan      Sierozeml       380mm
2. Haryana Agricultural University, Hissar, Haryana               Sierozem.       446mm
3. Soil Conservation Research Centre, Bellary, Karnataka          Black clay      518mm
4. Soil Conservation Research CentrB, Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh   Red loam        562mm
5. Agricultural Research Station, Rajkot, Gujrat                  Black clay      674mm
Moisture deficit zone 3 - deficit index -40% to -60%
6e  Agricultural Research Station, Kovilpatti, Tamil Nadu         Black clay      724mm
7. Agricultural Research Station, Sholapur, Maharashtra           Black clay      742mm
8. Soil Conservatioon Research Centre, Ibrahimpatanam, Andhra
Pradesh                                                   Red loam        764mm
9. Agricultural Research Station, Akola, Maharashtra              Black clay-     877mm
Moisture deficit zone 4 - deficit index -20% to -@
10. University of Agricultural Sciences, Hebbal, Karnataka         Red loam        924mm
11. Jawaharlal Nehru Agricultural College, Indore, Madhya Pradesh Black clay      1053nm
12. Banaras Hindu University, Banaras, Uttar Pradesh               Alluvial       1113mm
13.
Special Problem Areas
13. Agricultural College, Ranchi, Bi3har                           Laterite       1462mm
14. Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology,
Bhubaneswar, Orissa                                       Laterite       1483.-m
15.  Soil Conservation Research Centre, Dehra Dun, Uttar Pradesh   Alluvial       2313mm
Sub-Centres:       Moisture deficit zone 3 - deficit index -
16. Agricultural Research Station, Bijapur, Karnataka              Black clay      574hm
17. Agricultural University, Udaipur, Rajasthan                    Black clay      660mm
18. Punjabi Agricultural University, Ludhiana, Punjab              Alluvial        70amm
19. B. R. Agxricultural College, Agra, Uttar Pradesh               Alluvial        765m
20. Agricultural Institute, Anand, Gujarat                         Alluvial        880mm
Moisture deficit zone 4 - deficit index -20% to -40%
21.  Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Tnstitute,               Red loam/
Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh                                     Black clay     1000.mm
22. Ranbir Singh Pura Agricultural College, Jamm,u Jammu & Kashmir Alluvial       1079mm
23. Jawharlal Nehru Agricultural College, Rewa, Madhya Pradesh     Black clay     1168mm
Special Centre:   Moisture deficit zone 3 - deficit index -40% to -60%
24. Water Technology Centre, Indian Agricultural Research,
Institute, New Delhi                                     Allu.vial       714mm



ANNEX 10
Appendix II
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Agricultural Research
Senior Agricultural Economist
Qualifications
1.        Suitable candidates would be broad gauge agricultural economists
with a sound knowledge of small scale agriculture and farm management.   They
would have a post graduate degree in agricultural economics, preferably at
the doctoral level.
2.        Candidates should have had at least 10 years of operational research
or other relevanit experience, preferably with experience ih the design and
management of a research program. Their investigations should have involved
some aspect of small farm systems or the related field of the small farmers
operating environment.
3.        The successful candidate must be willing and able to travel exten-
sively since he will be required to spend at least one third of his time in
the field.
Job Description
4.        The Senior Agricultural Economist (SAE) would be a member of the
coordinating cell of the All-India Coordinated Research Project for Dryland
Agriculture located at Hyderabad. He would be assisted by a team of 17
agricultural economists and their assistants located at the Project's main
centers scattered throughout the country.
5.        The SAE would be responsible for the design of the economic
research program. The main objectives of this would be:
(i) to investigate the main small scale farming systems,
and the total enviromnnent in which they operate, in
the regions served by the centers, in order to facili-
titate the design of sound development and technical
research programs.
(ii) to monitor the impact of new technology introduced through
programs such as DPAPe The aim would be to identify
constraints, at farm level or in the delivery system of
the program, which were reducing the impact of the program
and to propose remedies.



ANNEX 1 0
Appendix II
Page 2
(iii)  to assist in the design of technical research programs
drawing on knowledge gained under (i) and (ii).
(iv)  to synthesize economically and financially viable packages
of technology, from the findings of technical research
and the results of the economic investigations, for use in
development progra8s.
6.        Under the leadership of the Project Director, the SAE would assist
with the recruitment of the economic staff and be responsible for the
conduct of the economic investigations.
7.        The SAE would be expected to liaise closely with the Senior Econo-
mist of the DPAP cell in New Delhi. In addition to the routine reports
required of the All-India Project Staff, the SAE would prepare biannual pro-
gress reports for the Director of DPAP and the IDA.
November 4, 1974



ANNEX 10
Appendix III
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Agricultural Research
Senior Pasture Agronomist
Qualifications
1.        Suitable candidates would be graduates in agricultural science
with extensive research experience with pastures in the semi-arid/arid
tropics. This experience would include species selection and establishment,
plant nutrition, seed production and pasture management.
2.        Candidates must be willing and able to travel extensively since
they would be required to spend at least one third of their time in the
field.
Job Descriptien
3.        The Senior Pasture Agronomist (SPA) would be a member of the coordi-
nating cell of the All-India Coordinated Research Project for Dryland Agri-
culture (the Project) located at Hyderabad. He would be assisted by a team
of five pasture agronomists and their assistants located at five of the Pro-
ject's centers selected to represent a range of ecological conditions.
4.        The SPA would be responsible for the design of the pasture research
program. The main objectives of this program would be:
(a) to carry out investigational work on the Project centers and
on suitable 100-hectare units being developed under the
Drought Prone Areas Project, to determine the most suitable
grass and legume plants for improving the rangelands of dif-
ferent ecological conditions, including:
(i) methods of establishment and cultivation techniques;
(ii) seeding and planting rates;
(iii) response to fertilizers; and
(iv) grassland management, stocking rates and possibilities
to develop year-round fodder supplies;



ANNEX 1 0
Appendix III
Page 2
(b) to investigate methods of minimizing the cost of improving
grassland productivity under different types of soil and
climate, with particular attention to the timing of various
operations and the development of forage productivity after
establishment;
(c)  to participate in the technical evaluation of progress in
the development of DPAP 100-hectare units;
(d)  to participate in the in-service training of DPAP staff
with responsibility in pasture and sheep development; and
(e) to cooperate with other research authorities, particularly
with the Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur, to
bring about coordinated pasture research in India.
5.        Under the leadership of the Project Director, the SPA would assist
with the recruitment of staff for the pasture program and be responsible for
its implementation. In addition to the routine reports required of the Project
staff, the SPA would prepare biannual progress reports for the Director of
DPAP and the IDA.
November 4, 1974



ANNEX 10
Appendix IV
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for
Agro-Meteorological Consultant
1.        The consultant would be attached to the office of the Director
General of ICAR and be responsible to him.
2.        In the first instance the consultant would be employed for three
monnths to determine the feasibility of mounting a research program to attempt
to develop location specific soil moisture regime probabilities and hence,
by relating these to crop water demand profiles, the probabilities of success
of different cropping patterns.
3.        This would necessitate, but not necessarily be limited to:
(i) exploration of the program concept through a review
of literature and discussions/correspondence with
Indian and international meteorological experts, and
(ii) an examination of the data base on which the program
would depend (this would include, but not be limited
to, the range and quality of data in: daily rainfall;
evaporation/transpiration rates; runoff estimates;
infiltration rates; root density; soil moisture storage
capacity; crop water demand and relationships of crop
production to moisture availability).
4.        Subject to a satisfactory conduct of, and positive finding from,
the first phase of his assignment the consultant would be engaged for a
further four months to assist in the design and implementation of the re-
search program described in para 2 above. The program would be designed
initially for the minimum period required to test the concept.
5.        Program design would include, but not be limited to, the follow-
ing:
(i) a comprehensive statement of the proposed work
program;
(ii) manpower requirements including a statement of
qualifications for, and job description of,
each post;



ANNEX 10
Appendix IV
Page 2
(iii) equipment requirements;
(iv) cost estimates.
6.        The consultant would help ICAR select the research team which
would undertake the program and would assist the team to get the program
started.
November 4, 1974



ANTE( 10
Table 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Agricultural Research
Cost of Agricultural Economics Program
Unit. Cost     Year I          Years 2-5
Unit       Rs      No.         Rs.   No.        Rs
A. Investment
Car (SAE)                            No      30.000       1    30,000     --         --
Motor cycle (AE)                     No       8,ooo      17   136,000
Calculators                          No       2,000      18    36,ooo
Off'ice equipment                    Set      2,000      35.   70,000     --         --
Miscellaneous                        --                        28,000
Total Investment Cost                                       300, 000    --         --
B. Operating
Salaries:
Senior Agricultural Economist   Man yr.    1,;000       1    15,000      1    15,000
Agricultural Economist                      8,0oo      17   142,800 o7        142,800
Research Assistant                          5,)4oo     17    91,800     17    91,800
Sub-total                                                 2)49,600          249,6O00
Allowances:
Dearness                           --          --           135,000          135,000
Other                              --          --                                 00,000  15,000
Sub-total                                                 150,000          150,000
Other:
Car running (20,000 km @
Rs 0.20)                     Vehicle    101000       1    1O,OO       1       s10000
Motorcycle running (20,000 km
@ Rs 0.20)                               L 0,o0     17    68,000      17    (8,
Office runrz nc                    No       2,000      35    70.000     :5    70,000
Travel costs and subsistence                                 2\ \-- 20,000  --   ,00
Temporary enumerators           Man yr.     3,000      51   l9,,00 0     1   1531000
Miscellaneous                      --          --      --    19,000      --    1, 1000
Sub-total                                                 3 ,0n00c          31 0,000
Total Operating Costs                                       730, 600         7?C, ({O('



ANNEX 10
Table 2
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Agricultural Research
Cost of Pasture Development Program
Unit Cost       Year 1           Years 2-5
Unit      Rs        No.        Rs    No.        Rs
A.  Investment
Car                                 No      30,000        1    30,000     --        --
Motorcycle                          No       8,000        5    40,,0o
Office equipment                    Set      2,000       11    22,000     --        --
Experimental equipmentl             Set     50,000        5   250,000     --        --
Livestock   2/                      Flock   1,-,000       5    75,000     --        --
Miscellaneous                        -                         23,000     --
Total Investment Cost                                       440,000
B.  Operating
Salaries:
Senior Pasture Specialisti      Man yr.  400,000        1   400,000      1   400,000
Pasture Specialists                        8,400        5    42,000      5    42,000
Research Assistants                        5,400        5    27,000      5    27,000
Sub-tof;al                                                469,ooo          469,ooo
Allowances:
Dearness                          --          --             36,ooo           36,ooo
Other                             --          --              4OOO             4,o0O
Sub-total                                                  40,000           40,000
Other:
Car running (20,000 km @
Rs 0.50)                    Vehicle    10,000       1     10,000      1    10,000
Motorcycle running (20,000 km
@ Rs 0.20)                              a,00O        5    20,000      5    20,000
Office running                    No       2,000      11     22,000    1L     22, 000
Travel costs and subsistence      --          --             10,000           10,000
Maintenance of equipment (10%)    Set      5,000                 --      5    25,000
Flock replacement (20%)           Flock    >,000                 --      5    15,000
Miscellaneous                     --           --            19,000           19,000
Sub-bot&l                                                  81,000          121,000
Total Operating Costs                                       590,000          630,000
j Livestock buildings, handling equipment, fencI ng, scales, etc.
i/ 100 ma'-,.re sheep eauivalents @ Rs 1 50/head.
j   All 'cnlusive cost of expatriate s       -I -.  >dian scientist would take over from year 4.



ANNEX 10
Table 3
'INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Agricultural Research
Cost of Agro-Meterology Program
Unit Cost     Year 1          Years 2-3
Unit       Rs      No.        Rs    No.         Rs
PROGRAM DESIGN
Consultant services              Man month    40,000       3   120,000
Total Program Design Cost                                    120,000
PROGRAM IMPLEMTATION
A.  Investment
Car                                No      30,000       1     30,000     --        --
Office equipment                   Set      2,000       8     16,000
Calculators                        No       2,000       6     12,000     --        --
Total investment Costs                                      58,ooo               --
?* Operating
Salaries:
Consultant                   Man month   40,000        4   160,000     --        --
Agro-meterologist Class I    Man year     12,000        .5   6,ooo      1    12,000
Agro-meterologist Class TII                8,o00       2.5 21,000       5    42,000
Programmers                               5,OO        1     5,400      2    10,800
Sub- total                                               192,400           64,800
Allowances:
Dearness                                                   18,000            36,000
Other                                                        2,000            4,000
Sub- total                                                20,000           40,000
Other:
Car running (20,000 km @
Rs 0.50)                  Vehicle     10,000       1     10,000      1    10,000
Office running                   No       2,500        4    10,000      8    20,000
Travel costs and subsistence                               10,000            10,000
Computer time                    --          --             25,000           25,000
Miscellaneous                     --          --            12,600           10,200
Sub-total                                                 67,600           75,200
Total Operating Cost                                       280,000          180,000



ANNEX I 1
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Training
1.        Resulting from the multi-faceted nature of DPAP, the project's
training needs would be many and wide ranging. This annex will deal mainly
with'the training of key personnel; the training of trainers who would
in turn be responsible for the training of the remaining staff.
2.        The DPAP cell in New Delhi would have overall responsibility for
training. Each of the technical specialists would plan, organize and
run project level courses for senior staff. They would prepare outline
plans for, and monitor the conduct of, training courses held for junior
staff at district level. The detail of such courses and their execution
would however be the responsibility of senior staff in the district,
assisted and directed by state technical authorities.
3.        Training funds would be provided by the project cell in New Delhi.
An explicit statement of training needs and their estimated cost would be
included in the annual budgets prepared for the project. Funds for approved
programs would be released by the Central Unit to training institutions
for training costs and to state department budgets to meet trainee asso-
ciated costs. Training requirements and their costs are summarized in Table 1.
Watershed Management
4.        Soil Conservation personnel would receive training as follows:
(a)  A project level course of two weeks for Deputy Directors
of Agriculture (SC) from Divisional Offices and for
Agricultural Offices (SC) from Sub-Divisional Offices.
The course should be held at a conveniently located
Soil Conservation Training Center or Research Station.
The course would cover the project concept; the intro-
duction of planned water disposal and waterways into
the contour bunding system; graded bunding; farm ponds.
Field visits would be necessary to illustrate points;
stress should be laid on the dangers of deviating from
specifications.
(b) A district level course would be held for Assistant Agri-
cultural Officers from Divisional and Sub-Divisional
Offices, Courses should be held at the nearest Soil
Conservation Training Center where equipment would be
available. The course would probably be of 3-4 weeks
duration to allow adequate time for practical



ANNEX 11
Page 2
training. The course would cover project concept
and the planning of soil and moisture conservation
systems. Stress would be placed on the
critical need for high quality planning to produce
technically sound systems with minimal disruption
to farm operations.
(c) Agricultural assistants would be drawn from the normal
throughput of Soil Conservation Training Centers which
is adequate to the need. To the normal curriculum would
be added a few periods to cover the project concept,
planned water disposal and waterways and the introduction
of farm ponds to the system where feasible.
5.        Forest Department staff would require little training above
that routinely given. A project level course of one week's duration
would be held for Deputy Conservators and Forest Range Officers to explain
the project concept and the work program. The Range Officers should then
continue for three weeks training on pasture establishment and management
techniques. The two Range Officers who would be concerned with pasture
development on village common lands for the sheep program would require
further specialized training which would be outlined by the Pasture
Specialist (Annex 8).
Lives tock Development
6.        The Dairy Development component would require a range of training
courses as follows,t
(a) Project level courses for Spearhead Teams would
be held under the auspices of the National Dairy
Development Board (NDDB) at their facilities in
Anand and at the facilities of the Kaira District
Milk Producers' Union. NDDB has a set program for
the training of Spearhead Teams. A number of these
are already working in the field. No difficulties
are anticipated in training the number of teams which
would be required by the project.
(b) The training of managers fo:- Milk Producers' Coop-
erative Societies would be conducted in the form of
a two-week in-service training course by the Spear-
head Team at the office of the District Animal
Husbandry Officer. Further training would be done
by repeated visits of the Team members to the villages
concerned. Training of society nmarnagers in the field
of artificial insemination would be the responsibility
of the District Animal Hlusbandry Officer.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
(c) The technicians to operate the milk chilling facilities
at the district level would be trained under the
auspices of NDDB at a suitable facility in the
area concerned. Training would be of an in-service
nature and last a month.
(d) The managers of calf rearing stations would be trained
by the calf rearing consultant. The training would be
conducted at a newly established center, would be
in-service iin nature and last for approximately two
months.
7.        The Sheep Development program's training needs would be:
(a) A project level course for Service Center Managers.
They would require training in sheep husbandry,
sheep and wool marketing, cooperative management,
pasture management. A number of institutes (Central
Sheep and Wool Research Institute, Central Arid Zone
Research Institute, Grassland and Fodder Research
Institute) should be involved in the planning and
conduct of the course. The course would probably
need to be of about 6 weeks duration with considerable
travel and field work. The major role in the organiza-
tion and conduct of this course would be placed by
the senior livestock specialist of the Central DPAP
unit.
(b) District level training of sheep producers societies'
managers would be conducted in the form of two-week
in-service training courses by the Service Center
Managers and pasture development staff. The District
Animal Husbandry Officer would also contribute to tlle
training. Private farmers who intended to take up
pasture development would be invited to participate
in these courses.
Dry Farming
8.        Extension staff would be trained as follows:
(a)  A project level course of two weeks duration would lhe
held at Hyderabad for I)istrict Agricultural Officers,
Hleads of Research Stations and Agricultural Extension
Officers (AEOs). The aim would be to acquaint those
responsible for the detailed planning and implementation
of the project extension program witlh project objectives
and the outline of the first year's extension program.
Trainees would visit the All India Coordinated Research
Project and ICRISAT, to see advanced dry farming techinology,
and project districts, to view the task ahead. Annually,



ANNEX 11
Page 4
thereafter a similar seminar/workshop would be held for
the same officers to discuss progress, problems
and to outline the program for the ensuing year.
(Detailed programs would be developed at district
level.)
(b) The in-service training of AEOs, Village Extension
Workers and Progressive Farmers would follow the
pattern outlined for the extension service in the
Ch-ibal Command Area Development Proj ect. 1/ The first
course would cover the project concept in addition
to the extension program per se.
Project Management
9.        The project managers and state deputy secretaries of the depart-
ments responsible for program implementation would undergo a two-week
orientation course to be organized and conducted by the Director, DPAP,
New Delhi. The curriculum would subsume demonstrated administrative
competence and include, inter alia, the following topics:
(a) The concept of DPAP and its administrative lirnkages;
(b) The interdependence of sectoral investments and
the need for district-wise planning and development;
(c) Technical surveys of the major project components;
(d) The role of the District Development Authority and
its powers (case studies to illustrate differences
among states);
(e)  Smallholder assistance administration;
(f)  Agricultural credit mechanisms, constraints on credit,
and their alleviation; and
(g)  Accounting and reporting requirements under the project.
tO.       It is expected that the expertise for this course would be drawn
from various sources including departments of government, ICAR, and the
Indian Institute of Bank Management. In addition, one-week seminars would
be held semi-annually by the Director, DPAP, for the following purposes:
(a) Review progress in project districts;
(b) Discuss common problems of implementation; and
/   Report to the Government of Rajasthan on Extension Service, D. Benor,
January 1974.



ANTEX 11
Page 5
(c) Participate in technical surveys or case studies
of subjects of common concern, for example, regional
planning.
November 4, 1974



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Training
Uni.' Cost  Total    -   Year 1       -  'ear 2         Year 3           Year 4
-La       Number   No.        Rs   No.       Rs    No.        Rs    No.        Rs
Watershed Management
Soil Conservation
Deputy Direotors of Agriculture           1,000         6        6    6,000
Agricultural Officers                      1,000       24       24   24,000
Assistant Agricultural Officers             400       198      198   79,200
Forest Department
Deputy Conservator of Forest                750         5        5    3,750
Forest Range Officers                      1,500       40       40   60,000
Livestock Development
Dairy Development
Spearhead Teams                           20,000       12        2   40,000      7 140,000        3  60,000
Society Managers                            300      1480       80   24,000    280   84,000    120   36,000
Chilling Technicians                       1,500        6       --       --      3    4,500      3    4,500
Calf Center Managers                        750          9      --       --      4    3,000       5   3,750
Bagasse Plant Manager                       750         1       --       --      1      750
Sheep Development
Service Center Managers                   1,500         9        5    7,500      4    6,ooo
Society Mianagers                           300        75       10    3,000     25    7,500     25    7,500      15    4,500
Dry Farming
District Agricultural Officers            1,000         5        5    5,000
Heads of Research Station                  1,000        5        5    5,GOO
Agricultural Extension Officers           1,000        15       15   15,000
Village Extension Workers                    300       75       75   22,500
Progressive Farmers                         100     1,200    1,200 120,000
Project Management
DDA Managers                               3,000        6        6   18,000
Credit Officers                           1,500         6        6    9,000
Total Cost                                       2,171    L,682 441,950     324 245,750     256 111,750       15    4,500
HCD



ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
Introduction
1.        There are major institutional and resource weaknesses hinder-
ing the effective extension of agricultural credit in India. In the con-
text of a project such as DPAP with a small, scattered geographical area,
these problems cannot be addressed on a national scale, nor would recom-
mendations requiring national policy or legislative action be suitable
as conditions of this project. The assessment of credit institutions
and the availability of credit in this report is therefore limited to
an evaluation of conditions and needs that would impinge upon project
execution.
2.        The dominant feature of agricultural credit in India is the
prepondenrance of non-institutional credit. In the early 1950's, about
85% of all agricultural credit was provided by private moneylenders and
relatives. Although the mission was unable to locate precise current
data, comparison among several surveys conducted in the past five years
suggests that the present share of credit provided by various sources is
approximately as follows:  Private moneylenders, 50% (15%-professional
moneylenders, 35%-farmer/moneylenders); Relatives, 18%; Cooperatives,
15%/o; traders, 13%; Commercial Banks, 4%. 1/ In backward areas such as
DPAP districts, credit institutions are generally weaker than elsewhere,
and their share of agricultural lending is less than the average estimated
above. Private money lending, then, is the largest source of agricultural
credit, and the urgent need for credit is reflected in the very high rates
(25-40%) generally charged on funds from this sourt-:e.  Lending rates and
conditions for private credit are governed by a Money Lenders Act in each
state. At present, maximum legal interest rates range from 9-1/2% to
18% depending on state. Since information on private money lending is very
scarce and suspect, this Annex will perforce discuss only institutional
credit, over which, despite its relative paucity, some influence can be
exerted by government toward. desirable policies and activities.
1/   Takavi or government crop loans to be collected as arrears on land
revenue have been abolished inI all project states except Andra Pradesh
where they are quite small. Rajasthan continues the practice of govern-
ment loans for land improvements. All parties agree, however, that
Takav' is not to be encouraged.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Institutional Credit in Project Districts
3.        The cooperative credit structure is the major source of short
and medium-term institutional credit for agriculture. Commercial banks
have recently entered the field but their lending volumes are very small,
from 1 or 2% to 20% of that provided by cooperatives. Long-term credit,
as well as some medium-term credit, is provided by Land Development Banks
(LDBfs), in some states known as Land Murtgage Banks. LDB's are strL     -ed
as cooperatives but are entirely sepu,rate entities from the cooperativer,
credit structure which provides short and most medium-term credit.   Since
commercial banks are normally prohibited from lending for periods longer
than five years 1/, LDB's are the principal source of long-term institu-
tional credit for agriculture.  The organization and operating procedures
of the three types of credit institutions are described briefly below.
I. Cooperative Credit Structure
4.        Cooperatives are constituted under state law, and within each
state there is a three-tiered cooperative structure.
5.        Primary Cooperative Societies.   At the local level, usually on
a village by village basis, there are Primary Cooperative Societies.
Although 80-90% of all villages in the project area are covered by these
societies, memibershLp is much more limited, typically constituting only
30-40% of rural ramilies. These are generally the literate, more pro-
gressive farmers, and the average farm size among members is also much
larger than that of the community as a whole. Furthermore, within the
society itself, credit utilization is heavrily skewed toward a few members. 2/
Borrowing members account for less than 20% of rural families in all
project states. One reason for this limited coverage of cooperative
credit is the requirement that a member deposit 12-1/2% of the amount
he intends to borrow as share capital in the society, and few farmers are
able to raise significant equity contributions. Despite individual
credit ceilings, which vary among states (e.,. Maharashtra, Rs 6,000)
well-to-do members have availed themselves of rescheduling privileges and
participation in the society's management committee to build up very large
credits. Another feature of primary societies which discourages small
farmer membership is the joint and several liability of members. Small
farmers cannot risk the event of society bankrupcy, nor can they expect
to participate in the society's management, since these positions are
1/   Special provision is made by RBI for bau-k loans longer than five years
under IDA credit projects.
2/   For example, in one society of Anantapur District, 90% of outs3tanding
loans have been made to 10% of the members.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
generally occupied by influential farmers and businessmen in the community.
Management of credit societies is generally very poor. The majority
do not have paid secretaries 1/, and abuse and ignorance on the part of
elected management committee members have led to very heavy overdues. 2/
Table 1 shows cooperative society membership, recent lending activity
and overdue positions.
6.        District Central Cooperative Banks (DCCB).   This second tier
coordinates all cooperative credit activity within the district, receives
and distributes State and Reserve Bank funds for all primary societies,
and supervises their lending activities. Primary societies are members
of the DCCB, and each is allotted a credit ceiling on the basis of member-
ship, share capital and overdue position. Societies must deposit an
amount equivalent to 10% of their intended borrowings as share capital
in the DCCB. Individuals may also become members and may borrow on the
condition of 10% share capital contribution. To carry out its functions,
the DCCB generally has a number of branch offices in the district and
a cadre of credit inspectors. Unfortunately, the caliber of staff and
management is quite variable among DCCB's, and the supervisory function
is often jeopardized by inefficient operating procedures and a failure
to override the political strengths withini member societies. Table 2
presents the resource, credit and overdue position of DCCB's in project
districts.
7.        Apex Cooperative Bank (ACB). At the state level, one institution
is responsible for all short and medium-term credit through the cooperative
structure. The ACB represents the cooperative credit structure to state
and central governments, supervises and audits the activities of DCCB's,
aggregates requirements of DCCB's for credit from the state government
and Reserve Bank, and receives such funds on its account. Members of the
ACB are the district banks and the state government. DCCB's must deposit
an amount equivalent to 8.3% of intended borrowings as share capital
in the SCB. Credit ceilings for district banks are determined on the
basis of membership, share capital and overdue position. The caliber
of management at this level is generally good, although the orientation
apepars much more departmental than commercial, especially in relation-
ships with the state government. Although the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
is expected to be lender of last resort for the provision of cooperative
credit, in fact it is Ehe major source of borrowings by cooperatives.
The trend is toward other sources, but present dependence is reflcected
in the fact that 80% of outstanding borrowing by cooperatives as
1/   For example, only 29% of societies in Nagaur have paid secretaries;
only 40% in Jodhpur.
2/   The method of expressing overdues is not consistent, being either % of
outstanding credits or % of due credits. Furthermore, a precise state-
ment of overdues is usually prevented by the poor condition of society
records and the unwillingness of society management to disclose accounts
even to authorized inspectors.



ANNEX 1 2
Page 4
of June 30, 1970, were from RBI, as were 46% of borrowings in the year
ending that date. RBI currently lends sshort-term funds to Apex Banks at
5% in turn; DCCB's pay 6.2%; primary societies 8.0%; and farmers 10.0%.1/
Other sources are state and central governments (latter principally through
National Cooperative Development Corporation), money markets and commercial
banks.
Rescheduling of Cooperative Overdues
8.        Natural calamities such as drought and flood jeopardize bor-
rowerst repayment capacity and, in the cooperative context, may block
additional lending activities. 2/ In an attempt to overcome the problem
of overdues as a result of natural calamity, the Reserve Bank of India
established an Agricultural Stabilization Fund in 1956, to which it
annually has contributed amounts ranging from Rs 1 crore to 8 crores.
This Fund is used to reschedule short-term agricultural loans to eligible
apex banks. Eligibility required the establishment of similar funds
at the apex and central (district) levels, and the followLng procedures
have developed.
(a)  Only short-term agricultural loans may be rescheduled,
and then only those which are made to farmers in areas
where the crop produiction is less than 50% of that
in a normal year.
(b)  DCCB's must meet at least 15% of the cost of rescheduling
from their own stabilization funds, reserves, and medium-
term lending resources. However, not more than 60% of
medium-term resources ray be used for this purpose.
(c) The apex bank must meet eligible DCCB demands to the
extent of its stabilizaticn fund and reserves before
approaching RBI.
(d) Apex and DCC banks must contribute 15% of annual net
incomes to their respective stabilization funds.
(e)  State governments must contribute to such funds all
dividends in excess of 3% earned by them on holdings
of cooperative share capital.
1/   For medium term credit, these rates are 5.5%, 6.4%, 8% and 10%,
respectively.
2/   For example, though not strictly applied, DCCB's in Rajasthan may
not sanction funds to primary socie.ies with overdues in excess of
40% of demand; nor may the Apex Bank in Rajasthan sanction funds to
a DCCB with overdues int excess of 60%. Cut-off percentages vary
slightly among states.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
(f) Most states have made lump sum allocations to sucth
funds on a part-grant, part-loan basis.
(g) The national fund, adminit3tered by RBI is used only to
reschedule short-term agr:'.cultural loans by RBI to
eligible apex banks.
9.        As a result of three consecutive years of drought, 1970/71,
1971/72 and 1972/73, the normal functioning of the stabilization funds
proved inadequate. Special arrangements were made in 71/72 to Ifrephase"
the previous years' "conversions". RBI financed 100% of conversions
made from the national fund in the previous year. In 1972/73, a "reha-
bilization" procedure was introduced whereby loans "rephased" in 1971/72
were refinanced, 50% by RBI and 50% by state government grants to Apex
Banks. While these measures have served to maintain the floiw of credit
through the cooperative structure, inordinate debt burdens have been
imposed on final borrowers, and there is now serious concern about repay-
ment capacity. For example, an RBI study of Maharashtra published in
May 1973 indicates that, on average, the debt burden or rescheduled
borrowers amounts to 66% of annual gross income. State governments are
now consideving special debt relief measures, although specific terms
have not been finalized.
10.       There is no question that the extensive use of stabilization
funds has enhanced the ability of the cooperative structure to extend
credit. However, rescheduling with the use of apex and central funds has
not been done in the strict adherence to the natural calamity definition
required of the national fund. As a result, overdues attributable to
poor management and lack of borrower disciplines have in some cases been
rescheduled and new credit limits sanctioned which have compolunded the
financial difficulties of many primary societies, over and aboDve that
legitimately atrrib'.:table to natural calamity.
II. Land Development Banks (LDB's)
11.       The long-term cooperative credit structure is entirely in-
dependent of that described above for short and medium-term credit.
District and state LDB's make up the two tiers of this structure. 1/
Funds for LDB's come from share capital and deposits of members, loans
and grants from state governments and the sale of insecurities both to
the public and to REBI. Securities are sold in respect of specific schemes
such as the financing of tubewells in a specified area. Special debentures
(those sold to ARC) bear a lower interest rate and enable LDB's; to lend
1/   In some states such as Mlaharashtra, Primary (District) LDE's have been
replaced by branches of the state bank. Operating procedures and cri-
teria remain the same, but elected management boards are xeplaced by
managers appointed by the state bank. LDB's also engage in some medium-
term financing.



ANNEX 1 2
Page 6
to farmers at 1/2% below the going commercial rates (e.g. , now 9-1/2%
compared to 10% on funds raised through ordinary debentures). Currently,
state LDB's pay about 6-1/2% on ordinary debentures and onlend to primaries
at 8%. Table 3 presents the resource, credit and overdue position of
primary LDB's in project districts.
12.       Loans by LDB's are used to finance fixed assets, land imDrove-
ments, or durable chattels such as tractors, In all cases, hypothecation
of the land or asset is required.   In appraising applicat i*-.s, considera-
tion is also given to technical and financial viability of proposals,
repayment capacity, and cropDing patterns. District level loan sanctioning
comnittees actually approve the loans, but criteria are established at
the state level for all tvpes of loans, and include certification of
unencumbered land title. This greatly restricts eligibility for LDB
credit, often for the sole reason that land rk.cords are not up to date
in the vast majority of districts and villages.
13.       Three IDA projects are currently beirng executed by LDB's in
project states: M4aharashtra, Karn:itakai ('Iysorc) and,.r:- Xiadash Azad
Projects. 1/ While these are progressing satisfactorily (see Annex 1,
there is continuing concern about the quality of technical and managerial
supervision being provided to sub-borrowers. Overdues have risen sharply in
the last several years, principally as a resuslt of continuling drought
condition.s. However, with the onset of normal monsoons in most of the
country, and as an attemrpt to improve financial discipline, RBI has refused
to purchase debentures of any LDIB with overdues in excess of 25% of demands
as of December 31, 1973.  Collection campaigns underway during the mission's
field visits wyere meeting with conistderable sulccess, and it is expected
that all project LDIB's will hiave mEt1. this requirementr. Several states
had also made budgetary allocainons to meet reselheduling re&quirements,
and all LDM's have esttae'd ;ta--,'Liza1tl.on funiOs fror operating
revenues similar to those used for sh,or t and me.dium-term credit.
14.       Tinder the project, LDB finave:cJnFg would be required for well
const- uction and ioprcvc-ments (i-icl ding pimrnisets), and for land
improvements (soil conservatinn and command area development). RBI has
laid down technical and .l-; nnciall criteria for such loans which must be
adhered to if ref inanco or debenture assistance is to be sought, and
the missioni recommiends a. diherence to tlhese for works to be commercially
Zinanced urnder the project. 2/
1/   293-IN, 278-IN, and 226-IN, -cespectively.  IDA funds are used by
Agricultural Refiaance Corporation to refinance eligible loans by LDB.
2/  RBI letter No. AGD. LDG. 696/B.   X-27/73 dated Novv. 9, 1972.



ANNEX 12
Page 7
Commercial Banks
15.       Direct financing of agriculture by commercial banks is a recent
development in India, 1/ with serious efforts beginning primarily after
nationalization of the major banks in 1969. 2/ With a few conspicuous
exceptions, performance to date has been modest and banks have concentrated
on medium-terra loans against securable fixed assets and chattels.   Tractors
and pumpsets have been the most frequent items of finance, while crop
loans and other short-term credit have been generally limited to support
of individuals who have taken medium-term credit.
16.       One major drawback to conmmercial bank financing of agriculture
has been the cost of administration and loan supervision.    In the context
of commercial banlc activities based on individual banker-client relations,
there are significant economies of scale, and most short-term credit
requirements are very small--only several hundred rupees. A credit
officer is only able to supervise 400-503 loans effectively, and the
margin on that number of small loans is insufficient to meet operating
costs. Security requirements also prevent any major expansion in short-
term lending, since the great majority of would-be borrowers have in-
adequate chattels, and encumbered titles or oral leases on real estate.
Recent Innovations in Agricultural Credit
17.       In an effort to overcome some of these difficulties, commercial
banks have attempted a number of innovations worthy of note:
18.       Villge Ado2t- -hme. In an attempt to reduce operating
costs and increase their credit concentrations, some banks have selected
villages at or near branch offices for which they endeavor to meet a
substantial share of credit requirements. This has served to increase
farmer awareness of the particular instituition and some success in
expanding credit volume has been experienced. However, operating
procedures and security requirements remain unchanged and, as a result,
only a small proportion of cultivators in the adopted village can avail
themselves of credit. Furthermore, the mission heard aTnumber of com-
1/   Indirect financing through primary cooperative societies is described
in para 19 and onward.
2/   National pressure on coimmercial banks has been expressed in terms of
targets set by government for the opening of new branches in rural
areas. This unfortunate measure of involvement in agriculture has
led to the establishment of a large number of unprofitable branches.
These both drain financial resources and detract from the real issue
of defining a role for commercial banks and evolvin, operating methods
compatible with the conditions and needs of agriculture.



ANNEX 12
Page 8
plaints from district authorities that the system has served to preclude
consideration of worthy applicants outside such villages. 1/
19.       Bank Financing of Primary Cooperative Societies.   Under this
scheme, introduced in 1970/71, primary societies are ceded to commercial
banks which provide credit in lieu of that otherwise provided by the
district central cooperative bank. The objectives are to provide a channel
for commercial bank resources into short and medium-term agricultural credit
and to introduce a greater degree of financial discipline into the workings
of PCB7s. Relationships between members and the PCB remain the same, i.e.,
share capital requirements, financing scales, interest rates, etc.,
but the PCB receives its funds at 7-1/2% from the commercial banks rather
than at 7% from the district central cooperative bank. Offsetting this
interest differential is the requirement that 50% of the cost of a paid
secretary be met by the bank (central government meets the other 50% under
a separate scheme).
20.       Although more than 2,500 societies have been ceded to banks
under the scheme, including some in each proposed project district, fewer
than 60% have actually been financed.  For those that have been financed,
overdues and operating costs have been very high. 2/ Several reasons
for the limited success oL this scheme have been identified:
(a)  By design, weaker societies were to be ceded.   Banks
thus inherited for the most part the societies with
small membership, poor management, and heavy overdues.
(b)  Societies were very reluctant to accept bank financing
because:
(i) it effectively severed the supply of government
funds,
(ii)  the interest margin to the PCB to the PCB is 1-1/2%
rather than 2% as for funds from DCCB s,
(iii)  most societies did not have paid secretaries nor
were they desirable in the view of the management
committees,
(iv)  loans were to be disbursed irn the presence of a
bank representative.
1/   Banks normally do not consider applications fro; 'arme.s located more
than 10 miles from the nearest branch.  I,wev-r, A.lder village adoption,
applications within this radius are not consit',ere6 unless the applicant
is a resident of the selected vllage.
2/   A 1972 survey of 4 banks in Karnataka which had financed 266 societies
showed an aggregate operating deficit of 57% on a lending volume of
Rs 69.5 lakhs.



ANNEX 12
Page 9
(c) There is a distrust of commercial banks among cooperative
leaders, and failure to establish effective communications
at the district level has led to misconceptions and
isolation from commercial banks, which have permiated
PCB's.
(d) In the case of societies which agreed to bank financing,
there has been considerable difficulty in collecting
overdues, since management committee members are reluctant
to assist bank staff. Despite the fact that bank rmoney
is loaned not to individuals but to the society as a
whole, committee members tend to view overdues as a
problem between the bank and the sub-borrower.
(e) Overdues are much higher than in direct financing operations
because credit is not selectively extended to qualified
individuals but rather to eligible societies as a whole.
21.       Among bankers interviewed during the mission, it was generally
agreed that few if any new societies would be adopted in the near future,
although most were hopeful that the situation would improve with the
end of drought conditions in most of the country. Preference was
expressed for the village adoption approach to credit expansion.
22.       Farmers' Service Societies (FSS's).  The National Commission on
Agriculture, in its report of December, 1971, recognized that both
cooperatives and commercial banks have failed to meet the credit needs
of small farmers. The Commission advocated the establishment of multi-
purpose Farmers' Service Societiess, and these have since been endorsed
by RBI, state government and the banking community. The first 30 of these
were only begun in 1973, so their effectiveness cannot yet be evaluated.
The concept is described briefly here since it would seem to have some
merit for proposed project districts.
23.       The purpose of the FSS would be to integrate the credit function
with the provision of input and marketing services. Although membership
would not be restricted to small and marginal farmers, membership on the
Managing Board would be weighted in their favor.
24.       The organization would be that of a cooperative, registered
under the Societies Act. Each FSS would serve a Development Block or
integral geographic unit such as a watershed, and a Union of FSS's would
be established at the District level.
25.       The management would consist of a managing director appointed
by the financing commercial bank 1/ and a Managing Board of 11 members:
1/   The financing agency would be the lead bank of the district.  In each
proposed project district this would be a commercial bank although
cooperatives are lead banks in some districts in India.



ANNEX 12
Page 10
5 elected small farmers, 2 nominees of government and 1 of the financing
bank and 3 other elected members of the society.
26.       The operations would include the extension of credit and, where
these are found to bc required, the provision of inputs,1/ services,
and marketing facilities. These activities would be undertaken over
time, the initial focus being on credit and essential inputs. A close
link to government would be essential for the supply of Essential
Commodities (e.g., fertilizer) and extension services; hence the two
management nominees. Credit operations would be based on criteria,
scales, and procedures developed by the financing bank.
Constraints orn Flow of Credit in Project Districts
General Constraints
27.       Previous Indebtedness.   Virtually all cultivators in the proposed
project districts have incurred debt, often on termfs which result in perma-
nent indebtedness. The practice of hypothecating land for all loans,
save short-term cooperative credit, means that even t'hose fortunate enough
to have received institutional credit cannot obtain additional loans except
from previous creditors.
28.       Credit Staff.  The quality and quantity of staff available to
appraise and stupervise agricultural credit is quite inadequate. This
has bred highly selective credit policies on the part of lenders, frustra-
tion of applicants, and negligence on the part of borrowers.
29.       Outdated Land Records.   Discussions with officials of banks,
cooperatives and government confirmed that outdated land records consti-
tuted the most important single constraint on credit in these districts. 2/
30.       Lack of Coordination Among Hinarcial_Institutions.   Traditionally
there has been a much higher degree of secrecy among financial institutions
in India than elsewhere, aggravated by a mutual distrust and misunderstand-
ing between cooperatives and commercial banks. The recent establishment
of district level credit coordination committees, generally convened by the
lead bank and chaired bv the Collector, affords much scope for coordination
in the following areas:
1/   A component financing formula similar to that used by the cooperative
credit structure would provide for a mix of cash and kinid credit.
2/   One district bank manapzer interviewed during the mission had, in the
previous week, rejected 3C0 out of 43 loan applications for the sole
reason that current records were not available for the lands to be
offered as security.  Andrarn ?radesh has estir-ated the cost of updating
its land records, tentatively to be undertaken in the Fifth Plan, at
Rs 5 crores (US$6.7 million).



ANNEX 12
Page 11
(a) credit information on applicants and borrowers 1/
(b)  branch and staff patterns
(c)  financial persepective and government-proposed
schemes
(d)  dissemination of extension information
(e)  discussion of financing scales
(f)  solicitation of government assistance in expediting
land records
(g)  pooling information of experience outside the district.
Constraints on Cooperatives
31.       Overdues.  Overdues can severely reduce the capacity of coopep-
eratives to meet the credit requirements of members. For example,
Nagaur DCCB had overdues of 76% of outstandings as of June 30, 1972,
and only Rs 7.4 lakhs of credit wexe extended in that year to 96 of its
474 member societies. In the previDus year, 245 societies had borrowerd
Rs 54.3 lakhs. Tnroughout the project area, cooperative credit was
down about 40% in 1971/72 although the reduction was much greater in non-
irrigated areas. To a great extent, overdues are a result of poor manage-
ment and staffing patterns as well as natural calamity.
32.       Membership Limitations.   The prerequisite of credit through
cooperatives is membership, and the share capital requirements and risk
discourage most cultivators from joining societies.
Constraints on Commercial Banks
33.       Appraisal Procedures.   Banks have not yet implemented bulking
techniques or simplified procedures to reduce the cost of processing
large volumes of small agricultural loans.
34.       Security Evaluation.   Although commercial banks interviewed
during the mission professed to use post-investment value when establish-
ing security requirements, observations of specific hyvothecations indicate
that the ratio of secured land area Lo loan amount resuilted in a de facto
valuation of land at pre-investment rates.   A substantial number of
applicants presently ineligible would qualify for credit if evaluation
guidelines more closely reflected post-investment value and earning
capacity of proffered lands.
i/   Jodhpur appears to be the most advanced in this respect.   An officer
of the lead bank has been designated to receive, assemble and circulate
credits reports for all committee members.



ANNEX 12
Page 12
35.       Oral Tenancy.  The preponderance of tenant arrangements are
neither made in writing nor registered. Such tenants are unable to
obtain bank credit since there is no s tisfactory evidence of cultivation
rights.
36.       In December, 1969, the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India
appointed an Expert Group to review legislation impinging upon commercial
bank lending in agriculture. 1/ The mission has reviewed the committee's
report and finds the following constraints identified therein to be of
particular concern to the proposed project.
37.       Security Registration.   Banks require the hvpothecation of real
estate against the majority of short and medium-term loans, and the costs
of mortgage preparation as well as registration fees which average about
Rs 12.5 per thousand, and charges for a certificate of encumbrance are
borne by the borrower. Where mortgages are required by cooperatives, assign-
ment may be made by Declaration, atvtomatically registered in the office of
the Sub-Registrar and placed in the Land Records.
38.       Stamp Duties.  A tax is assessed on all real estate assignments
in favor of commercial banks and paid by the borrower, whereas assignments
in favor of cooperatives are not so taxed. Rates vary among states from
Rs 3 to about Rs 4.5 per hundred. In several states loans of less than
Rs 5,000 are exempt from stamp duty.
39.       Priority of Charges. All state acts relating to cooperatives
provide a "first charge" for cooperatives on recovery of amounts due
from members. As distinct from a mortgage, a charge need not be registered
or explicit, but may be created by the act of parties, i.e., the giving
and receipt of credit. 2/   The critical feature of this provision is that
it subordinates all other claims irrespective of whether they were
registered before or after that of the cooperative. 3/ For example,
the assignment of chattels in favor of a commercial bank does not protect
that security for the bank in the event the borrower subsequently receives,
and defaults on, credit from a cooperative. In a number of states,
"first charge" also applies to real estate, but its existence elsewhere
goes far in explaining the preoccupation of commercial banks with securing
registered hypothecation of land. At the time of enactment, cooperatives
were the only institutional source of agricultural credit and this
provision was designed to discourage private lending. Now, however, it
has become a major disincentive for commercial banlks as well in the
financing of agriculture.
1/   Commonly known as the Talwar Report, its final document was issued in
1971 entitled "Report of the Expert Group on State Enactments Having
a Bearing on Commercial Banks Lending to Agriculture".
2/   Transfer of Property Act, 1882; Section 100.
3/   In all project states and 5 others, "first charge" is subject to claims
of the LDB or Land Mortgage Bank. In all states, provision is subject
to claims of state government in respect of Land Revenue.



ANNEX 12
Page 13
40.       In summary, the drought prone areas represent the extremes of
low and uneven productivity, inicome disparity, and weak institutional
structures, thereby rendering them among the most difficult areas of the
country in which to extend credit. No one type of institution, wqhether
cooperative or commercial, posseses the capacity or inherent flexibility
to meet credit requirements, and a multi-channel approach mulst be adopted.
Within the constraints of overall national policy, there are fl number of
specific practicable measures, described above, which should be taken to
facilitate the flow of credit and which, in the vieTAw of the mission, would
ensure the availability of sufficient credit to permit significant develop-
ment under the proposed project.
November 4, 1974



LNDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Status of Primary Agricultural Credit Societies-as on June 3O972
Percent               Percent       Share                 Totall/     Credit                          Overdues
umber of     Village     Members        ral      aital    Deposits   Resources Outstanding   Demand Collections              As % of
Societies    Coverage    (l000)    Families     ---------------------------------s '00,000)------------------------------ -Demand
JODHPUR                 c266        80%         45.3       29%          27.3        3.0       131.3          88.8    76.8        49.6       27.2      35%
IAIJI,                   373        8h,        ',3.O       30%          25.2       2.6       128.1         106.6     76.6       42.4       34.2      45X
AJT'VEDNAGIAR          1,096       100%        210.5                   664.5     134.2      2,333.9      2,116.9  1,825.0    1,383.7      141.3       24%
;HOLAPIJR                888       100%        146.0                   271.4      10.0       859.2(est)    767.1    743.3      392.4      350.9      47%
"4IJAPITR                663    #1,239         120.0                   128.0       3.2       663.2         510.3    482.6       232.6      250.0      52%
AdlANTAPJR               729      #950          80.0                    54.7      14.9       396.2         283.0    247.4       47.6      199.8       81%
1/ Total resources consist of share capital, deposits,
borrowings and reserves.
CD



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Status of Distr- - Central Co2perative Banks as on June 30  1972
(Rs '00,000
Overdues
Share                  Total 1      Credit                                   Rs      As % of
Capital   Deposits    Resources    Outstandi       Demand    Collections   ('00.000) Demand
JODHPUR                 19.1       48.3        130.1          96.9        89.L4         53.8        36.4       40%
NAGAITR                 22.8       17.4        107.5         110.1        82.6          47.0        35.6       43%
AffMEDNAGAR            260.7    1,100.9      2,784,1       2,132.7     2,032.0       1,271.0       761.0       37%
SH0OLAPTJR             105.4      i41.5      1,810.8       1,608.3     1,087.4(est)    726.7(est) 360.7(est) 33%
UIIJAPUR                99.3      274e9        745.2         620.1       43o.8         163.6       267.2       62%
ANANTAPUR               42.3       67!;6       258.6         219.3       206.2         144.2       162.0       77%
,/  Total resources c.*isst of sharc capital, deposits,
borrowings and re'efves.
.-



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Status of Primary Land Development Banks as on June 30, 1972
(HS '00,000)
Membership                                                                                 Overdues
(No. of Societies    Share                   Total        Credit                                         As % of
and Individuals)   Capital    Borrowings   Resources-  Outstanding    Demannd   Collections       -     Demand
JODHPUR                3,504           5.3        41.7         62.3          53.5         9.6          4.9         4.7       49%
NAGAUR                 2,892           4.5        41.0         48.4          40.4         7.9          4.3         3.6       46%
AFREDNAGAR            46,511         114.2       324.1      1,042.7(est)    944.5        72.8 2/      38.7        34.1       47%
SHOLAPUR              39,768         107.8       735.9        850.1         769.7        72.0 ./      53.3        18.7       26%
BIJAPUR               17,761          27.8       354.9        385.0(est)    333.0        45.9         36.7         9.2       20%
ANANTAPUR             34,162          56.o       737.5(est)   80o.5(est)    660.1       111.8        101.4        10.4       10%
1/ Share capital, borrowings, reserves and deposits.
Deposits in fact are kept with State Land Development Bank and cannot                                                           S
be used for relending by PLDB of depositors.
2/  Demand after rescheduling.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Project Costs
Summary of Total Proqiet Costs
(Rs '000)
Component Total
Jodhpur    Nagaur     Ahmednagar     Sholapur     Bijapur    Anantapur     (Rs '000)   (USs million)
Minor Irrigation                 15,840     7,900        8,438       20,190        25,050      7,550        84,968         10.6
Soil Conservation                9,406     9,906        19,526       22,369        24,896     13,102        99,205         12.4
Pasture Development              3,970     5,424         7,940        6,274         6,274      7,465        37,348          4.7
F restry                            ---                 4,582        4,582          4,582     4,582         18,328          2.3
Dry Fgrming                         -       3,422        2,943        2,943         2,943      2,943        15,194          1.9
Shee]' Development               1,499      5,13        1,974       1,499          1,974      1,974        14,043          1.8
Dairy Development               23,494      8,019      40,852        30,152        30,152     30,152       162,8?1         20.3
Sericulture                        ---       ---          ---           ---         2,573        ---         2,573          0.3
Horticulture                        ---       ---          ---                      1,77         ---         1,177          0.1
Fisheries                           --        ----                                 11,809        ---        11,809          1.5
Updating Land Records            1,000      1,250          ---          ---           ---      3,900         6,150          0.8
Project Management                 481       481          481          481   -       481        481 -          2,886        0.4
Sub-Total                    55,690   41,526        86 736       88,_490              __91 _72_,149    456,502         57.1
Unallocated:
District Core Funds           5,000     5,000         5,000        5,000         5,000      5,000        30,000          3.8
Price Contingency            38.426_28,652.- - 6_"O055            61,265        7 77_21 9 4783         3154o-          39.4
1. District Total                99,116    75,178      151,791      154,755       194,130    126,932       801,902        100.3
Central DPAP Components
Applied Research                                                                                          6,296          0.8
Training                                                                                                    804          0.1
Consultants                                                                                               2,920          0.4
Evaluation                                                                                                  250          ---
Sub-Total                                                                                             10,270          1.3
Unallocated:
Central Core Funds                                                                                        2,500          0.3
Price  Contingency                                                                                        6,786         0.8
2. Central Total                                                                                            19,556          2.4
3. Total Project Costs (1 + 2)                                                                             821,458        102.7



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Project Costs
Jodhpur District - Rajasthan
(Rs '000)
Soil        Pasture 1L     Sheep         Dairy       Project
Irrigation    Conservation   Development   Development  Development Management      Total
Land                                 -                                          --            10           --          10
Civil tiorks:
On-farm                       8,370           3,000            --            --           --                   11,370
Public                                                      3,970           270          389 2/                 4,629
Cooperative                      --              --                          --          165            --        165
Livestock:
Private                           --             --            --            --        7,890            --      7,890
Departmental                     --              --            --            99          122            --         221
Cooperative                      --                            -                           8            --          8
Equipment:
Private                       3,720              --            --            --        2,630            --      6,350
Project units                                                                --                          7          7
Departmnental                 3,750             327            --           298        1,569            --      5,944
Cooperative                      --                             -            -            30            --         30
Vehicles:
Project units                     -              --            --                                       31         31
Departmental                      --            189            --           170          240            --        599
Staff:
Cooperatives                     - -             --            - -           --           - -           - -        - -
Project units                     --             --            --            --           --           370        370
Departmental                      --          5,041             --          498        2,713                    8,252
Operating Expenses:
Private                          --              --            --            --           --            --
Cooperatives                     --              --            --          113         1,370            --      1,483
Project units                    --              --            --            --           --            73         73
Departmental                     --             849            --            51.       1,858            --      2,758
Milk transport subsidy           --              --             --           --        4,500            --      4,500
District Core Funds                  --             --            --            --           --            --      5,000
Updating Land Records                                                                                      --      1,000
Total                        15,840           9,406         3,970        1,499        23,494          481      60,690
1/ Establishment costs included in Nagaur -- one unit to serve both districts.
2/ Includes Rs 75,000 consulting services.                                                                                  ,
rV H



INDIA
DROUGHHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Project Costs
Nagaur District - Rajasthan
(Rs '000)
Soil        Pasture'l/                  Sheep        Dairy      Project
Irrigation  Conservation   Development  Dry Farming  Development  Development Management       Total
Land                                    -          --            --                                       8           --            8
Civil Works:
On-farm                           5,024       3,000             -            --                                               8,024
Public                               --         500         3,565            --          864          16221         --        5,091
Livestock:
Private                              --          --             --           --           --        2,670           --        2,670
Departmental                         -           --             --           --          599           --                       599
Equipment:
Private                           2,876          --             --           --           --          890           --        3,766
Project units                        --          --             --           --           --           --            7            7
Departmental                         --         327            45           101          964        1,240           --        2,677
Cooperative                          --          --             -      -       -          --           --            --          --
Vehicles:
P-oject units                        --          --             --           -                          -           31           31
L.partmental                         --         189           108            33          588           80           --          998
Staff:
Cooperatives                         --          --            --            --           --           - -          -
Project units                        --          --             --           --           --                       370          370
Departmental                         --       5,041         1,375         1,003        1,474          709            --       9,602
Operating Expenses:                                             -
Private                               -                                   1,776           --           --           --        1,776
Cooperatives                         --          --             --           --          360           40           --          400
Project units                        --          --             --           --           --           --           73           73
Departmental                         --         849            332          509          274          720           --        2,684
Milk transport subsidy               --          --             --           --           --        1,500           --        1,500
District Core Funds                    --          --            --            --           --           --           --        5,000
Updating Land Records                  --          --             --           --           --           --           --        1,250
Total                        7,900       9,906         5,425         3,422        5,123        8,019          481      46,526
I/ Includes establishment costs shared with Jodhnur.
2/ Includes consulting services, Rs 65,000.
cDX



([NDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Project Costs
Ahmednagar District - Maharashtra
(Rs '000)
Soil         Pasture                               Sheep        Dairy        Project
Irrigation   Conservation  Development   Forestry  Dry Farming  Development Development Managemet'-         Total
Land                             460             -                                                                10          --           470
Civil Works:                                                                                                         1/
Cooperative                    --            --            --          -                                      341         --            341
On-farm                     2,532        12,750                                     --                                               15,282
Public                      2,830           370         7,940       1,300           --           270          292 2/                 13,002
Livestock:
Private                        --            --            --          --           --            --       24,150          --        24,150
Departmental                   --            --            --          --           --           401          122          --           523
Cooperative                    --            --            --          --           --            ^-           16                        16
Equipment:
Private                     2,616            --            --          --           --            --        4,830          --         7,446
Project units                  --            --            --         --            --           --            --          7              7
Departmental                   --           327            --          34          lOl           308        1,669          --         2,439
Cooperative                     -            --            --                                                 180         --            180
Vehicles:
Project units                  --            --            --          --           --            --           --         31             31
Depir Lmental                  --           189            --          81           33           178          160          --           641
Staff:
Project units                  --                                                   --                         --        370            370
Departmental                   --         5,041            --       2,910        1,003           598        1,999          --        11,551
Operating Expenses:
Private                        --            --            --          --        1,297            --           --          --         1,297
Cooperatives                   --            --            --          --           --           113        2,565          --         2,678
Project units                  --            --            --          --           --            --                       73            73
Departmental                   --           849            --         257          509           106        1,518          --         3,239
Milk transport subsidy         --            --            --          --           --            --        3,000          --         3,000
District Core Funds                --           --            --          --           --            --           --          --         5,000
Total                       8,438        19,526         7,940       4,582        2,943         1,974       40,852        481         91,736
1/  Includes Rs 10,000 consulting services.
2/  Includes Rs 75,000 consulting services.
CDM
4-,



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Project Costs
Sholapur District - Maharashtra
(Rs '000)
Soil        Pasture                             Sheep         Dairy       Project
Irrigation  Conservation   Development Foresstry  Dry Farming Development Development Management        Total
Land                           1,260                                                                            10         --        1,270
Civil Works:
On-farm                     8,609       15,500            --                                                                     24,109
Public                      7,780          463         6,153       1,300           --        270            292 1'      --       16,258
Cooperative                                  --                 --                 --                       331         --          331
Livestock:
Private                        --           --             --         --           --         --         15,950         --       15,950
Departmental                   --           --            --          --           --         99            122         --          221
Cooperative                    --           --            --          --           --         --            16          --           16
Equipment:
Private                     2,541           --            --          --           --         --         3,190          --        5,731
Project units                   -                                                                                        7            7
Departmental                   --          327            15          34          101        298         1,669          --        2,444
Cooperative                    --           --            --          --           --         --            60          --           60
Vehicles:
Project units                                              -                       --                                   31           31
Departmental                   --          189            27          81           33        170            160         ^-          660
gtaff:
Project units                  --           --                                     --         --              -        370          370
Departmental                   --        5,041            --       2,910        1,003        498          1,544         --       10,996
Operating Expenses:
Private                        --           --             --         --        1,297          -             --                   1,297
Cooperatives                                 --          --                 --               113         2,800                    2,913
Project units                  --           -                                                  -        . --            73           73
Departmental                   --          849             79        257          509         51          1,008         --        2,753
Milk transport subsidy         --           --             --         --           --         --          3,000         --        3,000
District Core Funds               -       -            --                --                                                          5,000
Total                      20,190       22,369         6,274       4,582        2,943      1,499         30,152        481       93,490
1/  Includes Rs 75,000 consultiu, --ei-es.
fr0
UlDU



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Project Costs
Bijapur District - Karnataka
(Rs '000)
Soil        PastEire                             Sheep          Dairy                                             Project
Irrigation  Conservation   Development  Forestry  Dry Farming   Development  Development  Sericulture Horticulture    Fisheries Management    Total
Land                              2,550                                                                           10           15             12       1,200        --        3,787
Civil Works:
On-farm                        6,750       17,750                       1-- -                                  -^        1360              --          --        --      25,860
Public                        15,750           740        6,153      1,300          --           270          2921/         91             17       6,519        --      31,132
Cooperative                       --            --           --         --          --            --          331           --             --          --        --          331
Livestock:
Private                           --           --            -          --                                 15,950           --            --           --        --      15,950
Departmental                             --           --                --          --           401          122                   --                 --        --         523
Cooperative                       --           --            --         --          --            --           16           --            --           --        --          16
Equipment:
Private                           --           --            --         --                                  3,190          920            --         645         --       4,755
Project units                     --           --            --         --          --           --            --           --            --           --         7           7
Departmental                      --          327            15         34         101           308        1,669            8              5         670        --       3,137
Cooperative                       --           --            --         --          --            --           60           --             --         419                   479
Vehicles:
Project units                     --           --           --          --          --           --            --           --                                   31          31
Departmental                      --          189            27         81          33           178          160           40             35          --        --          743
Cooperative                       --           --            --         --          --            --           --           --             --         192        --         192
Staff:
Cooperatives                      --           --            --         --          --            --           --           --             --          --        --          --
Froject units                     --           --            --         --          --            --           --           --             --          --       370         370
Departmental                      --        5,041            --      2,910       1,003           598        1,544           --            326       1,565        --      12,987
Operating Expenses:
Private                           --            -            --         --       1,297            --                  --            --           --              --       1,297
Cooperatives                      --           --            --         --          --           113        2,800           --             --         146        --       3,059
Project units                     --           --            --         --          --                         --           --                                   73          73
Departmental                      --          849            79        257         509           106        1,008          139           ,782         453        --       4,182
Milk transport subsidy            --            --           --         --           --           --        3,000            --            --          --        --       3,000
District Core Funds                  --            --           --         --           --           --           --           --             --          --        --       5,000
rotal                         25,050       24,896        6,274       4,582       2,943        1,974        30,152        2,573         1,177       11,809       481     116,911
1/  Includes Rs 75,000 consulting services.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Project Costs
Anantapur District - Andra Pradesh
(Rs '000)
Soil          Pasture                              Sheep          Dairy      Project
Irrigation  Conservation   Development   Forestry  Dry_Farming   Development  Development   Management   Total
Land                                 290          --                                                                10         --          300
Civil Works:
On-farm                        4,046        6,400             --         --           --           --            --         --       10,446
Public                         1,810          296          7,344      1,300           --          270           292         --       11,312
Cooperative                        --          --             --         --           --           --           331         --          331
Livestock:
Private                            --          -              --         --                                  15,950         --       15,950
Depa,tmental                       --          --             --         --            -          401           121          --         523
Cooperative                        --          --             --         --           --           --            16          --          16
Equipment:
Private                         1,404           -             --         --                                   3,190         --        4,594
Project units                      --                       --                        -                                       7           7
Departmental                       --         327             15         34          101          308         1,669          --       2,454
Cooperative                        --          --             --         --           --            --           60          --          60
Vehicles:
Project units                      --          --             --         --           --           --            --         31           31
Departmental                       --         189             27         81           33           178          160          --         668
Staff:
Cooperatives                       --          --                        -            --            -             -          - -          -
Project units                      --          --             --         --           --            -            --         370         370
Departmental                       --       5,041             --      2,910        1,003          598         1,544          --      11,096
Operating Expenses:
Private                            --          --             --         --        1,297                         --          --       1,297
Cooperatives                       --          --             --         --           --          113         2,800          --       2,913
Project units                      --          --             --                --                  --                       73          73
Departmental                       --         849             79        257          509           106        1,008          --       2,808
Milk transport subsidy             --          --             --         --           --            --        3,000                   3,000
District Core Funds                   --          --             -           --          --            --                       -        5,000
Updating Land Records                 --          --             --         --           --            --           --          --       3,900
Total                           7,550      13,102          7,465      4,582        2,943         1,974       30,152        481       77,149
1/  Includes Rs 75,000 consulting services.
I,r
-I U



ANNEX 14
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS P!ROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative
Quarterly              Total
IDA Fiscal Year                       Disbursement        Disbursement
------------ Us$ 000- ---------
FY '75
2nd quarter                              250                 250
3rd quarter                              700                 950
4th quarter                            1,400                2,350
FY '76
1st qarter                             1,050               3,400
2nd quarter                            1,150               4,550
3rd quarter                            1,400               5,950
4th quarter                            1,750               7,700
FY '77
1st quarter                            1,050               8,750
2nd quarter                            1,750              10,500
3rd quarter                            2,450              12,950
4th quarter                            2,800               15,750
FY '78
1st quarter                            1,750              17,500
2nd quarter                            1,750              19,250
3rd quarter                            2,450               21,700
4th quarter                            2,800               24,500
FX '79
lst quarter                            1,750               26,250
2nd quarter                            1,750              28,000
3rd quarter                            2,450               30,450
4th quarter                            2,800               33,250
FY '80
1st quarter                            1,750              35,000



ANNEX 15
Page   1
INDIA
DROUGHIT PRODNE AREAS PROJECT
Organization and Management
A. Present District Structure
Office of the Collector
1.        The Collector (in some states, Deputy Commissioner) is the senior
government official at the disitrict level. In all states he is responsible
for law and order and revenue, and in most he retains control of civil
supplies and development activities.  Even in states where some development
functions have been transferred to local government, the Collector has the
power to intervene in, or coordinate, the activities of all executing
agencies. However, the exercise of this power has generally been restricted
to emergency situations such as drought and famine.  As Civil Supplies Officer,
the Collector is entitled to procure or control the distribution of commod-
ities such as fertilizers, pesticides and foodgrains which have been notified
under the Essential Commodities Act. A number of district level committees
have been established in all districts to facilitate the execution of the
various functions of the Collector and district officers. Three of these
would be of particular concern in project execution.
District Coordination Committee
2.        In some states known as the District Level Officers Committee,
this committee is chaired by the Collector and consists of all district
level officers of development departments and the Chief Executive Officer
of the Zilla Parishad (local government). Meeting bi-monthly as a rule,
they review development programs, compare actual and budgeted performance,
and identify bottlenecks in program execution. The Collector from time to
time is called on to circumvent normal departmental channels and go directly
to the state's Chief Secretary to resolve issues, but neither he nor any
district officer is afforded budgetary discretion in development prograns.
Annual budget proposals for each department are prepared by district officers
and these are discussed within the committee. Unfortunately, two features
of the process minimize its effectiveness:
(a) Officers are generally not provided with budget parameters or
operational guidelines with which to prepare acceptable proposals;
(b) The paramountcy of departmental budgets is such that district-wise
balancing of expenditures among sectors to meet peculiar needs
has seldom received adequate consideration. Proposals are sent
simultaneously to departments and to the committee, so that the
latter's comments generally arrive at the state level too late
to affect change.



ANNEX 15
Page   2
Sub-Committees have been established in most districts for specific programs,
and it is this mechanism which is used in time of emergency to coordinate
all relief activity.
District Agriculture lroduction Committee
3.        Usually chaired by the District Development Officer (DDO), this
committee meets twice a year to set production targets and to deteraine
input requirements for the next cropping season. Membership includes the
district level officers of the following departments: Irrigation, Power,
Soil Conservation, Animal Husbandry, and Agriculture. The District
Agricultural Officer is member/secretary, and the Deputy Registrar of Coop-
eratives and the Chief Executive Officer or Secretary of the Zilla Parishad
are also members.
4.        Production estimates are based on cropping patterns reported by
Village Level Workers (VLMs) and Extension Officers (EOs) for the previous
year, although adjustments are made for estimated changes in area to be
brought under improved seed varieties. These estimates are very crude, and
are used principally as the basis for projecting demand for seeds, fertilizers
and pesticides. These are all notified commodities under the Essential
Commodities Act, and the Collector is therefore entitled to intervene in
their procurement and distribution. The bulk of these commodities is in
fact procured by government and the task of the Agricultural Production
Committees is to ensure that an equitable share of available material is
allotted to the district. Distribution is generally accomplished through
marketing societies, and delays or bottlenecks are brought to the attention
of the DDO for action on behalf of the Collector.
District Credit Coordination Committee
5.        District Credit Coordination Committees have recently been
established as fora for discussion and coordination among financing insti-
tutions and the district administration. Generally, the Collector chairs
this committee, but its meetings are convened by the District Manager of
the Lead Bank. Members include managers of all commercial banks operating
in the district, the Deputy Registrar of Cooperatives and the manager of the
district central cooperative bank, These committees offer considerable
potential for the promotion of institutional r-edit.   To date7 however,
those in most districts have not been able to address critical issues such
as overdue collection and the sharing of credit information. The committee
serves principally as a channel for information on credit requirement esti-
mates of the Agricultural Production Committee and the identification of
appropriate lending agencies. For their part, banks and cooperatives notify
committee members of branch/society start-ups and expected lending volumes.
Credit Coordination Committees do have one somewhat intangeable benefit in
that they bring together cooperatives and commercial banks and force some
dialogue between two groups of lenders wilich have traditionally operated
independently and with suspicion of one another.



ANN{EX 15
Page 3
Local Goverrnment
6.        District administration in Maharashtra and Karnataka are charac-
terized by very strong local government bodies. This Panchayatee Raj con-
sists of a three-tier system of elected bodies: the Panchayat at the
village lievel; the Panchayat Saimmittee at the block level; and the Zilla
Parishad at the district level. Each of these bodies has a secretariate,
headed by the Village Level Worker, the Block Developmernt Officer and the
Chief Executive Officer, respectively.  These elected bodies and their
secretariates are generally charged with the development and maintenance
of the following services and facilities: primary education, roads other
than state a-nd national highways, village electrification, irrigation (250
acres or less), health, social welfare, and agriculture. For agricultural
development, all extension officers of the Departments of Agriculture and
Animal HIusbandry, as well as village level workers, are under the administra-
tive control of the local government.
7.        To finance their activities, local governments have limited rights
of local tax collection such as Octroi (road user tax). They also receive
50% sf land revenue collections within their respective inrisdictions. The
third source of funds is direct state allocations under several programs
such as the Basic Minimum Needs Prc-gram which finances schemes for primary
education, health, roads, drinking water and rural electrification (Annex 2).
B. Project Organization
8.        The functions and general structure of the proposed District Dev-
elopment Authorities are summarized below. However, their legal status would
vary among states, as would their relationships with existing district or-
ganizations. The features of project organization unique to each state are
also presented below.
District Development Authorities
9.        Organization and Staffing. The organization of DDAs would vary
somewhat among states as would their legal status. Hlowever, each would
have a Managing Board comprising the District Collector, district level
officers of development departments, and representatives of local government,
the state legislature, commercial banks and cooperatives, In most cases, the
Collector would act as Chairman.  Each DDA would have, a sroall staff, headed
by a project manager of Additional Collector rank, and including a senior
credit specialist, an accountant, the DPAP officer of the district and sup-
port staff, The Project Manager would, in most cas.s, be senretary of th.e
Managing Board. Technical support in agriculture, animal husbandry and en-
gineering would be provided by line departments at the district level. In
all cases, the work of the District Development Officer, District Planning
Officer and Chief Executive Officer (local government) would be coordinated
by the authority.



ANNEX 15
Page rs
10.       Functions of the DDA with Respect to DPAP.  Project responsibili-
ties of the DDAs would include:
(a) Preparation of annual project plans and budgets
for submission to state and central authorities;
(b) Coordination of project execution by development
departments and agencies;
(c) Expedition of agricultural credit application-s by
liaison with Village Level Workers, Village Accountants,
and Land Revenue Officers;
(d) Administration and financial control of the subsidy
program for smallholders and agricultural laborers;
(e) Preparation, with the assistance of development depart-
ments, of small schemes to be financed from unallocated
district funds, subject to State DPAP approval;
(f) Financial control of unallocated district funds for
(e) above; and
(g) Project monitoring, including the preparation of
monthly financial and physical performance-reports.
11.       Functions of the DDA as District Planning..Agency.  Although ,some
time will be required for the DDA to acquire the capacity and authority to
assume primary planning responsibility for the district, the following fuLnc-
tions would be assigned to it by the end of the project period:
(a) Conduct of resource and need surveys within the district
and tne assembly of existing surveys to maintain a current
awareness of development status;
(b) Preparation of annual district plans by coordinating the
planning efforts of individual departments'and agencies,
and presentation of plans to state planhning commissions;
(c)  Coordination of DPAP with other development activities in
the district;
(d) Assurance that plans and technical designs would be pre-
pared by development departments to establish a "shelf"
of relief works and, under direction of the Collector,
assistance in the conduct of relief works;



ANNEX 15
Page 5
(e)  Participation in the operation and mainte.nance of develop-
ment programs by membership on district committees such
as the Agricultural Production Committee and the Credit
Coordination Committee; and
(f)  Preparation, with the assistance of depa;w .ments, of fi-
nancing schemes for presentation to credit institutions.
Initially, these functions could be carried out by exist.ing and proposed
staff, but an experienced planning officer will be required toward the end
of the project period. The timing and qualifications for this appointment
will be discussed during negotiations.
12.       Delegation of Powers.  To ensure that the authority and its staff
are able to carry out the assigned functions, it would be essential that
powers be vested in it as follows:   right to solicit reports pertaining to
development activities and land records from all departments and agencies
within the district; right to solicit budget guidelines and allocations
from development departments and agencies at the state level to assist in
dt;trict planning; representation on its own behalf or through the state
DPAP unit to state departments and the planning commission; and administra-
tive and financial sanction of funds vested in it.
Rajasthan Proect Organization
13.       The Jodhpur Development Agency and the Nagaur Development Agency
would be formed under the Societies Act for project implementation in
Rajasthan. Their legal status would be similar to SFDA and MFAL agencies,
and they would be entitled to contract and hold funds in their own names.
Boards would include thie Manager, Central Arid Zone Research Institute and
the Divisional Manager, Rajasthan Groundwater Board. Project Officers func-
tioning under the Manager would be responsible for the coordination of proj-
ect components by discipline rather than by sub-district area as in other
states.  Chart I depicts state and district relationships among units con-
cerned with DPAP.
Maharashtra Pro ect Organization
14.       Maharashtra has been a leading state ir, the development of local
goverrnment. Project management has been designed to fit into the unique
set of structures that exist as a result of local government, and to pro-
vide staff to car-:y out functions delegated to district agencies.
15.       District Planning Board.  Beginning with Fiscal Year 1974 (April 1,
1974) Maharashtra has introduced district budgeting, whereby all development
resources available to the State 1/ are allocated to distri'ets using a rather
1/   Except those for power development, research, and government corporate
ventures.



ANNEX 15
Page 6
complex formula including factors suich as: population (total, urban and
scheduled castes and tribes), and agricultural, communication, and irriga-
tion backwardness. Although this exercise is called District Planning,
actual planning continues to be done on a sectoral basis by state depart-
ments, with sub-divisional, district and divisional officers initiating
proposals for activities in individual districts. Despite the continued
dominance of state departments in planning, District Planning Boards (DPB)
were constituted to assume the planning function, and to coordinate plan
implementation. The Chairman of the DPB is the state minister in charge
of the specific district. 1/ Members include: Divisional Commissioner as
Vice-Chairman, Collector, President of the Zilla Parishad as the Member
Secretary. Unfortunately, the DPBs were not provided with permanent
secretariates, nor was their role vis a vis ;tate departments and local
government clearly defined. As a result, they have emerged as ineffective
fora for the discussion of state and local plans which are often finalized
before such discussion takes place.
16.       The most suitable means of providing project management at the
district level would be to establ3sh the office of Executive Director (ED)
to the Planning Board and to provide this senior officer with a small core
of support staff. The ED would be the Member/Secretary of the Executive
Committee of the Planning Board, consisting of the Mi.nister-in-Charge as
Chairman, the Divisional Commissioner, the President of the Zilla Parashad,
the Collector, and the Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Parashad. The
Planning Board and its secretariate would constitute the District Develop-
ment Authority, and would assume the responsibilities described above. Proj-
ect relationships are depicted in Chart 2.
Karnataka Project Organization
17.       To execute the proposed project the Bijapur Development Authority
would be created with the following structure:
1/ A system of Ministers-in-Charge has been adopted in Maharashtra to
provide a direct link between the district and the state legislature.



ANNEX 15
Page 7
Chairman: Divisional Commissioner 1/
Vice-Chairman: Deputy Commissioner
Managing Director: Deputy Commissioner
Board:    Managers of lead bank, land development bank, and
district central cooperative bank, one representative
each of GOX and state government, president of one
Taluka Development Board (nominated by state govern-
ment), two or three non-officials (nominated by
state government).
18.       The Managing Director (DC) would have a core staff consisting of
a Joint Director, Agriculture, and a senior officer of the Department of
Animal Husbandry each seconded to the Agency, as well as a project econo-
mist, an administrative officer, an accountant and the requisite support
staff. As in other states, the project would be executed through existing
departments, with additional staff as required. Chart 3 presents state and
district organizatior for DPAP.
Andhra Pradesh Project Organization
19.       To carry out DPAP Anantapur would have a development agency similar
to those of SFDA and MFAL with management as follows:
Chairman: Collector
Vice-Chairman: Chairman of Zilla Parishad
Board of Director: District level officers of agriculture,
forestry, public works and animal husbandry
departments;
-    Deputy Registrar of Cooperatives
-    3 non-official members to be nominated
by government on the recommendation of
the Collector
1/   Karnacaka, like Maharashtra, has a strong divisi.nal (multi-district)
link in the administrative structure. Although all departments have
district-level officers, they are closely supervised by divisional
officers and overall surveillance is maintained by the Divisional
Commission. The Commissioner also holds the position of Joint Dev-
elopment Commissioner and is therefore answerable to the Development
Commissioner (Bangalore) as well as to the Chief Secretary. He visits
each district regularly and has the right of inspection for all devel-
opments and offices.



ANNEX 15
Page 8
The agency would have a Project Manager of the rank of District Revenue
Officer (second only to Collector in rank and salary) and staff similar
to that proposed for other project districts. (See Chart 4).
20.       Rural Service Centers (RSC).  Under the Anantapur Development
Agency, it is proposed to establish rural service centers in project areas
now inadequately served by extension, input and marketing facilities. Their
location would be determined on the basis of accessability to large numbers
of farmers, usually in one of a cluster of villages within a watershed or
command area. Their staff, responsible to the agency, would consist of: a
manager of the rank of deputy director, agriculture; and, as appropriate,
an agricultural engineering supervisor; a veterinary assistant surgeon; a
fodder development assistant; an extension officer, cooperatives; and an
administrative officer.
November 4, 1974



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
PROJECT ORGAN IZATION-RAJASTHAN
DIIINLDEPUTY SECRETARY                                             LEGEND:
I IONALDPAP
EXISTING                                                               PROPOSED
AUTHORAITY
REPRESENTATION                urn    .-
COORDINATION                  omrm
DIVIIONA  DEELOPENT1                                                      Also includes district members of parliament and
OFFICERSlegislative assembly
NAGAUR   DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
DISTR ICT                                   CRESEARCH
COLLECTOYAR                                     UTnnr  H IRM ZAN iN JlUI
COLLECO  ( LECETOR)            -STATIONS
DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT       |---                          GO-ERNING -CEISTN
OFFICERS                  J      -                                                       -                      -
PROJECT MANAGER                        1LOCAL
ANDSTAFF                                                                                           GOVERNMENT
CEI  INSTINTUTIONS-
(DISTRICT LEVEL)
OFFICERS ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~   ~   P OJC    OFFICERSn                            ue  dsrctm mer  fpaAaen  n
r                ---     -                       -      - JODPU
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT         CROEDIT INSTITUTIONS
FILELD STAFF                FIELD STAFF                                                                           LAGONELS
World Ban k-8841
--r                                                                                              -- -- - -->
l .
DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT oss E i 1! | xsle 51~-t                                                                           GOENN ONILP e;  ;
OFFICERS s, . . I s":s - 1 /|-Z1 ff|ina9-a1 - . 1



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION - MAHARASHTRA
-|   PLANNING
I       DEPARTMENT
I             ,LEGEND:
DEVELOPMENT             SANCTION OF WORKS           DEPUTY SECRETARY
DEPARTM ENTS                                              DPAP                                           EXISTING   PROPOSED
AUTHORITY         -          -
REPRESENTATION     --         |I-
COORDINATION                 *-    u
1/ Includes district MP and MLA's
DPAP                          2/ Also has Executive Committee;
PLANNING CELL                        Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Collector, and !r'esident of
Zilla Parishad (local government)
DIVISIONALEA                                                                3/ Collector is member secretary
COMMISSIONER           l
(AHMENAA     . PLANNING BOARD 11 2/
I                                    .SHOLAUR)  ADMINISTRATIVE  DIRECTOR-BUREAU OF
1            1ECONOMICS AND STATISTICS
DIVISIONAL DEVELOPMEN- ir                                   CHAIRMAN
OFFICERS                         I             (STATEMINISTER IN CHARGE)
DISTRICT        -.-                      VICECHk!'IMAN                                            RESEARCH
COLLECTOR      J                     (DIVISIONAL C; lMMISSIONER)                                   STATIONS
DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT           -                          MEMBERSHIP            in !     in--m--i.m-n            mi
I OFFICRS                                -               3m                                               - i
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR                                           LOCAL
I       AND STAFF       I                                     GOVERNMENT
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS                 ___________
DISTRICT LEVEL
g I 1
--         --       p                in      TinJfu          -         -   -L---1---X               | m x
STATE SECTOR             CREDIT INSTITUTIONS                                       LOCAL SECTOR              VILLAGE LEVEL
FIELD OFFICERS              FIELD STAFF                                            FIELD OFFICERS               WORKERS
World Bank-8842
rtX
t'3 I-



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION-KARNATAKA
DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT,
HOUSING, PANCHAYATS
AND COOPERATIVES
I                          LEGEND:
DEVELOPMENT            SANCTION OF WORKS        DEVELOPMENT COMMISSIONER                               EXISTING    PROPOSED
DEPARTMENTS                                    (ALSO SECRETARY, PLANNING)             AUTHORITY       -
REPRESENTATION
COORDINATION                 u--
DEPUTY                        1/ Also includes district MP and MLA's
DEVELOPMENT COMMISSIONER
ADMINISTRATIVE UNIT
DIVISIONAL                                 G mm                                 DPAP
COMMISSIONER                   __11
I              f3IJAPUR DEVELOPMENTAGENCY
DIVISIONAL DEVELOPMENT               L..      EJ            CHAIRMAN.
OFFICERS                                       (DIVISIONAL COMMISSIONER)
DEPUTY COMMISSIONER  m           -          MAA-GN I-RECORM     J                                  RESEARCH STATIONS
DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT   -      -.-                      BOARD OF DIRECTORS       -
OFFICERS                  - -                            1 f            -       m-        -     - -    -    -
JOIN                                                                                             LOCALTO  GOVERNMENT
j!ITDRCTRAND STAFF
CREDi F INSTITUTIONS                     _   __     _-
(DISTRICT LEVEL)           _
j-  I--                                                un         m     unn
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT        CREDIT INSTITUTIONS                                                                 VILLAGE LEVEL
FIELD STAFF                 FIELD STAFF                                                                       WORKERS
World Bank-8843         0
L-n



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION - ANDRA PRADESH
PLANNING DEPARTMENT
Z|                          LEGEND:
DEVELOPMENT              SANCTION OF WORK            DEPUTY SECRETARY                                    EXISTING     PROPOSED
DEPARTMENTS                                           SPECIAL SCHEMES                   AUTHORITY
REPRESENTATION
COORDINATION                 *--
ASSISTANT SECRETARY  I                  Also includes district MP and MLA's
DPAP
ANANTAPUR DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
DISTRICT                                    CHAIRMAN
COLLECTOR                                   (COLLECTOR)
VICE - CHAIRMAN                                       RESEARCH STATIONS
(PRESIDENT, ZILLA PARISHAD)
-                               I
DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT  m mm                              BOARD OF DIRECTO                                    gm -a= mm am
OFFICERS                                                                          -
PROJECT MANAGER                                              LOCAL
AND STAFF                                              GOVERNMENT
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS                            -    _   _
(DISTRtICT LEVEL)                         |   1
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT         CREDIT INSTITUTIONS          RURAL SERVICE                                           VILLAGE LEVEL
FIELD IELD           STAFF                              CENTRES                                                 WORKERS
World Bank-8844



ANNEX 16
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
1/
Yields and Prices -
A. Yields
Irrigation Component
1.        The development of new wells in Rajasthan would increase rain-
fed crop yields between six and eight times. Yields of bajra, the main
cereal crop, would increase from 200 kg/ha to 1,700 kg/ha; pulses from
170 kg/ha to 1,000 kg/ha; chillies, not grown without irrigation, would
yield about 1,500 kg/ha. Where wells would be improved it is estimated
that the water supply would increase yields by about 50%, to the levels
assumed for new developments. In the other four districts the relative
yield shifts resulting from new developments would be somewhat less than
in Rajasthan, ranging between four and six fold increases. This reflects
the latter's lower rainfed crop potential. Slightly higher irrigated yields
have been assumed for tank as against well irrigation. The consolidated
command area of a tank would be easier to develop and provide extension
services to than would the proliferation of tiny areas served by wells.
The yield of jowar, the major cereal crop, would increase from 350 kg/ha
to 2,100 kg/ha under well and 2,400 kg/ha under tank irrigation; pulses
from 250 kg/ha to 1,100 kg/ha and 1,200 kg/ha respectively and groundnut
from 400 kg/ha to 1,300 kg/ha and 1,500 kg/ha respectively. As in the
case or Rajasthan it is es'timated that yields under improved wells
would increase about 50%, to the levels assumed for new developments.
2.        Only modest yields have been assumed because it will take time
for new farmers to adapt to irrigated agriculture. Given the scattered
nature of irrigation development under the project is not feasible
to provide the intensive extension service that would be necessary to
assure a uniform attainmrent of high yields. Details of the yield impact
of the irrigation component are given in Table 1.
Lives tock Component
3.        A fairly rapid improvement of milk yields would be 'expected to
result from the project's impact on animal husbandry, nutrition and
disease control. Tne average lactation of the indigenous cow would
increase from 450 liters to 750 liters over a period of three years.
1/   The project's anticipated impact on production is summarized in Annex 17.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
Reduced mortalities, age to first calving and a better calving rate would
also contribute to improved performance of the dairy enterprise. The
yield levels attained would gradually improve as a result of the upgrading
of stock which would also begin under the project. Details of the assumed
performance of dairy stock are summarized in Table 2.
4.        The impact of the project on sheep performance would be more
gradual since from the outset it would depend primarily on the upgrading
of stock. The wool clip from a ewe would increase from 1.5 kg/year to 2.5
kg/year over five years. The average live-weight of ewes would increase
more rapidly, being more dependent on husbandry factors, from 35 kg to
50 kg over three years. Also contributing to improved productivity would
be reduced mortalities and improved weaning rates. Details of anticipated
sheep performance are summarized in Table 2.
Watershed Management
5.        It is anticipated that the impact of the soil and moisture
conservation program on the arable lands would be to increase crop yields
by an average of 15%. In the Deccan Plateau districts, 1/ the yields
of jowar and bajra, the main cereals, would increase from 350kg/ha to
400 kg/ha and 275 kg/ha to 315 kg/ha respectively. The average pulse
yield would increase from 250 kg/ha to 290 kg/ha and groundnut from
400 kg/ha to 460 kg/ha. Details of the expected yield increases are
given in Table 3.
6.        On the hill areas the conservation and pasture improvement
programs would be expected to double pasture yields, from 750 kg/ha
of dry fodder to 1,500 kg/ha. Fodder quality would also be improved.
The output of the forestry program has not been quantified and would be
small. However the effort is regarded as the early phase of a planting
program which should ultimately increase fuelwood supplies sufficiently
to permit significant quantities of dung to be used on the land instead
of being burned.
Dry Farming Component
7.        In the Deccan Plateau districts average crop yields would be
expected to rise between 70% and 90% over 'with bunding' yield levels,
(climate induced fluctuations around these means would still occur). Thus
the yield of sorghum would rise from 400 kg/ha to 750 kg/ha, millet from
315 kg/ha to 600 kg/ha; pulses from 290 kg/ha to 500 kg/ha and oilseeds
from 230 kg/ha to 400 kg/ha. In Jodhpur, where conditions are much harsher,
yield increases would generally be small e.g. the yield of millet, by far
the most important crop, would rise from 230 kg/ha to 450 kg/ha, pulses
from 200 kg/ha to 350 kg/ha. A more dramatic rise is expected on the small
oilseed area, 155 kg/ha to 300 kg/ha because of the introduction of sunflower
to replace some sesame.  (Details of dry farming yields are given in the
farm models in Annex 7)e
1/   Ahmednagar, Sholapur, Bijapur, Anantapur.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
B. Prices
8.        At the time the mission was in the field, commodity prices
were well above long term trend levels. This was a reflection of food
shortages which had arisen as a result of two successive drought years.
These had a particularly severe impact on drought prone areas. De jure
prices and marketing regulations 1/ could not be enforced during this
period of market stress.
9.        Under these conditions it was extremely difficult to predict,
with any degree of confidence, what farm gate prices were likely to be
in the near future. This uncertainty was aggravated subsequently by the
?oil crisis'.  For this reason the mission has conservatively used prices
which reflect long term trends. Details are given in Table 4. Prices below
these levels are considered unlikely. Higher prices, a possibility in
response to cost inflation, have been used in sensitivity analyses (Annex 18).
November 4, 1974
1/   Prices are fixed under the Essential Commodities Act.   Market regulation
is carried out under the States' Agricultural Produce Marketing Acts.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREA PROJECT
Yields and Prices
Yield Impact of the Irrigation Program
J        A    NA                   AHMEDNAGAR SHOAPUR, BIJAPUR, ANANTAPUR
Without                   With               Without                     With
Rainfed      Unimproved        Proiect        Rainfed     Unimproved     Project    Project
Wells           Wells                        Wells         Wells      Tanks
------------------- Kilograms per Hectare                      ----------------------
Jowar                   120            1,200           1,700           350         1,600          2,100       2,400
Bajra                    200           1,200           1,700           275          1,h00         1900        2,100
Wheat                     D            1,400           1,800           400          1,500         2,000       2,200
Pulses                   170             600           1,000           250            700         1,100       1,200
Groundnut                                -               -             400            900         1,300       l.500
Chillies                               1, 000         14500             -            -
Mustard                                  600           1,000
HC
0 P



ANNEX 16
Table 2
INDIA
DROUCGIT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Yields and Prices
Performance Impact of the Livestock Program
Dairy Component
Without Project   With Project
Milk D kg per lactation                  450             750
Calving rate -                            60              75
Mortality to 1 year - %                   20'             10
Mortality over 1 year - %                 10               3
Age to first calving - months             48              36
Sheep Component
Wool clip of ewe - kg                     15              25
Liveweight of ewe - kg                    35              50
Weaning rate - %                          50              70
Adult mortality - %O                      10               5
Immature mortality - %                    25              15
Nov-niber 4, 1974



ANNEX 16
Table 3
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Yields and Prices
Yield Impact of the Conservation Program
AHMEDNAGAR, SHOIAPUR AND BIJAPUR      ANANTAPUR
Crop                      Without      With            Without  Wi th
Kilograms per Hectare -----------
Jowar                       350        400               300      345
Bajra                       275        315               250      290
Korra                        -          -                250      290
Pulses                      250        290               200      230
Safflower                   200        230                -        -
Groundnut                   400        460               350      400
Cotton                      200        230                -        -
Rough Pas ture (Fallow)     750        850               750      850
Planted Pasture (Bund)       -       2,000                -     2,000
November 4, 1974



ANNEX 16
Table 4
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Yields and Prices
Farm Gate Prices of Major Commodities
Commodity                          Unit       Price Per Unit/-
-----------------------Rs------
Jowar                                    Ton            700 (950)
Baj ra                                                  700 (800)
Wshea t                                   I             900
Pu3 les                                               1,000 (1,1.20)
Groundnuts                                            1,300 (1,480)
Safflower                                             1,400
Sesame                                                2,000
Chil' ies                                 "           3,000
Mustard                                               1, 400
Fodder from rough fallow                                 60
Fodder from sown pasture                  "              80
Milk                                     Liter            1.00
Wool                                     Kg               6.80 - 8.80 /2
Mutton                                   Kg               2.50 /3
/1   Figures in parentheses are weighted prices to reflect fodder by-
product values.
/2   Prices are averages for clips from different animals: ewes, rAms,
hoggetts, etc.,; the range reflects improved quality over project
life.
/3   Average price for different animals.
November 4, 1974



ANNEX 17
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Financial and Operating Results
Costs and Prices
1.        All costs and benefits under the project have been assessed on
an incremental basis over present and projected values without the project.
Yield and price assumptions are presented in Annex 16. In working out the
cash flows and financial rates of return, family labor has not been costed
since it does not imply any cash outlay. A13. hired labor, that is, total
incremental labor less estimated underemployment of farm families, has been
charged at actual wage cost. To compute the hired labor requirements, it
was assumed that each farm family would supply up to 500 man-days of labor
per year. A cost of Rs 4 per man-day has been taken in the case of labor
hired on a farm; a lower cost cf Rs 3 per man-day has been retained in the
case of public financed works since many of these works would be imple-
mented under Famine Relief and the current rate is Rs 2.5 per day on relief
works.
Financial Conditions
2.        Medium and long-term credit requirements have beern estimated for
the various financial models. Conditions of the loans vary from one state
to another, but utsually the medium-and-long term interest rate is between
9 and 10%. Some physical works benefit from subsidized inteirest rates,
contour bunding for example is financed through government at a 6% rate.
Short-term crop loans would be required by many cultivators for the pur-
chase of seeds, fertilizers and other inputs. Requirements would vary
greatly according to the cultivator's financial status, however, and
short-term debt service has therefore been omitted from models. The
period of each of the models has been taken as equal to the economic life
of the main investment.
Results
3.        For each of the components of the project the cash-flow has been
prepared and the financial rate of return computed, all are sai:isfactory
(Table 1),  Rates of return on components involving the individual farmer
range from 15% on a mixed orchard to over 100% in dry farming; those
involving groups range from 20% in fisheries to 75% on sheep de-velopment
and on government operations they range from 11% on government pasture
land to 15% on the pasture seed farms. Details of the analyses appear in
Tables 2 through 15.



ANNEX 1 7
Page 2
4.        In addition to financial rates of return, an importatnt measure
of the attractiveness of project schemes to farmers will be the ratio of
incremental net income to the additional labor requirement.  This minimum
income per extra man-day is, of course, highly subjective and impossible
to quantify.  The additional income per extra man-day of family labor,
however, has been computed for all the activities to be taken up by
farmers. It will be seen from the results below that, in all the cases,
this additional income should provide a sufficient incentive.
Additional Income per Extra Man-day of Family Labor
Soil and moisture conservation     Rps  4
Dairy development                  Rps  7
Tank irrigation                    Rps 26
Fisheries                          Rps 30
Sericulture                        Rps  5
Noveniber 4, 19a74



ALNN EX 1 7
Tab"Le 1
INDIA
DROU31fT PRCWE AREAS PROJECT
Operating Results
Surmnma of Financial Rates of Returns
Sensitivity Analysis
Best                Investment         ()perating      Inncome       Incotae
TIble     Estimate             Cost Increased    Cost Increased   In creased   Decreased!
. fi-25%                                                  25t L%      2,5%
Sheep Development Block       2           75%                    59%               51%        Above 100%1      37%
100 hectare unit                                                                                       1
Sheep Development Block       3           81%                     71%              79%        Above 130%       54%
10 hectare private farm                      .
Sheep Development                         10%  1                 8%         1      5%             18%         1%
Ram Mlultiplication farm
Soil Conservation &                                      .,ive-
stock Development Farm      5           36%                     ^5%       |      30%            50%          21%
>'odel (4 ha'
Soil Zonsra at''on & Live-I
stock Devel^pment Far<      6           42%                    28%               33%            62%         22%
Y*odel (10 ,,a)
Pasture Deve . s;s.e:t              ,
3over!amenta- Pasture       7           11%                    9%                10%            1 6         6%
Unit (100 ha)                     !
Pasture Devel'Dment           8     I     15%  j11                                 14!            20It        10%
Seed Farri
Seri-culture                  9                j                 2 4h%             26%            L7%         18%
nie hectare farm
Hort-culture                 10           1 5%  |                 12%              11%             9%          10%
Mi *xed Orchard         I                                                 .
Fisheries                    11           20%                     7%               11%             3 34
Cooperative Union          1      !                                               7 I            2
F-isheries                   12     |     20              ,       11      17%                !    28%          1 2%
Fisheri es Department
Irrigation - Tubewell        13.          31%!                  -                 -              -
w-th electric pump      i
>rrgation - Tank          .
-rr-gation t"i a                  ' Above I0O  I               -                -              -       I
)' hectare farm
Soil Conservati'on                        39%                    30%              -54%                        27%
LL hectare farm                                                                                  4     j    27%
-   I                         _       _       _ .  ., --           -



LNDIA
.iRllii c  PRO1li ARE:,AS vROJECT
Oner j iny, Results
Sheep             0oe.emp Llock -  l00 heuLare unit I/
(ash Flow Pro jectLion
(A11 Values in '009s Rupeesj
WITH PROJECT                            I   -          2            - 3              4 -                         6 -  t   l       11 -        12 to 20
1. Revenue                             7. 9          14.8           24.8           29.7            33-1           34.1           34 1          34.1
2. Operating Cost and Audit Fees       5.4            9.8            9.9            9.9             9.9           10.9           10.9           10.9
3.  Payment to Participants 2/         5.0            9.7           15.0           17.1            18.2           19.3           19             19.3
4. Net Operating rncome (1-2-3)       (2.5)          (4.7)          (0.1)           2.7             5.0            3.9            3.9            3.9
5.  Tnvestment                        52.7            0.8            1.0            1.0             1.0            -              7.5           -
6. Additional Ewes 31                  -             16.0           15.6           3*5              -                     -
7. Grant                              54.9            3.5            3.7            3.7             3.7
8. Loan                                0.5            2.2            -              -               -
9. Loan fnstalment 4/                  -              -              1.1            1.1              .1            -              -              -
10. Cash itnflow (1+7+8)              63.3           20.5           28.5           33.4            36.8           34.1           34.1           34.1
11. Cash Outflow (21-3+5+9)           63.1           20.3           '7.0           29.1            30.2           30.2           37.7          30.2
12. Net Cashflow Annual (10-11)        0.2            0.2            1.5            4.3             6.6            3.9           (3.6)           3.9
;i ITHOU I PROJLCT
13. Revenue                            4.5            4.5             i            4.5             4.5            4.5            4.5            4.5
14. Operating Cost                     0.1            0. I1.1                       0.1             0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1
15. Net Oper.} ing Irncome (1'-13)     4.4            4.5            4 5            4.4             5.4            4.4            4.4            4.4
511-I /Wi l iHiIUr ',ET C ASH FLOW
16. fn-aemental B.'nefit slream (1-13)  3.4          10.3           '0.3           V5.2            28.6           29.6           29.6           29.6
17. rn remental Cost Stream (2-L4)     5.3            9.7            .8             9.8             9.8           i(.8           10.8           10.8
18. rIncnrisental niestment Streas
(546-7) 5/                      (2.2)          13.3           1?.9            0.8            (2.7)           -              7.5           -
19. tncremental Investment Stream
(5+6) 6/                        52.7           16.3           16.6            4.5             1.0            -              7.5
Financial Rate *.f ReLLrn::  -75,,
Investment Cost   Operating Cost      Revenue          Revenue
Sensitivity Analysis           Best 1stimate    Increased 15:     Inereased 257k  Tncreased 25%    Decreased 257-
Financial Rate of Return                    75Y              i9%               51/         Aibove 1007,         37%
. ~~~-                                        ....... - - - .--.-- ..-.-. -L-.-   -
If no grant is given, the financial rate of return gets down to:   16'
I/  The revenues and .osts of the unit <re given in Annex 8, lables 14. 16, }7a and 18.
2/  This payment to participants is taken into icco int in .orking out t],  .sh flow of the ,nit.  Tr is not, N.owever, retained in the cost stream used
to compute the flnanc ial rdte of return (see line 17).
3/ These ewes are brought into the units by the participants (see Annex 8, table 16).    Even though this operation does not involve any cash transaction,   M e
it amounts to an investment and must therefore, be costed.   The ewes which are additional to the number that would be born by the traditional pasture
(200 ewes for 100 hectares) have been costed at Rp 100 each.
-/ Three year duration, 9.5% interest iate.
5/  This streame represents the net cost of the investment for the *nit (investment cosL minuis grant).
6/ This stream represents the real cost of the invevtment for the unit, assuming that no grant is available.



INJDIA
DROUGCHT PRO.NE AREAS PROJECT
O<erating Results
Sheep Devel.r ipent Block - 10 hectai-e private f.jrm l/
Cash Floxw ProLect: ion
(All Values in RuDees)
WITEH PROJECT                            1              2              3              4              5           6 to l0          11          12 to 20
1. Revenue                             790          1,448          2,528           2,789          3,152          3,440          3,440          3,440
2. Operating Cost                       40             115            120            120            120            120            120            120
3. Net Operating Income (1-2)          750          1,333           2,408          2,569          3,032          3,320          3,320          3,320
4. Investment 2/                      1,310            -              -              -              -              -              750            -
5. Additional Ewes 3/                  -             1,600          1,560            350            -              -              -              -
6. Grant 4/                             360            -              -              -              -
7. Cash Inflow (1+6)                 1,150           1,448          2,528          2,789          3,152          3,440          3,440          3,440
S.  Cash Outflow (2+4)                1,350            115            120            120            120            120            870            120
9. Net Cashflow                       (200)         1,333           2,408          2,669          3,032          3,320          2,570          3,320
WIOHTuT PROJECT 5/
10. Revenue                            450            450            450            450             450            450            450            450
11. Operating Cost                      10              10             10             10             10             10             10             10
12. Net Operating Income (10-11)       440            440            440            440             440            440            440            440
WITH/1I L1HOUr ts'.T CASH FLOW
13. Incremental Benefit Stream (1-10)  340            998          2,078           2,339          2,102          2,990          2,990          2,990
14. Incremental Cost Stream (2-11)      30             105            110            110            110            110            110            110
15. Incremental Investment Stream
(4+5-6)                          950          1,600          1,560            350            -              -               750            -
Financial Rate of Return:     81%
Se nsitivity Analysis          Best Estimate   Investment Cost    Operating Cost       Revenue           Revenu-]
Increased 15%      Tnereased 25%    Increased 25%    Decreased 25%
|   Financial Rate of Return           |       81%               71%                79%          Above 100%           54%
1/ The revenues and costs of the farm .are given in Annex 8, tables 15 and 17b.
2/ The furrows are renewed every 10 years.                                                                                                                >,:
31  The improved quality of the pasture enables the farmer to bring additional ewes on his farm.    rhese are supposed to be animals already in the     ' '
farmer's herd, but which previously grazed outside of the farm li.li':s.  Thus no cash transaction was taken into account.
41  This grant corresponds to thie cost of the seeds, which will be given to the farmper.
5/ The present ("withouit pLajeCt") revenue and operating c0st taere istirnn:ed on tFhe basis of 20 ewes per f;irm (2 ewes per hectare), annual
revenue of Rp 22.5 per ewe (4ee Annex 8), innual operafing cost rp 5 per ewe (f.or shlearing).



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Qperating Results
Sheep Development - Ram Multiplication Farm I/
Cash Flow Projection
(All Values in '0OOs Rupees)
WITH PROJECT                                        1              2              3              4            5 to 10          11          12 to 20
1.  Revenue                                      16.0           43.4           115.7          173.9          1.89.0          189.0          189.0
2.  Operating Cost                               38.7            67.1           78.0           93.1            93.1           93.1           93.1
3.  Net Operating Income (1-2)                   (22.7)         (23.7)          37.7           80.8            95.9           95.9           95.9
4.  Investment                                  259.3           160.7           41.3            -               -             29.6            -
5.  Cash Inflow (1)                              16.0           43.4           115.7          173.9          189.0           189.0          189.0
6.  Cash Outflow (2+4)                          298.0           227.8          119.3           93.1            93.1          122.7           93.1
7.  Net Cashflow (5-6)                          (282.0)        (184.4)          (3.6)          80.8           95.9            66.3           95.9
WITHOUT PROJECT 2/
8.  Revenue                                      18.0            18.0           18.0           18.0            18.0           18.0           18.0
9.  Operating Cost                                 .4              .4             .4             .4              .4             .4             .4
10. Net Operating Income (8-9)                   17.6            17.6           17.6           17.6            17.6           17.6           17.6
WITIH/WITHOUT PROJECT
11. Incremental Benefit Stream (1-8)             (2.0)           25.4           97.7          155.9          171.0           171.0          171.0
12. Incremental Cost Stream (2-9)                38.3            66.7           77.6           92.3           92,3            92.3           92.3
13. Incremental Investment Stream (4)           259.3           160.7           41.3            -              -              29.6
Financial Rate of Return:     10%
Sensitivity Analysis       Best Estimate   Investment Cost   Operating C27st      Revenue    |    Revenue
Increased 1.5%    Increased 25%    Increased 25% 4Decreased 25%
Financial Rate of Return              10%             8%                 5%               18%            1%
1/ The revenues and costs of the ram multiplication farm are given in Annex 8, tables 21, 22, 23 and 24.
2/  It wqas assumed that, in the "without project" case, the land would be used as pasture to raise sheep.   See footnote 5 table 3                   4-



ANNEX 17
Table 5
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Operating Results
Soil Conservation and Dairy Dev1olmont -     rm Ylkodel (h ha) 1/
(All Values in Rupees)
1              2               3              4              5               6           7 to 16        17 to 20
WITH PROJECT
Revenue:   - Crops 2/                                 917             917            917            917             917            917             917            917
- Milk end Live.t ck                        510            750          1,040           1,080          1,370          1,420           1,420          1,420
1. Total Revepue                                 1,427           1,667          1,957          1,997          2,287           2,337          2,337           2,337
Operating Expenses:   - for Crop Production            37              37             37             37              ?7             37             37              37
- for Livestock                  210            290            410            400             530            540             540            540
2. Total Operating Expenses 3/                     247            327             447            437            567             577            577             577
3. Net Operating Income (1-2)                    1,180          1,340           1,510          1,560           1,720          1,760          1,760           1,760
Investment Cost: - for Soil Conservation              400             -              -              -               -              -               -              -
- for Livestock                   1,200            -
4.  Total Investment                             1,600             -
Loan; -   for Soil Conservation 4/                    400             -              -               -              -              -               -              -
-  for Livestock I/                          1,200            -
5. Tc-al Loan                                    1,600             -
Instalment on Loan:  - for Soil Conservation          -                56             56             56              56             56             56
- for Livestock                  -              308            308             308            308            308             -
6. Total Loan Instalment                           -              364             364            364            364             364             56             -
7.  Cash Inflow (1 + 5)                          3,027          1,667           1,957          1,997          2,287           2,337          2,337          2,337
8.  Cash Outflow (2+4+6)                         1,847            691            811             801            931             941            633            577
9. Net Cashflow (7-8)                            1,180            976           1,146          1,196          1,356           1,396          1,704          1,760
WITHOUT PROJECT
Revenue:   - Crops                                    843            843             843            843         *   843            843            843             843
- Milk and Livestock                       290             290            290            290             290            290             290            290
10. Total Revenue                                1,133          1,133          1,133           1,133          1,133           1,133          1,133          1,133
Operating Expenses:   - for Crop Production            37             37              37             37              37             37             37              37
- for Livestock                  50              50             50             50              50             50             50              50
11. Total Operating Expenses                        87             87             87              87             87             87              87             87
12. Net Operating Income (10-11)                 1,046          1,133           1,133          1,133          1,133           1,133          1,133          1,133
WITH/WITHOUT INCREMENTAL STREAM
13. Incremental Benefit Stream (1-10)              294            534            824             864          1,154           1,204          1,204          1,204
14. Incremental Operating Cost Stream (2-11)       160            240            360             350            .480            490            490            690
15. Investment (4)                               1,600            -              -               -
Financial Rate of Return (ROR) for Total on Farm Development (Soil Conservation and Livestock):       36%
Sensitivity Analysis            B Hest Estimate Investment Cost Operating Cost        Revenue           Revenue
I             Increased 15.     Increased 25%    Incres ad 257.     Decreased 25%
Financial Rate of Return                     567             25%           '   30%              50%                21%7
Financial Rate of Return _(ROR) for Livestock Development Only:    39% 6/
Sestvt  nlss          IBest Estimate   Investment Cost   Operating Cost        Revenue          Revenue
|  SIncitivity Analysis                          nreased 15%      Increased 25%     Increased 25%    Decreased 25%
Financial Rate of Return                     39%             27%               31%7              55%              23%
Financial Rate of Return (ROR) for Soil Conservation Only:      39%    7/
Sestvt  nlss            Best Estimate  Invrestment Cost Operating C6st         Revenue          Rvenue
Sensitivity Analysis                            In(treased 1.5%  Increased 25%      Increased 25%    Decreased 25%
Financial Rate of Return                     39%             30%              ---                54%              27%
1/ This farm model is representative of the situation existing in Ahmednagar district.      The average farm size in Sholapur, Bijapur and Anantapur will be the same
(4 ha), the cropping pattern, however, will be different.    On farm investment consist of soil conservation and building-up of the cattle. (See Annex 8, Table      d)b
2/  Only the value of the grain has been here taken into account.     T'he by-product (roughage) is used for livestock consumption. Cropping pattern and yields are those
presented in Annex 17, Table 15 but the prices are lower since the by-product is not taken into account.
3/  Since ,t is estimated that the required extra-labor will be provided from within the family (no hiring of laborers), its cbst has not been taken here.
4/ 15 instalments, 6.5% interest rate,
5/ 5 instalments, 9% interest rate.
6/  The rate of return nf livestock development given here is slightly overestimated since 'crop by-products and grass grown on the farm and used for livestock
consumption are not charged as a cost.
7/ The revenue accruing from crop sales has been increased to take into account the value of- the by-product (roughage) and of the grass grown on the bands.
See Annex 17 , Table 1.5.



ANNEX 17
INDIA                                                                                Table 6
DROUGHT PRONE ARE-AS PRII2ErT
O.eratitig Results
59632 Conservation arx1 1bary Development-Farm       Model Ciha) I/
(All Values in Rupe-)
1               2                 3                4                5                 6             7 to 18         19 and 20
WITH PROJECT
Revenue     -  Crops a,'                                    1,153           1,153             1,153            1,153            1,153             1,153            1,153            1.153
-Milk and Livestock                              820           1,230            1_740             1,880            2,100            2,100             2,100            2,100
1.   Total Reven-e                                       1,973           2,383            2,893            3,033             3,253            3,253            3,253             3,253
Operating Expenses     -   (or Crop Production                  65              65               65                65               65               65               6as               65
-for Lilwastoc,k                     320             460              670               710              800              800               800              800
2.   Total Ope..ating Expenses 3/                          385             525              735               775              885              865               865              865
7.   Net O.erating Income (1-2'                          1,588           1,858            2,158            2,258             2,388            2,388            2.788             2,388
Investment Cost,       f or Soil' Conservation-               950              -                -                -                 -                --
-for Lives,tock                         800-.--
4.   Total Irvestnent                                    1,750                               -----
Loan:   -for Soil Conervtion 4/                                8500---.                                                                                              -
-for Ltvest-rh 350
5.  Total Loan                                           1,750                               -                -----
Instalment on Loan'-       'or Soil Conservation              -                                                  140              140               140              :40f-
f or Lives,tock                      -200                              200              200              200              200-
6.   Total Loan Instalment                                 -               200               200              340              340              340               140
7.   Cash Tnflosa (1-'5S                                 3,725           2,383            2,893            3,033             3,253            3,253            3, 259            3,253
8.   Cash Outflow,. (2+4+6)                              2,135             725              955             1,115            1,205            1,205             1,0865
9.  Iget C-,5'flow (7-8)                                 1,588           1,658            1,958             1,918            2,048            2,048            2,248             2,388
WIqTHOUT PROJECT
Revenue'-      Cr.,O,                                       1,041            1,0411           1,041            1,041            1,041             1.,041           1,041            114
-  'hlk an,d Livestock                           580             580               580              580              580               580              584              580
10. Total Revenue                                        1,621           1,621            1,62'            1,621             t, 6'l           1,621            i , 's62
Operating Expenses'-       for Crop Production                  65              65               65                65               .55              65               A5
-for Livestock                       150I 11,                          114              110              1 10             110               1                110
It. Total Operating Expenses                               175             175              175               175              175              1 75              175,             175
12. Net Operating Income (10-lI)                        1,446           1,446             1,446            1,446            1,446            1,446             1,446,           1,446
WITHIWITHOUT INCRENIENTAL STREAMf
13. Increm-ental Benefit Strea. (1-10'                     352             762            1.272            1,412             1,632            1,632            1,632            1_632
14. Incremental Onerating Cost Stream (2-11)               210             350              560               600              690              865              865               865
15. Investment (4'                                       1,750             -                -                 -                -                -.-
Financial   Rate of Return    (ROR)  f6r Ttal. On-Fars, Development    (Soil Conservtion     and Livastock):_       427.
Investment Cca       OeangCost              Revenu                evenu
Sensitivity Analysis              i Best Estimate     Ic    ad.52%                             nr.                      .  C   5
Financial Rate of Return                           427.               28%                337,                627.                227,
Financi.l   Rate of Return    (ROR)  for Livodlotilt Development Only:        70% 6/
Sensitivity Analyi                  I tEtmiII           etetCs             prTin     Cst         Reene                evnu         I
Inraen3.        tcreied25. nsed          ed27          erased 25%.
Financial Rate of Return                           lo%               437.                 547.       Above 1007.                39".
1'  This Carm made' Is representative of the situation existing in the two Raasthan di 'tricts:                 7odhipur and Nagaur.     On-farm investments~ -nsis' of soil conservatIon
(contour bunding1 a,d "uilding-up .C 'he cotlIe.          Revenues and cortS- are presenated in Asnnex 8, Table 8(a).
.ZI  Only the   aleot :he grain has been h,ere taken inito adcount.           Tspe h-producr (roughage) is used fo        livestleck consump,5on.
3/  SInce It    g es-lieted that the resuired extra-labor will be provided from within the femilv (no hiring of laborers), I's colt has not hee.n 'aken into ac ounthe.
4/ 2 years of grace. 11 'n-talments, 9% interest rate.
5/No grace period. I instal1ments,, 97. Interest rate,
'I1 The rate ,- rPeturn of livestock development given hoers is slightlY overestimated since rroo by-products and grass grown on the farm and ',sed for livestock
consumption are not charged as a cost.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Operating Results
Pasture Development - Governmental Pasture Unit (100 ha)
(All -alues in Ru ee
Year 0                      Year l                      Year 2                    Year 3                  Year 4 to 50
Unit Cost         (Without Project)
(Rs)        Number of      Cost        Number of      Cost        Number of      Cost         Number of      Cost        Nuimber of     Cost
Units    -_(Rs)           _qUnits        (Rs)          Units        (Rs)          Units          R)          Units        (Rs)
(nvestmenit Cost
contour Furrows (kin)                                  25                       -             300         7,500                               -                                  -           -
Grass Seed (kg)                                        12           -           -             300         3,600
Fencing (kma)                                       5,000                       -               5        25,000                  -            -             -            -                   -
Contingencies                                         -             -           -              -          1,900
1. Total Investment                                            -           -                        38,000                 -                     -           -              -           -
0perating Cost
2. Fence Maintenance (10% of investment)                                                               -             -,500                                 2,500            -         2,500
ReplacemeUit Expenses
3. Renewal of Furrows 1/                                       -           -                           -             -           -              -            -              -         7,500 1/
Revenue
4. Sle of Grass (tons) 2J                                     75        4,500            75         6,000          100        8,000           125       10,000           150        12,000
5. Net Income (4-2-3)                                          -         4,500           -           6,000           -         5,500            -         7,500            -         ,500 1/
6. Net Cashflow (5-1)                                          -         4,500                     (32,0009)         -         5,500                       7 7,500                   9,500 1/
Financial Rate of Return:      11%    3/
Investment Cost I Operating Cost Price of Fodder Price of Fodder
Sensitivity Analytis           Best Estimate   Increased 15% -   Increased 25%   Increased 25%    Decreased 25%
Fina1ncial Rate of Return                   1107 9                    Y                       16%       .   ,67
1/ Fu,rrows to be renewed every 10 years, i.e. on expense of Ra8.500 in years 10, 20, etc.          In these years, the net income and net cashflow will be:   9,500 - 7,500 = 2,000
2/  rie o Gass  R  6 pe  tn wthutthe project.   Rs 80 'er ton With the project. The grass is sold standing and cut by the farmer himself.
31 rllis financial rate of return must be used with precaution b .woid any misinterpretation.     rhe pastttre here considered is government-owned, vec the overhead cost of tle
pastu,re unit in the soil conservation department is not take Into account (See Fcrnomic Evaluation, Annex 18, Table 4).
For a privately-owned pasture, costs and benefits would be Dughly the same;   iowever, it is likely that no expenses would he incurred for fencing.    The financial rate of
returrn for a private pasture is therefore likely to be highr.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Operating Results
Seed Multiplication Farm - 400 hectare 1/
(All Values in Rs 'OQOs)
1              2              3              4          5 to 20
1. Revenue                             -            237.6          374.4           468.0          475.2
2. Operating Cost                     -22            56.5            60.5           64.5           68.5
3.  Investment and Land             2,275              -              -              -              -
Acquisition 2/
Financial Rate of Return:     15%
r.
Sensitivity Analysis    Best Estimate    Investment Cost    Operating Cost      Revenue         Revenue
Increased 15%     Increased 25%   Increased 25%   Decreased 25%
Financial ROR                  15%                11%               14%             20%             10%
1/ The breakdown of both costs and revenues is given in Annex 6, Table 4.
2/ Vehicles and farm equipment are renewed every 7 years (Rs 4? 000, see Annex 6, Table 4).
co.E



ANNEX '1.7
Table 9
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Operating Results
Sericulture - Privately Owned One Hectare Farm
(All Values in Rupees)
WITH PROJECT                                  1            2         3 to 9       10 and 11       12         13 to 20
1. Revenue                                    -          1,584        3,168         3,168        3,168         3,168
2.  Operating Expenses 1/                    -             820        1,050         1,050        1,050         1,050
3. Maintenance                               -             -            100           190          100           100
4. Net Operating Income                       -            764        2,018         2,018        2,03.8        2,018
5. Investment 2/                           1,000         4,700          -             -          2,200           -
6. Loan                                    1,000         4,700                 -                   -
7.  toan Instalment 3/                       -             -          1,170           -            -             -
8.  Cash Inflaw (1+6)                      1,000         6,284        3,168         3,168        3,168         3,168
9.  Cash Outflow (2+3+5+7)                 1,000         5,520        2,320         1,150        3,350         1,150
10. Net Cashflow Annual (8-9)                -             764          848         2,018         (182)       2,018
WITHOUT PROJECT
11. Revenue 4/                                260          260          260           260          260           260
12. Operating Expenses 4/                      10           10           10            10           10            10
13. Net Operating Income (11-12)              250          250.         250           250          250           250
WITH/WITHOUT NET CASHFLOW
14. Incremental Revenue (I-11)               (260)       1,324        2,908         2,908        2,908         2,908
15. Incremental Operating Cost (2+3-12)       (10)         810        1,140         1,140        1,140         1,140
16. Investment Cost (5)                    1,000         4,700          -             -          2,200          -
Fihancial Rate of Return       33%
-                     i Investment Cost   Operating Cost       Revenue         Revenue
Sensitivity Analysis    Best Est-Lmate  In re sd 1 '        I c.ea.EjS  2xs             25Y '  Decreased 25e/
Financial Rate of Return          33%               24%               26%              47%             18%
1/  Family labor has not been costed in the operating expenses.     For a one-7hectkre far=, family labor
requirement will be about 450 man days    Assuming that, without the project, the requirement would
be about 100 man days for dry farming, the incremental family labor comes to 350 man days.
2/ Stands, trays, montages and tools renewed every 10 years.
3/  One year of grace, 7 instalments, 9.5% interest rate.
4/ The without-project situation consists of the 1 hectare plot cultivated in the traditional technique of
dry farming.   The cropping pattern, yields and expenses are the one retained in the dry-land farming
model representative of Bijapur district.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Qpegrating Results
Ilorticulture - 1 Acre of Mixed Orchard - Biiapur District 1/
(All Values in Rupees)
Year                            1           2           3           4           5   -       6            7           8           9        lOto         16 to 20
WIl H PROJEL f
Revenue'          Vegetable                                500         500         500          300        250          125         -           -           -
Fruit                                     -           -           -          362          770        985        1,610       2,515       3,040       3,800         3,800
1.  Revenue                                           300         500         500         862       1,020       1,110        1,610       2,515       3,040       3,800         3,800
Expenses:         Vegetable                                220         220         220         220          liD          65         -           -                       -              -
Frujit                                   360         490         570         695         850         955        1,060       1 060       1,060       1,060         1,060
2. Operatitng Fxpenses 2/                             s80         710         790         915         960        1,020       1,060       1,060       1,060       1,060         1,060
3. Net Operating income (1-2)                          80        (210)       (290)         (53)        60           90         '50       1,455       1,980       2.740         2,740
4. Inveshtent 3/                                      590          -           -           -            -           -
5. Loan 4/                                            750         375         375         375         375           -          -           -           -
6. Loan Instalment                                     -           -           -            -           -          489         489         489         489         489           -
7.  Cash InFlow (1+5)                               1,250         875         875       1,237       1,395       1,110        1,610       2,515       3.040       3,800         3,800
8. Cash OutFlow (2+4+6)                             1,170         710         790         915         960        1,509       1,549       1,549       1,549       1,549         1,060
9. Net C(A6hflow (10-11)                               80         165          85         322         435         (399)         61         966       1.491       2,251         2,740
WIIrHOUXT PROJECT
Revenue:          Jowar                                    320         320          320        320          320         320         320         320         320         320            320
Bajra                                    243         243         243         243         243         243          243         243         243         243           243
Pu,l se                                   49          49          49          49          49          49          49           49          49          49            49
Groundnut                                 /7          77          77           /7         77           77          77          77          77          77            77
Wheat                                    144         144         144         144         144          144         144         144         144         144           144
10. Votal Revenue                                     833         833         833         833         833         833          833         833         833         833           833
I.-r1 ing Fxpen%es  Seed                                   19          19          19           19          19          19          19          19          19          19             19
Fertilizer                             74          74          74          74           74          74          74          74          74          74            74
Pesticide                               8           8           8           8           8           8            8           8           8           8             8
11. Operating Expenses 2/                             101         101         101         101         101          101         101         101         101         101           101
12. Net Intome                                        732         732         732         732         732          732         732         732         732         732           732
WITH/WITHOUT PROJECT
13. Incremental Revenue (1-10)                       (333)       (333)       (333)         29         187         277          777       1,682       2,207       2,967         2,967
14. Incremental Operating Expenses (2-11)             479         609         689         814         859         919          959         959         959         959           959
15. Trvestment 3/                                     590          -           -           -           -            -          -           -           -           -              -
Financial Rate of Returni:     15%
Sensitivity Analysis           esit Estimate   Invcstment Cost   Operating Cost      Revenue          Revenue
Increased 157.    rncreased 25%   Increased 25%     D,ocreased 25%
Fi 'io i'l Rat-e of Return             15%P             12%-             11%               19%             10%
11 For financial ,dOd econ,nmic analysis, '. wi tl- t project situation is supposed to be one acre of land, irrigated by cank and canal, and having the usual cropping pattern
of Bijapur di3trict.    It is futrLheLr -.-.,red . *t w.ater charges per acre are the same for an orchard as for any other irrigated plot.
2/  The labor requirement is proyvi..d by   a '       -and, therefore, h3s 1ot been ,osted here.
3/  This inves-tent cost does not l-ke inLO   cc.. o; t.he cost of the platiting -it, rial (about Rs 250 for 112 plants) which will be given free to the farmer.
4/ Loan: 9.53% iaterest rate on OU4t.'aai'-- hal-wcos, reDayment over 1.1 years.



ANINEX 17Z
Table 11
LIDIA
DROUGhT PRC\i-E AREAS PROJECT
Operating Results
Fisheries Cooperative Union - Investment and Income Statement
(All_ Values in I QOOs _Rupees)
Invest.ment
3ijapur ice and cold storage          360
4\Jarayanpur ice                       210
Cold Storage Cabinets                  144
Vehicles                               160
Working capital                        100
Share capital                         100
Subsidy                                18
Credit required                       856
Year 3 and
Year 1         Year 2           onward
Revenue                                   (Year 3 of DPAP)
Sale of ice 1/                               56             154              192
Margin of fish sales 2/                       75            150              275
Storage Charges 3/                            18             21               24
1h9            325              4~91
Expenses
Staff                                        30              45               50
Operating Expenses  - Plant                  60              85              110
- Transport              Lo             60                80
interest                                     87              78               70
Maintenance @ 5%                              28             43               43
DeDreciation  - Plant                         23             35               35
- Buildings                     5               7                7
- Vehicles                     17              23               23
290            374
.'.et Income                                  (1)41)          (51)              73
Financial Rate of Return 4/:      20
S                        Best    Investment      Operatinig        Revenue    Revenue
Sensitivity AEalysis |Estimate  Cost Increased   ''ost Ilcreased  Increased  Decreased
_                              25%        2,5%
7-Mancial RO-            20%          17%             11%            34%
1/ Assume 50, 60, 75% of capacity (1 plant in year 1).
2/ Rs 250/ton: 33-1/3% of society production in year 3.
3/ Rs 3/Quintal/day to private owners and other products.
</ Add back interest and deprecisation and assLme 10 yea*> average life.



ANNEX 1 7
Table 1 2
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Operating _Results
Fisheries Department - Incremental Cash Flow
Year 4 and
Year 1     Year 2     Year         onward
INFLOW
'Share of Cooperative Production 1/          360        720      1,200        2,040;
Sale of own fish 2/                           -         250        350          350
Sale of surplus seed 3/                       -          -         100          220'
360        970      1,650        2,610
OUTFLOW
Investment                                 2,870      3,700        600
Staff                                        140        160        185          185
Seed purchases                               400        300         -            -
Feed and fertilizer 4/                        30         47         47           47
Other operating exipnses                      60         80        100          100
Maintenance (@ 5%)                           1+445      329e5      35905        35965
insurance (@ 1%)                              29         66         72           72
3,67365    4,682.5    1,363.5        763.5
NET CASH FLOW 5/                             (3,313)    (3,712)      287        1,84J.7
Financial Rate of RetEurn:    20
Best      Ivestment       OperatirLg    eivenue     Re.venu.
Sensitivity Analysis            Cost Increased |Cost Increased  Increased Decreased.
__________15%_ _  2_ _                       2_ _ _     25%
Financial RORa   i       20%         17%              17%           28%        12
1/  Production buildup: 600, 1200, 2000, 3400 tons; wholesale Rs 2,000/t;
Department revenue 30%.
2/  From 200 acre research/production farm., Narayanpure
3/ Production of about 9 million per year at full development; requirements from
project area, 6.8 million; assume current price Rs 100/thousand on surplus.
_/ Direct seed production cost estimated Rs 30/thousand
feed Rs 110/ton; average 2% body weight per day for 60 days
fertilizer Rs 25/ton; 1 ton/acre, 3 x per season, each nursery.
5/ Some downward adjustment required for loss of income on leases converted to
"share of wholesale" method.



INDIA                                ANNEX 17
Table 13
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Operating Results
Tubewell with Electric Pump 1/
(All Values in Rupees'
1              2           3 to 8         9 to 50
WITH PROJECT
Revenue:           Baira        5   ha              2,040          5,440          6,800          6,800
.'nwar       0.5 ha                242            64S            807             807
Pu'se        2   'ia               672           1,792          2,240          2,240
Chillies     1.5 ha              2,025           5,400          6,750          6,750
Wheat       15   ha               7,290         19,440         24,300         24,300
Mustard      2   ha                840           2,240          2,800          2,800
1.  Total Revenue                              13,109         34,957         43,697         43,697
Operating Fxpenses!
Operaticn and Maintenance of the Well               3,950          7,900          7,900          7,900
Feeds                              890           1,781          1,781          1,781
Fertilizer                       2,850           5.700          5.700          5,700
Pesticide                          260             520            520            52^
Labor Hire 2/                    4.200          8.400          8,400           8.400
Bullock Hire                      1.250          2.500          2,500          2,500
2.  Total Overating Expenses                   13 400         26,801         26,801         26.801
3.  Ne, Operating Tncome (1-2)                   (291)         8,'56         16,896         1A.896
4.  Investment 3/                              45,000            -              -                  6/
S.  Subsidy                                     5,000                           -
6.  Loan 4/                                   &4.1000            -              -              -
7. Loar Instalment                                -            8,081          8,081            -
8.  Casb Inflow (1+546)                        58,109         34,957         43,697         43.697
9.  Cash Outflow (244+7)                       58.400         34.882         34,882         26,801
10. Net Cashflow (8-9)                           (29''            75          8,815         16,896
WITHOUT PROJECT
Revenue'          Ba;ra         9  ha               1,440          1,440          1,440          '.440
Jowar        0.6 ha                  68             68             68             68
Pulse        3.6 ha                685             685            685            685
Oilseed      0.8 ha                 160            160            160            '60
Pallow       6   ha                2'C             270            270            270
11, Total Revenue                              2,623           2,623          2,623          2,623
Operating Expenses, Seeds                             129            129            129            129
Labor 2/                         520            520            520            520
12. Total Operating Expense                      649             649            649            649
13. Net Operating Income (11-12)                1,974          1,974          1,974          1,97/,
'.7ITH/WITHOUT PROJECT
14. Incremental Revenue (1-11)                10,486          32,334         41,074         41,974
15. incremental Operating Expenses (2-12)      12.75'.        26,152         26,152         26,152
16. lnvestment Less Subsidy (4-5)             40,000             -              -              -   6/
ALTERNATIVE ASSUMPTION  5/                    1          2          3          4          5        6 to 50
', Incremental Revenue               9,986     32,334      41,074     41,074     45,444     49,814
18, Tncremental Operating Expenses   12,751      26,152     26,152     26,152     26,152     26,152
19, trivestment Less Subsidy         40,000        -          -        10,000     10,000      -    6/
Project 1'   (uncompleted command area development):  F^nancial Rate of Return:     31%
Proiect 2'   (completed command area development):    rinanciel Rate of Return'     3371
these results do not fully show the economit profitab'lity of a completed command area development.
in effect, tf we compare the pro4ect 2 'completed CAD) to the project 1 (uncompleLed CAD' the rate
of return oa the incremental investment re-i4red to complete the CAD works out to     26!%, showing
the financial profitability of this incremental investment.
1/  'haracveriC-ics'  Well-  100 meter deep, diameter R" drilled by an air-hammer, discharge 40 m3 per hour.
Pump   submersible with motor of 15 '4.P     Irrigatod Area:  201 hectares
These characteristics as well as the cropping pattern are those encountered in .'odhpur and Nagaur district.
2/  Out or the total amount of man days required. 500 are provided by family labor, the remainder is made up
bv hired labor at Rs 4 per man day.
3/  Tncludes the cost of the well, the pump and motor and a command area development.    The pump ,s to be
replaced every 10 vears.
4/  7 instalments, 9.5% interest rate.
5/  Under this assumption, the RajasEhan government forces the farmer to complete the command area development
of 'is plot. e4ter t"e 'ubewell has been in ex,stenc- for 3 vears.   This improved command area development
'1-ings about an ncrease in the yields of 10,J   vear ^ and 20% from the year 6 onwards.   The incremental
investment cost is R- 2n.000.
6/  Tn vears 11, 21  etc., this figure is difrerert d'e to "'ae -eplacemert of the pump and motor (RW  " ,500.



INDIA                                                          ANNEX 17
DROlUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Operating Results
Tank Irrigation - Model for a Farm of 4 Hectares I"
(All Values in Rupees)
1              2              3             4            5 to 1        15 to 50
-77P 5PO'ECT
Revenues 2-       Jowar 1.4 ha                                567            567            907          1,814         3,024          3,024
Ba'ra 1.4 ha                                220            220            705          1.411         2.352          2,352
Pulse  .4 ha                                112            112            161           323             538            538
(roundnu' ,h ha                             118            118            302            609          1,008          1.008
Wheat  ,4 ha                                 -              -             238           4'5             792            '92
Safflower -                                  56             56             -                             -
Fallow    -                                  18             18             -              -
1. Revenue                                               I,091         1,091          2,313          4.628          7,714          7,714
Operating 1xpenses, Seed                                       59             59             86            173            173           173
Fertilizer 3/                             -              -             370            740            740            740
Pesticide                                 -              -              40            80              80             80
Betterment Levy 4/                        -              -              -             -              209             -
Water Chargec 5/                          -              -              -              -             210            210
2. Operating Expenises b/                                   59             59            496            993          1,412          1,203
3   Net Tncome (1-2)                                     1.032          1,032          1,817          3,635          6,302         6,51'
tnvestment- Tank and Canal 7/                        4.610          6,240          5,890             -              -              -
5. investment:   Cosmsahd Area Development 8/               -              -           3,000          3.000             -
6. Loan for Command Area Development 9/                     -                          3,000          3.000             -
7. Loar Instalment                                          -              -              -              -             976            -
8. Gas' ,,Flow (1+61                                     1.091          1,091          5.313          -,618          7.714          7,714
9. Cas- Outflow (2+5--7'                                    59             59          3,496          3,993          2.388          1,203
10  Net Cashflow (8-99                                   1.032          1,032          1.817          3.635          9,326          6.5'1
WITHOUT PROJECT
Revenues-         Jowar 1.8 ha                                567            567            567            567            567            567
Baira 1.0 ha                                220            220            220            220            220            2201
Pulse  .4 ha                                112            112            112            112            112            112
Groundnut .2 ha                             118            118            118            118            118            118
Safflower .2 ha                              56             56             56             56             56             56
Fallow 4. ha                                 18             18             18             10             18             18
11. Revenue                                              1,091          1,091          1,091          1,091          1,09'          1,091
12 Operating Expenses 6/    Seeds                           59             59             59             59             59             59
13. Ne' Income '11-12)                                   1,032          1,032          1,032          1,032          1,032          1.032
WITH/WITHOUT PROJECT
14. Incremental Revenue (1-11)                              -              -           1,222          3,537          6,623          6,623
15, Increment.1 Operating Expenses (2-12)                   -              -             437            934          1.391          1,144
IA. 'nvestment by 'he Farmer                                -              -           3,000          3,000             .              -
Financial Rate of Return: above 100%
Sensitivity Analvsis: An increase of fertilizer price bv 70% 'rings "he
financia' ROR to    87%
1/ The cropping Paltern retained ir this model purports to represent the average situation in the four districts of Ahmednagar   Sholapur, Bijapur
and Anantapur.   The tank here considered is supposed to irrigate 400 hectares.
2'  Dtue lo time 'aken up bv the construction of the dam and the canal  the benefits of irrigation won t arcrue to 'he farmer hetore the vear 3.  hOV of th
final vield is reached In the year 3; 80% in year 4; 90% in vear 5.
31 Fertilizer are here costed at their price at the time of the evaluation tnission
4   A betterment levy OF Rs 150 per acre is recovered by the administratior. From the farmer over a 10 vear period with a 6.5% interest rate.
5/ -he Farmer is charged for the use of water according to the cropped area at the rate of Rs 50 per hectare for Kharif crops, Rs 75 per hectare
for Rabh. ,rops.
6/ No cosw has heen taken here for labor which is provided by the family
7' The cost of tank and canal are born by the administration: they are here expressed on a per hectare basis.
8/ The cos" of command area development(Rs 1,500 per hectare)is born bv the farmer.
9   10 instalmen:s, 9% interest rate.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJEC'T
Operating Results
Soil Conservation - Model for a 4 Rectares Farm   l/
(All Values in Rupees)
Withouit Soil Conservation                                    With Soil Conservation
Area          Yield         Production        Value           Area          Yield        Production        Value
---       -       -(kg )                 -k g_
Revenues:         Jowar           .95                 1.6             350            560             532             1.5            400           600              570
Bajra          .8                   1.4            275             385             308            1.3            315            410             328
Pulses        1.12                  0.5            250             125             140            0.5            290            145             162
Safflower     1.4                   0.2            200             40               56            0.2            230             46              64
Fallow          .06                 0.3            750            225               14            0.3            750            225              14
Bunds           .08                  -              -               -               -             0.2          1,500            300              24
'rO'rAAL                4               -              -            1,050             4               -              -            1,162
Operating Expenses:   2/   Seeds                       -               -              -
Jowar                        -              -              -                l              -              -              -               11
Bajra                                       -              -                 5                                                            5
PitIses                                     -              -                12             -              -              -               12
S.ifflower                                  -              -                 9             -              -              -                9
TOTAL                                                                   37                                                           37
Investment Cost:  4 ha x Rs 100 3/                                     -              -               -               -              -             -              400
Financial Rate of Return:      39%
Investmelnt Cost        Revenuf            Reventue
Sensitiv.ity Analysis     Best Estimate    Increased 15%       Increased 25%      Decreased 25%
Financial ROR                   39%              30%                  54%               27'
1/  This fa-rm model would be characteristic of Aimednagar district.    The onlv soil conservation ir-,estment implemented on the farm consists of c-ontour bunding.
2/  Labor requirement work out to 330 man day without soil conservation, 420 wvhen -he land is btinded.    rhis -labor is provided by the family and, therefore, has   'A >
not been taken into account here.                      *-
3/ The investment cost charged to thie farmer (Rs 100 per hectare) corresponts to half the costE of tlhe phyvsicl :aork *nlv;  the overhead costs of soil conserva-   ax
tion are not paid by the farmer.                                                                      --I



ANNEX 18
Page 1
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
A. Methodology
1.        Cost's and Prices: All costs and benefits under the project
have been assessed on an incremental basis over present and projected
values without thr' project. Price assutmptions are discussed in Annex 16.
All costs have been based on prevailing raLes at the time of-appraisal,
except unskilled labor and electricity.
2.        Unskilled labor is a very important input of the project in two
respects. First, various labor-intensive investments (soil conservation,
pasture development, tank irrigation) depend heavily on the use of unskilled
labor. Second, after the investment stage, all the activities implemented
under this project require some incremental labor for the yearly pzoducLioni
and maino'_~m,ance, to be supplied either by on-farm family labor or by hired
labor. The financial costs of family and hiired labor do not constitute a
good approximation of the economic or opportunity cost ofL unskilled labor.
The financial cost of family labor is zero, yet its opportunity cost has a
certain positive value, although it is very difficult to quantify. In good
years there are some employment opportunities for the farm popuilationi, in
bad years there are nione.  In drought prone areas, therefore, the o'pport-unfr'_.i-
cost of family labor, if not nil, is clearly very low. The saxzui rz_su_lt ap-
plies for the hired labor, due to the preponderance of relief workc. Wage
laborers under r-elief work have very few alternative possibilities of wor1k.
Without this project they would be either unemployed or employed at relief
sites wqhich, too often in the past, ha\ie shown very low prodt.ctivity. In
either case the productivity of these wage laborers in their al.ternaLlv'e
occupation is close to zero.
3.        In view of the economic importance of unrskilledr laibor and the
foregoing considerations of complexity in estimating its cost, two alter-
native cost assumptions have been tested. The first asSuIMption retains the
financial costs (zero for family labor, full cost for hired labor), thus
establishing a compensation between an underestimation of the cost of family
labor and an overestimation of the cost of hired labor. The second assump-
tion uses a shadow price of one rupee per man day for bothi family and hired
labor, corresponding to a weighted average of the opportunity cost in slac!!.
and in peak periods.



ANNEX 18
Page 2
4.        The price charged to the farmers for electricity is lower than
the cost of generation and distribution. The economic cost as estimated
by the Asia Power Division would vary from one state to another; around
Rs .30 per kwh in Rajasthan and around Rs .20 in Maharashtra, Karnataka
and Andhra Pradesh. In the economic evaluation of electrically-powered
well irrigation schemes, the operating costs in cash flows have been
increased to reflect this adjustment.
B. Benefits
Production Increase
5.        The project would increase the production of foodgrains, cash
crops, milk, fodder, wool, fruit and fish. Irrigation development would
boost annual crop production in the six districts by some 30,000 tons
worth about Rs 30 million (the values here are based on the prices given
in Annex 16). The dry farming program would increase cereal, pulse and
oilseed production by about 22,000 tons per year worth about Rs 20 million.
The soil and moisture conservation program would increase annual production
of foodgrains and cash crops (jowar, bajra, pulses, groundnuts) by more than
6,000 tons worth some Rs 6.4 million. Pasture development would increase
fodder production by some 65,000 tons each year, worth over Rs 5 million;
annual milk production would increase by 80,000 tons worth Rs 80 million
and sheep development would result in additional annual production of 300
tons of wool and 1,600 tons of mutton, worth Rs 2.6 million and Rs 4 mil-
lion, respectively.
6.        Apart from any increased output, the project would result in
greater stability of agricultural production. To a great extent irrigation
would allow farmers to escape the vagaries of the weather even in drought
years. Though they are less effective than irrigation, dry farming and
soil and moisture conservation techniques would also contribute to this
stabilization. These techniques would enable farmers to get a minimal
harvest, even in most years of drought when crops would otherwise fail.
Developments in livestock and pasture, sericulture, horticulture and
fisheries would allow some diversifying of the districts' economies and
therefore render them less dependent on crop cultivation and the risks of
drought.
Employment
7.        The project would increase employment in the districts concerned,
mainly for unskilled labor. Employment creation for unskilled labor would
stem both from labor-intensive construction works and exploitation of the
newly created assets. As an example, soil conservation works (construction
and repair of bunds, check dams, farm ponds) undertaken under this project
would require some 15 million man-days of unskilled wcrkers. Similarly,



ANNEX 1 8
Page 3
tank and canal irrigation would create some 6 million man-days of employ-
ment, and pasture development another 2 million man-days. This total of
23 million man-days required for the execution of major investments alone
is equivalent to about 85,000 full time employment opportunities over the
project period. Upon completion, these assets wouLd require an increase
in operating labor. For example, the contour bunds would require an in-
cremental 800,000 man-days per year for maintenance, while irrigation
development would create an additional 1,300,000 man-days yearly employ-
ment as a result of increased crop production. The improvement of dry
farming practices and production would require the input of an additional
3.3 million mandays on farm operations.   The foregoing total some 5.4 mil-
lion man-days, equivalent to 20,000 full time employment opportunities,
Staffing of governmental departments and cooperatives would open up employ-
ment opportunities for skilled workers and professional staff.
Impact on Famine Relief Expenditures
8.        Under the project, a shelf of works would be established (land
survey for soil conservation, plans and technical surveys for tanks and
canals). The execution of these works could be accelerated according to
the need for relief employment. Too often in the past, "scarcity works"
implemented under famine relief have beeni takcn up quickly to create jobs
in a state of emergency, with too little attention being paid to the
technical design or economic viability of the assets thereby created.
The shelf of works to be prepared under this project should ensure that,
in the future, famine relief works would create sound, viable assets.
9.        By mitigating the impact of the future droughts, the project
would reduce the need for government-supported famine relief and thereby
result in a saving of public funds. Any prediction of these possible
savings is perilous since the extent of drought mitigation cannot be
easily quantified.  The following computation, however, may give a rough
idea of the savings involved.   The six project districts' famine relief
expenditures amounted to some Rs 22 per rural person per year over the
last three years for which data are available. Under the project, some
10,000 farm families would benefit from irrigation development; about
215,000 others would be affected by various measures such as soil con-
servation, dry farming, livestock and sheep development, sericulture,
etc. Assuming, (a) that eight persons live on the income from an irri-
gated plot and six on the income from larger unirrigated holdings; and
(b) that the people who live on an irrigated plot would not need relief
work at all and that the other project components could bring about, for
the population concerned, a 25% decrease in the famine relief requirements;
then the annual decrease in public expenditures should amount to Rs 5 mil-
lion per year.



ANNEX 18
Page 4
Number of Beneficiaries and Impact on the Poorest Strata
10.       The total number of beneficiaries of the project is difficult
to estimate since many farmers would benefit from more than one component.
Allowing for the overlap, it is estimated that about 225,000 farmers or
landless laborers would have their annual income permanently improved by
on-farm and cooperative investments under the project. The extent of in-
creased incomes varies considerably among project components and has been
projected in the financial models of Annex 17. Numbers of beneficiaries
by component are presented in the following table. Based on the use of
size of land holding as a proxy for income and a ceiling of Rs 1,200 per
year net inco.ae to delineate the poorer 40% of India's population, an
estimate of project beneficiaries falling within this target group has
also been made.
Beneficiaries
Total project     belonging to the
beneficiaries       targeigroup
Irrigation (by wells)               7,000              6,000
Irrigation (by tank)                2,500              1,300
Soil conservation                  84,000             42,000
Sheep raising                     30,000              23,000
Dairy improvement                  84,000             52,000
Sericulture                           400                200
Fisheries                           1,000              1,000
Horticalture                       16P8,000
Total                        224,900            133,500
11.       If it is assumed, conservatively, that each income earner pro-
vides for a household of 5 people, then over 1 million people, or more
than 10% of the rural population of the 6 districts, would be permanently
benefitted by the project. In addition, most of the constrtuction employ-
ment created by the investment works mentioned in paragraph 7 would go to
the landless and small farmers who belong to the poorest segments of the
society.
12.       Special measures would be taken to enable the poorest strata to
avail themselves of the benefits of the project. Financial incentives
would be provided for smallholders and landless laborers to assist them
in undertaking activities such as irrigation, dry farming improvement,
dairy and sheep development, horticulture and sericulture. Subsidy patterns



ANNEX 1 8
Page 5
would be the same in all districts, anid would be based on the pattern of
the SFDA-MFAL schemes (Annex 2); that is, small farmers 1/ would be enti-
tled to a 25% subsidy on eligible investments and marginal farmers 2/ and
agricultural laborers would receive a 33-1/3% subsidy. All groundwater
development under the project would be restricted to smallholders, except
for a small number of tubewells and improvements in Rajasthan.
Other Benefits
13.       A number of benefits of the project are not easily quantified,
even though they would be significant. Conservation works, pasture devel-
opment and afforestation would arrest the irreversible process of soil
erosion and land degradation on about 650,000 ha. Fisheries, horticulture,
cattle and sheep development would improve the variety and nutritive quality
of the diet of the population. Measures to improve the flow of credit should
greatly increase overall on-farm investment and the use of improved inputs,
and the coordination of input supplies, credit, extension and research would
be strengthened.  The experience gained under this project would be invalua-
ble for replication in investment programs elsewhere in India. Of partic-
ular interest in this respect would be project components for pasture and
sheep development and horticulture, sericulture and fisheries development.
District-level planning and project management, and measures to improve
agricultural credit services would have general interest and application.
Finally the results of the agricultural research undertaken in the project1s
districts could also be applicable elsewhere in India.
Project Risk
14.       Farmer response to technical innovation and cooperation, and the
effectiveness of institutional change within government, are difficult to
quantify and likely to vary in relation to factors lying outside project
management control, e.g., weather, political factors, etc. Despitc such
risks the proposed project is worth undertaking on economic and Social
grounds. The project would exploit the best available potentials for sig-
nificantly improving the economic condition of very poor rural families and
it would help develop and disseminate dryland technologies adapted to the
circumstances of India's drought prone areas.
1/   Farmers with less than 3 ha of unirrigated land or 1.5 ha of irri-
gated land.
2/   Farmers with less than 1 ha of unirrigated land or 0.5 ha of irri-
gated land.



ANNEX 18
Page 6
C. Economic Rates of Return
15.       In view of the variety of the project's components, some of which
are not revenue generating, an overall rate of return has not been calcu-
lated. Rates of return have been computed instead for each production com-
ponent of the project including related support services. These rates,
while particularly sensitive to changes in cost assumptions for unskilled
labor, are satisfactory. Table 1 of this Annex summarizes best estimates
and sensitivity testing of rates of return based on models presented in
subsequent tables.
Noveuber 4, 1974



DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Sunmmary of Economic Rates of Return
_Sensitivity Analysis 1!
Shadow price      Shadow price      Investment      Operating        Income     income
Table           of labor        of labor =       Cost Increased  Cost Increased  Increased DecrVased
Rps I/day       Einancial cost  .      5%             257%          25%/       25%
Sheep Development                 2               17%               16%              12%             11%           23%         7%
Livestock Development             3               37%               41%              29%             28%           63%        20%
Pasture Development              4                12%               10%               8%              8%           15%         5%
Sericulture                       5               16%               21%              15%             14%           32%         7%
Horticulture                      6               14%               14%              11%             11%           18%         9%
Trrigation:  Tubewell            7                17%               16%              11%              5%           32%      Negat<ve
Errigation:  Tank                8                26%               20%               -               -             -          -
Soil Conservation                 9               22%               14%               -                            19%         8%
Dry Land Farming                 10               14%               79%              41%             51%        Above 100%    42%
1/ This sensitivity analysis concerns the assumption:
shadow price of labor erual to its financial cost
-3 >
m
rD z
00H



INDIA                                                                                ANINEXIS8
Table 2
DO4OUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Sheep Deve.lopment Program
Cash Flow- Projection. and Economic Rate of Return I/
(All Values in. '0OOs Rupees)
UNIT SERVICE CENTERS:       2/                                     23456789t.                                                                                                                          0
Operating Coat:
-Sub.enters Starting Year 1 (4)            137.2             167.6             167.6             167.6              167.6             167.6              167.6             167.6             167.6
- "          "       "   2 (4-)       -               137.2             167.6              167.6             167.6             167.6              167.6             167.6             167.6
-'                       3 (1)        -                  -                34.3              41.9              41.9              41.9               41.9              41.9'             41.9
Sub total: Operating Cost           (9)     137.2             304.8              368.5             377.1             377.1             377.1              777.1             377.1'            377.1
Investment Cost-
-Subren.ters Starting Year 3 (4)           196.0                -                 -                 -                 -                  4.0               -                 -                  -
-'                   "   2(4)         -               196.0                ---                                                                 \    4.0               --
- "          '       '   3 Cl)        -                  -                49.0o                                                   -                 -                 1.0-
Sub total: Investment Cost          (9)     196.0             196.0               49.0               -                 -                  4.0               4.0                1.0               -
100 HECTARE TNIITS 3/
Incremental Revenue:
-Units Starting Year l (36)                122.4             370.8             730.8             907.2           1,029.6            1,065.6           1,065.6           1,065.6            1,065.6
-               "      (99)             -              336.6           1,019.7            2,009.7           2,494.8           2,831.4           2,930.4            2,930.4           2,930.4
-       "       "   3 (144)             -                                 489.6           1,483.2           2,923.2           3,628.8           4,118.4            4,262.4           4,262.4
-"                  4 (90)              -                                                   306.0             927.0           1,827.0.           2,268.0           2,574.0           2,664.0
Sub total: In     -cretal Revenue (369)122.4                 707.4           2,240.1           4,706.1            7,374.6           9,352.8          10,382.4          10,832.4           10,922.4
Incremental Operating Cost'
-Units Starting Year I (363                190.8             349.2             352.8             352.8              388.8             388.8             388.8              388.8             388.8
-2 (99)                                 -               524.7             960.3             970,2             970.2              970.2          1,069.2            O,069. 2          1,069.2
-                      (144)            -                                 763.27          1,396.8           1,411.2           1,411.2            1,411.2           0,555.2           1,555.2
-"                  4 (901              -                 -                 .               477.0             873.0              882.0             882.0             882.0C            972.0
Sub total: Incremental Operating
Cost          (369)         190.8             873.9           2,076.3            3,196.8           3,643.2           3,652.2           3.751,2            3,895.2           3,985.2
Incremental Investment Cost:
-Units Starting Y.ar 3 (36)             1,897.2              604.8             597.6             162~.0              36.0               -                  -                 -                 -
-"                  2 (99)              -            5,217.3           1,663.2            1,643.4             445.5               99.0               -                                    -
-"                  3 (144)             -                 -            7,588.8            2,419.2           2,390.4              848.0             144.0                -
-"                  4 (90)              -                 -                 -            4,743.0            1,512.0           1,494.0              405.0              90.0
Sub total: 'Incremental Invest-
ment Cost     (369)       1,897.2           5,822.1            9,649.6           8,967.6           4,383.9           2,441.0              549.0              90.0                -
10 HIECTARE FARMS 41/
Incr-emetal Reveue:t
F-Fam    Starting Year 1 (40)               13.6              40.0              83.2               93.6             108.0             119.8             119.8              '1-9.8            119.8
-'                  2 (110)             -                37.4             110.0             228.8             257.4              297.0             328.9             328.9             328.9
-"                  3 (160'                      -                         54.4             160.0             332.8              374.4             432.0             478.4             478.4
-                   4(100)              -                 -                 -                34.0             100.0              208.0             234.0             2770,p            299.0
Sub total'   Incremental Revenue (410) 13.6                     77.4             247.6             516.4             798.2             999.2           1,114.7           1,L197.3           1,226.1
Incremental Operating Cost:
-Farms Starting Year 1 (40)                  1.2               4.0                4.4               4.4               4.4               4.4                4.4               4.4               4.4
-'                  2 (110)             -                 3.3              11.0              12.1              12.1               12.1              12.1               12.2              12.1
- "     "        "  3 (160)             -                                   4.8              16.0              17.6               17.6              37.6               '7.6              17.6
- "     "       "4 (100)                ---                                                   3.0              10.0               11.0              11.0              I1.0               11.0
Sub total: Incr-emetal Operating
Cost          (410)            1.2               7.3              20.2              35.5              44.1               45.1              45.1              45.1               45.1
Incremental Investment Cost'
F- Frs Starting Year 3 (40)                 52.4              64.0              62.4               14.0               -                 -                  -
- '     "       "   2 (110)             -               144.1             176.0             171.6              38.5                --                                                     -
-"                  3 (160)             -                 -               209.6             256.0             249.6               56.0--
-"                  4 (TOO)            -                  -                 -               131.0             160.0              156.0              35.0-
Sub total, Incremental Invest-
ment Coat     (410'           52.4             208.1             448.0             572.6             448.1              212.0              35.0                -
RMl MULTIPLICATIONi FARM4S
Incremental Revenue               (4)           (8.0)            101.6             390.8             623.6             684.0              684.0             684.0             684.0              684.0
Incremental Operating Cost        (43         153.2              266.8             310.4             370.8             370.8              370.8             370.8             370.8              370.8
Incr-emetal Inveatnent       5/   (4)       1,037.2              642.8             165.7                                  -                 -                  -                 -
TOTAL: Sheep Program
Incremental Revenue                           128.0              049.0          2,878.5            5,846.1           8,856.8          11,036.0          12,181.1           12,733.5          12,832.5
Incr'e,mental Operating Coat:                 462.4           1,452.8           2,776.4            3,980.2           4,435.2           4,445.2           4,544.2            4,688.2           4,778.2
Incremental Investment Cost                 3,182.8           6,869.0          10,511.8            9,540.7           4,832.0           2,657.0              588.0              91.0                -
Economic Rate of Return:           167.
Sensitivity Analysis                  Bost Estimate      Investment Cost        Operating Cost            Revenue              Revenue          b4ados'5price of
I,,,I                                               Increased 1.57         Increased 257,       Increased 257.       Decreased 25%       la9bor - lIps 1/day
Economic Rate of Return                               16%/                 127,17                                     237.                 7%17
.' The phasing of the service centers, units and forms is given in Annex 8', Table 20.                    The four ram multiplication farm are started in year: 1 of the project.
2/ Operating and investment cos ts for each unit service center aer              given in Annex 8, Table 19.         Renewal of investment-       Rp 1,000 per center every 5 years..
3/   The incremental revenue, operating cost and investment cost for each 100 hectare unit are taken from Annex 17, Table 2.                             Thie investment cos,t hias, however,
been qorrected by the amount of the grant.             Renewal of investment-       Rp 7,500 Pear unit every 10 years for furrowing.
4/   The incremen.tal   revenue, operating coat and investment cost for each 10 hectare unit are taken from Annex 17, Table 3.                          The investment cost has, however,
been corrected by the costs of seeds,          that are given to the farmer.         Renewal of investment:       Rp 750 per farm every to years foE furrowing.
~iRenewal of the Investment' Rp 29,600 every 10 years~ for furrowing.



AR!iii 178
Table 3
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PRLOJECT
D.iry Dmv.lsMeet
(All Val... in its OOOs.)
1      2            3             4            5             6            7             B9                    l    t. 20
WITH PROJECT   /_                                                                                                                                                   ___
Sale. of Milk 2/   at Re 0.60/liter               12,300         6,360        1,980           360          -                    -            -                   -             -
et R. 1.20/liter                5,040        27,000       54,240        78,840       94,920       108,840      119,760       123,960      125,280       125,400
1.  Total R.venue I/                              17,340        33,360       56,220        79,200       94,920       108,840      119,760       123,960      125,280       125,400
Operating Expensee R.Jasthan 4/: 3,000 farmere       960         1,380        2,010         2,130        2,400         2,400        2,400         2,400        2,400    *    2,400
10,000 famers     1,100         3,200        4,600        6,700         7,100        8,000         8,000        8,000         8,000        8,000
3,400 far-mre      374          374         1,088        1,564         2,278         2,414        2,720        2,720         2,720        2,720
1,200 farmrs       132           132          132          384           552           804          852           960          960           960
2.  Sub-total Operting Eapenaee Rajasthan          2,566         5,086        7,830        10,779I      12,330        13,618       13,972        14,080       14,080        14,080
Operating Expenses Other Districts I/
-6,000 farmer      1,260        1,740         2,460        2,400        3,180         3,240         3,240        3,240         3,240        3,240
-26,000 farmers    1,300         5,460        7,540       10,560        10,400        13,780       14,040        14,040       14,040       14,040
-27,040 farmer     1,350         1,350        5,670        7,830        11,070        10,800       14,310        14,580       14,580        14,580
-10,000 farmer       500           500          500        2,100         7,900        4,100         4,000         5,300  .     5,400         5,400
-3,000 farmer       150           150          150           150           620          870         1,250        1,200         1,590        1,620
3.  Sub-total Operating Expeneee Other Districts 4,560           9,200       16,320        23,040       28,170        32,790       36,820        38,360        38,850       38,880
4.  Total Operating Expenses (2+3)                 7,126        14,286       24,150        33,818       40,500        46,408       50,792        52,440        52,930       52,960
On f-fr  Inventneot RaJasthan 4/                   2,400         8,000         2,720          960           -            -             -            ---
On-fftm I-vet-et Other Districts 5j/               7,200        31,200       32,400        12,000        3,600-
S.  Ttal On-farm Inveetmet                         9,600        39,200       35,120        12,960        3,600-
Dairy Coopsr.rti-e ~~/
Revenue Ra.iaeth.n,-  40 cooperatives                240           428          664           764          864           888           896          896           896          896
-120 cooperativea                .             720        1,284         1,992        1,392         2,592         2,664        2,688         2,688        2,688
Revenue Other Dii.rictn: - 40 coeaie                 260           460          692           756           040        1,020         1,052        1,056         1,056        1,056
-160 coope-tiv-            -           1,040        1,840         2,768        3,024         3,760   .    4,080         4,208        4,224         4,224
-120 coo peratives         .             .            780         1,280        2,076         2,268        2,820         3,060        3,156         3,188
6.  Total Revenue Cooperatives                       500         2,648        5,260         7,660        9,196        10,528        11,512       11,908        12,020       12,052
Operting Expenses 7/:    -80 cooperatives          1,408         1,512        1,616         1,640        1,656         1,656         1,656        1,656         1,656        1,656
-280 coo peratives         -           4,928        5,292         5,656        5,740         5;,796       5,796         5,796        5,796         5,796
-120 coopertives           -             -          2,112         2,268        2,424         2,460         2,484,       2,484        2,484         2.484
7.  Total Operating Expenses Coopertives           1,408         6,440        9,020         9,564        9,820         9,912         9,936        9,936        9,936         9,401.6
8.  Investment Cooperatives                          200           700          300           -            -             -             -
Spearhead Tea-s A/
9.  Operating Expenses Spearhead Teen                406         1,828        2,437         2,437        2,437         2,031           609-
10. Investsent Spearhead Te-o                        160           560          240           -            -             -             --
Mobile Veteri.sry Units 9/
11. Operating Expenses V.terinory Units              160           640           960          960           960          960           960          960           960          961.
Artificial In-ination Centers lo/
12, Operating Expenses A.l. Centers                  508           616          620           620          620           620           620          620          620           620
13. Investment A.I. Centers                        1,640           -             -            -                   -             -             -                   -
Calf Raii.sin Centers II1/
14. RvneCalf Raising Centers                         -             -            -           1,520        5,320         6,840         6,840        6,840         6,340        6,840
Opera.ting Expenses:- 2 Centeru,                                 1,041         1,448        1,446         1,448        1,448         1,448        1,448         1,448        1,440
-5 Centers                                    -           2,620        3,620         3,620        3,620         3,620        3,620         3,620        3,6-20
-2 Centers                       --                         -          1,046         1,448        1,448         1,448        1,448         1,448        1,448
15, Total Operating Expensea Calf Raising Center     -           1,048        4,068         6,116        6,516         6,516         6,516        6,516         6,516        6,516
16. Inves.tment Calf Raising Center                  407         1,017          407           -            -             -             -            -             -
Bag.... Treatment Ulnit
17. Revenue Begsse. Tretmet Unit                     IS18          180          180           180           180          180           180          180           180          180
18. Operting Expens.. esag...e Treatment UnIt        127           127           127          127           127          127           127          127           127          127
19. Investmet Bag...e Tretment Unit                  130           -            -             -                          -             -            -
Whole Livestock Development Progr..
20, Total Revenue (1+6+141-17)                    18,020        36,188       61,660        88,560      109,616       126,388       138,292      142,888       144,320      144,472
21. Total Operating Expeses (41-7+9+11+12+15+18) 9,735          24,985       41,382        53,642       60,980        66,574        69,560       70,599        71,089       71,119
22. Total Investmnt (5+b+10+13+16+19)             12,137        41,477       36,067        12,960        3,600           -                    -            -                   -
WITHOUT PROJECT
23. Revenue 2/                                    13,860        13,860       13,860        13,860       13,860        13,860        13,860       13,860        13,860       13,860
Operating Expenses. RaJastham (17,600 farmers)13/ 1,936          1,936         1,936        1,936         1,936        1,936         1,936        1,936         1,936        1,936
Operting Expenses. Other Districts
(72,000 farmer) 14/                              3,600        3,600         3,600         3,600        3,600         3,600        3,600         3,600        3,600         3,600
24. Total Operating Expenses                       5,536         5,536        5,536         5,536        5,536         5,536         5,536        5,536         5,536        5,536
CIEPASIVS01 WITH/WITHOUT PROJECT
25. Increnesta1 Revenu   (20-23)                   4,160        22,328       47,800        74,700        95,756      112,528       124,432      129,028       130,460      130,612
26. Increnota1 Operting Expenses (21-24)           4,199        19,449       35,846        46,106       55,444        61,038        64,024       65,063        65,553       65,583
27. Investment (22)                               12,137        41,477       36,067        12,960        3,600           -                          -             -
Econoic Rats of Return:       412
stmt Inetme.st Cost Operatin.g Cost       ReVenue         Revenue        Shadow pce 0r
Sensitivity Analysis         Best 'Rncreat.d 157.                Incesed 252     Increase d 257.  Decrease.d 255   labor - Rps 1/day
Eco-qic Rtat   of Return               41%              29%               28%              63%              201                7
1/  For eac h categories of activity (amr,dairy cooperatives, chilim.g plants, spearhead team, mobile veterinary s.ils, artificial inseninstion cetes,caf raising c-tdre
end bagasse treatment), the stream of revenues,. operating expenses. and investments are sitaind by multiplying the corresponding stream      fsr oeui      a  presented in the
tables of Annex 8) by the number of participants.
2/ See Anna,, 8, Table 5,
3/  I  this model, the sales of animlal by the farmer is not taken imm   account as a revenua for the fa-rmer     The rate of return obtained is therefore, an under estimatisn of the
actual value that would be obtained by taking these sales into accoun..t.
4/The phasing of the farmers taking to improved lives.tock techniques is given in Annam 8, Table S.      The operating expenses per farmor for livestock developmen t (cocetrate feeds
andmaneac        of investment) and the om-far   investmet are givea in Annex 8, Ta~11s B. for R.jasthan,
jjThe phasing of the farmer   taking to improved livestock techniques is Riven in Annex 8, Table 5.      The operating expenses per farmer for livestock development (ocnrt          feeds
and maintenexce of inve8tmenl   and the on-farm inetetar given in Anne          8, Table 86 for the, other districts,
6/The phasing for the deve1apment of the primr     soistis is given in Annex 8, for both RaJarthan and the other districts,        Is Rajasthan, 40 cooperatives start in year 1, 120 in
year 2,    In the other districts, 40 coope--at1vye5 star6t in ysar 1, 160 in yesr 2, 120 in year 3,   The revenn, establishmet cost and inenroecoprtv                             oit
ar  given in Annex 8, Table 4b for Rajasthan, Table 4c for the other districts.a,                                                                                      ..          --
7/For operattng expen-as and investment, no difference is made baetee     Rjajth-an ed the other diatrict since these. costs per cooperative are the sam     in the  w   es.         oen
mental subsidy for transportation cost for the first 3 years of a coopertive h.s hs- reintegrated ae operating expenses.
4/ The phesiug of the spearhead taam   in 5ivsn,in A-ne   8, Tble 3, their sper.ting expens.es nd investments in Annex 8, Table 2,
/Phsinig and spa-ting expenses of the 0abil. veterinary units is given in Annex 8, Ta,ble 10.       NIs investmnt is required since the cars are tented,
10/ Operating exPenses sd investment coat of one artifticil in.esination center are tdVan in Annex 8, Tables llb and lla,         Qne AT centear is R.,Jasth.n and one in eac h of the four
other disttricts ill ha set up in yasr 1.-
II/ Phasing and investment costs of the calf raising centers are given in Am-e 8, Table 12,,;     their r-vnuss and operating expenses. given in Annex 8, Table 12b.



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Economic Fvdl1 tl1dLiufn
Pasture Development - Dibtric Model   1/
(All Values in Rs '000s)
1              2              3              4              5              6            7 to 10       11 to 14       15 to 50
WItH _PROJECT
Pastures:  Revenue                                   975          1,150          1,425          1,800          2,100          2,300          2,400           2,400          2,400
Operating Expenses                         -             125            250            375            500            500            500             500            500
Replacement                                -              -              -              -              -              -                             375            -
Investment                              1,900          1,900          1,900          1,900             -              -              -              -              -
Overhead Costs of the Forestry Department 2/         l00             75             80             85             90             50             50              50             50
Total:     Revenue                                   975          1,150          1,425          1,800          2,100          2,300          2,400           2,400          2,400
Recurring Costs                           100            200            330            460            590            550            550            550             550
Non-recurring Costs                     1,900          1,900          1,900          1,900             -              -              -             375              -
4i.THOUT PROJ Et,T
Revenue                                  900            900             900            900            900            900            900            900            900
Recurring Costs
Wlt:1tI1/WI LliOUr PROJECT
rticremental R,venue                      75            250             i25            900          I ,2lt)        1,400          1,500          1,900          1,500
TnLremental Recurring Co:ts               100           200             130            460           590             550            550            550            550
Investment                             1,900           1,900          1,900          1,900             -              -              -             375             -
Economic Rate of Return     10%
Sensitivity Analysis     Best Estimate  Tnvestment Cost    Operating Cost      Revenue         Revenue
Increased 15%     Increased 25%     nreased 25%   Decreased 25    labor - Rps
E onomic ROR                   10%             8%                 8/             157             57              12%
1/  The following assumptions have been made in working this model:
(i)   5,000 hectares of pasture will be improved in each of the first four years.    rhis schedule is the one retained for Ahmednagar district.                        4
(ii)  The totality of these itsproved pasture wotlld be communal Inlad.  If some of tlt-s were private lands, the investment cost would probably be lowered, since       c.
some farmers would not fence their pasture tnd have them guarded by family libor inste:O.    In this vase, the r.,te of reLurn would be hligher.
(iii) Priae ,nd .ost IssumpL.ions are iS indicated In the Fin.ancial niodel (see Annex 1 7, Table 7).  Asr a r'sminder graqs has been costed at Rs 80 per ton on the
impro)ved pAstuire and it Rs 60 per ton on the traditional ones (withouit project 1.
2/ Approximately 25% of the Forestry Department costs ire included here, the hataloe is    tLtribttted to the Forestry ptogram ()5%) and thte soil conserv.a-ion program (50%)
(see costs in Annex 6, Table 2).



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Sericulture - Public Demonstration Farn and Assisted Private Fams.
(All Values in ODOs Rupees)
1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9        10        11        12        13        14        15        16        17        18        19        20
DEMONSTRATION FARM I/
1. Revenue                                20.0      40.0      40.0      40.0      40.0      40.0  )     Contat
2. Operating Cost                         48.9      75.1      79.9      57.4      57.4      57.4        Constan
3.  Investment 2/                        123.3      16.0        -         -         -       29.0      16.0        -         -         -       33.8      16.0                                    29.0      16.0
4. Net Cashflow (1-2-3)                 (152.2)    (51.1)    (39.9)    (17.4)    (17.4)    (46.4)    (33.4)    (17.4)    (17.4)    (17.4)    (51.2)    (33.4)    (17.4)    (17.4)    (17.4)    (46.4)    (33.4)    (17.4)    (17.4)    (17.4)
Without Project 3/
5.  Revenue                                 .9        .9        .9        .9        .9        .9
6. Operating Cost         .                 .1        .1        .1        .1        .1        .1  )     Constant
7. Net Benefit (5-6)                        .8        .8        .8        .8        .8        .8
Comparison With-Without ProJect
8. Incremental Revenue (1-5)              19.1      39.1      39.1      39.1      39.1      39.1  )     Constant
9. Incremental Operating Cost (2-6)       48.8      75.0      79.8      57.3      57.3      57.3
10. Incremental Inves ment (3)           123.3      16.0        -         -         -       29.0      16.0        -         -         -       33.8      16.0        -         -         -       29.0      16.0
PRIVATE FARKS 4/
Incremental Revenue:
Parms Starting Year 2 (100)            -      (26.(j)    132.4    -230.8    290.8     290.8
3 (150)            -         -      (39.0     338.6     436.2        ).2       Constant
4 (150)                      -         -      (39.0)    198.6     1436.2
11. Sub total: Incremental Revenue          -      (26.0)     93.4     1450.4    925.6   1,163.2
Incremental Operating Cost:
Farms Starting Year 2 (100)            -       (1.D)     81.0     114.0     114.0      114.0o
3 (150)            -         -       (1.5)     121.5    171.0     171.0 )      Contant
4 (150)            -         -         -       (1.5     121.5     171.0  )
12. Sub total:Incremental Operating Cost    -       (1.0)     79.5     234.0     1406.5     456.0 )
Incremental Investment:
Farms Starting Year 2 (100)            -      100.0     470.0        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -      220.0
3 (150)            -         -      150.0     705.0        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -      330.0        -         -         -         -         -
4 (150)            -         -         -      150.0     705.0        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -      330.0        -         -         -
13. Sub total: Incremental Investment       -      100.0     620.0     855.0     705.0        -         -         -         -         -         -      220.0     330.0     330.0
TOTAL
14. Incremental. Revenue (8+11)           19.1      13.1     132i 5     489.5    964.7 1,202.3    )     Constant
15. Incremental. Operating Cost (9+12)    48.8      74.o     159.3     291.3     h63.8    513.3   )
16. Incremental. Investment              123.3     116.0     620.0     855.0     705.0     27.0       16.0                                    33.8     236.0     330.0     330.0        -       29.0      16.0
Economic Rate of Return:     21%
Sensitivity Analysis             Best Estimte    Investment Cost    Operating Cost       Revenue          Revenue      Shadow   rice of
Increased 15%      Imreaod 25%      Increased 25%    Decreased 25%   labor - Rps 1/day
Economic Rate of Return                      21%             15%                147.             32%              7%                16%
1/ See Annex 9, Tables 4 and 5
2/ Initial investment cost as indicated in Annex 9, Table 4 .     Pup and sotorbicycles renewed every 5 years, stands, trays, bamboos, montages and tools every 10 years.
3/ The "without project" situation for the demonstration farm consists of 3 hectares of unirrigated land.
4/ The incremental revenue, operating cost and investment for each private farm is given in Annex 17, Table 9 .    The phasing is as indicated in Annex 9 , Table 6



INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Economic Evaltu.ation
Horticulture - 1 Acre of Mixed Orclhard - Bijapur District 1/
(All Values in Rupees)
1            2            3            4            5             6            7           8             9         10 to 20
WITH/WITHOUT PROJECT
1. Incremental Revenue 2/                           (333)       (333)         (333)          29         187           277           777         1,682       2,207          2,967
2. Incremental Operating Expenses 3/                 479         609           689          814         859           919           959           959         959            959
3. Investment Paid by the Farmer    4/               590          -             -            -           -              -                          -           -
4.  Correction:  Cost of planting material 5/        250          -             -            -           -
5. Total Investment Cost                             840          -             -            -           -
Economic Rate of Return:     14%
Sensitivity Analysis    Best Estimate Investment Cost    Operating Cost       Revenue         Revenue       Shadow pxrLce of
Increased 15%     Increased 25%   Increased 25%    Decreased 25%   labor - Rps l/da
Economic ROR                   14%             11%               11%     |       18%             9%                14%
1/ The financial presentation of the project is given in Annex    17, Table 10. The financial streams are taken therefrom.
2/  See Annex 17 , Table 10 line 13
3/ See Annex 17 , Table 10 line 14
4/ See Annex 17 , Table 10 line 15
5/  The planting material is given free of charge to the farmer.
0x



DNDIA
DROUGHT PRCNE AREAS PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
ThbeweLl With Electric Pump  /
(Ml Values in Rupees)
WITH/WITHOUT PROJECT:                            -              2
FINANCIAL STREAMS
1  Incremental Revenue 2/                    10,586      32,434     41,174     41,174     45.5,51t   49,914
2.  Incremental Operating Expenses 3/         12,751      26,152     26,152     26,152     26,152     26,152
3.  Investment Less Sabsidy 4                 40,000        -          -        10,000     10,000       -     6/
CORRECTICNS
4.. Subsidy                                   5,000         -          -          -          -          -
5. Correction on Electricity Cost 5/           4,450       8,900      8,900      8,900      8,900      8,900
ECONCNIC STREAMS
6.  Incremental Revenrue (1)                  10,586      32,434    4 1,174    41,1 74    45,544     49,914
7. Incremental Operating Expenses (25)      17,201       35,052    35,052       5, 052    35,052     35,052
8.  Investment (3 -h4)                        45,000        -          -        10,000     10,000       -     6/
Economic Rate of Return:     16%
Sensitivity Analysis    Best Estimate  Investment Cost   Operating Cost      Revenue         Revenue       Shadow price of
Increased 15%    Increased 25%   Increased 25%   Decreased 25%   labor   Rps 1/day
Economic ROR                  16%             11                5%              32%           < 0                17%
1/ This project is presented for its finanoial aspect, in Annex 17, Table 13.
2/ See Annex 17, Table 13,line 17.
3/See Annex  17, Table 13,line 18.                                                                                           t-3
)4/ See Annex  17, Table 13,line 19.
5/  In Rajasthan, the price of electricity i.s Rs .13 per kwh.  However, its actual cost price would be around                      co
Rs .30 per kwh.
6/  In year 11, 21, etc., the col>pon2;ng figure is 11,500 (replacement of a pump and motor).



IND IA
DIROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
T    Irigat ion 1/
(All Values in Rs IQOOS)
1          2        -3             4L                 6o14       1t5
WilTH/WIMHOUT PROJECT
FINAN4CIAL STMEAMS
1.  Incremental Revenue 2/            -          -         122.2       353 .7     662.3      662.3       662.3
2.  Iricremental Operating
JEcpenses 3/                   -           -          43.7       93.4       135 3      135.3      114.4
3. Corqmand Area Development 4/       -          -         300         300          -          -          -
CORRECTI OS
4. Betterment Levy 5/                                                              20.9       20.9        -
5.  Water Charges 57                  -          -           -           -         21         21          21
6.  Investment:   Fank & Canal 6/   461        624         589           -          -          -           -
7. Maintenan,cfe: Tank &c Canal      -           -           5         15          30         40         40
8.  Encremnental Reveriue (1 )       -           -         1227.2      353.7      662.3      662-3      662.3
9.  Incremental Operating Expenses
(2-4-5+7)                        -          -           48.7      108.4      123.4       133.4      133.4
10. Investment                      461        624         889        300           -          -           -
11. Cost of Ulnskil led Labor in
Investment                      (90)      (293)       (1452)     (225)          -          -          -
Economic Rate of Return:      20%
Sensitivity Analysis: If the cost of fertilizers increases by 70%, ROR decreases to        18%
If the cost of fertilizer increases by 70% and investment cost by
25,%, ROH decreases to    15%
_1 h ,   she,h:.iow pri- e of .inski11edl 1.qbor is tqiken ,t Rps 1/ma.n day,
R)R   *re'.s t,o 26*                                                3-3
1/ The financial modet for a farmer using this type of irrigation is shown in Annex 17 , Table 14. Financial 6 a
streams and related correction are drawn therefrom.                                                           (D
2/  See Annex   17, Table l4,line 114.                                                                           CT0
3/  See Annex   17, Table 14, line 15.
4/ See Annex 17, Table 14, line 16.
5/  See Annnex  17, Table 14, line 2.
6/  See Annex l17, Tab-le l4,line 4.



ANNEX 18
Table 9
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Soil Conservation - District Model -/
(All Values in Rs 'OOOs)
1          2           3          4          5
WITH PROJECT
Revenue of Non-Bunded Farms 2/             7,875      5,250       2,625        -         -
Revenue of Farms with Old Bunds 3/        10,880      5,440         -          -         -
Revenue of Farms with New Bunds 4/         8,715     17,430      26,145     29,050    29,050
1.  Total Revenue                     27,470     28,120     28,770      29,050    29,050
2.  Operating Expenses 5/                925        925        925         925       925
Cost of Physical Work for New Bunds        2,000      2,000       2,000      2,000       -
Cost of Physical Work for Repair of Bunds 1,000       1,000       1,000        -
Cost of Physical Work for Nalla Pluging      231        ?3'         231        231       -
Cost of Establishment:   Soil Conservation
Service          1,420      1,004      1,004      1,004        -
Forestry Depart-
ment 6/            200        150        160         170        90
3.  Total Investment Cost              4,851      4,385       4,395      3,405        90
WITHOUT PROJECT
Revenue of Non-Bunded Farms (40,000 ha)   10,500     '0,500      10,500     10,500    10,500
Revenue of Farms with Old Bunds
(60,000 ha)                             .6,320     16,320     16,320      16,320    16,320
4.  Total Revenue                     26,820     26,820     26,820      26,820    26,820
5.  Operating Expenses                   925        925        925         925       925
WITH/WITHOUT PROJECT
6.  Incremental Revenue (1-4)            650      1,300       1,950      2,230     2,230
7.  incremental Operating Expenses (2-5) -          -          -           -         -
8.  Investment                         4,851      4,385       4,395      3,405        90
Economic Rate of Return:      14%
Sensitivity Analysis     Best Estimate      Revenue          Revenue       Bhadow Yz:r
S                           tIncreased 25% 1 Decreased 25% ; labor - Nbs ./2,
Economic ROR                   14%              19%             8%
1/ The economic model is representative of Ahmednagar district, with regard to the farm incomes
and expenditures and the phasing of the soil conservation work.
2/  Initially, 40,000 hectares of land are without any blnds.   10,000 hectares are bunded every
year during the first four years.   The revenue for the non-bunded farms is derived from the
revenue Per farm as shown in Annex 17, Table 15.
3/  Initially 60,000 hectares of land is bunded with old bunds.    20,000 hectares are to be re-
paired every year during the first three years, at a cost of Rs 50 per hectare (for physical
work only!.   The revenue of the farms is worked out under the assumption that damaged bunds
ensure a yield 5% higher than the yield which would be obtained without any bunds.
4/  This revenue is derived from the revenue per farm as shown in Annex 17, Table 15.
5/  Operating expenses only include seeds:   this outlav remains constant with and without bund-
ing.   Operating labor, both in the with and without case, is supplied from within the family
and has not been costed here.
6/  Approximately 50% of the Forestry Department staff costs have been included here since a major
benefit of the pasture program will be soil conservation. (See costs in Annex 6, Table 2).
In addQt-on, the whole cost of the So?- Conservatior Service was attributed to soil conserva-
tion.



[NDIA
DROUGHT-PRONE AREAS PROJECT
t.onoic Evaluation
Dry Land Farmin
(A1l Values in 'ODDs Rupees)
1              2              3             4              5              6              7              8             9             10          11 to 20
EXTENSION SERVICE 1/
1. Operating Cost                                  1,512.0        1,512.0       1,512.0        1,512.0        1,512.0        1,512.0        1,512.0        1,512.0       1,512.0        1,512.0
2. Investment Cost                                   667.5            -              -             -              -            390.0            -              -             -              -
FARM DEVELOPMENT 2/
Revenue: Farms Starting Year 1 (5%)                  524.6        1,063.0        1,821.4       1,821.4        1,821.4        1,821.4        1,821.4        1,821.4        1,821.4       1,821.4        t,821.4
2 (7.5%)                 -            786.9        1,594.5       2,732.1        2,732.1        2,732.1        2,732.1        2,732.1        2,732.1       2,732.1        2,732.1
3 (12.57)                              -         1,311.5        2,657.5        4,553.5        4,553.5        4,553.5        4,553.5       4,553.5        4,553.5        4,553.5
4 rl2.5%)                -                             -          1,311.5       7,657.5        4,553.5        4,553.5        4,553.5        4,553.5       4,553.5        4,553.5
(57.S%)                 -              -              -             -            786.9        1,594.5        2,712.1        2,732.1        2,732.1       7,732.1        2,732.1
6 k5%)                   -              -              -              -             -            524.6        1,063.0        1,821.4        1,821.4        1,821.4       1,821.4
7 t5%)                   -              -             -              -              -              -            524.6        1,063.0        1,821.4       1,821.4        1,821.4
3. Sub tolal Revenue                                 524.6        1,849.9       4,727.4        8,522.5       12,551.4       15,779.6       17,980.2       19,277.0       20,035.4      20,035.4       20,035.4
Operating Cost- Farms Starting Year 1 (5%)           246.6          509.6         885.0          885.0          885.0          885.0          885.0          885.0         885.0          885.0          885.0
2 (7.5%)          -            369.9          764.4        t,327.5       1,327.5        1,327.5        1,327.5        1,327.5        1,327.5        1,127.5       1,327.5
3 (19.3%)         -                          616.5         1,274.0       2,212,5        2,212.5        2,212.5        2,212.5        2,212.5       2,212.5        2,212.5
,   (12.5%)       -              -              -           616.5        1,274.0        2,212.5        2,212.5        2,212.5        2,212.5        2,212.5       2,212.5
5 (7,5%)          -              -              -             -            369.9          764.4        1,327.5        1,327.5        1,327.5        1,327.5       1,327.5
6 (5%)                                          - -  -         -             -            246.6          509.6          885.0          885.0         885.0          885.0
7 (5%)            -              -             -              -              -              -            246.6          509.6         885.0          885.0          885.0
4. Sub total Operating Cost                          246.6          879.5       2,265.9        4,103.0        6,068.9        7,648.5        8,721.2        9,359.6        9,735.0       9,735.0        9,735.0
TOTAL 3/
5. Incremental Revenue                               524.6        1,849.9       4,727.4        8,522.5       12,551.4       15,779.6       17,980.2       19,277.0       20,035.4      20,035.4       20,035.4
6. Incremental Operating Cost                      1,758.6        2,391.5       3,777.9         5,615.0       7,580.9        9,160.5       10,233.2       10,871.6       11,247.0       11,247.0       9,735.0
7. Incremental Investment Cost                       667.5            -             -              -              -            390.0            -              -              -             -              -
Economic Rate of Return:     79%  3/
'nvestment Cost   fper.ting Cost     Revenue         Revenue       Shadow price of
Sensit ivity Analysis          Best Estimate     Increased 15%    Increased 25%   Increased 25%   Decreased 25%   labor - Rps 1/day
Economic Rate of Return                  79%              41%               51%         Above 100%          42%             14%
1/ Operating cost and investmenL   oat for each of rhe district Is given in Annex 7, rabte 5.    the *osts here given are for 5 dist-l rts aas  whole.
21  Operating cost and revenue per ta.ns are given In Annex 7 , rable 8 for a 10 hectare fa.n and rable 7 for a 4 hectare farmn.  In each of the 5 districts, 7,500 farms will come ,inder the pulrview of the  4x
extension service, with a take-up rate increasing over che years.                                                                                                                                          t'
3/  rhe situation "without project" corresponds to the traditional techniques on a bunded land.  The situatlon 'with project" corresponds co the introduction of hybrids, fertilizers and plant protection.
Since no investment is required, the economic rate of return is high.



ANNEX 18
Table 11
INDIA
DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Summary of Production Increases
Average                                Value of
Incremental Lneremental     Average     Incremental
Acreage      Yield     Production      Price      Production
('000 ha)    (tons/ha)  ('1000 tons) (Rs 1000/ton) (Rs Mi
Irrigation2/               20         1.5         30             1           30
Dry farming2/             105          .210       22              .9         19.8
Soil and mois ure
conservation3/
New bunds               200          .0225       4o5            .9          4o0
Repair of old bunds     135          .Ol         1.9            .9          1.7
Total                 335             -        614 .9                     5.7
t4/
Pasture development-       90          .75        67.5            .08         5-4
Milk production-            -            -        81.4           102         97.5
Sheep developmentY
Wool                      --                       475         9            4.25
Mutton                    -                      2.14          2.5          6.0
1/  The acreage for the irrigation development is indicated in Annex 5, table 14.
The incremental yield is based on averages of the various c-rops anid various
situations without project (dry land or limited irrigation).
2/  See Annex 7 paragrph 180
3/ See figures paragraph 146 Annex 6. The average incremental yield is derived
from table 15, Annex 17.
h/ See Annex 6 paragraph 270
5/ See Annex 8, table 5.
6/ Production and average prices for wool and mutton derived from tables 17
(a and b) and 20, Annex 8.



70                                            81                                          90-
INDIA
> -.DROUGHT PRONE AREAS PROJECT
K ,     ,   -"-                       ARID AND SEMI-ARID ZONES' PROGRAM AND PROJECT DISTRICTS
-   -  'APROuIM11eE CASE FI9fyJp .E                         Project districts
4                                  2|  ,Drought prone districts
9HOT                        COLD              RAINFALL:
*                              -  -     I Semi-arid  376 mm. to 750 mm.
)  >ooaA         sf                                    '.j-  Arid        375mm. or less
State and Union Territory boundaries
KS      .'                 \                                       -  -  International boundaries
30'                                                                                                                                       30-:
/                                                            C     H     I     N     A          ..,&
~                              .(T             Ib    e)3
| ' lx H0-t,,S                                                   N  E    P  AL -tjfl.  -|
/                                                            '74p'R "-BHUTAN                       /
JAISALMECR
L,CM               ,~  PAL D 8 'i t  .. ~  - -f^~ .                               r, ,&  't"Ke                              r-o,  -
1.N.e >510 1                'AA~~                                OA. P<  >            BANGLADESH
-sO I    .                                                 L , V   -  f ,.
- Et^jAJMAtLDiLR-                                       SDIt  PALAMOU                                { ,  r'\   C
cur           ThC SnANA, uOAAP -ASWP  |                       ;uP- LitA                  ; -    -f'',BU
JMF '>r.'i  -          0      row                                                          ? -IWt       D
Io9>\-tAII tIME I  5   E AL -
L \AI J '                                                 11=                                           s> )-; wh
'                                                                                            (     BUR.M
S -
fJ              JA.KJA. AC2'
~.O' ~  -  ~'t' 11  M



|J t 4                                                                                               -          r     B U R M A
It                                    BETr t  W- 2>- eRh
K.0                '                                                                                               A1. }@
-2          Na-  e         = -    ?-,<,                        zr }.2                                                           '
-                                 .
-C  - -    -      J20:
POOrA  -
A  14.        4 O-                     -                            Bay          of          B.engal
A ra b i n, URt
,, -.--  -'- -  UFNOOL......  .   -   -
-               L'iJAPUR-D-A
SN- -
Th~~~~ -aA, g  zi -n4 -..                               SR L    DANK A                        MILE
KIO NETRS
NN
-lo                                             .                                                                                                10'-
t^raalHpRr                                  1~00     200     300
17,eb   d-, h-s*;7 fifilt tJ,no                                 SRI LANKA                             MILES                                 8 W
0.lralrtnrt;wlte                                                         100  200  300   400
70-                      80 *                                       KILOMETERS                                e
70                      .0                                                                   O'                                       - I



