CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 526 IN
Maharashtra
Project Agreement
(Drought Prone Areas Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
DATED JANUARY 24, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 526 IN
Maharashtra
Project Agreement
(Drought Prone Areas Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
DATED JANUARY 24, 1975
0


﻿MAHARASHTRA PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 24, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and THE
GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA (hereinafter called
Maharashtra).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty five million dollars ($35,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that Maharashtra agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by the Maharashtra Agreement (Maharashtra Agricultural Credit
Project) between the State of Maharashtra and the Association dated March 29,
1972, as amended by the Agreement Amending Maharashtra Agreement between
the Governor of the State of Maharashtra and the Association dated November 24,
1972, in consideration of the Association entering into the Development Credit
Agreement (Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project) of even date therewith with
India, Maharashtra has undertaken certain obligations with respect to the carrying
out of minor irrigation works in Maharashtra, and whereas such obligations shall
by their terms apply to the works to be carried out in Maharashtra under Part
A of the Project; and
WHEREAS Maharashtra, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Maharashtra shall carry out that portion of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement located in Maharashtra, as
such portion is further described in the Schedule to this Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial
and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Maharashtra undertakes to ensure that at all times prior to
the Closing Date the positions of Project Manager or Project Executive Director
of the DDA in the districts of Ahmednagar and Sholapur shall be filled by persons
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. (a) Maharashtra shall, not later than two months before the
start of each fiscal year, furnish to the Association for its comments, its proposed
plan of works to be executed under the DPAP in the project districts.
(b)   Maharashtra shall not later than September 30 of each fiscal year
furnish to the Association a statement containing information on programs for
that fiscal year related to the DPAP and procedures to co-ordinate them.
Section 2.04. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project in the districts
of Ahmednagar and Sholapur, Maharashtra shall:
(a)   conduct semi-detailed groundwater surveys in all areas of the said
district in which groundwater development is to be carried out; and
(b)   before starting construction of the first tank in the said district, furnish
to the Association for its comments the master plan for integrated tank construction
and command area development in the said district.
Section 2.05. In carrying out Part D of the Project, Maharashtra shall:
(a) prepare a detailed extension program to assist farmers in the districts
of Ahmednagar and Sholapur in improving dry farming;
(b)   promptly establish a separate group of extension staff under the
supervision of the DDA to carry out the extension program referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section; and


﻿5
(c)   take all steps as shall be necessary on its part to ensure that farmers
in the said districts receive fertilizer in such quantities and at such times as are
recommended in the said extension program.
Section 2.06. In carrying out Part E of the Project:
(a)   Maharashtra shall furnish to the Association for its comments the final
draft of the model by-laws of sheep growers primary cooperative societies; and
(b)   if in any of the first four years of any such society's operations, that
society is unable to generate revenues sufficient to pay the guaranteed amounts
to its shareholders as specified in its by-laws, Maharashtra shall provide, or cause
to be provided, to the society funds sufficient to enable such guaranteed amounts
to be paid.
Section 2.07. With regard to Part F of the Project, Maharashtra shall ensure
that unions of dairy producer cooperatives shall be established only if such unions
are financially viable and shall furnish to the Association for its comments, the
final draft by-laws and projected cash flows of any such proposed union.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
profisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) Maharashtra undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by Maharashtra to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Maharashtra shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available
to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.10. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Maharashtra
shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿6
(b)   Maharashtra: (i) shall maintain in its DPAP Unit and in its DDAS in
the districts of Ahmednagar and Sholapur records adequate to record the progress
of the Project in the said districts (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available
to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project, and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents: and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Maharashtra   shall furnish  quarterly  account summaries to      the
Borrower's Central DPAP Unit not later than two months after the close of each
quarter.
Section 2.11. (a) Maharashtra shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project
in Maharashtra, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   Maharashtra shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project in
Maharashtra, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit therein, or the
performance by Maharashtra of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section   3.01.   Maharashtra   shall  establish  and   maintain:   (i)  an
Interdepartmental Coordination Committee for DPAP under the chairmanship of
the Secretary, Planning Department; and (ii) a Secretariat of the Project Executive
Authorities of the districts of Ahmednagar and Sholapur with powers and
organization satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. Maharashtra shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition with respect to the Project.
Section 3.03. Maharashtra shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
for the Project (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related


﻿7
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by the Accountant General of Maharashtra; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of Maharashtra and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from  time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.04. In order to improve the flow of credit to farmers in the districts
of Ahmednagar and Sholappr, Maharashtra shall:
(a)   take all steps as shall be necessary on its part to promote the
establishment of not less than two Farmers' Service Societies in each of the said
districts not later than December 31, 1975, or such other date as the Association
shall agree;
(b)   appoint to   the Ahmednagar and Sholapur Credit Coordination
Committees respectively: (i) the Project Managers of the DDAS for the said districts;
and (ii) the Sub-divisional Revenue Officers for the said districts; and
(c)   complete not later than December 31, 1975 or such other date as
the Association shall agree, a survey of short-term agricultural credit in the said
district, on terms of reference prepared in cooperation with the Central DPAP
Unit, and shall furnish such survey to the Association upon its completion, for
its comments.
Section 3.05. Maharashtra shall at all times cause the facilities, plant,
equipment and machinery required for that portion of the Project located in
Maharashtra to be operated, maintained, renewed and repaired in accordance with
appropriate engineering and management practices.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of Maharashtra thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:


﻿8
(i)      .the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify Maharashtra of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspension under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Maharashtra:
Secretary
Planning Department
Government of Maharashtra
Sachivalaya
Bombay 40020


﻿9
Cable address:
NIYOJAN
Bombay
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of Maharashtra may be taken or executed by Secretary, Planning Department or
such other person or persons as Maharashtra shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. Maharashtra shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of Maharashtra, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by Maharashtra pursuant to any
of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M. L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE GOVERNOR OF
THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized by the Governor of
The State of Maharashtra
under Article 299(1) of the
Constitution of India to sign
this Agreement


﻿10
SCHEDULE
Description of the Portion of the Project
to be Carried Out by Maharashtra
I.   In the District of Ahmednagar
1.   Under Part A of the Project: The construction of minor irrigation works
including improvements to about 265 existing dugwells, the installation of about
265 additional pump sets, and the construction of 4 tanks with a total command
area of about 900 hectares.
2.    Under Part B of the Project: Command area development for the tanks to
be constructed under Part A.
3.    Under Part C of the Project: Watershed management consisting of:
(i)        the establishment of about 20,000 hectares of improved pasture
on non-arable public lands and village common grazing lands;
(ii)       the construction of bunds on 40,000 hectares of private arable
lands and the repair of bUnds on an additional 60,000 hectares
on private arable lands;
(iii)      the construction of about 350 farm ponds;
(iv)       the establishment of about 4,000 hectares of forests on public
lands, 500 hectares of village wood lots and 300 kilometers of
windbreaks; and
(v)        such other works as shall be agreed from time to time by
Maharashtra and the Association.
4.    Under Part D of the Project: A dry farming development program to extend
improved technology to about 7,500 farmers who cultivate about 30,000 hectares.
5.    Under Part E of the Project: Improvement of sheep and wool production
by the establishment of sheepgrowers societies to manage about 5,000 hectares
of the improved pasture on village common lands referred to in Part C of the
Project, distribution of crossbred rams and the expansion of animal health services.
6.    Under Part F of the Project: The development of dairy production through
the establishment of producer cooperatives and milk collection systems, the


﻿11
establishment and staffing of two mobile veterinary units and two calf raising
centers and the expansion or establishment of one artificial insemination center.
7.    Under Part G of the Project: The construction and equipping of a bagasse
treatment plant.
8.    Under Part J of the Project: The training of project staff.
II.   In the District of Sholapur
1.    Under Part A of the Project: The construction of minor irrigation works
including about 475 dugwells, improvements to about 220 existing dugwells and
the construction of 9 tanks with a command area of about 2,500 hectares.
2.    Under Part B of the Project: Command area development on the lands
irrigated by the tanks to be constructed under Part A.
3.    Under Part C of the Project: Watershed management consisting of:
(i)        establishment of about 15,000 hectares of improved pasture on
non-arable public lands and village common grazing lands;
(ii)       construction of bunds on about 50,000
hectares of private arable lands and the repair of existing bunds
on an additional 75,000 hectares on private arable lands;
(iii)      the construction of about 350 farm ponds;
(iv)       the establishment of about 4,000 hectares of forests on public
lands, 500 hectares on village wood lots and 300 kilometers of
windbreaks; and
(v)        such other works as shall be agreed from time to time by
Maharashtra and the Association.
4.    Under Part D of the Project: A dry farming development program to extend
improved technology to about 7,500 farmers who cultivate about 30,000 hectares.
5.    Under Part E of the Project: Improvement of sheep and wool production
by the establishment of sheepgrowers societies to manage about 5,000 hectares
of the improved pasture on village common lands referred to in Part C of the
Project, distribution of crossbred rams and the expansion of animal health services.


﻿12
6.    Under Part F of the Project: The development of dairy production through
the establishment of producer cooperatives and milk collection systems, the
establishment and staffing of two mobile veterinary units and two calf raising
centers and the expansion or establishment of one artificial insemination center.
7.    Under Part J of the Project: The training of project staff.


