CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 526 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Drought Prone Areas Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 24, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
S
CREDIT NUMBER 526 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Drought Prone Areas Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 24, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 24, 1975, between INDIA, acting by its
President   (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and    INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By agreements of even date herewith between the Association and the
States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan (acting by their respective
Governors and hereinafter respectively called Andra Pradesh, Karnataka and
Rajasthan) and an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Governor of the State of Maharashtra, (hereinafter called Maharashtra), Andhra
Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Maharashtra have each agreed to undertake
certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project.
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the agreements referred to in Recital
(B) above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions),
namely, in Section 2.01, the following paragraph is substituted for paragraph 5:
"5.   The term Borrower means India, acting by its President."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective


﻿4
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Andhra Pradesh" means the State of Andhra Pradesh, a state of India,
or any successor thereof;
(b)   "Karnataka" means the State of Karnataka, a state of India, or any
successor thereof;
(c)   "Rajasthan" means the State of Rajasthan, a state of India, or any
successor thereof;
(d)   "Maharashtra" means the State of Maharashtra, a state of India, or
any successor thereof;
(e)   "the States" means Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan and
Maharashtra;
(f)   "Andhra Pradesh Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Andhra Pradesh of even date herewith as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(g)   "Karnataka Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Karnataka of even date herewith as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(h)   "Rajasthan Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Rajasthan of even date herewith as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(i)   "Maharashtra Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Governor of Maharastra of even date herewith as the same
may be amended from time to time;
(j)   "the States Project Agreements" means the agreements defined in (f)
to (i) of this Section and referred to in Recital (B) of this Agreement and "the
respective State Project Agreement" means in relation to any one of the States,
any such agreement to which that State is a party;
(k)   "ICAR" means Indian Council of Agricultural Research;
(1)   "Drought Prone Areas Program", "Program" or "DPAP" means
Drought Prone Areas Program established by the Borrower during its Fourth Plan
Per:od;


﻿5
(m)   "Project Area" means the districts of Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh,
Bijapur in Karnataka, Jodhpur and Nagaur in Rajasthan and Ahnednagar and
Sholapur in Maharashtra and such additional areas as India and the Association
shall determine;
(r) "DDA" means the District Development Authority established or to
be established in each district included in the Project Area and shall in the case
of Maharashtra include the Project Executive Committee of the District Planning
and Development Councils for the districts of Ahmednagar and Sholapur referred
to in Section 3.01 of the Maharashtra Project Agreement and shall in the case
of Karnataka include the Drought Prone Area Development Authority;
(o)   "Project Implementation Units" means the units in the Project Area
which are to carry out those portions of the Project for which the States under
the States Project Agreements respectively have responsibility, as agreed by the
Borrower and the Association;
(p)   "ARC" means Agricultural Refinance Corporation, a corporation
established by law of the Borrower;
(q)   "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower; and
(r) "Central DPAP Unit" means the unit in the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture concerned with the DPAP.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amouit in various currencies equivalent to thirty five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed


﻿6
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)   When, with respect to any contract for goods described in paragraph
(a) above, the lowest evaluated bid falls under Group C (as defined in paragraph
B(2)(b) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement), the Borrower shall immediately grant
permission to import the goods covered by the contract, and no reviews of such
permission to import shall be made by the Borrower or by any of its agencies,
and all foreign exchange required therefor shall be promptly made available. When,
with respect to any contract, the lowest evaluated bid falls under Group A or
under Group B (as defined in paragraph B(2)(b) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement),
the Borrower shall: (i) promptly upon receipt of the appropriate applications, issue,
or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall be required to implement the
contract; (ii) make available, or cause to be made available, promptly as needed,
all foreign exchange which shall be required therefor; and (iii) with respect to
locally produced materials which are subject to allocation, make, or cause to be
made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such quantities as shall be
required for such contract.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 1 and
November I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May I and November 1 commencing
May 1, 1985 and ending November 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the
Project to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound financial, administrative and engineering practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall take and cause all its agencies to take
all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable the States to perform
all of their obligations under the States' Project Agreements and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(c)   In order to assist the States in carrying out Parts A through H and
K of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to the States the proceeds
of the Credit under Categories (1), (2) and (3) of Schedule 1, in accordance with
the Borrower's standard arrangements for assistance to the States of India for
development.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in advising the States in carrying
out Parts C, E, F, I, and J of the Project, the Borrower shall employ a pasture
development advisor, an advisor for calf rearing centers, a senior pasture agronomist
and an agro-meteorologist, and, in order to assist the Borrower in advising
Maharashtra, in carrying out Part G of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
a bagasse treatment specialist, all with qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes to ensure that at all times prior to
the Closing Date, the following positions shall be filled by persons with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association: (i) the Senior
Agricultural Economist of the All-India Coordinated Research Project for Dryland
Farming of ICAR; (ii) the three senior specialists in soil conservation and dry
farming, irrigation and economics in the Central DPAP Unit.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall in carrying out any research project under
Part I of the Project finalize the terms of reference for such research project in
consultation with the Association.


﻿8
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall ensure the preparation of a banking
plan by ARC for each of the districts included in the Project Area and shall furnish
such banking plans to the Association for its comments.
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that ARC undertakes the appraisal and
sanctioning of proposals received from the States for institutional financing under
the Project in such phasing and volume as shall facilitate the implementation by
the States of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall insure, or cause to be insured, or make,
or cause to be made, adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain in its Central DPAP Unit
(A) records adequate to record the progress of Parts I and J of the Project to
be carried out by the said Central DPAP Unit (including the cost thereof), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under
the said Parts of the Project, and (B) separate summary accounts for each district
included in the Project Area, for ICAR and for the Central DPAP Unit, said
summary accounts to be based on summaries furnished by the DPAP Units of
the States and by ICAR, or summaries available at the Central DPAP Unit (ii)
maintain in ICAR records adequate to (A) record the progress of Part I of the
Project (including the cost thereof), (B) identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit under the said Part of the Project; (iii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project, and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents; and (iv) furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all steps as shall be necessary on its
part to ensure that farmers in the districts included in the Project Area in which
dry farming is to be carried out under the Project, receive fertilizer in such quantities
and at such times as are recommended by extension services.


﻿9
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. In order to coordinate the execution of the Drought Prone
Areas Program, to review the performance of the sub-sectors involved in the
Program, to ensure consistency of technical norms with those of other programs,
and to advise officials of departments concerned with the execution of the Program,
the Borrower shall establish an Interdepartmental Coordination Committee, under
the chairmanship of the Secretary of the Department concerned with the DPAP.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments and agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower and the Association shall exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the performance of the obligations of the States
and the Association under the States Project Agreements and shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the performance of the said obligations by the States and the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any of the States shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or other obligation of such State under the respective State Project Agreement;
and
(b)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that any of the States shall be able to perform its obligations under
the respective State Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified namely, that, any event specified in
Section 5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of
the General Conditions, namely, the submission to the Association by the Borrower
of evidence that the three senior specialists in soil conservation and dry farming,
irrigation and economics in the Central DPAP Unit have been appointed in
accordance with Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date May 30, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.01 of this Agreement and those of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
this Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director
or Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the
Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi


﻿11
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D. C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives 'iereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s!/ M. L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
(a)  Andhra Pradesh            1,300,000    )
(b)  Karnataka                 3,700,000    )    95%
(c)  Maharashtra               3,500,000    )
(d)  Rajasthan                 1,200,000    )
(2)   Machinery, equip-
ment, vehicles
and livestock:
)     100% of foreign
)nP0   expenditures
(a)  Andhra Pradesh             4000        )    (c.i.f.) for im-
(b)  Karnataka                  400,000     )    ported items and
(c)  Maharashtra                700,000     )    80% of local ex-
(d)   Rajasthan                1,100,000    )    penditures for
)     locally procured
)     items
(3)  Operating costs
of DDAS and Proj-
ect Implementa-
tion Units:
(a)  Andhra Pradesh            ,400,000    )
(b)  Karnataka                 1 ,300,000   )    60%
(c)  Maharashtra               2,200,000    )
(d)   Rajasthan                2,000,000
(4)  Technical assis-               1,300,000          100%
tance and research
under Parts C, E,
F G   I and J of
the Project
(5)   Unallocated                  14,500,000
TOTAL        35,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrowe:, and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   more than 47.5% of expenditures under Category (1) relating to the
construction of any tank included in Part A of the Project until the Association
is furnished with a certificate of the Project Manager of the DDA in the district
concerned showing that development has started in the command area of the said
tank in accordance with plans consistent with those approved by the Association
for the district; and
(c)   expenditures relating to the portion of the Project to be carried out
by a State unless and until the Association notifies the Borrower that it has been
furnished with: (i) evidence satisfying it that the execution and delivery of the
respective State Project Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental action, (ii) an opinion or opinions of counsel acceptable
to the Association showing that the respective State Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the State
concerned and is legally binding upon such State in accordance with its terms,
and (iii) evidence showing that a DDA has been established in each district forming
part of the Project Area in the State concerned and a Project Manager with the
rank of Additional Collector appointed to such a DDA.


﻿14
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) with respect to Categories (1), (2): local expenditures, (3) and (4) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is part of the Borrower's Drought Prone Areas Program,
is designed to increase and stabilize the production from agriculture and related
activities in the Project Area. The portion of the Project to be carried out in each
of the States is set forth in the Schedule to the respective State Project Agreement.
The Project in the aggregate consists of the following Parts:
A.    The construction of minor irrigation works including dug wells, tubewells,
and tanks, with a total command area of about 20,000 hectares.
B.    Command area development of about 12,000 hectares irrigated by the
tubewells and tanks to be constructed under Part A of the Project.
C.    Watershed management and related works including: (i) land use capability
surveys; (ii) soil and moisture conservation works to protect about 370,000
hectares of arable land and about 80,000 hectares of non-arable public and
village common pasture land; (iii) the establishment of improved grasses on
the above-mentioned 80,000 hectares as well as on about 10,000 hectares
of private land; (iv) afforestation of about 16,000 hectares of public lands,
the establishment of about 2,000 hectares of public village woodlots and
about 1,200 kilometers of roadside and boundary windbreaks, plus farm
woodlots and boundary plantings; and (v) the stabilization of about 1,000
hectares of sand dunes.
D.    A dry farming development program to extend improved technology to about
37,500 farmers who cultivate around 200,000 hectares.
E.    The improvement of sheep and wool production by the establishment of
about 370 sheep growers co-operatives to manage the improved pasture on
village common lands referred to in Part C(iii) of the Project, distribution
of crossbred rams and expansion of animal health services.
F.    The development of dairy production through the establishment of producers
cooperatives and milk collection systems, the establishment and staffing of
mobile veterinary units and calf rearing centers and the establishment or
expansion of artificial insemination units.
G.    Fodder banking and of a pilot project for cane bagasse treatment to increase
its fodder value.


﻿16
H.    The preparation and execution of diversification projects in sericulture,
horticulture, and inland fisheries.
I.    Pasture development agrometeorology and agroeconomic research on dryland
farming.
J.    The training of Project staff.
K.    Measures to improve the flow of agricultural credit.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1980.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts for drilling equipment shall be let under procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    (a)   Contracts estimated to cost $12,500 or more for the construction of
tanks and for the procurement of machinery, equipment and vehicles, shall be
let after competitive bidding based on local advertising.
(b)   Contracts estimated to cost less than $12,500 for the procurement
of machinery, equipment and vehicles shall be let on the basis of prudent shopping.
(c)   For any contracts for imported bulls included in Category 2, quotations
shall be invited from  at least three countries free from foot-and-mouth disease,
to be selected in agreement with the Association. All such contracts shall be subject
to approval by the Association as regards age, price, quality, source and suitability
of bulls.
(d)   Civil works to be executed by the States (other than tank construction)
shall be carried out by force account or, at the option of a State, after competitive
bidding based on local advertising.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference fbr Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿18
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in India.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
I.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:


﻿19
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


