Dacusect or
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY       -
CM /'    4 ~?    - 93 o/<
Report No. P-4299-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt165 MiLLION
AND A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 47.6 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
May 1, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Pakistan Rupee (Rs) is fixed in
relation to a basket of reference currencies, with the
US dollar serving as intervention currency. On November 30,
1985 the official exchange rate was:
US$1.00         = Rs.16.37
Rs 1.00         = US$0.061
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  -  June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADBP            -   Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
FMCO            -  Functional Mobile Credit Officer
mCO             -  Mobile Credit Officer
HCOI            -  Mobile Credit Officer for Intensified Schemes
PLS             -  Profit and Loss Sharing
RtTO            -  Regional Technical Officer
SBP             -  State Bank of Pakistan
SCARP           -   Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
T&V             -  Training and Visits



FOR OMCILAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiary:            Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP)
Amount:                 Loan:  US$165 million
Credit: SDR 47.6 million (US$55 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Loan:  repayment in 20 years including 5 years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate
Credit: standard
Relending Terms:        The loan proceeds would be on-lent to ADBP at cost,
with repayment over 15 years, including 3 years of
grace. The credit proceeds would be on-lent to
ADBP at an annual interest rate of 4% (or
equivalent under Islamic modes of financing), with
repayment over 20 years, including 5 years of
grace. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Description:    The Project has the objective to further strengthen
ADBP as a sound and self-sustaining lending
institution. It would provide, through ADBP, loans
to farmers for medium- and long-term agricultural
investments in farm mechanization, implements and
equipment, private minor irrigation, dairy
development, poultry and other livestock, orchards,
vegetables, minor crops and other on-farm
development. The main risk is the effect of
Islamization on ADBP's administrative costs and
financial position. The project includes specific
measures to minimize this risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipiens only in the performuace
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Costs: 1I/             Local             Foreign         Total
- -  -      US$ million      -
Farm Development Loans
Tractors                         365.6             346.5           712.1
Farm Implements                   56.4               6.3            62.7
Private Ninor Irrigation          16.4              10.2            26.6
Dairy Development                 97.8               4.6           102.4
Poultry and other Livestock       54.2               5.7            59.9
Orchards, Vegetables and
Ninor Crops                   24.1               8.0           32.1
Other On-Farm Development         37.0               3.1            40.1
FisherY  Development Loans         3.1               3.1             6.2
Project Loans for Agroindustry   85.0               85.0           170.0
Short-Term Loans                 160.8              69.1           229.9
Vehicles and Equipment             4.6               4.3             8.9
Training and Techn. Specialists   0.4                2.2             2.6
Staff College Buildings            0.5                -              0.5
Base Cost                 905.9            548.1         1,454.0
Physical Contingencies             1.6               1.2             2.8
Price Contingencies              111.3             102.6           213.9
Total Project Cost       1,018.8             651.9        1,670.7
Financing Plan:                  Local             Foreign        Total
uS$ million
Borrowers' Contribution          125.2               -             125.2
SBP                              480.5            411.9            892.4
Government                        11.6               -              11.6
ADBP and Other Financiers        401.5             20.0            421.5
IBRD                               -              165.0            165.0
IDA                                                55.0             55.0
1,018.8           651.9          1,670.7
1/ Includes US$173 million equivalent in taxes and duties.



-iii-
Estimated Disbursements:
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91
Annual                        25.2   50.1   79.7   47.0   18.0
Cumulative                    25.2   75.3  155.0  202.0  220.0
Appraisal Report: No. 6041-PAK, dated April 15, 1986.
Rate of Return:   n.a.
Map            :   IBRD No. 19548



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO TH'E ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN FOR A SIXTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
and Credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for US$165 million and
SDR 47.6 million (US$55 million equivalent), respectively, to help finance a
Sixth Agricultural Development Bank Project. The Loan would have a term of
20 years, including five years' grace, at the standard variable interest
rate; the Credit would be on standard IDA terms. The proceeds of the Loan
would be onlent to the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) at
cost for 15 years, including three years of grace. The proceeds of the
Credit would be onlent to ADBP for 20 years, including five years' grace, at
4Z interest per annum (or equivalent under Islamic financing modes).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report, "Pakistan:  Economic and Social
Development Prospects" (No. 5962-PAK, dated February 18, 1986), was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on March 3, 1986.
3.      Economic growth rebounded strongly in FY85 after the slowdown in the
previous year. Assisted by a strong recovery in the agricultural sector,
real GDP increased by 8.4Z, compared to 3.5% in FY84. Value added in agricul-
ture grew by 9.9Z and in manufacturing by 8.6%. Both fixed investment and
private investment rose by about 12%. Improved availability of agricultural
commodities helped to reduce the rate of inflation to 7.5% from 8.4% in FY84.
On the other hand, the budget deteriorated markedly, national savings
decreased, and the balance of payments came under pressure. Government
current revenues fell short of the budgeted amount while expenditures sub-
stantially exceeded the budgeted amounts. As a result, government borrowing
from the domestic banking system increased from 1.9% of GDP in FY84 tu 3.9%
of GDP. Reflecting largely the sharp drop in public savings, national
savings fell from 12.8% to 11.2% of GNP. Although the immediate growth
prospects are good, budgetary and balance o; payments developments will need
to be carefully watched.
1I Parts I and II are substantially the same as those in the President's
Report for the "SCARP Transition Pilot Project" (Report No. P-4273-PAK
dated April 15, 1986).



-2-
4.      The balance of payments deteriorated in FY85.  The current account
deficit stood at US$1.6 billion, compared to US$1 billion in FY84. Lower
exports and remittances were the main contributing factors. Exports declined
by 7.3% as the country's major exports, cotton and rice, suffered the effects
of lower prices and lower volumes, respectively. Furthermore, remittances
declined for the second successive year, falling by 10.6% in FY85. According
to recent projections, net migration is expected to decline and thus remit-
tances will be! lower over the medium term. As a result of the higher current
deficit and low net capital flows, the reserve drawdown reached US$960
million. Gross official gold and foreign exchange reserves were US$1.2
b llion at the end of FY85, which was equivalent to 2 months of imports of
goods and services.
5.      The process of gradually eliminating interest rates from the economy,
initiated in 1980, was completed in July 1985. All transactions are now
based on new financing modes consistent with Islamic principles. Existing
interest-based commitments have been honored and transactions with foreign
governments and financial institutions are not affected. It is too early to
determine with any certainty the potential costs of Islamization.
Undoubtedly, the operation of the new system will initially involve some
costs, but whether long-run efficiency will be affected will depend on how
the system is applied. To date, the Government has proceeded cautiously,
and new financing modes have been applied flexibly and developments monitored
closely.
6.      The strong recovery in GDP growth in FY85 meant that the overall
growth rate achieved in the first two years of the Sixth Plan was consistent
with the improved performance achieved during the Fifth Plan period
(FY79-83). Growth in national output (6.5Z), agriculture (4.2X), manufactur-
ing (10.4Z), exports (11), and private investment (6.7X), though below Sixth
Plan targets, was well above the rates achieved during FY70-78 and very
respectable compared with the growth rates of other developing countries.
Growth during this period--coupled with increased remittances--benefited
large segments of the population. Performance improved despite a number of
adverse factors: (a) a world recession; (b) a 30% decline in the external
terms of trade after 1979; and (c) the Afghanistan crisis with its attendant
expenditures for increased defense and refugee assistance.
7.      Fiscal performance and the balance of payments improved significantly
during the Fifth Plan. The overall budget deficit and Government bank
borrowing, which in FY79 stood at 8.8% and 4.3% of GDP respectively, fell to
6.4% and 1.7% by FY83. As the levels of Government borrowing from banks
dropped and overall credit expansion was restrained, the growth of the money
supply slowed down and inflationary pressures lessened; inflation dropped
from 8% to 5% by the end of the Plan period. The improved fiscal performance
was largely the result of expenditure restraint rather than better revenue
performance. Real expansion in current expenditures on economic and social
services barely kept pace with popuLation growth, and development expendi-
tures declined relative to GDP. Government revenues remained constant at 16X



-3-
of GDP, and public savings, having risen in the first half of the Plan period
from 1% to 3.8% of GNP, dropped to 1.6% by FY83. Assisted by remittances,
but alsz strong export growth, the current account deficit fell from 5% of
GNP to 2Z by the end of the Plan Period. Gross reserves increased from 3.5
to 4.5 months of imports of goods and services.
8.      In addition to improving economic management through fiscal and
monetary policies, the Government took measures to improve performance in
the commodity-producing sectors. In agriculture, all major crops reached
record output levels, with wheat and sugar achieving self-sufficiency.
Subsidies on pesticides were virtually eliminated, while fertilizer prices
were raised to reduce the subsidy burden. Crop procurement prices were
adjusted to bring them closer to world prices. Provincial aLlocations for
operations and maintenance in irrigation were increased, along with water
charges. Encouraged by improved policies and incentives, private manufactur-
ing investment grew by 10.9% per annum. Areas open to the private sector
were widened, most agricultural processing units were denationalized, and
sanctioning limits increased. A flexible exchange rare policy adopted in
1982 was instrumental in stimulating manufactured exports, while import
liberalization increased the availability of raw materials and capital goods.
In energy, measures were taken to accelerate the development of domestic
resources, rationalize prices, and improve policy formulation and energy
planning capabilities.
9.      The developments in Pakistan's economy since FY78 represent welcome
steps toward the solution of problems that are essentially stuctural and
long-term in nature. Nevertheless, further wide-ranging measures must be
introduced to address structural issues. Pakistan's long-term growth
prospects depend on the resolution of two such issues: (a) the need to
increase the level and efficiency of public investment; and (b) the need to
encourage export expansion and efficient import substitution. If Pakistan
is to sustain high economic growth, it must make major infrastructure
investments, upgrade existing facilities, and strengthen its neglected social
base. The last has fared badly as a result of resource constraints, as is
reflected in Pakistan's social indicators, which lag seriously behind those
of other dt eloping countries at comparable levels of development. It will
not be possible to increase public investment and recurrent allocations
without a major domestic resource mobilization effort. Although Pakistan
should give priority to reforming indirect taxation through a broad-based
sales tax, it should also rely more on user charges, should curtail
subsidies, and increase self-financing by public enterprises. Given the
continuing constrained outlook for officiaL assistance and the likelihood of
lower remittance flows, sustained improvements in both export expansion and
efficient import substitution will be necessary to support high growth with
sustainable external capital requirements. If trade performance is to be
improved, structural adjustment must be continued and strengthened in the key
sectors of agriculture, industry, and energy. Both agriculture and industry
have considerable potential for increased exports and some degree of effi-
cient import substitution. In energy, the accelerated development of



-4-
Pakistan's under-exploited resources can contribute considerably to the
reduction of cnergy imports.
10.     In agriculture, high growth has been largely the result of increased
acreage; yet average yields remain low by world standards and by those of
progressive farmers within Pakistan. Before agricultural productivity and
diversification can be increased, institutional support must be strengthened,
appropriate pricing policies must be put in place, and the core investment
program identified and implemented. More effective institutional support
should be sought through improvements in the quality and quantity of services
to farmers. In particular, strengthening the seed program requires more
efficient seed multiplication and dissemination, increased efficiency in
public sector plants, and a greater role for the private sector. The
delivery of agricultural credit also needs to be improved to ensure that it
actually reaches small farmers and tenants, whose credit needs are greatest.
Furthermore, marketing costs need to be reduced and research and extension
services strengthened. Agricultural pricing policies should create
appropriate incentives to farmers, while minimizing subsidies. Multicrop
approaches to pricing should complement the single-crop, cost-of-production
approach currently used.  Finally, a core investment program in agriculture
and water is needed to reduce the possibility of distortions in investment
priorities. Low cost programs that yield quick returns should be emphasized
along with critical infrastructure investments that raise farm productivity.
Creater emphasis on the complementarity of investment programs, especially
between agriculture and water, would ensure that priority is accorded to
programs that increase agricultural productivity rather than merely augment
the supply of physical infrastructure.
11.     Despite fairly rapid industrial growth accompanied at times by rapid
expansion of manufactured exports in recent years, there are a number of
issues the Government must address if this performance is to be sustained.
High levels of protection have led to high cost, low quality domestic produc-
tion both by raising input prices and by reducing the demand for new technol-
ogy to raise productivity and improve product quality. If Pakistan is to
increase and diversify its manufactured export base and encourage efficient
import substitution, industrial incentives must be rationalized to reduce
both the level and dispersion of effective protection rates. The objective
here is to increase the efficiency of the industrial sector by exposing
protected producers to greater foreign competition and to reduce the anti-
export bias inherent in the present incentives. In addition, the Government
should reform the regulations affecting investment sanctioning and cost-plus
pricing in order to improve competition among domestic firms. It should
limit sanctioning to a few cases of strategic importance, leaving most
investment decisions to the private sec_or, which is better able to assess
investment opportunities. Cost-plus pricing arrangements with a number of
key private and public manufacturing enterprises, which provide insufficient
incentives to minimize costs or allocate capital efficiently, should be
replaced by market-oriented approaches, which better reflect supply/demand



-5-
conditions and provide adequate incentives for reinvestment and operationaL
efficiency.
12.     Issues that needed to be addressed in the energy sector pertain to
three broad areas: (a) investment and development; (b) pricing; (c) institu-
tional strengthening. In the power subsector, the Government has formulated
a least-cost development plan for the period 1986-2005 and has outlined a
core investment program of Rs 30 billion consisting of high priority projects
to be implemented during FY86 to FY88. Given the likelihood of domestic
resource constraints and persistent power shortages, the Government is also
undertaking a number of measures including tariff increases to ensure that a
large portion of this investment program would be financed from WAPDA's
self-generated resources. The gas producer pricing formula for new dis-
coveries has been adjusted to provide adequate incentives to attract private
sector exploration. Because consumer gas prices were kept artificially low
to encourage the substitution of gas for imported oil, relative prices became
distorted and the use of gas uneconomic. Since 1982, the Government policy
has been to progressively increase consumer prices of gas in order to reach
two-thirds of fuel oil parity by 1988; the FY86 budget increased the average
gas price by over 50%. Assisted by domestic price increases and lower inter-
national prices for fuel oil, the Government's target has been realized. The
Government should continue the policy of gradually adjusting gas prices with
a view to reaching full parity as early as possible. Electricity tariffs,
which are currently below the long-run marginal cost, should be adjusted to
reflect this cost, not only to ensure the efficient use of electricity and
encourage energy conservation, but also to mobilize the substantial addi-
tional funds required by the power investment program. Finally, the
Government should consider increasing the autonomy of public enterprises in
the energy sector to improve their efficiency and should continue to
strengthen energy planning and policy coordination.
13.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY83-88) articulates a pragmatic strategy
for Pakistan's continued rapid development that includes an expanded role
for the private sector, increased public development expenditures, and
increased allocations for energy, agriculture, irrigation, and the social
sectors. Although the size and composition of the Plan are appropriate,
development expenditures during the first two years of the Plan have been
8.5Z lower than the amounts projected because of insufficient domestic
resources. Although this would not appear overly large, the way in which
sectoral shortfalls have been distributed contradicts Plan priorities.
Education, energy, health, and agriculture have received considerably lower
allocations than called for in the Plan. Furthermore, without a predefined
core investment program, there is a tendency to distribute shortfalls evenly
over a large number of projects within a sector; thus too many projects have
been initiated, and projects that should receive priority are underfunded.
To address this issue, the Government has re-introduced a Three-Year Priority
investment Program (FY86-88). The Government has emphasized that the adop-
tion of a rolling medium-term program does not mean that plan strategies and
priorities are being revised, or that shortfalls are considered inevitable.



-6-
The program will merely identify sectoral core investment programs to be
given priority in annual plans. If priority investments, especially in key
areas, could be protected, the public investment program would become more
effective and its priorities..ould be sharpened.
14.     The improved performance and policy framework of the Fifth Plan,
which the Government intends to continue during the Sixth Plan, have improved
Pakistan's creditworthiness for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing and commer-
cial borrowing. At the end of 1984, Pakistan's external public debt (exclud-
ing the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$9.9 billion, of which US$4.6 bil-
lion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan consortium, US$1.2 billion
to OPEC, US$2.3 billion to multilateral agencies, and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. At the same time, the Bank Group's share in
Pakistan's external public indebtedness was 16.2%, and in external debt
service it was 8.0%. According to Bank projections, if recent policy
improvements are sustained and structural issues addressed, Pakistan's debt
service will remain about 20% during the remainder of the 1980s, even with
somewhat higher levels of commercial borrowing.
PART II - THE BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.    As of September 30, 1985, the cumulative total of Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan (exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof that
were disbursed in the former East Pakistan) amounted to approximately US$3.7
billion, and IFC's investments totalled $193.5 million. (Annex II contains a
summary Statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.)
16.     During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in most sectors of the economy. For example, it has participated
with other donors, over a 20-year period, in a major program of works to
develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 30% of total
Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture and irrigation;
28Z for industry, including import program credits; 18X for transport,
telecommunications, and public utility services; 14% for energy, including
power, gas pipelines, and petroleum; 5% for social programs in education,
population, and urban development; and 5% for structural adjustment lending
and technical assistance.
17.     Currently, the Bank's assistance strategy is to support the
Government of Pakistan's efforts to formulate and implement policy reforms
in three sectors--energy, industry, and agriculture--which shape the struc-
tural adjustment of the economy. To ensure that the gains from adjustment
are sustained in the long term and shared more broadly, the strategy also
includes investments in physical infrastructure and the social sectors
(education, population, etc.) that have been neglected in Pakistan's develop-
ment efforts. If this strategy is to succeed, the full range of traditional
instruments of Bank support must be flexibly deployed--from sector work and



-7-
active policy dialogue, to policy- and projecL-based lending, technical
assistance and aid coordination. The Bank Group's lending program comprises
two components, the larger of which supports specific high-priority invest-
ments in productive sectors and physical and social infrastructure. The
smaller but nonethelesL strategic component focuses on policy reforms in the
key sectors of agriculture, industry, and energy and relies heavily on high-
quality economic and sector work. The program includes a series of technical
assistance credits to finance studies and formulate action programs for
policy reform. The experience with the first of these has been extremely
positive. In addition, through its annual CouAtry Economic Memorandum, the
Bank Group tries to foster greater understanding on the part of Consortium
members of the Government's structural adjustment program and aid
requirements. This effort, coupled with increased cofinancing, should
enhance the policy relevance and effectiveness of other official aid and help
attract additional resources to Pakistan from nonconcessional sources.
18.     Historically, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lending
for agriculture, which is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy. The Bank and
the Covernment have agreed that the main objective of the agricultural
strategy and, consequently, lending to the sector should be to increase
agricultural productivity through improvements in the efficiency of the
irrigation system and supporting agricultural services. Among the issues
being addressed are: the balance between short-gestation projects and
projects with a longer-term focus, rationalization of input and output
prices, marketing, improvements in operation and maintenance, cost recovery,
and a wider role for the private sector. Projects in the sector have ranged
from irrigation/drainage to agricultural inputs, research, and extension and
have included institution-building components. Overall, progress in agricul-
ture has been satisfactory.
19.     In industry, the strategy has two complementary aspects:  to
strengthen and broaden the structural adjustment in Pakistan's industrial
sector and to support the Government's efforts to revitalize the private
sector through industrial financing. The industrial reform program has been
designed to improve the competitiveness of the sector with a view to promot-
ing export expansion and imDort substitution. Issues being addressed
include trade and industrial incentives, deregulation, efficiency of public
enterprises, pricing decontrol, and improvements in the credit delivery
system. Lines of credit extended to development finance institutions and
other financial intermediaries have been mainly f r the private sector.
Direct lending for industry has also included assistance to three large
fertilizer plants and a refinery engineering loan. IFC's investments in 16
Pakistan enterprises were by way of loans (US$182 million) and equity par-
ticipation (US$11.3 million); these are shown in Annex II. Although
individual operations have generally achieved their objectives, the agenda
for overall industrial reform remains formidable.
20.     As a result of the progress under the Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) in 1981/82 and the Energy Sector Loan in 1985, our lending program in



-8-
energy is expanding rapidly. The overall objective here is to expand the
domestic supply from aLl energy subsectors and simultaneously increase the
efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing, conservation, and other
methods of managing demand. No less central have been the efforts to
strengthen key institutions in the sector. In power, the Bank has helped
both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation and the Water and Power
Development Authority to finance their power generation and transmission
programs. The construction of the Mangla and Tarbela dams under the Indus
Basin Development Program, in which the Bank played a leadership role, has
also assisted in achieving the objectives of the sector strategy. In oil
and gas, the Bank has financed a sound exploration and development program
and has assisted in developing the extensive gas transmission system.
Smaller efforts, involving mainly engineering studies and technical
assistance, have been undertaken to support coal exploration, energy audits,
and oil refining. Despite much progress, however, the Bank will need to
continue participating in institution building and help the Government mobi-
lize adequate funds for energy investments through tariffs, co-financing, and
greater private sector participation.
21.     Bank Group lending for transport and communications has focused both
on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of existing
assets. Efforts have also been made to strengthen the institutions respon-
sible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust, Pakistan
Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and provincial
highway agencies. However, inadequate transport infrastructure is now con-
sidered to be critical constraint to overall growth, in large measure because
infrastructure stock has run down. Thus, the balance between new investments
and the efficient operation and maintenance of existing investments needs
greater attention.
22.     With an overall literacy rate of only 24%, a population growth rate
of about 3.1%, and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces an equally formidable
development agenda in the social sector. The Bank has supported the
Government' s programs in education through five credits designed to upgrade
primary, post-secondary, and higher technical and agricultural education as
well as middle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural extension
agents. The focus has been and will continue to be on the lower end of the
education spectrum (primary, technical, and nonformal education). A first
population project designed to expand the demand for population control
services was approved in FY83. Furthermore, the Bank has financed four
projects in the urban and water supply sector. Besides providing urban
services, these operations are designed to improve local resource mobi-
lization and cost recovery; planning and efficiency of resource utilization;
and urban management, especially at the provincial and municipal leveLs.
23.     In addition to the above, policy-based lending was pursued through
the SAL and an Energy Sector Loan mentioned in para. 20. The SAL program
introduced a number of significant reforms in government development planning
and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy, and industrial



-9-
sectors; by the time the loan was fully disbursed at the end of FY83, sig-
nificant progress had been achieved in the above areas. The ESL supports the
Government reform program for the energy sector and assists in the implemen-
tation of a core investment program for the sector. Continuing support for
the structural adjustment process is envisioned under other sector loans in
the next few years.
24.     In general, disbursements have been satisfactory.  Some projects have
experienced initial delays owing to protracted government procedures for
project approval (but these problems are now being addressed), and the
procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of managerial and techni-
cal staff, partly due to migration to the Middle East and partly to budgetary
constraints, has also been a problem in some projects.
25.     A number of operations are currently being prepared or appraised.
These include projects for power transmission, generation, and conservation;
oil and gas exploration and development; coal development; lines of credit
for industrial financing for the private sector, and for industrial subsector
restructuring, balancing, and modernization; irrigation/drainage, and
agricultural inputs and services; highway construction and maintenance;
primary and informal education; urban development and water supply. Sector
loans that would support further structural adjustment in industry and
agriculture are being discussed with the Government. Where successful, such
loans would provide a policy umbrella for projects in those sectors. To help
the Government finance agricultural and other high-priority projects having
low foreign exchange component, the Bank Group is financing some local expen-
ditures on a case-by-case basis.
26.     Economic and sector work provides the basis for the continuing
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan on development
strategy, the sector and project lending strategy and operations, and the
coordination of external assistance within the Pakistan Consortium. The work
program emphasizes resource mobilization, structural adjustment in the three
key sectors, and the development of the physical and social infrastructure.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
27.     Role of Sector and Recent Performance.  Despite its declining rela-
tive importance, agriculture continues to be the mainstay of Pakistan's
economy. It contributes about 30Z of gross domestic product, provides about
two-thirds of total exports, and employs approximately 55% of the country's
labor force. After a period of sluggish growth in the 1970s, agricultural
output rose rapidLy at an average rate of 4.4Z per annum between FY79 and
FY83. In FY84, partly due to untimely rains affecting the wheat crop and
serious infestation of the important cotton crop, this growth trend was
interrupted, resulting in a fall in agricultural value added. However, a
return to the earlier rapid growth trend was reported for FY85, with a sec-
toral growth rate of nearly 10Z. Pakistan's potential for sustained high
growth remains unrealized. Yields have stagnated, with expansion of acreage



-10-
alone providing the bulk of the increase in output. Application of existing
technologies by farmers to close this yield gap is constrained by various
factors, including deficient provision of key inputs including research,
extension and credit.
Government Policy and Bank Group Assistance and Strategy
28.     Over the past six years, performance of the sector and prospects for
overcoming the above production constraints have been closely linked with the
Government's sectoral policies. The Government's National Agricultural
Policy, announced in 1980, emphasized: (i) a progressive adjustment of
prices of key agricultural inputs and outputs to reflect real resource costs;
(ii) a gradual transfer to the private sector of activities such as the
distribution of key inputs and the exploitation of fresh groundwater; (iii) a
re-orientation in recurrent and investment expenditures on optimizing the use
of existing irrigation facilities, rather than on new, large infrastructural
investments; and (iv) a substantial increase in credit delivery to boost
agricultural production. These policies recognize that sustaining agricul-
tural growth and extracting the potential benefits of huge investments made
thus far in irrigation infrastructure would require improved operation and
maintenance (O&M), increased efficiency and reliability of water delivery and
use, expanded drainage facilities in saline groundwater (SGW) areas, and
improved supporting agricultural services, including credit. Actions taken
by the Government to implement these policies were sustained through FY83
supported by the Fertilizer Imports Credit (No. 1066-PAK) and the Structural
Adjustment Loan/Credit (No. 2166-PAK/No. 1255-PAY). In FY84 and FY85,
however, the momentum slackened, particularly in phasing out water and fer-
tilizer subsidies and in broadening privitization efforts. Through a
proposed Agricultural Sector Loan (under preparation) efforts are underway to
restore momentum to the pace of policy reform. Complementing the policy-
based lending operation cited above, the Bank has financed a spectrum of
priority projects in on-farm water management, irrigation rehabilitation,
drainage, extension and research, and credit. Further projects are planned
in these areas and new operations may be added in agro-industries and the
prevention of agricultural environmental degradation. This project focuses
on credit.
29.     Agricultural Credit - Sources and Policy.  The delivery system for
rural credit consists of three main outlets, the Agricultural Development
Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) with a share of 42% in total agricultural lending
in FY85, commercial banks with 42%, and the ;.ooperative banking system with
16%. Credit available to the agriculture sector grew from FY79 to FY85 by
32% annually, or US$85 million equivalent on average. In FY85, 63% of
agricultural credit provided was short-term production credit, mainly
provided by commercial banks and the cooperative system through the Federal
Bank for Cooperatives (FBC), and the remaining 37% for medium- and long-term
development loans, mainly provided by ADBP (87%).



-ll-
30.     The banking system in Pakistan is controlled by the State Bank of
Pakistan (SBP). SBP, through its Agricultural Credit Department (ACD), sets:
(i) lending targets for the agriculture sector, with sub-targets for ADBP,
commercial banks, and cooperative banks; (ii) targets for lending to farmers
with 25 ac or less; and (iii) ceilings on medium- and long-term Lending by
commercial banks and cooperative banks. ACD works under guidelines in the
Annual Credit Plan drawn up by the National Credit Consultative Council. SBP
is also responsible for the policy directives regarding Islamization of the
banking system as initiated by the Government in 1979. In recent years, ADBP
and FBC have been heavily dependent on SBP funds to finance expansion
programs. As approved by SBP, their policy objectives are to concentrate
efforts on increasing the volume and number of loans, particularly to farmers
with 25 ac or less, and, at the same time, to improve portfolio quality
through better loan appraisal and supervision.
31.     Issues in Agricultural Credit:  Over the years, the Bank Group has
focused on improving the efficiency of the delivery of credit by building
the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan into a viable and sound
institution. There may be scope to expand Bank assistance in future opera-
tions to the agricultural credit system as a whole and to relate agricultural
credit to the country's overall financial system. This matter will be
closely followed in the course of implementation of the proposed project. A
second set of issues revolve around the beneficiaries of credit, the assets
and services for which it is used, its impact on agricultural productivity
and cost recovery. Again, the series of ADBP projects have tackled all these
aspects and have offered lessons which need to be examined and possibly
replicated within the framework of the agricultural credit system as a whole.
Thirdly, the recent Islamization of Banking in Pakistan has necessitated a
number of modifications under the proposed project to ensure soundness in
ADBP's lending operations. Some of these considerations are likely to apply
to other lenders of agricultural credit as well. Islamization and the
experience and lessons from past ADBP operations are examined below.
Islamization of Banking
32.     Background:  Since 1979, elimination of interest from the banking
system has taken a prominent place within the policy of Islamization of the
economy. In February 1985, SBP started to use Islamic modes for lending
funds to ADBP, and in April 1985 ADBP also started using Islamic modes of
financing.
33.     Modes of Financing:  Modes of financing relevant to agricultural
finance in the Islamic banking system are: lending with service charge;
trade-related financing through mark-up (morabaha), leasing, and hire-
purchase; investment financing through profit-and-loss sharing (PLS or
musharika). Of these, leasing and hire-purchase are also used in conven-
tional interest-based banking. Service-charge financing does not involve
interest, but the financial intermediary may recover a service charge,
limited to a proportionate cost of the operation. In the case of ADBP, the



-12-
limit is 3% per annum. Under mark-up financing (about 40Z of ADBP's annual
lending), the financial institution purchases assets involved in the opera-
tion and sells them with a margin of profit that is mutually agreed with the
client. The agreed price is payable on a deferred basis, either in a lump
sum or installments. Under lease financing (about 5% of ADBP's annbal
lending), the financial institution as lessor provides medium- or long-term
credit for acquiring assets on a deferred payment basis. The lessor retains
ownership and the lessee obtains the possession and use of the assets and
bears aLl operating risks. Ownership is transferred at the lessee's option
on payment of the nominal residual value determined by the lessor.
Hire-purchase financing (about 50Z of ADBP's annual lending) also provides
credit for acquiring assets on a deferred payment basis. The hirer pays the
acquisition value of the assets in installments over an agreed period during
which a pre-determined amount of rent has to be paid with each installment.
At the end of the agreed period the hirer may exercise the option to purchase
the assets upon payment of the last installment. Profit-and-loss sharing is
technically a partnership between a financial institution and client in which
both agree to contribute capital and/or labor in a specified venture.
Profits are shared according to a pre-agreed formula. Losses, if any, are
shared in proportion to the funds contributed by each party.
34.     SBP has fixed the various rates of return to be applied under Islamic
banking at 10-20% per annum for trade-related modes, and at not less than 10%
per annum for investment modes. In FY85, SBP extended the concept of mark-up
to term financing and specified a 10% per annum minimum, but set no maximum
rate of return. Under Islamic banking, financial institutions have more
flexibility to set rates than under a fixed-interest rate structure. The
overriding objective in determining the new rate structure for ADBP was to
keep the cost of financing to farmers no higher than under the interest-based
system. Accordingly, ADBP has fixed the rate of return or mark-up for trade-
related modes of financing at 12% per annum plus a charge of 3Z of each
installment due, which charge may be waived in cases where installments are
paid within one month of the due date. The service-charge, currently fixed
at 3Z, is to be confirmed each year on the basis of ADBP's audited annual
accounts. For profit-sharing, the ratio will be determined on the merit of
each case. Calculation of the service charge and of profit-and-loss will be
done on the basis of daily balances. For trade-related modes, returns will
be calculated on balances that are being reduced each year. Calculations
indicate that a 12% per annum rate of return on leasing, hire-purchase, and
mark-up modes would generate cashflow and total income from each agreement
that are approximately equivalent to an interest-based rate of 11% per annum.
Under the assumption that recoveries will not deteriorate, the trade-related
modes are considered satisfactory; however, income from service-charge lend-
ing is too low and profit-and-loss sharing is subject to considerable risk.
Therefore, ADBP has decided to limit its aggregate firancing under these two
modes to 2% of its annual total volume of financing. Repayment discipline
among clients is unlikely to deteriorate, and may even improve because, under



-13-
Islamnic banking, tribunals will be set up to deal with all suits in connec-
tion with financing agreements within a period of 90 days, which may have a
positive effect on the number and volume of default cases.
Procedures for Islamic Banking
35.     In March 1985, ADBP distributed an Islamic Banking Manual to all
regional and branch offices. It detailed procedures to be applied for the
most important Islamic financing modes, set out accounting and recovery
procedures and computerization guidelines. On the accounting side, the
manual contained deviations from internationally accepted accounting stand-
ards in two areas: first, from the principle that income should be accounted
for on the accrual basis, that is, only income actually earned in an elapsed
period should be credited to the income account at the end of fiscal year
(The manual prescribed that the income from an instalLment payment account
should be credited wholly for the fiscal year in which payment is made,
irrespective of the actual lending period covered in that year); and second,
from the principle that total income for each financing agreement is
accounted for on reducing balances. Instead of calculating and accounting
for income on reducing balances ADBP decided to equalize income over the life
of each financing agreement. Following this procedure a portion of income
would be deferred in early years of repayment and earned in later years. The
effect of these two deviations has been discussed with the Government and
ADBP and agreement reached that these accounting procedures would be suitably
corrected (paragraph 73).
36.     Collateral:  Under the trade-related modes, Leasing and hire-purchase
financing will predominate in ADBP's activities. ADBP will remain the owner
of all goods in the possession of the lessee or hirer. Despite this change
in the ownership situation, ADBP has not as yet introduced any changes in the
existing requirements for collateral, that is, ADBP will continue to ask for
collateral in the form of a land mortgage, but will accept up to 70X of the
finance amount in the form of a lien or chattel mortgage. Land mortgage is
the preferred collateral, because ADBP is not interested in repossessing
other assets in the case of default after extensive use by a customer.
Because of its psychological impact, the desire to retain at least some
element of the land mortgage principle appears justified in all cases where
land for mortgage purposes is readily available. However, this may lead to
double collateral because under Islamic financing modes ADBP retains owner-
ship of all assets financed. Also, the existing system does not accommodate
the objective of facilitating access to credit by small farmers and the
landless. Under the proposed project, ADBP would review its collateral
system with the aims of making it compatible with Islamic banking and more
accessible to small farmers and the landless (paragraph 69).
37.     Conclusions:  The three financing modes largely used by ADBP (mark-
up, leasing, and hire-purchase) are satisfactory in principle, with a rate of
return of 12X. However, under the proposed project agreements have been
reached to: (i) introduce annual analysis of the effect of Islamic banking



-14-
on income generation; and (ii) oblige ADBP to take appropriate measures to
ensure increased profits if profitability falls below certain ratios
(paragraph 73). Since income from service-charge lending is too low, and
profit-and-loss sharing is subject to considerable risk, these should not be
accepted as financing agreements eligible for reimbursement by the Bank
Group, and the volume of finance made available under these two modes-should
be limited to 22 of ADBP's total annual volume of financing. The effect of
abandoning penal interest appears to be adequately offset by the system of
bonuses introduced for punctual payment. The shortfall in income arising
from early repayment of principal under equalized income procedures should be
offset by calculating returns on reducing balances or other appropriate
measures.
Past Lending to the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP): The
Record
38.     ADBP was set up in 1961 under the Agricultural Development Bank
Ordinance to cater to the demand for development credit by the rural
community. Its shares are held by SBP on behalf of the Government. ADBP
is administered by a 12-member Board; its Chairman, appointed by the
Government, is the Chief Executive. Since October 1978, when a professional
banker was appointed as Chairman, ADBP's financial position and profitability
have greatly improved. To cope with its rapid expansion, ADBP has con-
tinually made changes in its organizational set-up. The present organiza-
tional structure was adopted in 1985.
Progress and Main Achievements
39.     ADBP's lending volume in current terms in FY85 was ten times as high
as in FY79, implying an annual average growth rate of 47%. This expansion
was made possible to a great extent through the outstanding success of the
mobile credit officer (MCO) scheme which, in its present form, was introduced
in FY75, had covered 2,100 villages through FY80, and had reached 30,400
villages by the end of FY85. The MCO scheme greatly contributed to the
sustained improvement in recoveries against current dues, which reached 89%
in FY85. The scheme's objective is to help smallholders and landless tenants
overcome reluctance to bank borrowing and to assist them in the preparation
of loan applications, arranging for collateral within the passbook system and
in all related administrative steps. 1/ In FY85, 88% of all lending under
ADBP's general credit was achieved through the MCO scheme. In FY86, all
financing under general credit, i.e excluding financing of agro-industries
under special projects, will be done through the MCO scheme.
1/ The passbook system permits the lending institution to assess an
applicant's land ownership and any mortgages on the land without checking
with the Land Revenue Office.



-15-
40.     In 1983, an ADBP Appraisal Unit was established which, with the help
of consultants, reviewed existing appraisal practices and developed a new and
simplified appraisal methodology. Tested and found suitable and cost-
effective, the method was introduced for all ADBP farm credit operations in
1985. However, training of MCOs in the new appraisal procedures is lagging
far behind requirements and will have to be put on a systematic basis to
achieve expected improvements in the quality of lending (paragraph 70).
41.     ADBP technical wings have been established, first for private minor
irrigation development, and more recently for livestock and farm
mechanization, under the Agricultural Technology Department in order to
foster diversification of Lending and to develop technology packages that
can be applied to promote lending to small farmers. Constraints are the lack
of qualified technical staff and, in some instances, the lack of clear focus
on the objective. In recent years, ADBP has also made considerable progress
in computerizing its operations. AlL loan operations are computerized, but
difficulties have ensued as the result of the introduction of Islamic banking
and the necessity to operate two separate loan accounting systems. It would
be useful to consolidate the information management system in order to
improve accuracy, speed in generating information and responsiveness to
managers' needs.
42.     Farmers with 25 ac or less 1/ were targeted as the recipients of 70Z
of ADBP's medium- and long-term loans to farmers in FY84 and 75% of such
loans in FY85. Farmers having 12.5 ac or less were to receive one-third of
the share. Actual lending to farmers with 25 ac or less was 60% in FY84 and
71% in FY85. Of this lending volume, 30% in FY84 and 38% in FY85 was chan-
neled to farmers with 12.5 ac or less.
Sources and Application of Funds
43.     ADBP's total asset) have grown at an average annual rate of 33% over
the past three years. As of June 1985, the total was Rs 11,550 million
(US$717 million). In FY86-89, loan disbursements are expected to grow from
Rs 5,000 million (US$311 million) in FY86 to Rs 10,000 million (US$621
million) in FY89. These figures represent an average annual growth in loan
disbursements of 25%, compared to 39% annually in FY83-85. Loan disburse-
ments have been and will remain, by far, the largest application (661) of
funds, followed by debt service (25%) and administrative expenditure (5%).
44.     ADBP's applications were funded by three main resources:  recoveries
of loans, equity contributions from SBP and ADBP's profits, and additional
borrowings. Recoveries are expected to cover about one-third of total
applications; the remaining two-thirds would come from new borrowings and
1/ Of irrigated land. One acre of irrigated land is assumed to be equiv-
alent to two acres of rainfed land.



-16-
contributions to equity substantial enough to maintain the debt-equity ratio
at an acceptable 7:1 level. Following allocation of profits to ADBP's
general reserves, SBP annually subscribes the additional capital necessary
for this purpose. ADBP's volume of lending can only be met by increased
borrowing from SBP, which operates within general credit allocation limits
set by the Government. Problems with credit allocations for agriculture are
not expected.
45.     ADBP's continuance as a viable and effective banking institution is
dependent upon its ability to recover its loans. A first step to improve
the quality of its portfolio was made in 1979 when an assurance was obtained
under the Fourth ADBP project (Cr. 957-PAK) that the Government would not
request ADBP to make emergency loans in the case of natural calamities. This
policy assurance, which was strictly implemented, is in effect for the ongo-
ing Fifth ADBP project (Cr. 1380-PAKlLn. 2305-PAK), and has also been
obtained for this proposed project. Greatly improved recovery rates over the
past four years are primarily the result of enhanced collection efforts by
ADBP through its MCOs. Under the Fifth project, annual case-by-case reviews
of overdues were introduced and a write-off policy established by which long
overdue loans in the inactive portfolio are written-off and the amounts
written-off are kept in memorandum form. The policy on write-offs would be
continued during implementation of the proposed project (paragraph 73).
Past Performance
46.     Since 1965 the Bank Group has assisted ADBP in five projects with
credits/loans totalling US$154.8 million. The first project (Cr.76-PAK of
June 1965) reimbursed the foreign exchange cost of tubewells and farm
machinery. In June 1968, as a short-range bridging operation (Cr.117-PAK),
IDA provided US$10 million and US$5 million was provided by the Swedish
International Development Authority. The third project (Cr.157-PAK for US$30
million) closed in 1976. The proceeds were used to finance the purchase of
about 8,000 tractors, 4,600 tubewells, and the provision of spare parts and
farm management services. The Project Performance Audit Report on Cr.157-PAK
carried out by the Operations Evaluation Department 1/ concluded that the
agricultural growth impact of the project had been positive, and estimated
ex-post economic and financial rates of return exceeded the original
estimates. The socio-economic impact of tractorization under the project in
the context of introduction of intermediate mechanization (of cuLtivation but
not harvesting operations) had been substantially consistent with recorded
experiences in other countries. While the rate of return of tractor invest-
ments was generally satisfactory, actual increases in yields and cropping
intensities were substantially less than forecast at appraisal. Although
1/ "Project Performance Audit Report: Pakistan - Third Credit for
Agricultural Development Bank (Credit 157-PAK)," Report No. 2126, dated
June 30, 1978 (Sec M78-559).



-17-
tractorization led to displacement of tenants by the land-owner, as far as
farm operations were concerned, the aggregate demand for farm labor was not
significantly reduced because the use of tractors also created new demands
for labor.
47.     The fourth project (Cr. 957-PAK), comprising an IDA Credit of US$30
million and US$25 million equivalent from IFAD, was delayed until agreement
was reached that ADBP would: (i) receive an interest rate spread of 7Z to
cover administrative costs and provisions; (ii) bring the debt-equity ratio
down to 7:1; (iii) improve the Level of recoveries and link branch lending
to branch recoveries; (iv) build up adequate provisions for bad debts; (v)
be exempted from payment of income tax; and (vi) diversify its Lending. The
Credit became effective in June 1980 and was disbursed in three years. Under
the project, loans to farmers exceeded IJS$500 million equivalent during the
implementation period, almost double the amount estimated at appraisal,
increasing ADBP's share of institutional agriculture credit in Pakistan from
24% in 1979180 to 37% in 1982/83.  This expansion was managed prudently and
coincided swith a significant improvement in the quality of ADBP's loan port-
folio and recovery rate. The share of credit provided by ADBP for tractors
and other farm inputs was about the same as planned, with tractors accounting
for 58%.  The project focussed on  everal issues.  Foremost among them was
ADBP's financial condition, which improved markedly in the course of the
project and was quite sound by completion. Recovery of current loans reached
84% in FY83, and recovery of overdues, some very aged, was substantially
improved. Considerable success was achieved in shifting credit from large
landholders to smallholders, with 60% to the latter, a significant
improvement. The Credit was closed after full disbursement on June 30. 1983,
six months later than anticipated. 1/
48.    The fifth project (Cr.1380-PAK for US$47.8 million; Loan 2305-PAK
for US$10 million) became effective in November 1983. IFAD jointly finances
the project with US$25 million equivalent in support of ADBP's lending
program to farmers with 25 ac or less. Additionally, in 1985 the Italian
Government made available US$20 million to finance farm machinery and equip-
ment of Italian origin. The project supports ADBP's medium- and long-term
lending operations to farmers which, through its MCO scheme, are expected to
cover all districts in the country by the end of the project period. Through
project loans, ADBP finances medium- and long-term agricultural investments:
tractors for farmers with 25 ac or less; farm implements and equipment;
private minor irrigation; livestock; and on-farm development. By March 31,
1/ A Project Completion Report, prepared by ADBP, was submitted to OED in
January 1985; the Project Performance Audit Report has recently been sent
to the Government and ADBP for comment.



-18-
1986, 90% of the Credit, 46% of the Loan 1/ and 85% of the IFAD Loan had been
disbursed, accounting for 83% of total funds. FulL disbursement is expected
to be achieved in all categories by December 31, 1986. A preliminary impact
assessment of the Fifth project indicates that ADBP achieved successes in
several areas: (i) the MCO scheme was gradually extended to cover 88% of
general credit lending in FY85: (ii) recoveries on total demand improved and
are expected to improve further; and (iii) total disbursements continued to
grow at extremely high rates. On the negative side, ADBP is still relying
too heavily on lending for tractors, and efforts have to be continued to
reinforce the trend toward a larger volume of lending for other investment
purposes that has appeared for the first time in FY85. During FY85, ADBP
introduced the Islamic banking modes in its lending operations (paragraph
32). This changed the entire rate structure of ADBP's lending and is
expected to have also some repercussions on its profitability.
49.     Past Bank Group lending to ADBP was also reviewed in a recent OED
Report covering twenty years of Bank assistance to Pakistan. 2/ The Report
records significant achievements but also notes a number of issues that
require attention in the future. On the positive side, OED notes that ADBP
has become a much stronger and efficient institution for the delivery of
credit; the recovery rate on new lending has risen from 54% in 1979 to almost
90% in 1985 and, during the same period, the volume of lending to small
farmers has risen from Rs 119 million to Rs 2,717 milLion. On the negative
side, OED makes two major criticisms. First, the Report contends that lend-
ing in support of tractorization has been too high in view of the lack of
evidence that tractor mechanization has contributed significantly to growth
in agricultural production. Second, that ADBP has not been used to mobilize
savings in rural areas.
50.     What evidence is available from the farm studies done to date in
Pakistan on the impact of tractor mechanization on agricultural production
is inconclusive. It is, however, apparent that investment in tractors has
been financially attractive to farmers. Tractor prices are lower than world
market prices due to the competitiveness of the market. Interest rates to
farmers have been positive in real terms. Nevertheless, the Bank has in its
lending encouraged ADBP to diversify away from tractors to other farm imple-
ments by capping the percent of credit/loan funds to be used for this
purpose. For example, under the Third ADBP project (Cr. 157-PAK), 64% of
credit proceeds were disbursed against tractors; this dropped to 58% under
the Fourth project (Cr. 957-PAK), and will be less than 50% under the ongoing
Fifth project (Cr. 1380/Ln.2305-PAK) and the proposed Sixth project.
1/ In each disbursement category the Credit funds are withdrawn before
- the Loan funds.
2/  "World Bank in Pakistan; Review of a Relationship 1960-1984," Report
No. 6048, dated January 27, 1986 (Sec M86-119).



-19-
Overall, we expect ADBP lending for tractors to drop from 59% of total lend-
ing in FY85 to 47% in FY89. Regarding the mobilization of rural savings,
ADBP has few branches in rural areas and cannot effectively compete with the
7,000 branch network of the nationalized commercial banks. Therefore, ADBP
has chosen not to make mobilization of savings a priority but rather to
concentrate its efforts on increasing the number and volume of loans, par-
ticularly to smaLl farmers, and to improve portfolio quality through better
loan appraisal and supervision. Although scope exists for improving resource
mobilization in rural areas, commercial banks have played a critical role in
encouraging deposits in these areas. Rural deposits, in excess of Rs 40
billion, account for nearly half of the total deposit liabilities of commer-
cial banks, in which an estimated 502 of rural households maintain savings
accounts. The combination of lending facilities with deposit mobilization
enables commercial banks to perform better than post offices in stimulating
rural savings, despite the latter's better geographical average.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
51.     The proposed project was prepared by ADBP, with consultant
assistance, and appraised in August/September 1985. Negotiations were held
in Washington from March 24 - 28, 1986; the Pakistan delegation was led by
Mr. A. Jamil Nishtar, Chairman, ADBP.  A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Pakistan: Sixth Agricultural Development Bank Project" (Report No.6041-PAK
dated April 15, 1986) is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. A supplementary project data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Objectives
52. The two principal objectives of the project would be to: {i) further
strengthen ADBP as a sound, effective and self-sustaining lending institution
capable of reaching an increasing proportion of the rural community; and (ii)
increase farm productivity and farmer incomes through the provision of credit
and related technical support under ADBP's mobile credit officer (MCO)
scheme. These objectives would be achieved by improving the efficiency of
credit delivery through an exparnded MCO scheme that would focus on quality of
lending; enhancing ADBP's ability to cater to the needs of small farmers
through more intensive area coverage by MCOIs (MCOs for intensified schemes);
and further improving ADBP's capacity to lend effectively 5or priority
investments, such as tractor implements and private minor irrigation, and for
investment packages that promote the adoption of improved farm practices.
Project Components
Farm Development Loans
53.     Tractors and Farm Implements.  Lending for mechanization would cover
investments for low, medium, and high-hp tractors, primary and secondary
cultivation equipment and general farm machinery, such as grain threshers and



-20-
reapers. The range of low-hp tractors has been expanded to include 12-18 hp
four-wheel tractors for use by small farmers to replace bullocks, and the
high-hp range has been expanded, on an experimental basis, to include trac-
tors with 80 hp and above for entrepreneurs engaged in custom hire. It It is
estimated that by FY89 more than 55% of tractor sales will be replacements.
However, in view of ADBP's diversification efforts and an expected slow-down
in expansion of the tractor market, the share of tractors in ADBP's total
lending is expected to decrease from 59% in FY85 to 47% in FY89. Under the
proposed project, there would be increased emphasis on lending for non-
tractor farm implements, which is expected to increase as a proportion of
tractor lending from 5% in FY85 to 13% in FY89, still very low when compared
to standards in developed countries. As in the Fifth ADBP project, the
eligibility for low and medium-hp tractor refinancing would be limited to
loans made to farmers with 25 ac or less. To support lending for diversified
investments, Bank Group financing of these tractors would be at a lower
disbursement percentage than other financing.
54.     Private Minor Irrigation financing would include medium- and Long-
term investments by farmers to use groundwater or surface water for
irrigation. Investments would cover construction or improvement of wells
of all types and provision of pumping units (including power connection for
electric units), installation of pumps, improvements in spring water
utilization, and on-farm water management. Shallow tubewells and centrifugal
pump sets powered by diesel engines or electric motors would be the most
common type of investment. Deep tubewells with vertical shaft turbines or
electric submersible pumps would be required in hilly areas with consolidated
rocks and deep water tables. Also included would be finance for about 100
solar energy-driven low-lift pump sets with a peak capacity of 700 watts to
be used by farmers in remote areas without electricity.
55.     Dairy Development.  Groups of milch animals, ranging in numbers from
2-5 each, are largely owned by small farmers, tenant farmers, and rural
landless. They form part of a mixed cropping-livestock production system
with farm-produced fodder rotated with food or cash crops. Investment loans
would be made for a fodder production, in-milk buffaloes, dairy sheds and
equipment, and veterinary supplies.
56.     Poultry and Other Livestock.  Loans for small-scale on-farm poultry
units would cater for the construction of sheds, stores, and equipment, and
for working capital requirements to purchase short-term inputs during the
first season. About 75% of poultry investments are earmarked for broiler
production due to greater demand attributable to a shorter crop season,
simpler flock-rearing operation, and slightly higher profitability. Other
livestock development activities include the production of mutton and wool
1/ Classes of tractor power are 12-18 hp, 20-30 hp, 40-70 hp, and 80 hp
and above.



-21-
from sheep and goats, for which medium-term loans for low-cost barns/sheds
and the purchase of lamb/goat breeding stock would be made available.
Limited finance would also be made available for the purchase of draft animal
pairs, with emphasis on draft-cum-milch animals.
57.     Orchards. Vegetables. and Minor Crops.  Deciduous and tropical
orchard development is envisaged under the project. Investment costs cover-
ing seedlings, plantings, and other orchard establishment costs would be
eligible for financing. Commercial vegetable farming, located around the
main urban centers or specialized vegetable growing belts, has potential.
With the introduction of polythene tunnels, the vegetable season would be
extended, particularly for high-price early cauliflower, early tomatoes, and
late carrots. Simultaneously, through a core of professional FMCOs, adoption
of improved production technology for existing vegetables would be
accelerated. Investments in improved production and marketing vould be done
on an intt-s:ed basis, i.e., they would include supply and installation of
mini-tunnels, yower sprayers, and farm-to-market transport. Also, minor
crops, such as turmeric, coriander, garlic, cumin, mint and some aromatics,
grown in specific locations, offer significant potential for development.
During the project period, with the help of consultants, market research and
on-farm trails started under the Fifth ADBP project would be continued,
leading to identification of commercially viable minor crops that are can-
didates for investment.
58.     Other On-Farm Development loans would include on-farm vater
management, such as construction and lining of channels and drains, land
leveling, construction of farm buildings, and provision of transport
vehicles. From its on resources, ADEP would make short-term loans for
seasonal inputs. Loans for fisheries development and agro-industrial invest-
ments would be financed by ADBP with the support of the Asian Development
Bank under previously concluded loan agreements. Some farm equipment of
Italian origin would be financed under an agreement concluded with the
Italian Government in FY85.
Institutional Development Assistance
59.     Equipment.  The proposed Loan/Credit would finance the procurement
of equipment for ADBP-s headquarters, regional offices, and branches, con-
sisting of: (i) computer equipment to be used by the Computer Department to
speed-up data processing at the regional and branch level; (ii) audio-visual
equipment for the Agricultural Technology Department to produce teaching and
demonstration material for the staff colleges and Agricultural Technology
Transfer Centers (ATTCs) to be set up in all regions; (iii) audio-visual
equipment and cassette libraries for the ATTCs; (iv) audio-visual equipment
and other teaching material for the ADBP staff colleges in Islamabad,
Karachi, and Lahore; (v) office automation equipment for headquarters and
regional offices; and (vi) telecommunication equipment to improve communica-
tions for data processing. For purposes of condu.-ting adaptive research,
renewable energy equipment for various applications under Pakistani



-22-
conditions would also be financed under the project. About 200 four-wheel-
drive vehicles vould be financed from ADBP's own resources. Four buses would
be procured for use in training and demonstration efforts. The a4option of
more efficient tillage practices and the proper use of farm tractors of all
sizes for various applications would be promoted by six mobile mechanization
demonstration unite. These units would be equipped with tractors of sizes
currently used in Pakistan and, additionally, with the 12-18 hp tractors
being introduced ac bullock replacement and, possibly, with tractors of 80-hp
and above for testing in custom-hire arrangements. All tractors would have
the full range of implements.
60.     Technical Specialists:  About 144 man-months of consultancy services
would be financed under the project. Consultancy services would be provided
ia technology development, training, computer applications, and other areas
as required, including renewable energy, organization and management, and
monitoring and evaluation. Consultants focusing on the development of tech-
nological packages related to farm mechanization, dairy development and
horticultural investments for small farmers would be attached to the
Agricultural Technology Department. For farm mechanization and horticultural
development, agricultural technicians would be employed to supervise field
work. Consultants engaged to train personnel in improved appraisal techni-
ques and to redefine and redesign ADBP's training system would be attached to
the Training and Management Development Department. Consultants in computer
applications and, more specifically, software design, program analysis, and
office automation, would be attached to the Computer Department and Office
Automation Department, respectively. If necessary, consultants would also
assist in preparing a follow-up project for possible Bank Group financing.
Training: Provision would be made under the project for short-term training
abroad of about 10 staff college instructors, 68 officers from headquarters,
30 regional and branch managers, and 30 MCOs. ADBP would make provision from
its own resources for the construction of staff college buildin2s in
Islamabad, Karachi, and Lahore to replace rented facilities with permanent
ones.
Cost Estimates and Financing
61.     Project costs are based on ADBP's projected 3-year lending program
for FY87-89, extended to 4.5 years in accordance with ADBP's disbursement
profile, and are estimated at US$1,671 million, including about US$173 mil-
lion in taxes and duties. Base cost estimates are in March 1986 prices.
Price contingencies on local costs have been applied at 2.5Z for FY86 (three
months only), 8.5% for FY87, 7.5% for FY88-90 and 6% for FY91, and on foreign
costs at 0.8Z for FY86 (three months only), 7% for FY87, 7.25% for FY88, 7.6%
for FY89, 7.65% for FY90, and 6% for FY91. Physical contingencies of 10% and
15% have been applied to civil works for private minor irrigation
investments, and for the technical assistance and institution-building
components, respectively.



-23-
62.     The proposed Loan of US$165 million and Credit of SDR 47.6 million
(US$55 million equivalent) would finance about 14.7Z of project costs net
of taxes and duties. The remaining costs would be financed by SBP (59.5%),
ADBP and other institutions (mainly the Asian Development Bank and the
Italian Government) (16.6%), farmers' contributions (8.4%) and the Government
(0.8%). ADBP's incremental lending (in current prices) for medium and long-
term farm development loans would be US$63 million in FY87, US$72 million in
FY88, and US$89 million in FY89. The proposed Loan/Credit would finance 98%
of the total incremental lending.
63.     The Government would onLend the proceeds of the Credit to ADBP at
4% or, under Islamic modes of financing, at an annual charge that would yield
the equivalent of 4%. The Credit would be repayable to the Government in 20
years, including a grace period of five years for repayment of principal.
The proceeds of the Loan would be onlent at cost, that is, at the flexible
rate charged by IBRD or, under Islamic modes of financing, at an annual
charge that would yield the equivalent of this rate. Repayment by ADBP of
the Loan would be in 15 years, including three years of grace for repayment
of principal. In accordance with general policy, the Government would bear
the foreign exchange risk, while ADBP would assume the interest rate risk on
the Loan proceeds. With these lending terms and conditions the Government
would have an interest rate spread of 0.9% per annum on all funds to cover
the foreign exchange risk. An assessment of the adequacy of this spread
would be included in the annual reviews of ADBP's income and profits gener-
ating capacity. The Government would derive additional financial benefits
from repayment by ADBP terminating 30 years earlier than repayment by the
Government to IBRD/IDA for the Credit and five years earlier for the Loan.
The lending terms and conditions would be included in a Financing Agreement
between the Government and ADBP. The execution of this Agreement would be an
additional condition of Loan/Credit effectiveness. In addition, assurances
have been obtained that the Government would: (a) make available to ADBP
additional funds required to implement the project at an interest rate of
4% per annum or equivalent, or at such terms and conditions as may be recom-
mended in the annual review of ADBP's financial position (paragraph 73) and
agreed on between the Government, ADBP and the Bank; (b) increase ADBP's
paid-up capital as and when needed to keep its debt/equity ratio at 7:1 or
better; and (c) not require ADBP to undertake emergency lending or financing
except: (i) in the event of a major natural calamity; and (ii) as a disburse-
ment agent for funds provided by the Government for such purpose.
Procurement
64.     Tractors, farm implements, irrigation equipment, dairy cattle,
buffaloes, bullocks, and items for on-farm development of farmers' own choice
would be procured through normal commercial channels. Prices are expected to
be in line with world market prices. Exceptions would be tractors in the
12-18-hp, 20-30-hp and 80-hp and above ranges for which a competitive market
does not exist. For small tractors, reimbursements would not be made unless
at least three import licenses for each class of tractors have been issued by



-24-
Government, or, as in the case of 20-30-hp models, continue to exist. Thirty
tractors of 80-hp and above and the full range of implements to carry out a
market test, would be procured by ADBP through international competitive
bidding procedures (ICB) following loan requests for such tractor and imple-
ment sets from firms or entities specializing in custom-hire work. Solar
pumps would also be procured following ICB procedures.
65.     Equipment for use by ADBP would be procured in bulk through ICB.  For
procurement under ICB, a preference limited to the prevailing customs duty or
15% of the c.i.f price, whichever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Equipment items which cannot be
grouped together and costing less than US$100,000 for each contract, but not
exceeding an aggregate amount of US$500,000, would be procured following
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures. Equipment items ccsting less
than US$20,030 for each contract, but not exceeding an aggregate amount of
US$200,000, would be procured after soliciting prices from at least three
independent suppliers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement of computer equipment, which would have to be compatible with
existing equipment, would be purchased directly from the original suppliers.
Given the Government's reluctance to allow the importation of four-wheel
drive vehicles, those required for the project would be treated as reserve
procurement and would not be reimbursable out of the Loan/Credit proceeds.
Tender documents and advertising procedures for all ICB procurement would be
reviewed by the Bank before bids are invited, and bid evaluations would be
approved before contract award. Bidders would be required to provide ade-
quate assurance of after-sales service.



-25-
Procurement Method /a
(US$ million)
Component                  ICB       LCB     Other      N.A.     Total Cost
Credit Items               1.3        -      1,653.5      -      1,654.8
(1.3)      -        (212.5)    -        (213.8)
Technical Assistance/
Institution Building:
(i)   Vehicles             -         -           -       5.0 /b       5.0
(-)         (-)
(ii)  Equipment           5.3       1.1 /c       0.4      -          6.8
(2.1)    (0.5)         (0.2)    -          (2.8)
(iii) Consultants          -         -            -      2.3         2.3
(2.3)       (2.3)
(iv)  Overseas Training   -          -            -      1.1          1.1
(1.1)       (1.1)
(v)   Civil Works          -        0.4           -      0.3         0.7
C-)                  C-)         {-)
TOTAL               6.6      1.5       1,653.9    8.7      1,670.7
(3.4)    (0.5)       (212.7)  (3.4)      (220.0)
/a Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed out of the Loan/Credit.
Tb Reserve procurement.
7c Contracts of less than US$100,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$500,000.
Id Contracts of less than US$20,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000.
Disbursements
66.     As is the case in the ongoing Fifth ADBP project, the Bank Group
would limit reimbursement of loans for low and medium-hp tractors to farmers
with 25 ac or less. Within this formula, the proposed Loan/Credit would be
used to finance: (a) 19% of amounts disbursed by ADBP on medium and long-
term loans for low and medium-hp tractors; (b) 100% of foreign exchange and
ex-factory expenditures or 60% of other local expenditures on the purchase by
ADBP of equipment for its own use; for tractors of 80-hp and above; and for
solar pumps for private minor irrigation; (c) 31% of amounts disbursed by
ADBP for all other investment loans; and (d) 100% of expenditures on techni-
cal assistance and overseas training. Loans or financing extended on the
basis of the Islamic modes of service-charge or profit-and-loss sharing would



-26-
not be eligible for reimbursement (see paragraph 37). Disbursements for
credit items, except solar pumps, and for equipment costing less than
US$20,000 equivalent, would be made against certified statements of
expenditure. Full documentation would be retained by ADBP for review by
supervision missions and would also be subject to audit by independent
auditors. Disbursements against solar pumps, equipment items exceeding
US$20,000 equivalent, and all non-credit categories would be made against
appropriate documentation to be forwarded to the Bank with the withdrawaL
applications. It is estimated that final disbursements would be made by
December 31, 1990.
Accounts and Auditing
67.     Assurances have been obtained that ADBP's accounts would continue
to be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and
in accordance with procedures satisfactory tc the Bank. Audit reports would
be provided in short and long form, would contain audit certificates and
separate opinions on the use of funds withdrawn under the certified statement
of expenditure procedures, and, together with the audited accounts, would be
sent to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. ln
general, ADBP is adequately meeting the accounting and auditing requirements
under the ongoing Fifth project.
Project Implementation
68.     ADBP, as and when needed, wo-ild increase its headquarter and field
staff and streamline its organizational structure and lending procedures in
order to process expansion in lending volume. In the recent past these
adjustments have been made as required and, given the efficient management
of ADBP, no problems are expected in this regard under the proposed project.
These improvements, and the envisaged increase of its MCO corps from its
present 1,070 to 2,000 by FY89, would help ADBP attain the overall project
objectives, facilitate access of small farmers to short-term and investment
credit, and improve further the quality of its loan portfolio, and ensure
adequate recovery levels. Preliminary results of a study on training
requirements, undertaken in 1985 by ADBP with the assistance of a training
consultant, confirm the need for major restructuring of ADBP's training
system. Accordingly, by December 31, 1986, ADBP would be required to prepare
and submit to the Bank for comment, a comprehensive staff training report
including: (i) a detailed analysis of the training system, its needs and
objectives, and any gaps in skills among incumbents; and (ii) long-term
proposals and action plans for all future staff training activities also
covering staff colleges, demonstration farms, and mobile mechanization demon-
stration units. By March 31, 1987, ADBP would prepare and implement a staff
training plan based on annual targets specified in the training report; the
plan would be updated annually and furnished to the Bank by March 31 in each
year. The Training and Management Development Department (TMDD) would
prepare, for submission to the Bank by September 30 each year, beginning in
1987, a report of its monitoring of all staff training activities. TMDD



-27-
would closely coordinate with other departments involved in training
activities.
69.     Among the recent enhancements to the MCO scheme, the functional
mobile credit officers (FMCOs) and the mobile credit officers for intensified
schemes (MCOIs) are expected to play an important role in ADBP's diversifica-
tion efforts. In parallel with the expansion of the use of FMCOs to more
areas and to other investments, specifically primary tillage implements, ADBP
has decided to introduce MCOIs in at least one district of each of the 27
regions where they would systematically approach all farmers in not more than
five villages. Their lending targets would be conveyed as number of loans,
not rupee value. Districts selected would be those with high potential for
divers4ified lending, such as tubewells or tractor-drawn implements. Assuming
that the basic principles of the collateral system would not be changed under
Islamic banking, in districts with an MCOI collateral requirements could be
relaxed on an experimental basis provided careful pre-investment screening
and intensive supervision by ADBP take place. Assurances have been obtained
that, by October 31, 1986, ADBP would submit to the Bank for concurrence: (i)
a comprehensive action plan for expanding the use of FMCOs and MCOIs in the
project period; and (ii) a review of its collateral system under Islamic
banking with recommendations to (a) make it compatible with Islamic banking,
and (b) facilitate access of smallholders and the landless to institutional
credit. ADBP would be required to implement these proposals by June 30,
1987.
70.     The proposed project would support strengthening of the Farm
Machinery Wing of the Agricultural Technology Department to enable it to
promote improved technologies through training of MCOIs and FMCOs. Achieving
this objective would be supported by the establishment of Agricultural
Technology Transfer Centers (ATTC) on the regional level. ATTCs would
operate under the responsibility of the Regional Technical Officers under the
administrative control of regional managers. In addition, the Agricultural
Technology Department would set up six mobile mechanization demonstration
units, and a sufficient number of agricultural engineers, technicians, and
equipment operators, fully conversant with farm machinery and operations,
would be employed and trained. In-depth training of 6-8 months' duration to
enable staff to function as instructors for MCOs and farmers would be con-
ducted by machinery manufacturers abroad or in Pakistan, and would be suppLe-
mented in-house by the technical assistance team. An agreement has been
reached with ADBP that: (i) suitably staffed and equipped ATTCs would be set
up in all regions by June 30, 1987; and (ii) three mobile mechanization
demonstration units would be operational by June 30, 1987 and another three
by June 30, 1988. The Credit Policy and Appraisal Department would be
strengthened to enable it to undertake, jointly with the staff colleges and
TMDD, the training of all MCOs in the application of appraisal procedures
introduced in 1985. Assurances have been obtained that the Credit Policy and
Appraisal Department would, by December 31, 1986, be appropriately
strengthened to: (i) complete training of all MCOs in the new appraisal



-28-
procedures by December 31, 1987; and (ii) be able to modify and refine on-
farm appreisal techniques on a continual basis.
71.     Agreement has been reached with ADBP that it would continue to have
all its financing approvals supported by on-farm appraisals. Authority for
such approvals would be delegated by the regional managers to branch managers
and MCOs in accordance with guidelines established by the Credit Division.
In addition, financing applications for the installation of solar pumping
systems for irrigation purposes would also have to be approved by ADBP's
Agricultural Technology Department. The usual appraisal report would be
supplemented by data to determine the technical and financial viability of a
specific solar application. Assurances have been obtained from ADBP chat all
project investments for solar pumping systems would be included in the normal
monitoring and evaluation system and that between 102 and 20Z of such systems
would be instrumented for intensive technical monitoring.
ADBP Lending Terms and Conditions I/
72.     ADBP would make financing available to individual farmers and
entities serving farmers and farmers' groups on the following terms and
conditions: (a) on loans made before April 1, 1985, an interest rate of not
less than 11% per annum, with an additional 3X penal interest in case of
default; (b) on financing extended other than from the proceeds of the Loan
and Credit on the basis of service charge, a service charge of not less than
3% per annum; (c) on other financing, a rate of return of not less than 12%
per annum plus a charge of 3% of each installment, which charge may be waived
in cases where installments are paid within one month of the due date; td) a
once-and-for-all evaluation fee up to 0.5% of the amount of the loan or other
financing; (e) farmers' and other customers' contributions: (i) by farmers
owning 25 ac or less, a minimum of 5% of cost of investment; and (ii) by
farmers owning more than 25 ac and, in respect of the 80-hp and above
tractors, by other customers, a minimum of 10% of cost of investment. An
assurance has been obtained from ADBP that it wilt, in each fiscal year,
extend at least 75% of all medium and long-term farmers' loans or financing
to farmers owning 25 ac or less and, within this lending volume,at least 50%
to farmers with 12.5 ac or less.
73.     While the financing modes under Islamic banking are in general
acceptable, certain negative income effects may occur (paragraph 37). ADBP
would have to analyze these effects in annual reviews and propose and
implement, in consultation with the Bank, appropriate measures to ensure a
continued satisfactory financial position and profitability. Accordingly,
assurances have been obtained from ADBP that it will:
1/ On April 1, 1985, ADBP adopted Islamic modes of financing.



-29-
(i)   charge interest rates on loans made before April 1, 1985,
and rates of return or service charge on financing provided
from April 1, 1985 onward, that would be positive in real
terms and sufficient to: (a) cover its operating
expenditures and charges, including taxes, if any, and
interest payments or returns, and service charges on
borrowings; (b) make provisions for bad debts and maintain
such provisions at a ratio to total overdues which is
satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) accumulate reserves that
would be adequate to ensure, in conjunction with
contributions by SBP to ADBP's paid-up capital, that the
ratio of debt to equity is not greater than 7:1;
(ii} not pay dividends in any year in which profits fall short of
the level required to fund the reserves in the manner
described under (i) Cc) above;
(iii)  carry out, for the first time by December 31, 1986, and
thereafter annually by December 31, an in-depth review of
its past and projected income and profit generating capacity
and on the basis of the review develop proposals to achieve
the profitability required to fund the reserves; obtain the
concurrence of the Government and the Bank to such proposals
by March 31 of each year, beginning in 1987; and start
implementing the agreed proposals not later than July 1 of
each year, beginning in 1987;
(iv)   charge: (a) interest rates of not less than 11% per annum on
all outstanding balances of loans made before April 1, 1985;
(b) service charges of not less than 3% per annum on all
outstanding balances of funds made available on the basis of
service charge; and (c) rates of return of not less than 12%
per annum plus a charge of 3% of each installment, which
charge may be waived in cases where installments are paid
within one month of the due date, on all outstanding
balances of funds made available on the basis of
hire-purchase, leasing, mark-up and other such financing
modes;
(v)    limit:  (a) its financing on the basis of service charge,
profit-and-loss sharing, and any other modes of financing
that may not generate income sufficient to cover expenses as
outlined in Ci) above, to not more than 2% of its total
lending; and (b) its lending for short-term loans or
financing to no more than 20% of its total lending and other
financing;
(vi)   apply the accrual principle in accounting for income
(paragraph 35);



-30-
(vii)  in all cases of early repayment, calculate and collect the
outstarding principal and income on the basis of reducing
balances;
(viii) continue to apply, at the end of each fiscal year, a
permanent write-off policy, satisfactory to the Bank, of
writing-off long overdue loans and other financing; and
(ix)   take all measures necessary to reach minimum recovery rates
of at least 77% by June 30, 1987, 79% by June 30, 1988 and
81% by June 30, 1989.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
74.     During project implementation, monitoring and evaluation efforts by
ADBP's M&E unit would be focused to provide a better assessment of the impact
of project investments. At least 1% of financing agreements, stratified by
Province and type of lending, would be monitored. As a basis for examining
productivity and the impact of ADBP-financed investment, on-farm data would
be collected from ADBP borrowers and, as a control sample, from a number of
farmers not receiving financing. Close cooperation between the M&E Unit,
the General Credit Operations Department, and the Computer Department would
be required. To assess the adequacy of distinct lending terms for differena
types of financing and borrowers, systematic analysis of recovery performance
as a function of size and purpose of financing agreement, type of borrower,
type of collateral, and quality of MCO supervision would be undertaken as a
new M&E task. Monitoring of administrative costs of different types of
financing agreements would also be introduced to assist in setting lending
terms, planning ADBP's lending program, and refining the incentive system
used for MCOs. As a further task, the M&E Unit would, in cooperation with
the General Credit Operations Department, develop a new system of categoriza-
tion for credit ledgers so that targeted categories of investment can be
monitored. The adoption of Islamic lending modes would also require further
monitoring arrangements. Technical assistance would be needed to assist in
the development of a comprehensive work plan to be executed by the M&E Unit
in the course of the project, and in achieving effective liaison between the
M&E Unit and operational departments. Agreement has been reached with ADBP
that the M&E Unit would: (i) assume, within a time-frame and under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, additional responsibilities so as to be
better able to monitor the efficiency of ADBP as an institution, and to
assess the impact of project implementation; (ii) prepare semi-annual
monitoring and evaluation reports and submit them to the Bank for
information; and (iii) prepare quarterly progress reports on the project in a
format acceptable to the Bank, and submit these to the Bank within an agreed
time-frame.



-31-
Project Benefits and Risks
75.     The principal benefit of the project would be the further strengthen-
ing of ADBP as a viable and well-managed lending institution for the agricul-
ture sector. As a result of improving the allocation of funds for on-farm
investments and farm inputs, it is expected that agricultural production and
farm incomes would increase. During project implementation, a continual flow
of investment credit to farmers would be ensured and, by the end of FY89,
ADBP would make a substantially higher contribution to meet total demand for
farm credit. Small farmers would have easier access to institutional credit
through the expanded MCO scheme, and the innovative FMCO (functional) and
MCOI (intensified) schemes. Accordingly, the share of landless and target
group farmers in ADBP's lending would rise substantially. Unquantifiable
subsidiary benefits would arise from ADBP's participation in formulating the
country's mechanization strategy with respect to the evaluation and introduc-
tion of different types and sizes of tractors, appropriate implements, and
other farm technology suitable for the smallholder.
76.     The components financed under the project would directly benefit
about 300,000 farmers scattered throughout the country and more than 2.1
million family members. Of the beneficiaries, it is estimated that about
4O0 will have pre-investment per capita incomes below Rs 1,989 (US$156),
which is estimated (FY83) to be the poverty level in rural areas (expressed
as 40% of GNP per capita). The project would generate about 62 million
man-days of incremented employment annually at full development. Family
labor relieved from farm operations as a result of mechanization (about 11
million mar-days) would be available for other productive activities, such
as orchard maintenance, dairying, poultry, and vegetable farming, all of
which are labor-intensive and emphasized by the project's diversification
efforts. In addition, considerable short-term employment would be generated
by construction associated with tubewell and watercourses and sheds for
livestock (including poultry), the planting of trees for orchards and their
maintenance, and the installation of poLythene mini-tunnels on vegetable
farms.
77.     Individual investments would vary widely under the project so, for
the purposes of economic analysis, representative farm models were developed
in order to derive the rates of return to on-farm investments. Since major
parameters affecting investments under the Fifth ADBP project have not sig-
nificantly altered, both the economic rates of return (ERR) and the financial
rates of return (FRR) for the proposed project are expected to be similar to
those for the Fifth project, where the ERR were estimated to be larger than
50% for farm mechanization, 17-18% for dairy, and in the range of 30% to 50%
for on-farm development investments such as poultry units and orchards. The
FRR for farm mechanization range from 22% to 32% depending on tractor and
farm size, somewhat lower than the ERR because one of the benefits, savings
in family labor, is costed in the economic analysis but not in the financial
analysis.   The FRR for dairy investments range from 35% to 70%, much higher
than the ERR because the financial prices for milk are higher than world



-32-
market prices (reconstituted from milk powder and butter oil). The FRR for
poultry and orchard investment are in the same order as the ERR.
78.     Under the proposed project, new types of investment were analyzed
that are expected to become more important as ADBP's efforts toward diver-
sified lending gain momentum. Investment in a mould-board plow on a 40 ac
rainfed wheat farm is expected to yield an ERR of 48% and an FRR of 45%. On
a 10 ac irrigated wheat/cotton farm the same investment would have an ERR of
22% and an FRR of 18%. The lower rates on the irrigated farm stem from the
fact that, according to farm triaLs carried out in Pakistan, introduction of
primary tillage results in average wheat yield increases of 36Z in rainfed
areas, but only 10% in irrigated areas. For investment in vegetable produc-
tion the ERR was calculated to be higher than 50% and the FRR 49%. Apple
orchard development would result in an ERR and an FRR of 41%. Minor irriga-
tion investments were analyzed in depth in the recent SCARP Transition Pilot
project. The ERR for that project is 23X and FRR for various types of
tubewells range from 32% to over 50%.
79.     As a continuation of earlier successful projects, risks, in many
respects, are relatively small. ADBP has proven its ability to sustain
growth in its loan portfolio while maintaining and even improving the quality
of lending. Sound top-level management has helped to build the administra-
tive capacity needed to handle high rates of growth and the implied volumes
of lending, and should continue to do so. The Government maintains its
strong commitment to ADBP's activities. The project's major uncertainty is
the effect of Islamization on ADBP's administrative costs and financial
position. Specific measures have been included in the project to help reduce
this risk.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
80.     I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association respectively, and
I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan and
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 1, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-33-                                                    Annex 1
T A SLEC  3A                                        Page  1  of  6
PAltSTAN                - SOCIAL INDSCATORS DATA SHET
PAKISTAX                              1CFERCNCC GRoUPS (wIgGHTED AVZRACS) I
HOST                      (HOsT RtCENT ESTIMATE) Lb
RECENT              LOW tNCOmN            KIDDLE INCOME
1960igL     1970Lk tSiMA.k/b          ASIA & PACIFtC          ASIA * PACIFIC
ADJUSTCD ENROLUI>T RATIOS
P%IMARY:   TOTAL                   30.0         40.0        44.0               92.6                      100.7
MALI                    46.0        57.0         37.0              105.5                      104.4
FEHALE                  13.0        22.0         31.0               79.3                      97.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   11.0         13.0        14.0               31.3                       47.8
MALE                    18.0        20.0         20.0               40.8                       50.6
PFEALE                   3.0         5.0          4.0               21.9                       44.8
VOCATIONAL (t  OF SECONDARY)          1.0          1.5         1.7                3.2                       18.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIDALT                            39.0        41.0         36.0               36.0                       30.4
39CONDARY                          24.0         20.0        18.0               17.4                       22.2
COUWII
PASSENCER CARS/THOUSAND POP            1.5         2.6         3.4 j              0.9                       10.1
RADIO UECEIVERS/TNOIJSAND POP         6.0         17.1        74.6              129.6                      172.9
TV RZCEIVECS/TNOUSAND POP                          1.6        11.5               19.8                       58.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTIEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER TNOUSAND POPULATION              13.2          .         19.4               25 7                       65.3
CINEM  ANNUAL ATTZMDANCE/CAPITA        1.7         3.0 /i      2.2 Ic             6.0                        3.4
RANOR FORCC
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          14448.0     17364.0     25325.0
FEMALE (PPRCENT)                    8.6         9.3         10.6               33.2                       33.6
AGRICULTDRE (PERCENT)              61.0        59.0         57.0               69.6                       52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCE)                   18.0        19.0         20.0               15.8                       17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              31.5         28.7        28.2               41.9                       36.9
KALI                               55.2         50.4        48.3               53.6                       50.8
FEMALE                              5.7         5.5          6.3               29.1                       26.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY PATIO              1.5         1.7         1.7                 1.0                       1.1
131K DISTIUTIOU
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICGEST 52 OF HOUSE' iLDS          20.3 Ik      17.8
HIGHEST 20S 07F  OUSEROLDS         45.3 7k      41.                                                       48.0
LOWEST 20S OF HOUSFHOLDS            6.4 7-k      8.0                             .                         6.4
LOWEST 401 OF HOUSENOLOS           17.5 7-k   20.2                                                        15.5
Pm   TAR7C GROPS
ESTUMD ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBsAN                                         68.0 It    176.0 /c            133.9
RUIRAL                              .7 0 7.     122.0 77                      111.6                      151.9
ESTIMED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBJ'N                               .          34.0 li     88.0 /c                                      177 9
RURAL                                          22.0 7       58.0 77            S.l7                      164.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                                          42.0 li      32.0 /c            43.8                       23.5
RURAL                                          43.o0 7i    29.0 7;w            51.7                       37.8
NOT AVAILANE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T e s
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithetic meane. Coverage of countriee
_ong the indicators depends on availability of data and Se not uniform.
/b   Unlass othetSies noted, "Data for 1960" refor to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betwcen
1969 and 1971; and data for 'Moot Recent ECtimate' be-wen 1981 and 1983.
/c   1979;  /d 1968;  /e 1977;  /f If registered, not all practising Ln the country;  /g 1980; /h 1973;
/S. 1972; aJ 1964.
.JUNE. 1985



-34-
Annex 1
TACLt  1                                                     Page 2 of 6
PAI ITS                 - AL t"OICAIC  DATAD
PAISTAN                               REPRNR  GROUPS (ME WIf   AWEOLE) L]
MOST                      (POST NWN    TIMAT) j
*                                 UI~~~~~~~~~~~~~KCRT  jbLOWE t!CL           stDm    1
19          197U.Ib  tlTIiTJb            FI t LAClil          ASIA *I.ACILL
AREA (mTamS     SQ. m)
TOTAL                               NU3.9        6U3.9       a03.P
AGRICULTURAL                        227.5        243.3       253.0
CP MR CAPITA  U)                          ..          ..         JU.0               271.3                    IuaI.
uRE! CIUIPTIOd PnT1 CAPITA
(KILOCRAIS oF OIL WOUIVALENT)        98.0        139.0       179.0              235.7                      Sn.u
POPUZATIO  AN  VITAL gTATISTICS
POPULATION.M1I-TEAR (THOUSANDS)   45851.0      60449.0    69729.0
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)        22.1        Z.9         29.1               22.3                       35.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YTAR 2000 (HILL)                             133.1
STAnONARtY  OPULATION (KILL)                               330.0
POPULATION POEIlHM         -                                  .e
OPULATION DENSITY
PER SO. Rl.                        57.0         75.2       111.6              173.6                      366.V
PER SO. RM. ACtI. LAND            201.5        246.'       34d.4              353.3                     1591.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (I)
0-14 YRS                          43.6        '4.2         43.7               36.3                       .15.2
15-64 YRS                          51.6        50.5         53.2               59.4                       57.7
65 AND ABOVE                        4.3          3.1         2.9                '.3                        3.5
POPULATION CR0 0 t AT:l
TOTAL                               2.3          2.'         3.0                2.u                        L.i
URAN!                               4.6          4.0         *.4                4.1                        4.1
CRUDE BIRIH RATE (PER TIIUS)         46.6         46.6        42.0               27.5                       3U.1
CRUlE DEATH RATE (PER TiOUS)         23.5         19.4        14.9                10.2                       V.&
CROSS REROUCTION RATE                 3.'          3.4         2.8                 1.7                       1.V
FAN ILT PLANNI
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TROUS)           ..        1906.1      3264.0 Ic
USERS (2 Or MARRIED lloEI)          ..           6.0 Id     14.3               49.4                       5b.5
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PrEt CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        89.0        102.0       107.0              116.6                      12'..4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (t  OF 1 1EQUtIEMENTS)    77.0         95.0       1U4.O           -  10.3                       115.7
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)           53.0         58.0        61.0               60.1                      60.3
OF 141ICM ANIMAL AMID PULSE       23.0        22.0         20.0 I.            14.4                       14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-)1 DEATh RATE          24.9         21.1        ie.0                7.3                        7.2
LIFE ERPECT. AT BIRTH (tYEARS)       *3.1        46.0         50.2               bO.5                       6U.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER ThOUS)       161.5       143.0        119.0               b9.2                      64.9
ACCESS TO SAFL WATER (UPOP)
TOTAL                               ..          21.0        34.b               44.2                       46.u
UN                                  ..          77.0        72.0               77.2                       57.b
tUBAL                               ..          s.0         20.0               3'.6                       37.1
ACCESS TO EXCRETA OISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-           3.0        13.1                7.8                       50.1
URSU                                ..          12.0        42.0               26.8                       52.9
RURAL                               ..          ..          2.0                 5.5                      44.7
POPULATION PER PHTSICIAN           5400.0      4300.0 If   3480.0 1            3316.0                    7751.7
POP. PER NURS1NG PERSONf          3MI10.0     10560.0 0    5B20.0 A            4690.7                    2484.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1790.0       1660.0      1560.0 Ic          1039.2                     1112.1
UBAfN                             5IO.D       e50.0       7io.o 7;            299.1                     651.4
RURAL                           226SO.0      12480.0    IIbtU.0 7'           6026.2                    2596.9
ADISSIOMS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..           ..          ..                52.3                      *1.1
ualJSINC
AVERAGE SIZE OF NOU0SE0OLD
TOTAL                               5.4          5.3         e.1 Ic
URBA                                5.b         5.5         0.4 .c
RURAL                               5.&          5.2        t0i  te             ..                         .
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSUNS/ROWM
TOTAL                               J.1          2.8 In
URBAN                               3.1         2.7 7W.
RURAL                               3.1         2.8 lb       .
PERCENTACE OF DWELLINGS WITH ELECT.
TUTAL                               ..          37.9 lb
URBAN                               ..         54. lhb
RURAL                               ..          '.9 7F



-35-                                              ANNEX  I
page 3  of 6
DnuIMwrTw  or  SOCwL PDICATORS
Notes Athughbd data ae drwn         i     u boumagmealyjudid dshmostlaortadi: and reliabk, it should ano be nosed that they my not be imtionally
comparab bn  of the lack of andanlnd diaiom ad cocept wmd by dirent cutries in colleong the dew. The data ate. nonetek, useful to
deomibe    of maitud indim tren  d  dmati certai maor dilfkna buweon couotries
The mrtso.sroups am (1) thens country puop of th aubjeet country nd (2) a coutuy roup with somehst highr averag income tban the country
roup of the asubjst m y (pt fobrHi  1com O Exponrt group wbr-Midd icoe Norh Afric and Middk Ea  is ch   becam of suoftror
sociocultural afti)llI t bte fn  pmp dat the ampa -p popuation p it arhbaetic   n for efac indiator nd shownly wnmsonty
oftreouomuinrisina pomp bsudtfortbtindi4tor.  .Sinehcovgofcofuiamongteindiatmt dpe n the vailaiity ordatao d is nw umrfom.
cauti must beem d in in ng s tavea  ofmindicator to snoie. Tb  avga oly useful in compang the valofo o   indicator at a time among
the ouury and -ate-. oup.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                         Crud Eh Rate (per thssd)-Namber of ive births in the year
TeadL-Total surface arca comprsing land area and inland waten;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crudk Deh Rae (per hreussd)-Number of deaths in the year
Agdembwul-Eszimate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
perrnaendy for crops. pstures market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Repedadaa Rate-Averge number or daughtm a woman
lie faliow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prics. calculated by same conversion method as World    ,a,, Piel-i--Acceptrs Amal (ttsasj-Annual num-
Bank Ata, (1fr81413 basis); 1983 data.                        lber ofacceptors of birth-control devce under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 farnily p lnning program.
consumpton of commercial priinary energy (coal and lignite.     iuzly Plasa*-LUsers (peret ofarm ied wevom -The percen-
petrolumn natural gas and hydro-, nuclar and geothermal elec-    tage of ntar4ied women of child-bearing age who are pracicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                     of child-beang age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contaceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups.
ladP19pe8i3 n. Mid-Yw (thousaudwD-As of July 1; 1960.1970.     FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
lr of Fad heof      s Per Cy*a (1969-71 = 100)-Indcx of per
ro atonie (ren       es     ton -Raio of urban to total        capita annua production of al food commodities. Production
population different definitions of urban ares mnay affect compar- exldsailfedndedfoagcutr.Fdcmoiis
ability Of data amnorg countiies; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.   excludes annunal feed and seod for agriculdture. Food comn odities
ablt*oaamnoutis16.190nd18    include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
fp.aio a hlejetie                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Pbpulation in year 2000-The projection of population for 20D.  excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulss oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetabes. fruits. nuts, sugarcane and sugar bee  livestock, and
total population by age and xx, fertility rtes mortality rates, and  ivestock products. Aggregate production of each country is bastd
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price w-ights: 196165. 1970. and
wer projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            Per Capita Supl o Cali  (peewt ofreqireu-s)Comput-
Stationary population-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
cality rates have not dianged over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestfr produc-
fertility rates have simultancously remained at replacement klvel  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Ne. supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exdude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nornal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteritics of  and bealth considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement lvel.                                      waste at household level. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popmdazion Momernwn-Is the tendency for population growth to   Per Capita S#up  of Proid   (grans per dyJ-Protein content of
continue bcyond the time that replacement-levd fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food; iefined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which I0 grams
the year . given the assurmption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
meat lvel from year t onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
poplaionm Densty                                               average for the orldd proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqlkrm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               Per Capita Prtein Supply From Anionalnd Pvble-Protein supply
Per sqJkm. agriczdural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961 45.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Population Age S5cre (perceer)-Children (0-14 years). ork-     CAi (aqes 1-4) Deah Rate (per th.usand)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years), and retired (65 yea and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1-983 data.            group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Pop.ktion Greatk Rate (perceul--eoal--AnnuaI growth rates of   from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEArTH
Popultion Grwt Rate (pereert)-ere-Annual growth rates         Life Erpe&rny as Birth (yewr)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-36-                                             ANNEX I
page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to sy the same throughout its lire;  Pupl-teacher Ratio - primary, and sreodaury-Total students en-
1960. 1970 anud 1983 data.                                    roled in primary and secondary levels divided by nwuber of
AVAt Mwnelt Rat (per t_sef)-Number of infants who die    teachm  in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of ae per thou! and live births in a given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Acewsr rS.   Water (powat of pq:am# -4oW, ui_, M_             Pawar CGr (per thusmd pelatim)-Passenger cars com-
r-Number of people (total. urban.  d rual) with renonable      prise motor can seating les than eight perons; excludes ambul-
accm to sfe water supply (inude treed surface waters or       ances. heares and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated wter such as that from protected  R . ReceimS (per tlao_ui)AU types Ot rceive
bormholes springs and snitary weds) as percenta-s of their fapor,    for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of popuWation.
tive populations. In an urbin are a public rountin or standpost    excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 20 meters  nt a house may be conskd registrion Of rdio sets was in clfec; data for cr,ct yeam may
as being within reasonable acss of that house. In mrl are      eg not be comparabdi since most countrief   abolisrecent ysming
muwnable aa e  ould imply that the houewifeor member of the
housibold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV Rereem ivs(per theadp apalat -TV recmeivrs for broadcast
in etching the fsmily's water nead                            to genel public pcr thousand population; excludes unloensed TV
Acce  te Excrete Dspal (&pew cet  pepuaenJ)--4ot., i           receivers in countries and in year when rgistration of TV sets was
aNd wel-Number of people (total, urban, and rual) served by    in effect.
excreta disposal as pecentages of their respective populations.  uApew  Circati  (per thosndpopul-Siuj-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age dmulation of -daily general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta nd waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted pnmarily to recording general news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily" ir it appers at lest four times a week.
Poplatom per Ph,uida-Rbpulation divided by number of prac-    CinAamE Atendae per Cata per YewY-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medial school at university level,  number ot tickets sold during the year, induding admissions to
Abpuare per Nwuan PtrsowaPopulation divided by number of      drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
pracicing male and female graduate nurses assistant nursm.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
A~uladper Hp spitf otol Bed-ta  wham. aid nowl-ftpulation      Totai Labor arce (thoumands)-Economically active persons in-
(totaL urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  duding armned forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private. general antzd students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rchabiaitation  o pterit Hospigals arc establshments  various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pennanently staffed by at least onc physician. Establishments prov-  fk (percent)-Femakn labor fome as percentge of total labor
iding pri-pally custodial care are not included. RuRI hospitals,    force.
however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agviu_ue (percmntJ-Labor force in farming, forestzy, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical ft&iities.                                         lndury (percenr)-Labor force in mining. construction. mnanu-
Admission per Hospita Bed--Total number of admissions to or   facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       fore; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Parciati ate (percent)-mta, mak_ mdnPfmale-Prticipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total, nmle, and female labor force
Arage Sigz of HoNehld (pernas per hAuseodd)-rol, wham,        as percentages of total. male and female population of all ages
anrval-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectivdy; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-x strnicture of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Aerae Namyher of Perswo  per  oeem-tatal, rbn, ad ,sl-         Eceoenoc Dependency Ratio-Ratio of population under 15, and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectivedy. Dwelling exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DlSTRJLUTMON
Percntae of Dweligs with Elcri*tp-tetal, srbhan and rw&-      Percetoge of Total DiuposaMe Iwom  (both 1i case aid kidl)-
Conventional dwelings with eectricity in living quarers as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Ajasted Emwfli et Ratios                                      The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prunary school - total. male and fenma-Grs total. male and    levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary levd as percentages of  Estnited Absolute Poverry lncenw Leid (USS per capita )-bn
respetive primary school-age populations. While many countries  gu rural-Absolute poverty income lvel is that incomne kvel
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are rflcted in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  EFinted Relati  Poey l1crn Lerd (USI per capita )-aran
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  ad rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primnary-chool  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban levd is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total maek and female-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Etmted Popuato  BElow Absolute PArerty acense Levd (pa-
mary instruction; provdes general, vocationaL or teacher training  centD-urhan and  oral- Percent of population (urban and rural
instmctions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are 'absolute poor."
ence courses are generally exciuded.
Vocationdl Erollmeni (percent of seconday)-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include tecdnal industriaL or other programs which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



-37-
HEX I
Page 5 of 6
CCONOMIC DEVELOPWZNT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1982: US$380 Lj
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1983/84 Lk                                          ANNtAL RATE OF GROWTH (Z. constant orices)
USS Dillion         2                1969/70-1974175  1975176-1980/51  1981/52  1982/83  1983/84
CUP nt market pricrn               33.68           100.0                    3.5               7.1             4.3       7.4       4.2
Gross domestic investment           5.23            15.5                   -5.5               4.1            10.5       9.6       3.4
Gross national saving               4.20            12.5                   -2.1               6.7             6.9      24.9      -6.5
Current account balance            -1.00            -3.0                     .                 .
Exports of goods. NFS               3.44            10.2                   -3.5               7 3           -5.6      27.5      -3.2
Imports of goods, NFS               7.06            21.0                   -7.1               5.5             0.7       1.1     22.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1983184
Value Added                   Labor Force /c                  V. A. Per Worker
S million    2                  Million    2                      USS       Z
Agriculture                        6.652      24                 14.1       51                      472      47
Induntry Ld                        8.096      29                  5.2       19                   1.557    155
Services                          12,931      47                  8.3       30                   IA.22     155
Total/Average                   27,679      O0                27.6      100                   1.003    100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government fe                               Federal Government
(Re billion)             Z of GDP                 (Rs billion)           I of. GDP
1983/84 Lf    1983184  1978/79-1983184            1983/84 /f  1983184  1978179-1983/84
Current receipts                          73.2          17.4          16.6                 58.2         13.9           12.4
Current expenditures                     8.             19.1          23.5                 62.8         15.0          13.2
Current surplus                           -7.2          -1.7          -6.3                 -4.6         -1.1          -0.4
Capital expenditures Lg                   34.2           8.1           9.4                 34.2          7.0            8.0
External assistance (net)                 6.0            1.4           2.1                  6.0          1.4            2.1
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75   1975/76   1976177   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1961/82  1982/83  1983/84 Ih
(Rs billiqa)
Honey and quasi money Li                     33.1       41.6       51.7       63.7       76.,       90.7      103.5      113.6    146.0    162.5
Dank credit to public sector                 21.2       28.1       36.6       43.5       54.9       61.8       70.9       79.7      95.5    105.6
Bank credit to private sector                16.0       17.8       23.0       26.5       30.9       36.9       41.9       51.3      62.8     77.8
(percentages or index number.)
Money and quasi money as 2 of GDP            29.5       31.5       34.6       36.7       39.0       38.3       37.0       35.1       40.1       38.7
Consumer price index (1969/70-100)          211.3      229.4      256.7      277.0      295.6      331.9      375.4      403.9      418.1      462.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer price index                         23.6        8.6       11.9        7.9        6.7       12.3       13.1        7.6        3.5       10.5
Bank credit to pubil- sector                   ..       32.5       30.2       18.8       26.2       12.6       14.7       12.4       19.8       10.6
lank credit to private sector                  ..       11.2       29.2       15.2       16.6       19.4       13.5       22.4       22.4       23.9
la  Based on World fank Atlas methodology and calculated at an average of 1980-02 prices and exchange rates.  All other
conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
/b Provisional.
le Projection for 1983/84. Does not include unemployed labor force.
Id Includes manufacturing, miring, construction and electricity and gas.
le Consolidated revenues and expenditures of Federal and Provincial Governments (excluding Federal-Provincial Government
tranefers).
If Revised budget data.
L/ Excluding principal repayments of foreign loans. Capital expenditures aa defined in government budget include
certain current expendituree also.
/b Provisional.
Ii  Monetary statistics of Pakistan have been fully adjusted for demonetized  notes. devaluation snd revaluation of the
rupee, etc. as from June 30, 1975. Data for 1974/75 from State Bank sources are not strictly comparable vith IMF
estimates for earlier years.
Not applicable.
Not available.
March 1985



-38-
ANNE 
Page 6 of b
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                     MZRCIIIDISB EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979/80-1983/84)
1979/80  1980181  19BI/82I1L982/83   1983184                                    USS millionI
CUSS nillion)
Exports of goods, NFS              2.955    3,461    3,052    3,416       3,439          Raw cotton                    315.3         11.9
Imports of goods, NFS              5J709    6.466    6,679   i6aLa        7 058         Cotton yarn                    214.7         8.1
Resource gap (deficit - -)        -2,754   -3,OC5   -3.627   -3,172    -3,619           Cotton cloth                   281.1         10.6
Rice                          417.9         15.8
lutwest payments                    -285     -357      -453     -421       -477         All other comodities         1.422.4        53.6
Workers  remittances               1,748    2,097    2,224    2,887       2,737           Total                      2,651.4        100.0
Other factor payments (net)          151      274       321      195        359
Net transferm                                        ---. .. 
Balance on current account        -1,140     -991   -1,535      -511    -1,000                    EXTERNAL DEBT. JUNE 1984
Direct foreign investment
Net MLT borrowing                                                                                                              US Lmillion
Disbursements                    1,134      956    1.102    1,301       1,248
Amortization                      -31Q     -516      -492     -386       -569          Public debt, including guaranteed       9,890.4
Sub-totel                          824      440       610      915        679         Non-guaranteed private debt Le
Transactions with IMF fe              78      315       358      413         -1            Total outstanding end disbursed       9,890.4
Other items n.e.i. lk                600      546       318      285        142
Increase in reserves (-)            -362     -310       249   -1,102        180           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983/84 /f
Cross reserves (end year) fj         748    1,058       809    1,911      1,731
Petroleum  imports /d              1.079    1,535    1,710    1,610       1,423          Public debt, including guaranteed           15.6
Petroleum exports Id                 178      126       194       77         40         Non-guaranteed private debt
Total                                   15.6
RATE OF EXCHWNGE                                                                            IBRD/IDA LENDING (Decemiber 1983) (USS Willion)
Thronab May 11. 1972                From HMa  12. 1972-Feb. 15. 1973                                                         IBRD        IDA
US$a     - Rs 4.7619                       USS1 - Rs 11.00                           Outstanding and disbursed             350.7   1,144.7
Rs 1 - US$0.21                             Rs 1 - USS0.09                            Undisbursed                           197.0     617.2
Outstanding including undisbursed   547.7   1,761.9
From Feb. 16. 1973-Jan. 7. 1982    From Julv 1981-June 1982 fg        From July 1982-June 1983 IL        From July 1983-June 1984 ft
US$ 1 - is 9.90                       USSI - Rs 10.55                  US$1 - Rs 12.75                   US$1 - Is 13.50
Rs  1 - US$0.10                       Rs I - US$0.095                  Rs 1 - USSO.078                   Rs I - USS0.074
/e  Including Trust Fund.
Li  Including net sbort-term borrowing and errors and omissions.
ft  Excluding gold reserves of about 1.8 millioL troy ounces.
Ij  Crude and derivatives.
ft  Non-guaranteed private debt service is negligible.
/f  Ratio of actual debt service to exports of goods, factor and non-factor services; debt service includes IMF charges.
L  Effective January 8, 1982, the rupee is to be managed with reference to a weighted basket of currencies.  The average
exchange rate shown is vis-a-vim USS for the period shown.
Not available.
March 1985



-39-
An
Page 1
STATUS OF 5A-G CR0ou  OPERATION8 IN PAKISTAN
A.  STATEENT rOF  UPr LOINS AND IDA CREDITS (as of Sentenber 30. 1955) 1*
(USS million)
Loan/                                                     (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                     Undi-
Number      Year    Purnose                               Bnk   Tw         IDA       bursed
Ninety-eight loans and credit. fully disburmed Lk    781.4  32.0  1.001.6LL
648        1976   Irrigation 6 Drainage (Kheirpur)        -                14.0       2.7
13662      1977   Punjab Livestock Developmwnt            -      10.0      -          2.8
754        1978   Salinity Control & Reclamstion          -                70.0      66.6
813        1976   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Des.               -                12.5       3.7
877        1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (fardan)    -                   60.0      49.4
892        1979   Primary Education                       -                10.0       3.5
922        1979   Sind Agricultural Extension             -                 9.0       4.2
968        1980   Third UAPDA Power                       -                45.0       3.5
974        1950   Third Highway                           -                50.0      11.9
1019       1980   PICIC Industrial Development            -                40.0       3.3
1109/e    1981   Vocational Training                      -                25.0       7.5
11131e    1981   Smll Industries                          -                30.0       0.3
1157/L    1981   Grain Storage                            -                32.0      15.5
1158fl    19BI   Agricultural Research                    -                24.0      15.0
1163/L    1981   On-Farm Water Management                 -                41.0      12.2
116/e    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)          -                30.0       3.0
2122       1982   Fourth Telecommunication                40.0             -         11.9
2172       1982   Fertilizer Industry Rebabilitation   38.5                -         20.3
2247       1983   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities        10.2             -         10.0
2305       1983   Agricultural Dev. (ADSP V)              10.0             --         5.4
2324       1983   Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipelines        43.0             -         39.9
1239/e    1982   Irrigation S) teas Rehabilitation    -                    40.0      23 .7
1243fj    1982   Baluchiatan Minor Irrig. & Agr.          -                14.0      10.9
1256fe    1982   Technical Assistance                     -                 7.0       2.9
1278/e    1982   Eleventh Railway Project                 -                50.0      36.0
134U  e    1983   Lahore Urban Development                --               16.0      14.9
13501e    1983   Population                               -                18.0      14.3
1355/e    1983   Coal Engineering                         -                 7.0       6.2
1374fe    1983   Karachi Water Supply                     -                25.0      20.4
1375/e    1983   Fourth Drainage                          -                65.0      62.0
13B01      1983   Agricultural Development (ADBP V)    -                   47.8      14.2
2218      1983   Refinery Engineering Project             12.0             -          8.8
2351       1984   Petroleum Exploration                   51.5             -         41.4
2374      1984   Second Toot Oil and Gac Development  30.0                 -         22.8
2380       1984   Induatrial Inveatkent Credit            50.0             -         44 .7
1439/e    1984   Industrial Investment Credit             -                50.0      44 .5
14611e    1984   Integrated Hill Farming Development  -                    21.0      21 .3
1480/e    1984   Second Technical Assistance              -                 7.0       6.8
1487       1984   Commnd Water Management                 -                46.5      46.0
1499       1984   Second Small Industries                 --               50.0      41 .1
1532       1985   Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage I    --                 150.0    156 .4
1533       1985   Baluchistan Agricultural Extension   --                   8.3       8.7
2499       1985   Fourth WAPDA Power                     100.0             -        100.0
16021L    1985   Second Primary Education                 -                52.5      52.5
1603/c    1985   Second On-Fern Water Management          -                34.5      34.5
2552       1985   Energy Sector Loan                     178.0             -        178.0
2553       1985   Petroleum Reaources Joint Venture    55.0                -         55.0
2556/c    1985   Fifth WAPDA Power                       100.0             -        100.0
Total                                                  1,499.6  42.0  2,202.9  1l461 .2
of which hba  been repaid                              501.1    4.6      44.3
Total now outstanding                                    998.5  37.4  2,158.6
Amount sold                   29.9
of which baa been repaid    299                        -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDAld                         998l5  37.4  2.158.6
Total undisbursed                                        638.2   2.7    820.3  1461.2
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Sank/tDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits vholly or partly for projects
in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/c  Not yet effective.
/d  Prior to exchange adjustment.
/e  IDA Credita under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRa.  The principal
is shown in U$ equivalent at the time of negotiation.  Disbursed amounts are
computed at the exchange rate applicable on the transaction dates. Undisbureed
wounts are valued at the exchange. rate applicable on the date of this
statement
jf  By using tbe market rate on dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAZ and Credit 1255-PAM (both fully disbursed) is
$42.5 Sad $77.5. respectively.



-40-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT, (as of September 30. 1985)
Fiscal                                               Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obliror               TIvDe of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products              0.63      --        0.63
1959     Adanjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles              0.75      --        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.       Cement                 5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                 Development
1969-                          Financing               --     0.52       0.52
1975          -
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles              1.84    0.11        1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products        19.25    0.84      20.09
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                  5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers           1.00    2.92        3.92
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.36        2.76
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04       31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78      --       1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board        2.70      -         2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.16        3.31
1982     Asbestos              Cement                 4.02     -         4.02
1983     Pakistan Petroleum    Chem-'cal and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals      100.89    1.56    102.45
1985     National Dev.         Money and
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market.       4.13    0.37        4.50
Total Gross Commitments                   182.17   11.32    193.49
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales               133.05    0.38    133.43
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC          49.12   10.94       60.06
Undisbursed (including participants)       38.28    0.51       38.79



-41-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Supplementary Proiect Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:
One year
(b)  Agency which prepared project:
ADBP
Cc)  Date of first mission to consider the project:
July 1984
id)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:
August 1985
Ce)  Date of completion of negotiations:
March 28, 1986
Cf)  Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1986
Section II:     Special Bank and IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
ADBP would be required to:
Ca) prepare and implement a staff training plan, to
be updated annually in accordance with training
needs (para. 68);



-42-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b)  submit to the Bank for concurrence a comprehensive
action plan for expanding the use of FCNOs and MCOIs
in the project period (para. 69);
(c) review its collateral policy under Islamic banking;
submit to the Bank recommendations resulting from
such review; and implement these recoimendations as
necessary to facilitate access of smallholders and
the landless to institutional credit (para. 69);
(d) strengthen its Credit Policy and Appraisal Department
to train all MCOs in new appraisal techniques and be
able to modify and redefine on-farm appraisal
techniques on a continual basis (para. 70);
(e) extend in each fiscal year at least 75% of all medium
and long-term farmers' loans or financing to farmers
with 25 ac or less; at least one-half of this lending
volume to go to farmers with 12.5 ac or less
(para. 72);
(f) analyze, in annual reviews, the effects of
Islamic banking on income generation and iuplement
appropriate measures to ensure a continued
satisfactory financial position and profitability
(para. 73); and
(g)  take all measures necessary to reach minimum recovery
rates of at least 77% by June 30, 1987; 79% by June
30, 1988; and 81% by June 30, 1989 (para 73).
The execution of a Financing Agreement between the Government
and ADBP would be an additional condition of Loan/Credit effectiveness
(para. 63).



14.                                       1~~~~~~~~~.'.  U~. S .R
PAKISTAN                                                     (.    u   S   S   R.
SIXTH  AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT                                                   _\          .               CHINA
BANK PROJECT
411A.- RoinIll in n,h6- 
Mla. ho 20
L; ho12 202'9-;>E-
h.,    a   12
.l30I0 AMN M11,11 WAI,ERED LANDS:
C-nol I..iga.d L-nd,
It- .1 Pcin' Ein ah.,4'   '                                                         .      AM
*   ltallCOWiO                         ~~                                     '
o OIh., CIli., -ld Ta.-
Rion
In._._.olmlion,l  toandaisn.,/rSH
0   14   01  1                    4:
0    10    14   '10   100    1-
_                                             )                    
_ ...                                          /# _                                                                             _I_n  
y                  /Nsc9--r  1"< A   w-~~1 /
A             F G  H A  N  I S  T A  N    
0SLA         14   14      1         0
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,                                 /i n.zn- .,
V's1r; -; <-   -----t                       | N D I A
s~~~~~~~ ji.                                                / C                INL  d A
an           o  bIA   N    LI              A              1/5Eztrt(! tii->_
,~ ~ ~ 0                                        'Mr              / l                                                   42



