LOAN NUMBER 2693 PAK
CREDIT NUMBER 1699 PAK
rojec Agment
(Sixth AgricuLtural Development Bank Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT RANK OF PAKISTAN
Dated                               , 1986


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2693 PAK
CREDIT NUMBER 1699 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           /LA   &?          , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION ND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank),
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION   (the  Association)  and
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (ADBP).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred sixty-five
million dollars ($165,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that ADBP
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set
forth in this Agreement;
(B) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty-seven million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 47,600,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that ADBP agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(C) by a financing agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ADBP, the proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement and the proceeds of the credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to
ADBP on the terms and conditions set forth in said Financing
Agreement; and
WHEREAS ADBP, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement and the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ADBP declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative,    financial,   engineering    and   agricultural
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, ADBP shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement among the Bank, the Association and ADBP.
(c) ADBP shall make available funds, including such amounts
of the Loan and the Credit as the Borrower shall make available
to it, or the equivalent thereof, to farmers and farmers' groups
and, in respect of the high-hp tractors to be provided under Part
A (i) of the Project, to individuals or entities servicing
farmers and farmers' groups, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank and the Association and
which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank and the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. ADBP shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions constituting an integral part of the Loan Agreement
and in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions constituting an integral part of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement (relating to insur-ace, use of goods and


﻿-3-
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. ADBP shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Financing Agreement. Except as the Bank and the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, ADBP shall not take or concur in
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Financing Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ADBP shall, at the request of the Bank and
the Association, exchange views with the Bank and the Association
with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Financing Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and
the Credit.
(b) ADBP shall promptly inform the Bank and the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan and the Credit, or the performance by ADBP of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Financing
Agreement.
Section 2.06. ADBP shall not utilize any part of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the Credit to extend financing on the basis
of profit-and-loss sharing or service charge or any other basis
which is not acceptable to the Bank and the Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ADBP
Section 3.01. ADBP shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and agricultural practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. ADBP shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and agricultural practices.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. ADBP shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank and the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ADBP shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition, including separate
accounts for the Project.
(b) ADBP shall:
(i) have    its  accounts   and  financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in 'accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank and the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
quested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank and the Association such other
information concerning said accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof and said
records, as the Bank and the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account and the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, ADBP shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;


﻿(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank and
the Association have received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account and the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Bank's and the Association's represen-
tatives to examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the Credit withdrawn in
respect of such expenditures were used for the
purposes for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank and the Association
shall otherwise agree, ADBP shall not incur any debt, if after
the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be
greater than 7 to 1.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of ADBP
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment, on the date, and to the
extent, the amount of such debt has become out-
standing pursuant to such contract, agreement or
instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(iii) The term    "equity" means the sum of the total
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
reserves of ADBP not allocated to cover specific
liabilities.


﻿-6-
(iv) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank
and the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank and the Association
shall otherwise agree, ADBP shall at all times charge interest
rates on loans made by it before April 1, 1985, and rates of
return or service charge on financing provided by it thereafter,
which shall be positive in real terms and sufficient to enable
it:
(i)  to  cover  all   its  operating  expenditures  and
charges, including taxes, if any, and interest
payments,   returns   and   service   charges   on
borrowings;
(ii) to make provision for bad debts and maintain such
provision at a ratio to total overdues satisfac-
tory to the Bank and the Association; and
(iii)  to accumulate reserves which shall be adequate to
ensure, in conjunction with the Borrower's contri-
butions to ADBP's paid-up capital, that ADBP's
ratio of debt to equity is not greater than 7:1.
(b) Without limiting the generality of paragraph (a) of
this Section, ADBP shall charge:
(i) interest rates of not less than eleven percent
(11%) per annum on all outstanding balances of
loans made before April 1, 1985;
(ii) service charges of not less than three percent
(3%) per annum on all outstanding balances of
funds made available on the basis of service
charge; and
(iii) rates of return of not less than twelve percent
(12%) per annum plus a charge of 3% of each


﻿-7-
instalment due, which 2harge may be waived in
cases where instalments are paid within one month
of the due date, on all outstanding balances of
funds made available on the basis of hire-
purchase,  leasing, mark-up,    and    other  such
financing modes.
Section 4.04. (a) ADBP shall take appropriate measures each
year to achieve a level of profits adequate to fund its reserves
as required under Section 4.03 (a) (iii) of this Agreement. To
this end, ADBP shall:
(i) not later than December 31 in each year, beginning
with 1986, review its past and projected income
and profit generating capacity and, on the basis
thereof, develop proposals for the measures to be
taken to achieve the said level of profits;
(ii) not later than March 31 in each year, beginning
with 1987, obtain the concurrence of the Borrower,
the Bank and the Association to such proposals;
and
(iii) thereafter, but not later than July 1 in each
year,   beginning   with   1987,  implement   such
proposals.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise
agree, ADBP shall not pay out dividends in any year in which its
profits fall short of the level required to fund its reserves as
required under Section 4.03 (a) (iii) of this Agreement.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank and the Association shall
otherwise agree, ADBP shall:
(a) account for its income for each fiscal year on an
accrual basis;
(b) in cases of early repayment of financing made available
on the basis of profit-and-loss sharing, hire-purchase, leasing,
mark-up, service charge and other such financing modes, calculate
and collect the outstanding principal and income on a reducing
balances basis; and


﻿-8-
(c) continue to apply, at the end of each fiscal year, a
permanent write-off policy, satisfactory to the Bank and the
Association, of writing-off long overdue loans and other
financing.
Section 4.06. (a) ADBP shall in each fiscal year extend (i)
at least 75% of its medium- and long-term loans or financing to
farmers owning 25 ac. or less, and (ii) within this category, at
least 50% of such loans and financing to farmers owning 12.5 ac.
or less.
(b) ADBP shall not extend more than (i) 20% of its total
lending and other financing for short-term loans or financing;
and (ii) 2% of its total lending and other financing on the basis
of profit-and-loss sharing or service charge or any other basis
which is not acceptable to the Bank and the Association.
Section 4.07. ADBP shall:
(a) carry out a review of its collateral policy;
(b) by October 31, 1986, submit the recommendations
resulting from such review for concurrence by the Bank and the
Association; and
(c) thereafter, but not later than June 30, 1987, take all
necessary measures to implement such recommendations, all with a
view to suitably revising said collateral policy in light of the
requirements of financing made available on the basis of profit-
and-loss sharing, hire-purchase, leasing, mark-up, service charge
and other such financing modes, and so as to facilitate access to
institutional credit for small-holder farmers and the landless.
Section 4.08. ADBP shall take all measures necessary to
reach minimum recovery rates of at least 77% by June 30, 1987,
79% by June 30, 1988, and 81% by June 30, 1989.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement and the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement become effective.


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank, the Association and ADBP thereunder shall terminate on the
date on which the Loan Agreement and the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with their terms, and the
Bank and the Association shall promptly notify ADBP thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or 1y mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank and the Association:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
and International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD/INDEVAS                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ADBP:
Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
Post Box No. 1400
Islamabad, Pakistan


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
AGRIFIN                           5618 ADBP PK
Islamabad
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ADBP, or by ADBP on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement,
may be taken or executed by its Chairman or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing, and he shall furnish to
the Bank and the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By          /
Regional Vice President
South Asia
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
South Asia
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
By 5
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   All items financed by ADBP (other than tractors of 80 hp and
over, implements for such tractors, and solar pumps) under Part A
of the Project may be procured through normal commercial
channels.
2.   Equipment items required under Parts B (i) and B (ii) of the
Project which are estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000 per contract and which cannot be grouped in accordance
with the provisions of Part A.2 of this Schedule, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank and the Association.
3.   Equipment items required under Parts B (i) and B (ii) of the
Project which are estimated to cost less than the equivalent of


﻿- 13 -
$20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a
list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank and the
Association.
4.   Computer equipment required under Parts B (i) and B (ii) of
the Project, in order to be compatible with existing equipment,
may be procured directly from the original suppliers.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract to be awarded in accord-
ance with the provisions of Part A of this Schedule, the pro-
cedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank and
Association have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section 4.01
(c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist ADBP in carrying out the Project, ADBP
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terins and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank and the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank and the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.   Institutional Reforms
(a) Mobile Credit Officer (MCO) Scheme. ADBP shall, by
October 31, 1986, prepare and submit to the Bank and the Asso-
ciation for concurrence, and thereafter implement, a comprehen-
sive action plan for increasing the use of functional mobile
credit officers (FMCOs) and mobile credit officers for intensi-
fied schemes (MCOIs) in ADBP's operations during the project
period.
(b) Agricultural Technology Transfer. In order to promote
technology transfer through FMCOs and MCOIs under the Project,
ADBP shall (i) by June 30, 1987, establish suitably staffed and
equipped Agricultural Technology Transfer Centers (ATTCs) in all
its regions, and (ii) by June 30, 1987, establish three mobile
mechanization demonstration units, and by June 30, 1988, another
three such units, all located, staffed and equipped in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank and the Association.
(c) Credit Policy and Appraisal Department. ADBP shall, by
December 31, 1986, suitably strengthen its Credit Policy and
Appraisal Department so as to enable it to (i) train all MCOs in
ADBP's new appraisal procedpres by December 31, 1987, and (ii)
modify and refine on-farm appraisal techniques on a continual
basis.
2.   Staff Training Plan. ADBP shall:
(a) by December 31, 1986, prepare and furnish to the Bank
and the Association for comments a comprehensive report on staff
training including (i) detailed analyses of ADBP's staff training
system, its objectives and needs and gaps in skills of staff, and
(ii) long-term proposals and action plans for all future staff
training activities, also covering staff colleges, demonstration
farms, and mobile mechanization demonstration anits;
(b) by March 31, 1987, prepare and implement an annual
staff training plan based upon the annual targets specified in
the training report referred to in (a) above, stch plan to be
updated and furnished to the Bank and the Association for infor-
mation not later than March 31 in each subsequent year; and


﻿- 15 -
(c)   by September 30 in each year, beginning with 1987,
prepare and furnish to the Bank and the Association a report on
the monitoring of all its staff training activities.
3.   Financing Approval Procedures. ADBP shall:
(a) make financing available only if the application is
supported by an on-farm appraisal report prepared in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank and the Association; and
(b) make financing available for a solar pump only if, in
addition to the appraisal report referred to in (a) above, the
application is supported by supplementary data establishing the
technical and financial viability of the pump to the satisfaction
of ADBP's Agricultural Technology Department.
4.   Monitoring and Evaluation. (a) ADBP shall cause its Monitor-
ing and Evaluation (M&E) Unit:
(i)  to assume, within a time-frame and in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
and the Association, additional responsibilities
so as to be able better to (A) monitor the
efficiency of ADBP as an institution, and (B)
assess the impact of project investments;
(ii) to prepare semi-annual monitoring and evaluation
reports and submit these to the Bank and the Asso-
ciation for information; and
(iii) to   prepare quarterly   progress  reports on   the
Project of such scope and in such detail, and
furnish these to the Bank and the Association
within such time, as the Bank and the Association
may agree.
(b) ADBP shall ensure that its project investments in solar
pumps will be duly integrated into its normal M&E system and
that, to this end, a representative selection of such pumps will
be instrumented for intensive technical monitoring.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Financing Terms and Conditions
1.   Borrower to ADBP
(a) with respect to the proceeds of the Loan, the variable
interest rate charged by the Bank or equivalent, a repayment
period of 15 years including a grace period of 3 years, and the
Borrower to bear the foreign exchange risk;
(b) with respect to the proceeds of the Credit, an interest
rate of 4% per annum or equivalent, a repayment period of 20
years including a grace period of 5 years, and the Borrower to
bear the foreign exchange risk; and
(c) on other funds, an interest rate of 4% per annum or
equivalent or such other interest rate or equivalent as the
Borrower, ADBP, the Bank and the Association may agree on after
each annual review of ADBP's financial position carried out
pursuant to Section 4.04 (a) of this Agreement, and a repayment
period in each case equal to the repayment period of the
financing provided by ABDP to its customers.
2. ADBP to Farmers and Farmers' Groups and Other Customers
(a) on loans made before April 1, 1985, an interest rate of
not less than 11% per annum, with an additional penal charge of
3% per annum in case of default;
(b) on financing extended other than from the proceeds of
the Loan and the Credit on the basis of service charge, a service
charge of not less than 3% per annum;
(c) on other financing, a rate of return of not less than
12% per annum plus a charge of 3% of each instalment due, which
charge may be waived in cases where instalments are paid within
one month of the due date;
(d) a once and for all evaluation fee of up to 0.5% of the
amount of the loan or other financing; and
(e) farmers' and other customers' contributions:


﻿- 17 -
(i) by farmers owning 25 ac. or less, a minimum of 5%
of cost of investment; and
(ii) by farmers owning more than 25 ac. and, in respect
of the high-hp tractors to be provided under Part
A (i) of the Project, by other customers, a
minimum of 10% of cost of investment.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
FOR SECRETARY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this           day of        , 1%1
FOR SECRETARY


