RESTRICTED
Report No. PT-3a
TU xepon k for cfa u o by 1  Ud WpX aY au* dP»*k
ot pom It muy not be pubd, qd or d es t BanW Group autk
Banc Goup dono aSp *_     f« thw aoarac  comptenas cf *. report.
INTATIONAL BANK POR RECONSTRUCION AND DVELOPMT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
MEXICO
December 7, 1971
Tourism Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVAIENTS
Currency UUnit    = Peso
US$ 1.00         = 12.5o pesos
1 peso (Mexo)    - us$ o.08
1 million pesos  u US$ 80,000
UNITS OF WEIGHT AND MEASURES: ?ETRIC
Metric: British/US Equivalente
m2       =  3.28 ft.
1 m      = 10.76 sq. ft.
1 km     =  0.62 mi.
1 km2    = 0.386 sq. mi.
1 ha     =  2.5 acres
1 m ton  = 0.98 lg ton
1.1 US sh ton
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACR0TNY1S UBED
IDB      = Inter-American Development Bank
INFRATUR = Fondo de Promocion de Infraestructura Turistica
SOP      é Secretaria de Obras Publicas
SRm      - Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos
ILO      = International Labor Organisation
RAMSA    = Radio Aeronautica Mexicana, S.A.
ASA      = Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares
NACOA      Nacional de Combustibles de Aviacion
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



APPRAISAL OF THE ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMARY                                                            i
1.   INTRODUCTION                                                       1
2.   BACKGROUND                                                         1
A. The Economy                                                     1
B. The Tourism Sector                                              2
3.   THE PROJECT                                                        6
A. Background                                                      6
B.  Description                                                   7
C. Fhysical Planning                                              9
Environmental Factors                                    10
D.  Cost Estimates                                                11
Amount of the Loan                                       12
Diabursements                                            12
Procurement.                                             13
E.  Execution                                                    13
F.  Organization for Operation                                    15
4.  SUPPORTING SERVICES                                                16
Housing                                                  16
Training                                                 17
5.   JUSTIFIChTIOII                                                    17
A. Market Demand                                                  17
B. Hotel Development                                              19
C. Econonic Justification                                        20
Economic Return                                          20
Emiployment and Income E*fects                           21
Direct Balance of Paymente Effect                        22
6.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS                                                 22
7.   RECCMENDATIONS                                                    25
Th$s report is based on the findings of a projeot appraisal
misaion consisting of Mesars. Sinmona, Vera, Duarte (Conaultant), Zetter-
otrom, Thys, Willians, Menezes, Iizuka, Ru.fini (Central America and
Caribbean Department) and Paraud.  Desk evaluationa of certain elemente
of the project were made by Mesars. Ribi, Le Moigne, Nalkaní and DeLima.



-2-
Table of Contenta (Cont'd.)
STATISTICAL APPENDIX                                              Page No.
Tables 1 - 25                                                   28
ANNEXES                                                          Annex No.
Market Demand                                                    1
Infratur                                                         2
Airport Development                                              3
Water Supply, Sewerage and Storm Water Draínage Project          4
Economic Justification                                           5
CHARTS                                                          Chart No.
Sahedules of Duplementation, Expenditures and
Disbursement                                                   1
MAPS                                                              Map No.
Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo Tourism Project Location and Land Use         1
Existing Zihuatanejo Airport, Topographic Obstructions           2
Coacoyul International Alrport, Master Plan                      3
Coacoyul International Airport, Approach Termndal
Procedures, Airport Sfrfaces and Terp's Safety Areas           4



i    o*¿sv
APPRAISAL OF THE' JIHUATANEJO TOURISUI PROJECT
STMI ARY
i.     This report appraises a project to provide the infrastructures
required for a new tourist resort near Zihuatanejo on MexicoWs Pacific
coast (see Map 1). The resort would in ite first atage covering a
períod of 8 to 9 years provide 3,500 hotel roorns and 500 single family
houses, but its ultinate capacity wjould be about 10,000 hotel rooms
and 1,500 houses. The project is one of two now being developed by
the Federal Governnent.  The Inter-American Development Bank made a
loan of US$ 21.5 million in August, 1971, for the second, located on
the coast of Yucatan.
ji.    International tourism has developed rapidly in Mexico in the
last decade. Visitor numbers increased three-fold over the decade to
reach 2.2 million in 1970. Foreign exchange earnings from tourism
increased by 14% annually, more than double the growth in earnings
from conmodity exporte. Tourismn is now Mexico's largest single source
of foreign exchange earnings.
iii.   The principal destinations of foreign visitors, apart from bor-
der towns, have been Mexico City and Acapulco. Acapulco is already
becoming congested and it, like smaller tourist centers on the Pacific
coast, suffers from serious deficiencies in infrastructure which can
be put right only after careful planning ard with heavy investmente.
To meet the prospective growth of demand for beach based tourism --
traffic is expected at least to double by 1980 -- the Mexican author-
ities selected t'jo new resorts for early development, while the neces-
sary planning for Acapulco and other established centers could be
pushed forward.
iv.    The little torm of Zihuatanejo is located on the Pacific coast
about 180 km north-west of Acapulco.  It lies on a deep bay surrounded
by green hills. Mountains rise inland and beyond the bay extensive
palm-fringed beaches of fine sand stretch to the north and south inter-
apersed with rocky headlands and with a number of emall islands off-
shore. The focus of the tourism development will be a beach about 5 km
north-west of Zihuatanejo, where there ¡a apace to develop in a setting
of great natural beauty, hotels and private homes shopping centers,
golf courses, a marina and ancillary facilities. )The proposed project
comprises three main components. The first includes the principal
infrastructures -- roads and streets, water and sewerage systems, qlec-
tric power and telephones -- needed to develop the resort itself.X/The
second consists of the principal infrastructures in the tawn which will
be developed as a service center for the main resort, but also as a



- ii -
secondary tourist attraction.  The third main component of the project wíll
be an international airport about 10 km south-east of Zihuatanejo, designed
to cater for non-stop flights from major U.S. cities. The project includes,
in addition, provision for training of hotel personnel and for further stud-
les of tourist resort areas.
v.       The justification for the proposed investment in infrastructure ¡a
the expectation that private investora will subsequently build hotela and
homes. Investnent in hotela in Mexico has yielded attractive returns in
the past, and a strong interest in the new development has been expressed
by potential developera though no binding cammitmenta have yet been made.
There are, however, risks involved in investing in a new resort which
rapidly diminish once it ¡e established. In these circumatances, the Fed-
eral Government has agreed that it will, if necessary, take steps, includ-
ing the provision of finance, to ensure that 750 hotel rooms will be built
and operating not later than 1976.
vi.      The project is estimated to cost US$ 44 million aquivalent, inclucí-
lng contingencies.  The proposed Bank loan of US$ 22 million would cover
50% of the total project cost. The balance of the required financing would
be provided by the Federal Government.
vii.     Contracts for construction and equipment to be financed by the Bank
would be awarded after international competitive bídding, except for small
civil works contracts where it ia proposed that national bidding only be
required. The foreign exchange component of the total project cost would
depend upon the outcome of international bidding. Assuming, however, that
Mexican contractors were to win the major construction contracts, as is
likely, the foreign exchange ccmponent of the total project cost would be
about 30% or US$ 13.3 million.
ViiI.    As the project is part of a larger program of investments, includ-
ing hotela, ita econmmic evaluation has been made in terma of this larger
program. Net benefita would be measured by expenditures of visitors to the
resort leas the cost of operating all the facilities, including the hotels,
With an estimated economic life of the project of 25 years, the internal
econamic return on the whole program would be 13.1%, if labor is valued at
prevailíng wage ratea.  Since the program would employ many unskilled
workers who are now under-employed or unemployed, unskílled labor has been
priced at 70% below current wage rates. On this basis, the internal eco-
nomic return would increase to 19.4%. Net foreign exchange earnings are
estimated at US$ 36 million in 1980 and US$ 53 million in 1986 when all
3,500 hotel rocis are in full operation.
ix.      The project la suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 22 million eqt'iva-
lent for a term of 25 yeara including a grace period of 5 years. The bor-
rower would be Nacional Financiera, S.A.



l:EXIc O
APPRAISAL OF TIE ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
1. IIlTRODUCTION
1.01   In 1968, the Government of Mexico indicated an interest in obtain-
ing assistance from the Bank in financing the infrastructures required
for meti tourism developments. Early in 1969 the Government suggested
that the Bank consider three sites for development along the Pacific
coast -- Puerto Vallarta$ S4anzanillo and Zihuatanejo.  Subsequently, in
the course of project identification and preparation missions in 1969
and 1970, agreement was reached that attention should be focussed on one
project at Zihuatanejo, located on the coaut about 180 km north-west of
Acapulco.
1.02   The project consists of the infrastructure required for the devel-
opment of a new resort near Zihuatanejo which in its first atage wifll com-
prise hotels with 3,500 roons and 500 private houses.  The infrastructure
includea an internationrl airport, roada and streeta, water and sewerage
systems, electric power, telephones and ancillary services.
1.03   Due to its complexity the project has required about two years for
its preparation, during iuhich time it has been substantially modified.
For the samre reason, an unusual nunber of Bank staff were involved in ita
evaluation.  The appraisal mission itself consisting of Messrs. Sinmons,
Vera, Duarte (Consultant), Zetterstromr, Thys, Williams, Menezes, Iizuka
and Ruffini completed its field work in June 1971. Mr. Paraud had
earlier evaluated the road elementa of the project. Deak evaluations of
certain elements of tlie project were made by Mesera. Ribi, Le Moigne,
Malkani and DeLima.
1.04   This would be the first Bank loan for tourism in Mexico.
2. BACKGROUND
A.  The EconopZ
2.01  lMexico has achieved a fast rate of economic graoth (7.1% p.a.) in
the past ten years. Ita population of 50 million has been growlng
rapidly, by 3.5g annually. The gross domestic product at current market
prices was estimated at US$ 34 billion equivalent in 1970 and per capita
income at about US$ 670.
2.02  lIexicols economny is quite diversífied with manufacturing contri-
butimng about a quarter of GDP and services almost a half. Fast rates of
growth have been achieved in various branches of industry some of which



2-
have enjoyed high tariff protection.  The rapid growth of GDP in the
1960a has been accompanied by a growing demand for imports, mainly
investment goods, fuels and raw materialas. Earnings from tourism have
financed a growing share of the country's imports.
2.03   If past GDP growth rateo are to be maintained, imports will need
to grow by about 9-10 percent annually. Because of the importance of
agricultural exporte with a li:iLted growth potential, merchandise
exporta are not expected in the longer run to maintain the past decadets
growth trend.  In this context the fast growth in tourism receipts would
be particularly important for the future development of the ecomomy.
2.04   Notwithstanding the marked growth of the economy in the past dec-
ade, widespread unemployment and under-employment of labor persista.
Moreover, the regional imbalance in unemployment levels íe accompanied
by longatanding dispar-tiee in levela of income between the leas and
more developed regions of the country. Tourism requires lees capital
investment to create one job opportunity than most other productive sec-
tors in Mexico (Table 1), and as many areas of tourism potential are
located in the poorer regionB of the country, their development could
contribute substantially to alleviating regional disparities in employ-
ment and income.
B. The Tourism Sector
2.05  MXexico, with beautlful and dramatic scenery, a warm climate,
extensive and largely undeveloped beaches on both the Caribbean and
Pacific coasts, remarkable archaeological sites, particularly of the
Toltec, Aztec and Mayan cultures, a wealth of Spanish colonial archi-.
tecture and cultural traditions in the arta, music and dance of
extraordinary variety and color, offera attractions for the touriet
which can be matched bmr few other countries. These assete, together
with the country's proximity to the U.S., with which it ahares a
2,000 mile border, have attracted an increasing flow of visitora in
the past and constitute an lmportant potential for the future.
2.06   The rapid growth in tourism has been mainly a phenomenon of the
past decade, although even in 1946 Mexico received more than a quarter
of a million foreign visitors.  Growing prosperity in the U.S. and
Canada, the provision of direct air access to various destinations in
Mexico and the rapid expansion in accomodation combined to make this
growth possible. Visitor numbers increased three-fold over the decade
to reach 2.2 million in 1970 (Table 2). These visitors tour the inte-
rior of the country and are to be distirguished from the Mexican-U.S.
border traffic, estimated at more than 70 million visitors in 1970.



- 3 -
2.07 Mexico's gross foreign exchange earnings frcmn tourism amounted
to US$ 575 million in 1970, excluding visitor transportation and bor-
der traffic, second only to Spain among the developing countries.
The growth rate averaged 14$ per annum in the past decade, as compared
with a growth rate of 6.5% annually in earninga from commodíty exporte.
As a proportion of total receipta from ex,ports of goods and servíces,
tourism receipta rose frem 11% to 18% over this períod. With the high
proportion of visitors (87%) from the U.S. (Table 3), average visitor
expenditures are relatively high, about US$ 21 per day, with even higher
averages (US$ 31 a day) for visitors arriving by air.
2.08   litth regard to employment, recent studies estinatu tlhat for
every million dollars apent by visitors to Máxico, 585 persona find
employment directly and indirectly. On this basis, it is estimated
that the tourism sector in Mexico currently employs approximately
340,000 persons, 2% of the economically active population.
2.09   In the past a majority of foreign visitors arrived by road, the
bulk from border states, Texas, California, Arizona and New Mexico.
This is gradually changing and road transportation is ylelding to avia-
tion as the dominant mode of transportation of visitors as more dia-
tant destínations are opened up and the costs of air travel decline.
The growth of air traffic to destinations such as Acapulco and Puerto
Vallarta has been particularly rapid since international airports
were opened at these cities which permitted direct flights fram the
U.S.  (Annex 1).
2.10   Climatic conditiona make Mlexico an all year round destination,
and visitor flows to Mexico show only a minor degree of seasonality
(Table 4). The small peaks in June through August and December
reflect partly the vacation perioda in the U.S. and partly the differ-
ences in cltrnatic conditions in the two countries.  As a result, tour-
ist facilities generally experience relatively high occupancies, much
above those prevailing in most other touriet destinatione.
2.11   The high occupancies have made investment in new capacity
attractive, and Mexico la one of the few ímportant tourist-receiving
countries where the sector has until now received no significant
incentives or subsidies from the state. Until the end of the 19601s,
the supply of accommodation grew more elowly than demand, but in the
past three year8 there have been very large additions to capacity,
particularly in Mexico City and Acapulco, and occupancy rates have
declined.  In 1970 there was a drop in the rate of growth of visitor
arrivals to Mexico, probably reflecting in part the recession in the
U.S., but average room occupanices in Mexico City were atill above
60% and will rise again as traffic grows, since further additions to
capacity are likely to be amall in the next several yeare (para. 2.13).



-4-
2.12   Apart from towns near the U.S. border, Mexico City and Acapulco
have been the principal visitor destinations in Mexico.  These two cit-
¡es have only a quarter of accommodation capacity in the country which
totals 133,000 rooms (Table 5), but approximately a half of all capac-
ity in hígher category hotels (3M,000 rooms) which are mainly used by
foreign visitors.  Capacity of the latter has approximately doubled in
the past decade.  Destinations attracting much smaller nmnbers of
foreign visitors include resorts on the Pacific coast, such as Puerto
Vallarta and Manzanillo, and Guadalajara, Mexico'a second largest city.
2.13   Shile complete data on planred additions to capacity in all of
Mexico are limited, projecte underway will add some 2,000 rooms in Aca-
pulco, increasing by 25% capacity in higher category hotels there in
the next year. There are líkely to be only small additions to capacity
in Mexico City during this period, but there should be sufficient capac-
ity in these two centers together with minor additions elsewhere to
meet the likel¡ growth of demand in the early 1970's.
2.14   In the longer term, further additions to capacity will be
required.  New hotels will be needed in Mexico City as the principal
destination of foreign visitors. Further expansion at Acapulco would
be possible, but it would need to be on a better planned basis than
heretofore.  In some respecta Acapulco is already becoming congested
and there are serious problems resulting from inadequate infrastruc-
ture and pollution. The Méxican authorities are aware of these prob-
lems and of the potential threat to one of the country's principal
tourist asset9. Studies are required and the Bank has been asked for
asaistance on the technical aspecta. Even though solutione wlll be
found, it would be quite unrealistic to assume that in the longer-run
the groilng demand for beach-based tourism could be met mainly in Aca-
pulco. In these circumstances the lbxican authorities have rightly
considered the need to encourage development at other sites on the
coast.  In 1969 the Federal Government authorized the Bank of Mexico
to create an organization -- Fondo de Promocion de Infraestructura
Turistica (Infratur) -- to promote the development of infrastructures
needed for the tourist industry (Annex 2).
2.15   In view of the difficulty and slowness of planning and imple--
menting major improvements in existing centers where there are estab-
lished interests, Infratur has until nouj concentrated its efforta in
developing two new sites, one at Zihuatanejo on the Pacific coast and
the othor near the north-eastern tip of the coast of Yucatan.  In
selecting these areas for early development, the authorities took into
account both the exceptional touristic attractions of the sites and
the fact that both are located in poorer regions of the country, where
the social and economic impact of the projects would be relatively
enhanced. Both projects are approximately equal in size, each involv-
ing the provision of about 3,500 hotel rooms over the next ten years



- 5 -
plus a number of private residences.  The Inter-American Development
Bank has recently approved a loan of US$ 21.5 million for the project
in Yucatan. In the future, further geographical diversification will
be required to tap other segments of the market (para. 2.17) and with
this in view the Bank has been asked for assistance to study tourism
zones in the Baja California area and in the State of Oaxaca on the
Pacific coast.
2.16   Among other measures recently taken by the Federal Government
to assist the growth of tourism have been:
(a) the gradual adoption of a positive aír transporta-
tion policy, including the lowering of air fares
and a more liberal policy on sir charter operations,
which will have a significant impact on the growth
of tourism;
(b) the liberalization of legislation governing the lease
of coastal land to foreignera;
(c)  the channell-ng of some funda of large private finan-
cial institutions into the export sector, including
the tourism sector;
(d) the establishment of a Commission charged with pre-
paring short-, medium- and longer-term programs for
the sector;
(e)  the establishment of a Coomrission to study ways to
ensure easier acceso of visitors to IMexico, includ-
;ng easy entry and lowering air fares.
2.17   The advantages of I.exicots tourism assets and favorable market
location are such that with vigorous development policies, foreign
exchange earnings from tourism should at least double in the next
decade. IWJith the growth of the travel market in the U.S., this should
be possible even if Mexico does no more than maintain ite share of the
U.S. foreign travel market. Careful consideration ahould, however, be
given to expanding tourism for the middle income market in the U.S.
Given the distances involved this would require the further develop-
ment of incentive air fares and hotel prices subatantially below U.S.
levels, particularly in the off-season. In this context developments
in trans-Atlantic air fares will clearly affect Mexico's competitive
position in the ahorter-term, but the country'e proximity to the U.S.
and low domestic cost levels will be of greater importance in the
longer-term.



- 6 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01   The little town of Zihuatanejo is situated about 180 km north-
west of Acapulco on Mexicols Pacific coast. The sito of the town i8
one of great natural beauty. It lles on a deep bay surrounded by
green hIlla . Mountains rise inland and beyond the bay extensive palm-
fringed beaches of fine sand stretch to the north and south, inter-
apersed with rocky headlands. The climate i8 comparable to that of
Acapulco with day-time temperatures in the winter months averaging
about 250C (Table 6). In summer (the wet season) temperatures are
slightly higher (280C) and the humidity greater, but the climate ís
still comfortable. The coastal waters are extraordinarily clear and
the water warm throughout the year. All types of water sports are
possible and there is excellent fishing, both deep sea and along the
coast.
3.02   At present accese to Zihuatanejo i8 difficult.  Its small air-
strip is capable of taking only light planes, and, being surrounded by
hills, it cannot be expanded (Map 2). There is no direct road to
Mexico City; the visitar must come by way of Acapulco and thence along
the coastal highway. Though the coastal road is being reconstructed
(with the assistance o£ a loan from the IDB), the distance i3 too great
to allow Zihuatanejo to be served from the Acapulco airport.
3.03   The town of Zihuatanejo itself, though set in beautiful surround-
ings, i¡  undistinguished.  Ita population is at present about 7,000.
The standard of amenities and urban services provided aro either very
law or notable for their absence. There are several small hotels, built
on hills overlooking the bay, which have attracted an increasing flow of
visitors in recent years.
3.04   The principal tourism zone would be located at Ixtapa about 5 km
from the town of Zihuatanejo, centered on a beach of fine white sand
3 km in length with hilis and rocky promontories at either end (Map 1).
The Master Plan for the area envisages a broad boulevard some 200 metera
wide, behind and parallel to the beach, giving acceas to sites for
hotels and condominiums.  Pablic access to this beach would be provided
at three points. Additional sites for hotels would be developed on the
small bays and promontories adjoining the main beach. The nearby hills
would be developed for single family homes, many sites having extensive
views of the ocean and surrounding mountains. Behind the boulevard
there would be a golf course and commercial center, and possibly at a
later stage a convention center. Provision ie to be made ror a fire
station, health cliníc and police station adjoining the comnercial cen-
ter. A small marina for pleasure boats would be constructed at the



-7-
north end of the main beach in the second stage.  To provide space for ttle
boulevard, golf course and commercial center, drainage, flood control and
reclamation works would be needed in a swampy area behind the main beach.
3.05   The total area required for the project by Infiatur will amount to
1,200 ha. It ís envisaged that over a twenty year period, this area could
be developed to provide approximately 10,000 hotel rooms and 1,500 single
family residences.  The development would be ataged.  The first atage to
be implemented over 8-9 years envisages the provision of 3,500 hotel roors
and 500 residences together with  ancillary facilities.
3.06   While the principal investment will be in Ixtapa and the airport,
both for economic and for social reasona it is considered necessary to
make provision for the development of the town of Zihuatanejo. It
would be politically and socially unacceptable to develop what will be,
by local atandards, a luxury resort area while making no provision for
the existing domestic population. Furthermore, developmenit will also
bring a great increase in that population, for which provisíal nDLst be
*,ade. With 3,500 hotel romas and 500 faTily residences, the direct
employment created is expected to be not leas than 4.,5co.  Experience
in Acapuleo suggests that with indirect employment effects and taking
account of dependents of those in employment, the resulting population
le lI^l:zy to be not less than 50,000. These cannot be accommodated at
Ixtapa; the logical alternative is to make provision for housing the
bulk of them at Zihuatanejo. It ís not intended, however, that Zihua-
tanejo should serve only as a "dormitory" for workers at Ixtapa.  As
atated above, tourism has already developed there in a small way, and
the natural beauty of Zihuatanejo bay with ite several attractive
beaches offers the potential of developing the area as a secondary
tourist attraction, with 8mall hotels, Mexican-style restaurante,
specialty stores and other facilities catering to the visitor. This
wíll require an upgrading of the town with the enforcemnent of a well-
conceived, if simple, urban plan and the provision of adequate infra-
structures.
B. Description
3.07   The project consists of the following elemento:
(1)  the infrastructures within the touríst zone at
Ixtapa comprising the boulevard and other etreeta,
the land reclamation and drainage works, the elec-
tric power distribution network and public light-
ing, telephone connectiona, the water, sewerage
and storm water drainage systems, beach works, the
commercial center and golf course;



- 8 -
(2) the infrastructures at Zihuatanejo comprising the
improvement and expansion of principal streets,
the electric power distribution network and public
lighting, and the provision of water, sewerage,
and storm water drainage systems;
(3)  a new international airport, located about 10 km
to the south-eaat of Zihuatanejo, designed to
cater for non-stop flights from major U.S. cities;
(4) training programa for hotel personnel;
(5) feasibility studies for 2 new tourism zones and
for the possible expansion and upgrading of infra-
structure facilities in Acapulco.
3.08   The airport will have a single runway of 2,500 a in length and
60 m width with a parking apron for two DC8-63 or four Boeing 727-100
aircraft. It will be equipped with night landing lights, and the nec-
essary navigational alda, visual aids and communicatione equipment.
Mhe terminal building which will serve domestic and international
flights 18 designed to proce8s up to 330 arriving or departing paseen-
gers in a peak hour. The location of the airport and the approach and
departuure procedures will keep noise at Ixtapa and the town of Zihuata-
r.ejo to a minimum. The airport is described more fully in Annex 3.
hssurances were obtained during loan negotiations that the new airport
will be declared a co-terminal for international flights with Acapulco.
This would allow airlines presently serving Acapulco to fly al8o to
Z'ihuatanejo without having to negotiate additional traffic rights there.
.309   The principal road connection from the airport to Zihuatanejo and
Extapa l8 part of the coastal highway now being reconstructed to a
standard which will with some minor imprcvements be adequate to serve
the estimated tourist traffic until 1985. This section of the coastal
highway i8 not included in the project. A road will be built giving
acces fro= the coastal highway to the tourism zone.  This road, which
-uill be included in the proJect, will be supplemented later by further
access roads and should then be closed to truck traffic. During nego-
-,lations it was agreed that Infratur and the Bank would consult on the
appropriate tining of construction of the new access roads.
3410   The source of electric power will be the national system of the
Federal Power Com~ission. A new interconnection between Acapulco and
generating plants on the Rio Balsas, about 80 km north-west of Zihuata-
nejo, la now uxnder construction, and this interconnection will be
tapped to supply Zihuatanejo and the tourism zone. Included in the
project will be the neceasary  substations and the distribution systems
within the tourism zone and the town.



-9-
3.11   The water, sewerage, and storm water drainage systems for the
tourism zone at Ixtapa and for Zihutanejo will initially be separate.-
Adequate water sources have been faund to supply both consumption cen-
ters for the first 5 yeara. At the end of that time if the population
of Zihuatanejo grows as projected a new water source will be needed
for the totvm. This is likely to be the water source supplying Ixtapa
and an interconnection crossing difficult terrain, would then be jus-
tified. The topography precludes a linked seweragi/aystemo Under the
climatic cornditions prevailing stabilization ponds_ provide an effec-
tive and cheaper solution than sewage treatment planta. These will be
located at sites away from the towçn and the tourism zone. The effluent
wíll not be piped into the sea in order to avoid pollution of bathing
beaches and may ultimately be used for irrigation. At present Zihuata-
nejo has no sewerage systerm and some pollution of the bay has resulted.
The water supply, sewerage and storm drainage ccmponent ís described
more fully in Annex 4.
C. Physical Planning
3.12   For the tourism zone at Ixtapa, land use has been atudied first,
in terms of the likely pattern of activity of people in the resort; and
second, in terms of space requirements and the needed physical facil-
ities or improvements to the land to acconmodate these activities.  For
the town of Zihuatanejo, apecial attention was paid to the expected
atructure and functioning of the town's economy and to the special dis-
tribution of urban functions -- its residential areas, its industrial,
commercial and retail business districts, and the apaces set aside for
public purposes and leisure-time activities. The land use plans for
Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo are based on carefully atudied estimates of
future land requirements for urban renewal and expansion, showing how
develcpment in both areas should proceed to ensure the best possible
physical environnent, the most economic use of land, md the proper
balance from a cost-benefít point of view.
3.13   The proposed zoning regulationa for both Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo
appear suitable instruments for guiding the development of privately-
owned land in these areas.  As is normal in the case of such regulatíons
they deal with matters such as the use of land and buildings, the den-
sity of population, the coverage of lots, the bulk of structures, etc.
One of the main objectives of zoning in the Ixtapa area ja to prevent
the development of the hotel districta in a haphazard and unplanned
1/ These are open basins 6 feet deep which utilize solar energy to
treat sewage.



- 10 -
manner as has occurred in other parte of Mexico and in other countries.
The proposed zoning will not preclude high density buildinga but tries
to combine this high density with the best use of the land and with the
preservation of the area's natural attractions. It was agreed during
loan negotiations that the adoption of a land use plan and zoning regu-
lations for Ixtapa, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of
effectivenesa of the proposed loan. In the case of Zihuatanejo one of
the main objectives is to prevent development of isolated residences
and hotels as well as the haphazard erection of primitive shelters by
the low income population likely to be attracted to the town, particu-
larly on the steep hill sides where the provision of even rudimentary
infrastructure would be prohibitively expensive.
Environmental Factors
3.14 The development of the coastal zone of Zihuatanejo for tourism
activities has raised several types of environmental problema: 'ípublic
health -- which was given major consideration in tema of maintenance
of sea water quality and marine life, treatnent of wastes and a mosquito
control program -- and the specific question of dealing with a large
mangrove swamp in the Ixtapa area and with a mud-flat located in the cen-
ter of the town of Zihuatanejo. Ecological studies of these aspects were
carried out by Infraturia consultants. Sewage pollution problems were
carefully analyzed and the solutions adopted (para. 3.11) will not harm
the great diversity of marine life of the area. The study of the man-
grove at Ixtapa included a detailed analysis of ite animal and vegetable
ife, which is in fact relatively small due to the amount of tannin in
the water. A dike i8 planned to divide the mangrove into sectors of
fresh and salt water and to connect the latter with the ocean by a chan-
nel. The mud-flat in Zihuatanejo contains polluted water because it
recelves sewage frcm the town,  A careful control of sedimentation and
polluting effluents la necessary before opening the connection of the
mud-flat with the bay. During loan negotiations assurances were obtained
that studies for the elinination of the mud-flat would be completed with-
in one year of the date of the proposed loan and the Government and the
Bank would then agree Qn what action should be taken to this end, Assur-
ances were also obtained that the Government would take action to prevent
the pollution of the Ixtapa zone by industrial plants to be constructed
in the future, and that atudies would be completed wíthin two years frcm
the date of the proposed loan of possible damage to the Ixtapa zone from
the silting of the Ixtapa river. These atudies would be reviewed with
the Bank to determine what action, if any, should be taken.



- 11 -
D.  Cost Estimates
3.15   The detailed estimated costs and foreign exchange component of
the various parta of the project are given in Tables 7-11 and are sum-
marized below:
Mexican Pesos         US Dollars       % of
(millions)           (millions)       Base-
Line
Local         Total  Local Foreign Total  Costs
1. Ixtapa Tourism Area:
Land Acquisition     21.0          21.0   1.68           1.68    4.6
Civil Works         102.6  45.0  147.6  8.22   3.60  11.82   32.5
Equipment             6.9   11.3   18.2   o.56   0.90   1.46    4.0
Prof. Services       11.6    0.7   12.3  0.93   0.06   0.99    2.7
2. City of Zihuatanejo:
Civil Workca         40.4   17.7   58.1  3.23   1.42   4.65   12.8
Equipment             1.3    2.2    3.5  -0.10  0.18   0.28    0.8
Prof. Services        7.3           7.3   0.58           o.58    1.6
3. International Airport:
Land Acquisition      8.4           8.4   0.67           0.67    1.7
Civil Works          63.7  28.0  91.7   5.09   2.25   7.34   20.2
Equipment             5.7    9.2  14.9   0.45   0.74   1.19    3.3
Prof. Services       13.2          13.2   1.06          1.06    2.9
4. Training & Feasibil-
i-ty Studies:       5.5    8.2   13.7   0.44   0.66   1,10    3.0
5. Promotional  x      : 6.8   11.2   18.0   0.58   0.86   1.44    4.1
6. Project Admitistra.
tion:              26.4          26.4   2.11           2.11    5.8
-              -      -     -       -      -      -~~- ,
Base-Line Costa   320.8  133,5 454.3  25.70  10.67  36.37  100.0
7. Contingencies:
Price Increase
(14.0%)            31.1   15.7   46.8   2.47   1.27   3.74   10.3
Physical Increase
(14.5%)            32.4   16.1   48.5   2.57   1.32   3.89   10.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST     384-3  165.3  549.6  30.74  13.26  44.00
Interest and Other
Charges during Con-
struction               (a)   28.9   28.9   (a)   2.3    2.3
(a)  No interest will be charged during construction on funda provided
by the Federal Government.



- 12 -
3.16   Construction costa have increased by 7% per year since 1962.
While price inflation has been moderate, it seems prudent to asaume
that the increase will continue at about the same rate, and appropri-
ate provision has been made for such increases in building and site-
work costs during the construction period. In addition, an allowance
of 14.5% of the construction and sitework costs has been nade to cover
phyaical contingencies, This la appropriate in view of the extent of
works for which precise estimates must await the final desígn atage.
The detail8 of the allowances provided for price increases and contin-
gencies for other ccmponents of the project are shown in Table 12.
The overall provi8ion for contingencies would amount to 21.0% of base-
line costa or 17.3% of total project cost.
3.17   Moat building materials, electrical equipment and pipelines
required for the project are locally produced (some royaltie8 are paid
for manufacturíng foreign-patented produicts). Heavy equipment to be
used in constructing roads and earthworka and the airport navigation
and electronic aids would be imported. The foreign exchange component
of the total project cost would depend upon the outcome of interna-
tional bidding. The size of major construction contracta would be
large enough to attract foreign bids.  Assuming, however, that Mexican
contractors were to win the bida as ia likely, the foreign exchange
camponeqnt of the total project cost would be about 30% or US$ 13.3
million.
Amount of the Loan
3.18   The proposed loan of US$ 22.0 nillion would cover the foreign
exchange costa of the project, estimated at Us$ 13.3 mnillion equiva-
lent, and would provide about US$ 8.7 m$llion equivalent for local
currency financing, or approxímately 28% of local currency costa of
the project.
Disbursements
3.19   The loan would be disbursed on the basis of appropriate percent-
ages (up to 76%) of major civil worls cortracta, contracts for the pur-
chase of equipment, and technical assistance.  These percentages would
be adjusted as neceasary so that withdrawals would be distributed over
the project implementation period. A number of agencies will be respon-
sible for implementing different elementa of the project (c.f. paras.
3.21-3.27 below and Table 13). For ease of administration it is proposed
that the proceeds of the Bankl' loan should be disbursed for selected ele-
ments of the total project, chosen with reference to their estimated
foreign exchange component and to the need to limit the number of agencies
with which the Bank has to deal. On this basis it ia proposed that
disbursement should be for selected works to be carried out by Infra-
tur at Ixtapa, by the Secretariat for Public Works at the airport, and



- 13 -
by the Secretariat for Hydraulic Resources at Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo.
In addition relatively small amounts would be disbursed for hotel
training programs for which the Department of Tourism and the Secre-
tariat for Educatimn would share responsibility, and for studies to
be carried out by Infratur and the Secretariat for the National Pat-
rimony (Tables 8-11, 13). The estimated schedule of disbursements of
the loan ia shown in Table 19. Applications for disbursement would
be channelled through the borrower, Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Procurement
3.20   Major civil works contracts and contracts for most equipment
would be awarded under international competitive bidding. Items
would be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage such competi-
tive bidding. The proposed project is within the capacity of the
Mexican construction industry to implement, but it i expected that
foreign contractors would submit bids for the larger contracts.  The
water supply and sewerage elementa of the project and certain works
at Ixtapa and the airport (e.g. fencing, street signo, etc.) would
involve a number of contracta which would be too small to attract
foreign bids. Local contractors are capable of executing the work
efficiently, and it ¡a therefore proposed that for these contracts
national campetitive bidding be required. The total value of such
contracta is estimated at US$ 3.5 million equivalent. Contracto
totalling US$ 200,000 for the electric and telecommunicatíon lines
for the airport would be awxarded through direct negotiationa with
the companies providing these services. In evaluating bids, Mexican
manufacturera would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the
CIF costa of competing importe or the level of customa duties gen-
erally applicable, whichever í8 the lower.
E. Execution
3.21   Infratur would be responsible for implementing all works within
the t mrism zone at Ixtapa, asaisted by consultant architects and engi-
neera, acceptable to the Bank. Technical designs and apecífications of
hydraulic worke, and of the water, aewerage and storm water drainage
systems would be subject to approval by the Secretariat for Hydraulic
Resources, designa for the telephone system by the Secretariat of Com-
municatimns and Transport and designs for the electric power system by
the Federal Power Commission.  Infratur would cori,ract wlth the Federal
Power Commiaslan to construct the main transformer station and transmis-
sion line to Ixtapa. During loan negotiations aseurances were obtained
that adequate power supplies would be provided at Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo.
A project unit has already been established within Infratur for the can-
structimn of the part of the project at Ixtapa. The project unit would be



- 14 -
responsible, inter alia, for preparing and issuing tenders, evaluating
bids and awarding contracts. A full-time director of the project unit
has been nominated, who ia acceptable to the Bank. The project unit
would also include engineers, an architect, a procurement officer,
accountants and other staff. A field unit would be established at
Ixtapa for the direct supervision of the work in the tourism zone and
to keep in touch with the progress of implementation at Zihuatanejo and
at the airport.
3.22   The execution of the project within the tourism zone will depend
upon Infratur's obtaining title to 1,050 ha. and the right to develop a
further 157 ha. of 'ejido" land (see para. 3.25). Infratur has so far
acquired 700 ha. The acquisition of the remaining 350 ha. and of the
right to develop the ejido land would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan.
3.23   Within the urban area of Zihuatanejo, the Secretariat for Hydrau-
lic Resources (SRH) will be responsible for the design and construction
of the water supply and sewerage systems.  SRH will employ consultants
to design the systems, and will supervise construction directly. Its
staff is qualified for this work. Final designa for the water supply
and sewerage systems would be approved by the Bank.
3.24   Responsibility for the construction of the electric power and
street systems in Zihuatanejo, for environmental sanitation and possi-
bly the implementation of the urban plan will be assumed by the National
Bank for Public Works (BNOSP). This bank is charged with financíng and
executing a variety of infrastructures in urban areas using funds
provided by the Federal Government. The bank has on ita staff engineers
and other specialists capable of supervising the execution of the work.
The designs of the electric power system would have to be approved by
the Federal Power Cominisasion. The contract between the Federal Govern-
ment and the National Bank for Public Works would be approved by the
Bank.
3.25   The greater part of the area which uall become the township of
Zihuatanejo is at present ,ejido", land, i.e., public land of which the
occupiera have the use but may not sell. Only the Federal Governnent
may change the use of such land. The execution of the project within
Zihuatanejo requires that this ejido land be declared an urban area by
the Federal Governnent and that a suitable urban plan (plan regulador)
be adopted after approval by the appropriate State and Federal author-
ities. A request for the declaration of sai urban area has been submit-
ted by the Governor of the State of Guerrero to the Federal Government
and an urban plan with draft r'egulations, acceptable to the Bank, has
been submitted to the Federal authorities by Infratur. The declara-
tion of the urban area and the promulgation of the urban plan would be
conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan.



-15-
3.26. Responsibility for the design and construction of the new air-
port would be that of the Secretariat for Public Works (SOP) assisted
by various Federal Agencies responsible for caomunications and air
navigation (RAiBA), airport operations (ASA), and by the company which
supplies aviation fuels (NACOA). SOP has designed and supervised the
construction of a number of major airports in Mexico and is competent
to execute the project. Final designs for the airport and the terminal
building would be approved by the Bank.
3.27   While direct responsibility for the execution of the principal
components of the project will rest with five agencies, a considerable
number of other agencies at the Federal, State and local levels will
also be involved. Hence there will be complex problema of coordinating
the execution on schedule of all parte of the project. Infratur will
be in charge of coordination at the operating level. To help in obtain-
ing the full cooperation of SOP and SRH and other agencies, the Secre-
tariat of the Presidency will have ultimate responsibility for coordina-
tion. During negotiations, aseurances were obtained that SOP, SRH, and
BNOSP would prepare in cooperation with Infratur a critical path plan
acceptable to the Bank for carrying out all parte of the project. The
preparation of this critical path plan would be a condition of effective-
nese of the proposed loan. Aseurances were aleo obtained that the crít-
¡cal path plan would be reviewed by all parties concerned at least every
aix months and the resulte of such reviews would be promptly communicated
to the Bank.
F. Organization fLr Operation
3.28   Responsibility for operation and administration of the facil-
ities to be provided at Ixtapa, Zihuatanejo and the airport winl
devolve upon various agencies.
3.29 In the tourism zmne at Ixtapa, Infratur will be responsible for
maintaining the public areas, for administering the public services and
for selling or leasing sites to private investors. Infratur plana ini-
tially to lease shopa in the shopping center and beach facilities.
These may subsequently be sold to private investors, as may the golf
course when it beccmes a profitable operation. In the case of electric-
ity and telephone services responsibility for operation and maintenance
will be assumed by the Federal Power Cormiesion and the private national
telephone company respectively. The source of supply of water to Ixtapa
will be outside Infratur'e area of control. Thus tho Secretariat for
Hydraulic Resources will be responsible for the water system to the
boundary of Infraturl' zone and will deliver water in bulk for retícula-
tion by Infratur.



- 16 -
3.30   The town of Zihuatanejo is at present so small and ite reveniues
so limited that ít is not able to provide public services or to under-
take financial obligations in respect of services to be provided when
the project la implemented. In view of this, the responsibilíty for
providing and maintaining most basic services will rest with varíous
Federal authorities.  Gradually, however, as the tawn develops in the
longer term the municipality will undertake certain responsibilities.
3.31   Within Zihuatanejo, responsibility for operating and maintaining
the electric power system will be assumed by the Federal Power Commis-
sion. The operation and maintenance of the water supply and sewerage
systems will be the responsibility of the Secretariat for Hydraulic
Resources. The maintenance of streets and public aquares in Zihuatanejo,
including trash collection and mosquito control, will be the responsibil-
ity of the National Bank for Public Works under an agreement to be con-
cluded with the Federal Goverrnent. This will be in accordance with
established practice in iMxico.
3.32   The new airport at Zihuatanejo will be operated by the various
agencies responsible for operating other airports in Mexico. These
are described in Annex 3.
4. SUPPORTING SERVICES
Housin
4.01   The project does not include housing for hotel workers in the
town of Zihuatanejo. Hotels situated outside towns and enuloying more
than 100 workera are required by recent legislation to provide housing
for their employees. How such housing can be financed is not yet clear
but varicus arrangemente are now under atudy.  Hotel workers will, how-
ever, be only a part of the population of Zihuatanejo. Many people
will be attracted there who will not work in hotels and will be too
poor to obtain housing loans under any existing schemes. Such people
in other towns have built the simplest type of shelter which they try
to improve as circunstances permit. Federal authorities are unwilling
to finance in Zihuatanejo public housing which they are unable to
provide elsewhere in Mexico, but with the provision of essential infra-
atructure in the town and the enforcement of the urban plan, a better
framework for "self-help" housing will exist there than in many other
towns and cities of the country. To rely wholly on t'self-help," how-
ever, la likely to prove inadequate in securing an urban development
compatible wíth the development of the tourism project, and assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Federal Government would
devise means acceptable to the Bank of providing assistance for "self-
help"' housing in Zihuatanejo,



- 17 -
TrainijE
4.02   Training of hotel staff is largely provided as "in house" train-
ing by hotel operators. EThile in the better established tourism cen-
ters such as Mexico City and Acapulco, the standards of skill and serv-
ice are satisfactory, in newer resort areas these standards are frequently
deficient. Training facilities have been established by the Government
and also by the trade unions in Mexico City and other centers, and a new
hotel school is being established in Acapulco. Without further develop-
ment these facilities will not be adequate to meet the very large
increase in numbers of skilled personnel required in the next decade,
when the projecta at Zihuatanejo and Yucatan alone will need between
10,000-1,000 trained staff. tIhile private hoteliera will continue to
provide much of the necessary training, an expansion of public training
facilities will be needed. The proposed loan includes a small training
component for this purpose. The ILO has expressed its willingness to
cooperate in working out with the responsible Mexican authorities appro-
priate training programs and in recruiting teachers. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that the Mexican authorities will within one
year after the proposed loan ia made submit a program to expand hotel
training facilities on a basis acceptable to the Bank.
5. JUSTIFICATION
A. Market Demand
5.01   The main market for the new resort at Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo will be
in the U.S., though it is estimated that there will aleo be considerable -
nuumbers of IMexican visitors. Access for foreign visitora will be predomi-
nantly by air, and experience at other resorts in Mexico including Aca-
pulco and Puerto Vallarta, has demonstrated that to attract large numbers
of foreign visitors by air requires the provision of direct flights fron
major departure points in the U.S. A principal factor affecting the vol-
ume of foreign vacation travel is the level of income. VarLous studies
of the likely growth of family income in the U.S. have been made, and
based on past trends there is every probability of a rapid increase in
the number of households with incomes in excess of US$ 10,000 (at con-
stant prices).  This number was 9 million in 1960 (at 1    prices), 17
million in 1967 and is estimated at 34 million in 1980.1 1 The ratio
1/ Data used here is based on an appraisal of past trenda and represent
low to moderate forecasts made by the National Industrial Conference
Board on data supplied by the U.S. Department of Comerce and the
National Planning Association.



- 18 -
between Americano travelling abroad and those with family incomes exceeca-
ing US$ 10,000 has been slowly rising, and on this basis the 5 million
travell.ing abroad in 1967 (excluding Canada) ahould at least double by
1980.  In the light of experience in the past tlree years, however, such
a projection appears highly conservative. Already by 1970, almost 8 mil-
lion Americano travelled abroad (Annex 1).
5.02   Infratur has based ita market projection for Ixtapa on the assump-
tion that the new resort will be competing with Acapulco, Hawaii and
selected Caribbean islanda for beach holiday traffic from the U.S. Extra-
polating past growth trends to these several destinations, Infratur has
concluded that the proposed development at Ixtapa would abaorb aoout 5p
of the estimated traffic to all these destinationa in 1981. This number
-- 420,000 -- would represent about 10% of the projected total visitor
flow to Mexico in that year, assuming a growth rate in the next ten years
of 7.1% annually (as compared with 11.5% in the past decade). These pro-
jections are based on the assumption that Mexico will continue to maintain
ita ahare of the U.S. market for travel abroad.  It would represent about
20% of projected air arrivals, assuming a continued gradual rise in the
proportion of foreign visitors arrivíng by sir.  None of these ratios
appears overly optimistic from the side of demand. However, it la possi-
ble that the build up of traffic to Ixtapa will be slower than forecast
by Lifratur in view of the time required to complete the basic infrastruc-
tures and build the first hotels.
5.03   While the majority of visitora to Acapulco have been foreigners in
recent yeara, very large numbers of Mexicans have also visited the resort.
In 1969, the latter numbered 414,000 as compared with 466,000 foreign visí-
tors. Infratur in ita projections for Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo has not forecaat
a similar ratio between domestic and foreign visitors, but has rather con-
servatively estimated that domestic visitora would number about 20% of
total tourists.  As the majority of domestio visitora to Acapuleo travel
by road, and as acceso to Zihuatanejo from Mbxico City by road will be
via Acapulco in the foreseeable future, it is likely that domestie traf-
fic will continue to favor Acapulco. Hence a conservative projection of
domestic visitora to Zihuatanejo seems justified.
5.04   At present foreign visitora arrivíng by air apend on average much
more per day than visitora arriving by road. In 1969, the former sperit on
average US$ 31 per day. With the expected rise in prices, estimated at 5%
a year and ecual to the average increase in the past five years, average
daily expenditures at Ixtapa by visitors are estimnated at US$ 41i5 in 1975
when the first hotels are expected to be in operation. The breakdown of
this amount ia calculated to be as follows:



- 19 -
Item                  AxAmount (US$)    Percentage (%)
Accomnmodation                 14.44              34.8
Food and Beverage              11.29               27.2
Entertainnent                   4.44               10.7
Local Transport                 4.32              10.4
Purchases                       4.98              12.0
Other                           2.03               4.9
TOTAL                  41.50              100.0
Source: Bank of' Mexico; figures adjusted by Bank.
Some of the tourists are likely to visit the area only, while others
are expected to visit it as well as other destinations in IMexico.
The average length of stay ¡a asaumned to be 4 days, somewhat leas
than in Acapulco, but greater than in Puerto Vallarta.
B. Hotel Development
5.O5   The justification for providing infrastructure at Ixtapa and
Zihuatanejo is the prospect that private investora and hotel companies
will be prepared to buíld and operate hotels as envisaged by the spon-
sors of the project. Infratur projecte a gradual build up of hotel
capacity and development of private houses as follows:
Ixtapa             Zihuatanejo
Year        Hotel Rooms        0uces      _Hotel Rooms
1              750             10             -
3            l,500             60            450
9            3,500            500          600-800



- 20 -
5.06   While discussions with potential hotel developers and investors
have confirmed a 8trong interest in building at Ixtapa, no binding com-
mitmente have been made by private investore.  This could not be expected
at the present stage of the project's development where specific hotel
Sites cannot yet be delineated, and work on implementing the project has
not yet begun. Neverthelees, the prospects for hotel investment are con-
sidered highly favorable. Investment in hotels has yielded attractive
returns in the past.  Mhile most hotels are Mlexican-owned, the large
U.S. hotel companies including Hilton, Sheraton, Western International,
Holiday Innrs and Mariott have entered the market either primarily as
operators or with sizeable lnvestments. The operating conditions for
higher category hotels have been favorable with prices aligned with
prices in the U.S., high average occupancies and relatively low operat-
ing costs, particularly for labor. These favorable conditions are
likely to continue, though large additions to capacity could have
adverse effects on occupancy levels in the short-term.
5.07   Besides the favorable environment for investment, the general
concept of the project is expected to be attractíve to investors.
Prospective hotel developers will find a planned area with all infra-
structures provmded, with adequaté zoning and controla over neighbor-
ing developments and with common amenities provided such as the golf
course, shopping center and at a later etage marina and convention
facilities. By comparison with existing resort areas, where infra-
structure i9 often inadequate and zoning controls weak or lacking, these
advantages, common to both the Zihuatanejo and Yucatan projects, are
expected to be powerful attractions.
5.08   Nevertheless, the risks involved in starting a new resort are
greater than in expanding one already established. There is an un$er-
standable reluctance among hoteliers to be alone in a new resort.Y'
Once several hotels are built attracting others is easier.  For this
reason it seems appropriate to envisage special arrangements, if such
are needed to get the firat hotels established. Hence, during nego-
tiations the Federal Government agreed that it would, if necessary,
take steps, including the provision of finance, to ensure that 750
hotel rooms, costing an average approximately US$ 20,000 per room,
would be built and operating not later than 1976.
C. Economic Justification
Econamic Return
5.09   The net benefits to the econemy will consist of expenditures
made by visitore in the Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa area, less the cost of
1/  There are special category hotels or holiday villages -- e.g., those
of the Club Mediterranee -- where this is not so.



- 21 -
operating all the facilities to be provided. The relevant investment
is the capital cost of the infrastructure project itself, plus the
investment costa of hotels in Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo. The additional
investments that are likely to take place in local transport, enter-
tainnent and shopping facilities have also been taken into account,
although they are estinated to be relatively smalU. Although properly
chargeable to the program of investments, revenues and costa associated
with private residences and of international and domestic air travel
have not been taken into account, except those directly related to the
airport.
5.10   With an estimated economic life of the project of 25 years, the
internal economic return on the program of investments would be 13.1%.
This calculatiun, however, does not take into consideration the real
eccnomic costa of labor.  Since the construction and operation of the
project is expected to employ considerable numbera of relatively
unskilled workers from the surrounding region who are currently under-
employed or unemployed, the evaluation of the investment calla for some
of the labor inputs to be priced below the current market wage-rates.
Accordingly, unskilled labor was priced at 70% below current market
wage-rates. On this basis the internal economic return would be 19.4%
and may be considered the Ilbest estimate.11 The rate of return would
be sensitive to changes in occupancy levels and delays in the opening
of hotels. With varying asaumptiona about occupancy levela and open-
ing dates, and with shadow pricing of unskilled labor the internal
economic return would range from 15.6% to almsot 20.8%.
5.11   Improved infrastructure facilities in the town of Zihuatanejo
constitute an important benefit to the local population.  The above
analysis has not taken into account these benefits, because of the
difficulties of separating that part of the investment which will
benefit local population frca investment that la needed for the devel-
opment of tourism, both in Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo. It ¡a realistic to
asaume, however, that ovaer half the investmenta in infrastructure in
Zihuatanejo would benefit the local population rather than the tourism
sector. On this basis the economic rate of return on the tourísm pro-
gram as a whole would increase to more than 20%. The economic justifi-
cation of the project la discussed more fully in Annex 5.
Employment and Income Effecta
5.12 The proposed projectts area of influence ia expected to extend
to 32 t"municipiosl l/ in the states of Michoacan and Guerrero, with a
total population of about 675,000. These Umuniciplos' are amongst
1/ A small administrative district.



22 -
the poorest aresa in Mexico with per capita GDP about half the national
average and with high rates of unemployment and under-employment.
Between 1960 and 1970, it ia estimated that while total population in
thli zone increased by 37%, the economically active population remained
atatic at 160,000 and in relation to total population decreased from
32.1% to 23,.6 in 1970. When in full operation it is estimated that
the project will provide einployment directly and indirectly for a mini-
mium of 26,000 persona and will increase the value of output in the area
of influence by about 30% as compared with 1970.
Direct Balance of Paymenta_Impact
5.13   The proposed project i8 expected to increase gross foreign
exchange earnings by about US$ 7 milllon in 1975 when the first hotels
opon up and by TU$ 62 million when the project becomes fully opera-
tional in 1986. This compares with US$ 575 million earned by tourism
in Mexico in 1970.  Becaume of the high proportion of foreign touriíts
that are expected to visit the area and the low import content of oper-
ating costs, the estimated net foreign exchange earnings of the project
are relatively high. At present, only 10% of every tourist dollar
earned goes out of the country to pay for importa, technical services,
interest, dividenda, etc. With regard to the program of investmenta in
the Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo zone, the proportion is likely to be somewhat
higher, since half the cost of infrastructure would be financed from
the proposed loan. On this basis» net foreign exchange earnings would
amount to US$ 36 million in 1980 and US$ 53 million in 1986, which com-
pares with the estimated foreign exchange component of the proposed
project of US$ 13 million, including price contingencies, and the
foreign exchange component of superstructure of about US$ 25 million.
6. FINANCIAL ASFECTS
6.01   The total estimated financlal requirements of the project are
US$ 44 million equivalent.  It ís proposed that the Bankls loan should
cover about half of total project costa. The balance would be provided
by the Federal Government.  Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tiona that the Federal Government would meet any cost overruns, and
would make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to provide capital
funds for the project as needed.
6.02   As the project consists of different infrastructure elements,
some revenue earning and othera not, no overall financial calculation
would be meaningful. Nevertheless, financial projections have been
made for the operation of the tourism zone at Ixtapa, for the water and
sewerage project outside the tourism zone and for the airport. These
financial projections are shown in Tables 1 and 2 of Annex 2, Table 2
of Annex 3, and Table 3 of Annex 4. The charges levied by the Federal



_ 23 -
Power Commission both at Ixtapa and at Zihuatanejo will be the standard
charges for the different classes of service applied throughout Ma1oxico,
6.03   Infratur 1s a development agency; its primary purpose i8 not to
make profits (Annex 2).  It is expected however to recover the invest-
mente made, and the Federal Governnelit expects it to repay with inter-
est monies advanced. Its operating policies, e.g., on financial objec-
tives, on the acquisition and sale of land, on land prices, on annual
charges to hotel investors, have not yet been formalized. Understand-
ings on such policies are desirable and aseurances were obtained during
negotiations that a policy statement would be prepared after consulta-
tion with the Bank within one year of the signing of the proposed loan,
6.04   The financial projectiona for Ixtapa cover the investment expendi-
tures on developing the site at Ixtapa, revenues fram the sale and lease
of lots, the shopping center and the golf course, revenues from the sale
of services and expenses of operating and maintaining such services.
6.05   Revenues from the sale of lots and from selvice charges have been
estimated on the basis of a price of US$ 20 per m  for hotel sites
(US$ 81,000 per acre) and US$ 6-8 per mZ for houwe sites (US$ 4,50o-6,00o
per lot) in 1972 rising by about 9% annually thereafter, and of amual
charges of US$ 65 equivalent per hotel room and US$ 271 per house lot.
These values are substantially below canparable prices in Acapulco and
are designed as incentive prices for investors. The resulting revenue
projections are conservative. Experience may show that higher prices
can be charged once the resort area le established. Revenues will also
be obtained from rents of shops and the golf course, though Infratur
hopes to sell these facilities, as mentioned above (para. 3.29).
6.06   The costs of operating the services which Infratur will provide
at Ixtapa -- maintenance of roads and street8, environxental sanitation,
street lighting, water and sewerage, conmuniLty services (fire protection,
police, clinic) etc. -- are substantial and with the exception of water
and sewerage are not closely geared to the gradual increase in hotel
rooas and private houses. In ita projections Infratur expects to incur
deficits on operating account until about the seventh year of operationa.
As the proposed annual charge per hotel room le very low, however, a sub-
stantial increase seems feasible.  A charge of US$ 200 would still
represent a very emall fraction of total hotel operating expenses. On
this basís a small surplus on operating account would be achieved in the
fifth year of operationa, and the financial rate of return to Infratur
would be 5.3% as caapared with 1.6% on the basis of the charges proposed
by Infratur.  The proposed charges which will be applied frcm 1975 are
necessarily very tentative, but during negotiatior.s aseurances were
obtairned that the basis for fixing annual charges would be agreed with
Infratur within one year of the signing of the proposed loan.



-24 -
6.07   All Infraturla capítal fund8, whether obtained from the Federal
Government or from the proposed Bank loan would be repayable over an
extended period of 20-25 yeara.  Infratur would pay 8% on funds pro-
vided by the Federal Goverrment and interest on the proceeds of the
proposed Bank loan plus a commission, expected to be 0.25%, charged by
Nacional Financiera. Infratur expecta to sell land to developera out-
right or with deferred payments or in exchange for equity shares or to
lease sites. Hence revenues from the sale or lease of land cannot be
projected with any precision and the Federal Government has agreed that
Infratur ahould not be held to a fixed amortizat4on achedule.  The Fed-
eral Government would make itself responsible for repaying the proposed
Bank loan (para. 13 and 14 of Annex 2).
6.08   Though the direct financial return on the investment in the proj-
ect at Ixtapa ia modest, the Government ¡a expected to receive substan-
tial tax revenues from hotela, beginning in the third year of operations.
Over the period to 1991, total revenues from profits tax on hotels at
Ixtapa (at a rate of 450) are estimated at US$ 44 million equivalent.
In addition, the Government will receive revenues from individual income
taxes, import duties and sales tax which cannot be estíated with anY
precision. Taking account only of the profits tax on hotels, and rnking
no adjustmente in Infratur'a projectiona of net operating revenues and
land sales, the internal financial rate of return to Governnent on the
investment at Ixtapa would be 10.7%.
6.09   The water and sewerage undertaking which will serve Zihuatanejo,
supply bulk water to the tourism zone and provide treatment for the sew-
age from Ixtapa, will charge water rates which will discriminate between
the two principal categories of ccmsumer8 -- visitors and residenta. As
the bulk of the permanent population of Zihuatanejo will be poor, the
proposed water rate for residente in the to'n would be about half the
rate charged to hotels in Zihuatanejo and to hotels and villas at Ixtapa.
On the basis of the rates proposed, projected revenues would, three
years after the ccmpletion of the project, cover operating and mainte-
nance costa and depreciation of the water supply and sewerage systems.
Subsequently, they would also provide a surplus for financing a reason-
able portion of future expansion of such systems. The maintenance of a
rate structure adequate to achieve these objectives was agreed during
loan negotiations. Agreement on the schedule of initial charges for
water and sewerage services would be a condition of effectiveneas of the
proposed loan. At Ixtapa, the rates currently under consideration would
cover the coat of purchased water together with costs of operating and
maintaining the water and sewerage systems in the tourism zone after the
fifth year of operation.  The capital investnent in the water, sewerage
and 8torm drainage systems at Ixtapa would be recovered in the prices of
land sold to hotel developera and house owners.



6.10   Based on the projected flow of traffic through the airport over
the period 1974-1990 and applying the standard landing fees and other
charges levied at other airports in Mexico, revenues are expected to be
sufficient to cover costa of administration, operation and maintenance
frcm 1977 but will only meet capital charges from 1983. The total
investment ia expected to be recovered by the early 19901s, and the
internal financial rate of return would be about 9%.
6.11   Accounts and financial statements in a form acceptable to the
Bank would be kept by Infratur both in respect to the tourism zone at
Ixtapa and for all ita operations, by SRH in respect of the water and
sewerage undertaking serving Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo and by SOP and ASA
in respect of the new airport. Audited financial statements in a form
acceptable to the Bank would be presented to the Bank within four
months of the close of the financial year.
7. RECOMENDATIONS
7.01   During loan negotiations,  ornitnents werc obtainod that
(i) the new airport at Zihuatanejo would be declared
a co-terminal for international air services with
the airport at Acapulco (para. 3.08);
(ii) Infratur would consult with the Bank in order to
agree on the timing of construction of additional
acceso roads to the tourism zone at Ixtapa, and
at such time the first acceas road included in the
project would be closed to truck traffic (para.
3.09);
(iii) atudies satisfactory to the Bank for the elimina-
tion of the mud-flat at Zihuatanejo would be com-
pleted within one year of the date of the proposed
loan and agreement would then be reached between
the Government and the Bank on the action to be
taken to this end (para. 3.14);
(iv) the Governnent would take action to prevent the pol-
lution of the Ixtapa zone by industrial planta to be
constructed in the future (para. 3.14);
(v) the Government would ensure that atudies would be
completed within two years of the poesible damage
to the Ixtapa zone resulting from the silting of
the Ixtapa river. These studies would be reviewed
with the Bank to determine what action, if any,
should be taken (para. 3.14¿);



- 26 -
(vi)  conaulting architects and engineers, acceptable to
the Bank, would be appointed as needed to complete
the design of the project (para. 3.21);
(vii) a project unit would be operated within Infratur for
the execution of the project at Ixtapa under the
authority of a full-time Project Director assisted
by engineers, an architect, a procurement officer,
accountants and other staff, as needed (para. 3.21);
(viii) adequate power supplies would be provided at Ixtapa
and Zihuatanejo (para. 3.21);
(ix) final designs for the airport and terminal building,
the water supply and sewerage systems, and the shop-
ping center and other common facilities at Ixtapa
would be submitted for approval to the Bank (paras.
3.23 and 3.26);
(x) the contract between the Federal Government and the
National Bank for Public Works for the execution and
maintenance of works in Zihuatanejo would be submit-
ted to the Bank for ite approval (paras. 3.24);
(xi) the Federal Government would cause SOP, SBH and BNOSP
to prepare in cooperation with Infratur a critical
path plan acceptable to the Bank for carrying out all
parts of the project. The Governnent would coordinate
the progreso of the project according to the critical
path plan which would be reviewed at least every six
months, and the results of such reviews would be
promptly communicated to the Bank (para. 3.27);
(xií) the Federal Governnent would devise meana acceptable
to the Bank for providing assistance for self-help
housing in Zihuatanejo (para. 4.01);
(xiií) a program to provide hotel training facilities on a
basis acceptable to the Bank to meet the likely
demand for trained personnel at Ixtapa would be sub-
mitted within one year of the signing of the pro-
posed loan :zd ccrried out (para 4.02);
(xiv) the Federal Government would take such steps as may
be needed to ensure that 750 hotel rooms will be
built and operating at Ixtapa by 1976 (para. 5.08);
(xv) the Federal Government would make arrangements satia-
factory to the Bank to provide funds for carrying out
tlhe project, as needed (para. 6.01);



- 27 -
(xvi) Infratur would prepare and adopt a statement of oper-
ating policies in consultation with the Bank within
one year of the signing of the proposed loan (para.
6.03);
(xvii)  the basis for determining annual levies on hoteis and
house sites made by Infratur would be agreed with the
Bank within one year of the signing of the proposed
loan (para. 6.06);
(xviií) charges levied for water at Zihuatanejo would be
adjusted as necessary to caver the operating and main-
tenance costa and depreciation of the water supply and
sewerage systems and provide a surplus for financing a
reasonable portion of the future expansion of such aya-
tema (para. 6.09);
7.02   Conditiona of effectiveziesa of the proposed loan would be:
(i)  the adoption of the land use plan and zoning regula-
tions for Ixtapa (para. 3.13);
(i) the appointment of a full-time director to the project
unit established within Infratur for the execution of
the project at Ixtapa and the coordination at the work-
ing level of the other elemento of the project (para.
3.21);
(iii) the completion of acquisition of land or rights to land
by Infratur at Ixtapa (para. 3.22);
(iv) the declaration of the urban area and the adoption of
the urban plan for Zihuatanejo (para. 3.25);
(v) the preparation of the critical path plan for the execu-
tion of the project (para. 3.27).
(vi) agreement on the schedule of ínitial charges for water
and sewerage (para. 6.09).
7.03   With the indicated assurances, the proposed project provides a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$ 22 million for a term of 25 years
including a 5-year grace period.



- 28 -
STATISTICAL APPENDIX
Table No.
Capital Required to Create One Job Opportunity                      1
Growth of Foreign and Domestic Visitors to Mexicoo, 1960-1970       2
Foreign Visitors to Mexico by Nationality, 1966-1969                3
Seasonality in Visitor Traffic to Mexico, 1960-1969                 4
Distribution of Acoamnodation According to Type and Category,
1961-1970                                                     5
Metereological Cmnditiona of Itnportant Tourist Destinations
in the Pacific and the Caribbean                              6
Breakdown of Total Project Costa                                    7
Cost of Infrastructures and Superetructures - Ixtapa
Tourism Area                                                  8
Cost of Infrastructures - City of Zihuatanejo                      9
Cost of Infrastructures and Superetructures - Zihuatanejo
International Airport                                        10
Training and Feasibility Studies                                   11
Contingency Allowances                                            12
Estimated Annual Expenditures by Agencies                          13
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures of Infratur by Quarters
and Years                                                     14
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures of the Secretariat of
Hydraulíc Resources (SRH) by Quartera and Years               15
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures of the Natioíal Bank
of Publio Works and Servioes (BNOSP) by Quarters
and Years                                                    16
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures of the Secretariat
of Public Works (SOP) by Quarters and Years                  17
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures by Quartera and
Years - Training and Feasibility Studies                     18
Estimated Sohedule of Disbursements                                19
Estimated Sehedule of Disbursements by Quartera and Yeara          20
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements by Quarters and Yeara -
Ixtapa Touriam Area                                          21
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements by Quartera and Years -
City of Zihuatanejo                                          22
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements by Quarters and Years -
Zihuatanejo International Airport                            23
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements by Quarters and Years -
Training and Feasibility Studies                              24
Estimated Annual Financial Requiremente of Agencíes                25



TABLE 1
MEXICO
Capital Reguired to Create One Job %pjortunity
(at 1960 Prices)
Pesos
Agriculture                                      8,668
Mining                                          74,650
Petroleum                                      237,162
Food & Beverages                                59,162
Textiles                                        21,718
Wood Products                                   40, 307
Chemical Products                               65,452
Non-Metal Products                              50,410
Metal Products                                 130,538
Manufacture of Machinery                        37,737
Construction                                    15,662
Electric Power                                 359,683
Commerce                                        48,552
Transport                                      120,026
Services, including Tourism                     24,346
Source: Banco de Mexico, S.A., Departamento de Estudios
Economicos.
October 1971



TABLE 2
MEXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
GROWTH OF FQREIGN AND DCWESTIJ VISITORS TO MEXImO. 1960 - 1970 -/
Year     International    Index      Domestio -      Index        Total        Index
Visitors (000)            Visitors (000)            Visitors (000)
1960          690.4         100         69.9          100         760.3         100
1961          717.3         104         84.6          121         801.9         105
1962          833.9         121        106.4          152         94o.3         124
1963          945.7         137        117.2          168       1,062.9         140
1964        1,077.6         156        135.9          194 1,213.5              160
1965        1,199.5         174        151.9          217       1,351.4         178
1966        1,328.5         192        169.7          243       1,498.2         197
1967        1,445.1         209        183.5          263       1,628.6         214
1968        1,664.5         241        215.4          308       1,879.9        -247
1969        1,817.8         263        246.8          353       2,064.7         272
1970 3/     1,984.3         287        261.2          374       2,245.5         295
1/  Excludes border visitor traffic
2/ Mexicans residing abroad.
2/ Preliminary estimates
Souroe:  Department of Tourism
Octobcr 1971



TABLE 3
MEXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
FOREIGN VISITORS TO MEXICO BY NATIONALITY,  1964-1969
(Percentages)
Nationality               1964      1965      1966     1967      1968     1969
U. S.                      87.5      87.4      86.9     86.6      86.3      87.4
Ganadian                    2.5       2.9      2.8       3.2       3.2      3.2
Central American            3.4       3.2       3.1      2.8       2.8      2.8
Cuba and the Antilles       0.1       0.1      0.1       0.2       0.2      0.2
European                     3.4      3.6       4.0      4.2       4.7       3.9
South American               2.4      2.0       2.4      2.5       2.0       2.0
Others                       0.7      0.8       0.7      0.5       0.8       0.7
Total                100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Source: Departaent of Tourism
October 1971



TABLE 4
MEXIGO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
SEASONALITY IN VISITOR TRAFFIC TO MEXIGO, 1960 - 1969
(In Thousands)
Month               1960          1965          1969-/       Percent of Total
January             58.2          105.8         144.3                 7.0
February            62.0          105.3         154.3                 7.4
March                52.4          91.2         171.3                 7.6
April                59.5         106.5         160.2                 7.6
May                  53.1          93.7         147.2                 6.5
June                73.5          123.0         195.5                 9.6
July                 90.2         153.6         213.1                10.9
August               80.0         143.2         235.6                11.0
September           50.7           89.5         110.6                 6.4
October             47.9           91.1         162.0                 7.1
November             52.0         100.3         171.6                 7.7
December            80.8          148.1         231.4                11.2
Total            760.3        1,351.3       2,097.8               100.0
1/ Preliminary estimate
Source: Department of Tourism
October 1971



TABIE 5
MEXICO:  ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF ACCDOMODATION IN MEXICO ACCORDING TO TYPS AND CATEGORY, 1961 - 1970 1/
-   1 9 6 1   -                                                        6 1)65   -                                            -   1y  o    -
Type of          Number of       Percent       Number of       Percent         Number of       Percent       Number of        Percent         Number of       Percent       Number of        Percent
Accoinmodation   Establishments   of Total   Rooms 1 Suites   of Total         Establishments   of Total   Roons & Suites   of Total          Establishments   of Total   hooms se Suites   of Total
Apartments              177            5.3           2,185           2.4               228            6.6           2,336           2.4              340             7.1          4,178            3.2
Guest Houses             699          21.1           7,800           8.6               866           25.1          10,203          10.6            1,381            29.0          16,019          12.1
2/
Motels                   195           5.9           4,240            4.7              371           10.7           8,205           8.5               510           10.7          12,127           9.1
Hotels                2,243           67.7          76,666           84.3            1,987           57.6          75,909          78.5            2,534            53.2         100,377          75.6
Total                 3,314          100.0          90,891         100.0             3,452          100.0          96,653         100.0            4,765           100.0         132,701         100.0
Category
"AA"                    121            3.7           6,267           6.9               233            6.8          10,994          11.4              398             8.3          21,008          15.8
"A"                     35b           10.7          14,713          16.2               739           21.4          26,o47          26.9              711            14.9          23,069          17.4
Sub-Total               475           14.4          20,980          23.1               972           28.2          37,041          38.3             1,109           23.2          44,077          33.2
"tB"                    419           12.6          13,278          14.6               478           13.8          14,170          14.7               714           15.0          22,3y2          16.9
Sub-Total               896           27.0          34,258          37.7             1,450           42.0          51,211          53.0             1,823           3d.2          66,469          50.1
",C"l                   382           11.5          10,564          11.6               347           10.1           8,862           9.2               846           17.d          23,526          17.7
"D"                     942           28.4          26,541          29.2               846           24.5          20,814          21.5             1,218           25.6          27,118          20.4
`E`                   1,096           33.1          19,528          21.5               809           23.4          15,766          16.3               87d           18.6          15,588          11.8
Total                 3,314          100.0           90,891         100.0            3,452          100.0          96,653          100.0            4,765          100.0         132,701         100.0
1/       Surveys ending May 31 of each year.
2/       Sometines defined as motels and sometimes as tourist camps.
Source:  Departnent of Tourism
September 1971



TABLE, 6
MEXIGO - ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
METEREOLOGICAL IJNDITIONS OF IHPORTANT TOURIST DESTINATIONS
IN THE PACIFIC AND THE CARIBBEAN
Average      Number of             Temperatures
Tourist             Annual         Rainy                Centigrades
Destinations        Rainfall        Das          maximum     minimum    mean
(D11s118)     ( )m
Zihuatanejo          1,285            61           32.7        20.6      26.7
Acapuleo             1,470            66           31.6         23.7     27.7
Honolulu               556            99           27.7        21.0      24.4
Hilo                 3,470           284           27.0        18.6      22.8
San Juan             1,524           209           28.2        22.9      25.6
Bahamae              1,178           114           28.3         21.1     24.7
Sources: Direccion de Meteorologia, Secretaria de Agricultura y Ganaderia.
Weather Bureau, U.S. Department of Commerce.
September 1971



TABLE 7
MEXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
BREAKMM OF TOTAL PROJECT COST
Cost figumes in thousands of Mexdcan pesos (M$OO0)
Rate of Exchange: M$12.49 * US$1 .00
Cost of       Cost of        Cost of         Cost of       Cost of               Cost of                Cost of         Cost of        Cost of
Land        Siteworks    Construction    Squipment   Professional        Physical Facilities         Promotional       Pro ject      Techn.ical        TOTAL PROJECT COST
Project Items                  Acquisition                                                  Se-rviCes                                    Expenses    Administration  Assistance
M$ (000)      M$ (000)       M$ (000)        M$ (000)     M$ (000)       M$ (000)      US$ (000)        M$ (000)        M$ (000)      M$ (000)       M$ (000)      UsS (000)
I.  Ixtapa Tourism Area                      21,000        101,249        46,361          18,200        12,308        199,118      15,942.2          18,000          19,591                       236,709       18,951.9
II.  City of Zihuatanejo                       n.a.         44,404         13,652           3,536         7,292        68,884        5,515.1           n.a.            6,777                        75,661        6,057.7
III.  Zihuatanejo International Airport         8,350         10,137        81,549          14,918        13,202        128,156      10,260.7           n.a.            n.a.                       128,156        10,260.7
IV. Training and Feasibility Studies                                                                                                                                                 13,739         13,739        1,100.0
Total Gost Before Contingeneies        29,350       155,790        141,562          36,654        32,802       396,158       31,718.0          18,000          26,368         13,739       454,265        36,370.3
Price Increase                                       21,811         19,818           5,132                      46,761        3,743.9
Physical Increase                                    22,638         20,570           5,326                      48,534        3,885.8
Total Contingencies                                  44,L449        40,388          10,1458                     95,295        7,629.7
GRAND TOTAL                            29,35°       200,239        181,950          477,112       32,802       491,1453      39,3347.7         18,000          26,368         13,739       549,560        44 ,000.0
Foreign Exohange Component
Peroentage                                        30.5%          30.5%           62.0%          2.1%         29.8%        29.8%             62..4%                        60.0%          30.2%         30.2%
Total                                            61,o61         55,486          29,219           688       146,454       11,725.7          11,235                          8,244       165,933        13,258.8
October 1971



TABLE 8
HEXIOO  ZIHUATA8JO TOtURI5N PROECT2
I. IXTAPA TOUI. k8E
OST OF INFPALTR800TUR8  AÁND SUPS5TRUCTURE3
Total                                                                    TOTA.L  COST             Fóroip.
Code                                                    Total        Sitewor8B        Oonatr-atoton      Equipaent              TOEhange                                 !yar 1          Iear 2          rear 3
L:tter                                                   (m 2)       (40OO                  (000002                        M3;( .         us$ (000>        2        -                     268(000)        m     .N00O)
A.      Prolíinairy Worlot 1/                         n.a.              2,261                                 200           2,1461           197.0            858           2,461
B.      Tupopray B          2ildtg   /                                    323             3,202             1,517           5,0142           °3. 7          1,137          5,ó42
e.      Rarth 1i7ring                                 n.a.             17,54i4                                            i7754,          1 ,404.6          5,789          7,018          10,526
B.      Roa&B.elar2d                                  n.a.             26,859                                              26,859         2,150.4           8,863          8,784          12,397          5,678
E.     k&doaulo WookaA/                               n.a.                990            19,381                            20,371         1,631.0           5,781          8,380           7,418          4,573
p.      Seq&e Troat.ent 2/                            n.a.              8,601             1,650             1,496          11,747            940.5          3,409                          2,926          8,821
0.      Stoe  iWater Draegae S.                       n.a.              5,790                                               5,790            463.6          1,716                          2,842          2,948
8.      Wat.or Suppl.y Sy>tat 2    t                   925              7,665               465             1,567           9,697           776.4.          3,120                          6,525          3,172
I.   ~ wibrxnentalt mitation  -1                      n.a.              2,782                               3,781%          6,566           525.7           2,224          3,671             886          2,009
J.       aeetr1cty 2z                                n.a.              7,911            12,093             2,400          22,IJ04        1,793.8           9,020          2,350          13,702          6,352
K.      Teonami.ationas  /                             300              5,260               600             1 230           7,090           567.7           2,460                          3,821          3,269
L.      Golf Couree md Club House                     1,795             8,293             2,752             4,104          15,149         1,212.9           5,680                         12,315          2,834
24.      Oer.cial Conter                             2,786                658             3,227                30           3,915            313.4            595                          1,513          2,402
N1.     Co.aurnity Servtaes                          1,082                839             1,300             1,872          14,011           321.1           2,515                                         4,011
0.      3treets of tie Residential DUstrict           n.a.              4,143                                               4,113           331.7             511                            788          3,355
P.      Beach Developmnt                                400             1,330             1,691                             3,021           241.9             303                            596          2,425
Sub-Total                                                  101,249           46,361             18,20J         165,610        13,275.41        53,931          37,706         76,255          51,849
contingencia.,:
Prico Inazeo (7.0% ann.uaaly)                                                                                23,213          1,858.5          7,557
Fhy*st4al Inereaee (14.5%)                                                                                   21.0914         1,929.1          7,844
Total ContingenIeas                                                                                           17 ,37         3,787.6          15,101
Pro:rsaional 8eervicaa 2/.
Dens.i   ( 6 4.5% )                                                                                           7,107            569.0             688
Supervlaion ( 6 4.0%)                                                                                          5,201           416.41.
Total Profaesional Serqioes                                                                                   12,308           985.4            688
Land AcquIaition  /                                                                                           21,000          1,681.3
ProJect Unlit, Mexaco CIty 2                                                                                    14, 08         1,185.6
Projact Onit, Ixtp  1/                                                                                          11,560           925.5
PrzaDtlonal Expeneoa T/                                                                                         18,000         1,441.2          11,235
G02NO TOTAL                                                                                                    290,793        23,282.0         81,305
1/ Oot to bo finanead by ths L1a
2/  Onludes sone aork to be imple-ented hy other gorerent,t gencies
Deotnber 1971



TABLE 9
MSXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
II. CITY OF ZIHUATANEJO
COST OF INFRASTRUCTURES
Total                                                                   TOTAL  COST             Foreign
Code                                                    Area        Siteworks        Conatruction        Equipment                                       Exchange         Year 1         Year 2          Year 3
Letter                                                   ( 2)            M$                               M$m (000)       M$ (000)        USm (000)         M$ (000)OO(°                 M$ (000)        m$ (00)
A.      Sevferage System                              2,874            9,304             4,366              1,745         15,415          1,234.2          3,509                          4,494          10,921
B.      Envirozmenta  Sanitation 1/                    n.a.                                                   800            800             64.O            427             290             70             440
C.      Water Supply Szstem                            n.a.            4,065             2,935                991          7,991            639.8          1,664             614          3,752           3,625
D.      Electricity  1/                                n.a.                              5,781                             5,781            462.9          2,023                          3,470           2,311
E.      Stoz, Water Drainage System                                   10,763                                              10,763            B61.7          3,552           1,182          4,604           4,977
F.      Streets  1/                                  35,320           20,272               570                            20,842          1,668.7          7,503             873          5,338          14,631
Sub-Total                                                   4,4014            13,652            3,536           61,592         4,931.3          18,678           2,959         21,728          36,905
Conti-ngencies:
Price Inercase (7.0% anually)                                                                                  8,623           690.4           2,615
Physical Inciease (14.5%)                                                                                      8,950           716.5           2,714
Total Contingencies                                                                                           17,573          1,406.9          5,329
Professional Services -/:
Design ( ± 4.5% )                                                                                              2,772            221.9
Supervision  ( + 4.0% )                                                                                        2,464            197.3
Master Plan Preparation                                                                                        2,056            164.7
Total Professional Services                                                                                    7,292            583.9
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                     86,457          6,922.1         24,007
1/  Not to be financed by the Loan
October 1971



TABLE 1o
14EXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURIEX PROJECT
III. ZIHUkTANIJO INTRRNATIONA1L AIRFORT
GOST OF INFRASTRUCTURES AND SUPERSTRUCTURES
Ceode                                                Area          Siteworks      Construction     Equipjent            TOTA  COST              Xcege          Year 1         Year 2         Year 3
Letter                                                (m 2)         M$ (000)         m$ (°00)       M$                                                                                       s (000)  m$ (21  M$  )  M$ (OOO)
A.    Manxvering Area and Access Road              469,369            7,952          62,639           5,129        75,720        6,062.5        28,833          9,689         40,917         25,114
B.    Buildinga                                     29,491            1,684          14,425           3,530        19,639        1,572.4         6,794                        11,258          8,381
0.    Visual Aida and Electricity                    n.a.               128           1,148           2,174        3,450           276.2         1,369                         1,500          1,950
D.    Fuwl Storage and Supply                        n.a.               193           1,736           1,866        3,795           303.8         1,352                         3,000            795
E.    NBav Ada  d C~omunications                     n.a.               180           1,601           2,219        4,000           320.2         2,403                         1,480          2,520
Sub-Total                                                   10,137          81,549          14,918      106,604         8,535.1        40,751          9,689         58,155         38,760
Contingencies:
Pries Increase (7.0% annually)                                                                          14,925        1,195.0         5,705
Phaical Increase (14.5%)                                                                                15,490         1,240.2        5,921
Total Contingencies                                                                                     30,415        2,435.2        11,626
Professional Seraie Y1/t
Design  ( ± 5.0% )                                                                                       5,281          42Z.8
Sup.rvision  ( ± 7.4% )                                                                                  7,921          634.2
Total Profeasional Services                                                                             13,202         1,057.0
Land ACquisition 1/                                                                                        8,350           668.5
ORUID TOTAL                                                                                              158,571        12,695.8        52,377
1/ Not to be finmiced by the Loan
October 1971



TABLE 1 1
MEXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM FROJECT
IV. TRAININO AND FEASIBILITY STUDIES
TOTAL COST            Foreign
Codo                                                                                                                                     Exchange       Year 1        Year 2        Year 3
Letter                                                                                                       M$ (000)      USlt        000)             M             M  (           K$ (000)
A.    Technical Training                                                                                      6,245          500-0         3,747                       3,122          3,123
B.    Feasibility Studies (2)                                                                                 4,996          400.0         2,998         2,498         2,498
C.    Tecluinal Asaistaice                                                                                    2,49B          200.0         1,499         1,249         1,249
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                          13,739        1,100.0        8,244          3,747         6,869         3,123
October 1971



TABLE 1
MEXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
CONTINGEDCY ALLWANCFS
Land  Acauisition       Siteworks          Construction         Equipment           Professional         Proeotional             Prject             Technical
SeWrveesEpese                          Acninietrat~ion       A7T¡~¡istce ~    TOTAL
Local    Foreign   Local    Poreign   Local    Foreign   Local    Foreígn   Local           Foreign   Local    Foreign   Loca'    Forr L oc_i
Allovances for
Physical Increase                    n.a.                 14.5%               114.5%               14.5%               n.a.                 n.a.                n.a.                 n.a.
Allowances for
Price Increase                       n.a.                 14.0%               114,0%               14.0%               n.a.                 n.a.                n.a.                 n.a.
Total Project Coet Before
Contineencies                  2.35                  8.67       3.80     7.87        3.46    1.12        1.82     2.57        o.o6     0.5h       0.90     2.11                 0.144      0.66       36.37
Allowances for
Wi sic    al mrease                 n.a.           1.26       0.55      1.15       0.50    0.17        0.26           n.a.                n.a.                 n.a.                n.a.               3.89
Sub-Total                      2.35                  9.93        4.35    9.02        3.96    1.29        2.08      2.57       0.06     0.54       0.90      2.11                0.1o1.      0.66       40.26
Allowances for
Price Increase
(US$millions)                        n.a.            1.21       0.54     1.11       o.48    0.14         0.26          n.a.                 n.a.                n.a.                 n.a.               3.74
TOTAL, Including
Contingencies                  2.35                 11.14       4.89    10.13        4.44    1.43        2.34      2.57       o.o6     0.54       0.90      2.11                0.44        0.66       44.00
October 1971



TABLE 13
MEXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
ESTINATED ANNUAL EXPENDITURES BY AGENGIES
YEAR I                        YEAR II                      YEAR III                            TOTAL
M$ (000)    Us$ (000)         M$ (000)     us$ (000)        M$ (000)     us$ (000)            M$ (000)    us$ (o)
INFRATUR
Ixtapa Tourian Area                                       62,904.6       5,036.4        115,886.0      9,278.3          80,238.5      6,424.2           259,029.1     20,738.9
Feasibility Studies                                        2,498.0         200.0          2,493.0        200.0                                            4,996.         1400,0
Total                                                     65,402.6       5,236.4        118,384.0      9,478.3          80,238.5      6,424.2           264,025.1     21,138.9
SEORETARY OF RIYDRAULIC RESOURCES (SIff)
Ixtapa Touriem Area                                                                       7,160.5        573.3           3,603.4        288.5            10,763.9        861.8
City of Zihuatanejo                                        2,685.3         215.0         18,568.9      1,486.7          27,831.5      2,228.3            49,o85.7      3,930.0
Total                                                      2,685.3         215.0         25,729.4      2,060.0          31,434.9      2,516.8            59,849.6      4,791.8
NATIONAL BANK FOR PUOBLIO WORYS AND SERVICES (BNOSP)
City of Zihuatanejo                                        1,261.5         101.0         12,345.1        988.4          23,764.7      1,902.7            37,371.3      2,992.1
Total                                                      1,261.5         101.0         12,345.1        988.4          23,764.7      1,902.7            37,371.3       2,992.1
S3    ARY OF PUBLIO WOllRKS (SOP)
Zihuatanejo International Airport 1/                      13,654.1       1,093.2         81,948.1       6,561.1         54,618.8      4,373.0           150,221.0      12,027.3
Total                                                     13,654.1       1,093.2         81,9J48.1      6,561.1         54,618.8      4,373.0           150,221.0    12,027.3
DE1PAMENT (F IWRSM
Technical Training                                                                         3,122.5        250.0          3,122.5        250.0             6,245.0         500.0
Total                                                                                      3,122.5        250.0          3,122.5        250.0              6,245.0        500.0
SECRETAR OF NATIONAL PATRIMONY (SPN)
Technical Asasitance (Acapulco)                            1,249.0          100.0          1,249.0        100.0                                           2,498.0         200.0
Total                                                      1,249.0          100.0          1,249.0        100.0                                            2,498.0        200.0
GOANO TOTAL                                               84,252.5       6,745.6         242,778.1     19,437.8        193,179.4    15,466.7            520,210.0      41,650.1
1/ Excluding land acquisition
October 1971



TAsLZ 14
MEXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
ESTDUITED SCHEOULE OF EYPENDITURES OF DWRATUR BY QUARTBRS ANDIF.AYRS
(In Thousand US Dollar5)
Code
Letter                               Quarter 1 Quarter 2  Quarter 3  Quarter 4   YEAR I   Quarter 5  Quarter 6   Quarter 7  Quarter 8   YBAR II  Quarter 9  Quarter 10  Quarter 11  Quarter 12  YlAR III               TOTAL
I. IXTAPA TOURISMN AREA 1/
A.   Preliminary Works                   7.8      147.4        89.2                  244-4                                                                                                                            244.4
B.   Tenporary Buildings                40.4      245.7      215.2                   501.3                                                                                                                            501.3
C.   Lrth Moving                       40.3                              687.3      72.        409.1       318.2       181.9       181.9    1.091.1                                                                 1,818.7
D.   Road-Boulevard                    88.5                  351.1       526.5      966.1      204.6       340.9       340.9       477.4    1.363.8      329.1        295.5                              62         2,954.5
E. ñydraulio Works                     97.7                  329.7       494.5      921.g   326.4         244.8        163.2        81.6      8166        93.0         93.0        93.0        224.1                2,241.0
F.   Sewage Treatnent                                                                           17.0        20.7       111.1       111.1      259.9      205.2        227.5       227.5        102.2     762.4      1,022.3
G.   Storm Water Drainage System                                                                29.5       71.2         99.7       114.0      314.       104.8         91.7        65.6         64.1     326.2        640.6
H.   Water Supply System                                                                        31.1       73.4        102.8       117.5      324.8       44.6         39.0        27.9         48.5      160.0       484.8
J.   Enviromental Saitation            10.5                              395.6      406.1       24.5       24.5         24.5       24.5    1.0            59.9        52.4         37.4         72 6     22           726.4
J.   Electricity                       42.6                              215.9      258.5      301.5      452.2        452.2      301.5    1 507.4       181 0        158.3       113.1        246.5     me         2,464.8
X.   Telecommunicatlona                                                                         42.3       84.5        126.8       169.1      4227       113.3         99.2        70.8         78.4     361.7        784.4
L.   Golf Course and Club House                                                                272.5      408.7        408.7      272.5    1,362.4       102.1         43.8       167.6                             1,675.9
M.   C«a~ rcial Center                                                                          16.7       33.5         50.2       66.9       16T.j       89.0        77.8         55.6         43.3     267          433.0
N.   Cowmunity Services                                                                                                                                  119.8       159.7        119.8         44.4     443.7        443.7
O.  Streeta, Residential Distri,                                                                                        31.7       47.5       9.2         73.9        118.3       103.5        41.7      337.         416.6
P.  Beach Developnent                                                                                                   26.4       39.5         6        58.7         94.0         82.2        33.4      268.3        334.2
Project Unit, Mexico City         98.8       98.8        98.8       98.8       395.2      98.8        98.8        98.8        98.8      395.2       98.8         98.8         98.8        98.8      395.2     1,185.6
ProJect Unit, Ixtapa              34.7       48.6        55.6       92.5       27         92.5        92.6        992.5        2.5      37d         92.5         92.5         83.3        55.6      3           925.5
Promotional Expenses              14.4        7.9       180.8      180.8       383.9     189.5       188.0       131.3       131.2      640.0      123.4        123.4        123.4        47.1      417.3     1,441.2
TOTAL-'/                   475.7       548.4    1,320.4    2,691.9    5,036.4   2,056.0    2,452.0        2,442.8    2,327.5    9.278.3   1,889.1        1,864.9     1,469.5      1,200.7   6,424.2    20,738-91'
IV. TRAD¡Mf   AND STUDIES
B.  Feasibility Studies               30.0        40.0       60.0        70.0      200.0       70.0        60.0        40.0        30.0      2Q00                                                                    400.0
GRAND TOTAL                505.7       588.4    1,380.4    2,761.9    5.236.4   2,126.0    2,512.0        2,482.8    2,357.5    9.478.3   1,889.1       1,864.9      1,469.5      1,200.7   6.424.2    21,138.9
1/ Excludtng land acquisition
October 1971



TABLE 1 5
MlEXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
ESTINATED SCHEWEE OF EXPENDITURES OF TNE SECRETARIAT OF NIDRAULIC RESOURCES (SRI) BY QUJRTERS UND YE9S
(In Thousand US Dollars)
Code
Letter                                              Ql        Q2        Q3       Q4      YEAR I    Q5         Q6 17              Q8     YEAR II     Q9       Q10       Ql1       Q12   YEAR III    TOTAL
I.  IXTAPA TOURISM AREA
F.   Sewage Treatmnent                                                                           37.7      56.5    56.5    37.7        188.4      36.4    36.0       29.0               101.4       289.8
H.   Water Supply System                                                                         77.0      115.4   115.5    77.0    384,9         52.0    46.7       31.2      57.2    187.1        572.0
TOTAL                                                                                 114.7    171.9    172.0   114.7    573.3         88.4    82.7       60.2       57.2    288.5       861.8
II. CITY OF ZIHUATANEJo
A.   Sewerage System                                                                                       124.1    173.7   198.5      426.3    259.0   414.3    362.6    170.2   1 206.1    1,702.4
C.   Water Supply System                                             27.6      41.4    69.0    42.2         63.3    147.5   168.7      421.7     127.0    111.2      79.4      89.8   l             898.1
E.   Stonm Water Drainage                                   36.5    51.1       58.4   146.0    85.3    113.7    142.2   227.5             -      192.7    168.6     120.5      133.0        614.b 1329.5
TOTAL                                            36.5    78.7       99.8   215.0    127.5    301.1    463.4   594.7  1,486.7          578.7   694.1      562.5    393.0  2,228.3    3,930.0
GRAND TOTAL                                      36.5    78.7        99.8   215.0   242.2    473.0   635.4   709.4  2,060.0    667.1    776.8    622.7              450.2  2,516.8    4,791.8
October 1971



TABLE 16
MEICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
ESTIM&TED 8CHEDJLE OF EXPNDITURES OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF PUBLIC IDRKS AND SERVIES (BNOSP)
BY QUARTERS AND YEARS
(In Thousand US Dollars)
Code
Letter                                                 Ql        Q2        Q3       Q4      YAR I      Q5       Q6        Q7       Q8    YEAR Il    Q9        Q1o      Qll      Q12    YEAR III   TOTAL
II. CITY OF ZIHUATANEJO
B.   Enviromrental Sanitation                                            1.5      1.8       3.3      0.2       0.2       0.2      0.2      0.8       0.7      1.4      1.5      1.3      4.9        9.0
D.   Electrloity                                                                                              39.0    156.0   195.0    39T         90.9    77.9    52.D    39.0   125.o           6149.8
F.   Streeta                                                            39.1    58.6       97.7    89.6    119.5    1149.14   239.1    :6         498.8   573.3   332.6   233.3  1,i5    2,333.3
GRANO TOTAL                                                  40.6    60.4    101.0    89.8    158.7    305.6  1434.3   988.4    590.4   652.6   386.1   273.6  1,902.7   2,992.1
October 1971



TABLE 1?
MEXICO: ZIHUATANSJO TOUBISN PROJECT
ESTIfATED SCOREDLE OF EXPNDrITURES OF TSE SEORSARIrAT OF PURIJO WIPXS (sJpl RY oITA14V    Aun VR&gS
(In Thousand US Dollars)
Code
Letter                                   Ql        Q2        Q3        Q4      YEAR I    Q5         Q6        Q7       Q8    YEARII   Q9         Qi1      Qíl       Q12   YEA1 III   TOTAL
III. ZD!UATANEJO AIRPORI T/
A.   Maneuvering Areas & Boad                              437.3    655.9   1.093.   692.5   923.3    1,384.9  1,615.7  4 616.4  791.6   692.7   494.8   854.3   2j83                8,543.0
B.   Buildings                                                                         127.0   228.6        365.8    548.7  1_270.1  289.6   253.4   t81.0   221.6          945.6   2,215.7
C.   Visual Aids & Electricity                                                                   42.3       59.2      67.7   162     72.4    63.4    45.3    38.9           220.0      389.2
D    Fuel Storage & Supply                                                              50.8    71.9        100.7    115.0   338.4   46.9                42.8                8         142a.1
E.   Nav Aids & Cuunications                                                            25.0    35.5         49.7      56.8   i3L.0     83.7    95.7    59.8    45.1         2.3        451.3
TOTAL 1/                                       437.3   655.9   1,093.2  895.3  1,301.6    1,960.3  2,403.9  6,561.1 1,284.2  1,105.2    823.7  1,159.9   4,373.0   12,027.3 1/
1/ Exoluding land acquisition
October 1971



TABLE 18
MEXICO: ZIHUATAMEJO TOURISM PROJECT
TRAININO AID FEASIBILITI STUDIES
ESTIM&T1D SCHE11,LE OF DISBURSEIIENTS BY QUARTERS AID YEARS
(In Thousand US Dullars)
Codo
Letter                                                Q        Q2       Q        Q           IEAII                                              9       Q10 QQl           Q12    YEAR III      TOTAL
DEPAR~IT CF TOURISI
IV. TRAINII AND STUDIES
A.     Technical Training                                                                       25.0    56.3    78.7       90.0    250.0    90.0    78.7       56.3    25.0      250.0       500.0
SECRTA  OF NATIONAL PATRDMONY (SPN)
IV. TRAIND<G AND STUDIES
C.     Technical Asaistance
(Acapuleo Renewal)                                   25.0     35.0    40.0    100.0    40.0    35.0   25.0                 100.0                                                      200.0
October 1971



TABLFE 19,'
MEXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
ESTDIATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter              at End of Quarter
US$ Millions
1972-1973
March     31, 1972
June      30, 1972                                 -
September 30, 1972                                0.7
December  31, 1972                                0.8
1973-1974
March     31, 1973                                2.6
June      30, 1973                                4.4
September 30, 1973                                6.6
December  31, 1973                                9.3
1974-1975
March     31, 1974                               11.8
June      30, 1974                               14.5
September 30, 1974                               17.4
December  31, 1974                               19.9
1975~1976
March     31, 1975                               22.0
October 1971



TABLE 20
HEXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISH PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURS4E2NTS BY QUARTERS AND YE&RS 1/
(In Thousand US Dollars)
Ql       Q2      q3         Q4      DEAR I    Q5        Q6        Q7       Q8      YEA II      Q9       QiO       Ql        Q12   YEA. III  Q13(TR 1n)    TOTAL
I.  IXTAPA TOURISM AREA                                             408.8 a    408.8   1,297.7  1,067.0   1,218.4  1,192.3   4,775.4   1,210.5  1,068.2  1,150.4   1,054.7   4,4B3.8   911.1        10,579.1
II. CITY OF ZIHUATANEOJ                                               54.3       54.3      57.6    79.1      179.7   294.3    610.7       316.7    402.1    619.1      536.7  1,874.6    292.8       2,832.4
III.  INTERATI0FAL AIRORT                                     8.6    238.7       247.3    391.6   540.6    731.5  1,058.0  2,721.7         964.0  1,147.3  1,098.7      800.8   4,010.8    926.7       7,906.5
IV. TRAINING AND STUDIES                           18.6     40.3      58.9      117.8      68.2    83.7       93.8    89.1      334.8      74.4    55.8       48.8      34.9     213.9    15.5          682.0
TOTAL                                      18.6    48.9    760.7       828.2   1,815.1  1,770.4  2,223.4  2,633.7   8,442.6   2,565.6  2,673.4  2,917.0   2,427.1  10,583.1  2,146.1        22,000.0
1/ Eixcludin  and acqait&ion
October 1971



TABLE 21
MEXCO: ZfINUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
1. IXTAPA TOURISM AREA
ESTIMATED SCEULE OF DISBURSEMENTS BY QUARTERS AbD YEARS
(In Thousand US Dollars)
Code
Letter                                        Q1      Q2    Q3YE;AR I                   5        Q         Q.        Q       YEARu II   Q2        Q10)      Ql       Q2U    YEAR TTT  013(YRIV)    TOTAL
C.    Farth Moving,          Stuks.                                                  539.6    253.6   197.3        112.8  1.103.3     124.1                                  124.1                1,227.4
D.    Road-Blvd.,            Stmks.                                204.4    U"       276.0    126.9   177.3        177.3   757.5      296.0   204.0       219.9     194.0    913.9                1,675.8
E.    H3rdraulic Works,      Stwks.                                 27.7       Lr41.6                                                                                                                63
Constr.                              176.7    176.7    265.0    202.4   151.8    101.2   720.1            50.6    57-7       57.7      57.7               235.1      1,355 9
F.    Sevage Treatment,      Stwks.                                                             33.9      33.9      60.3    12.        52.4      98.7     126.5     135.9               -m          601.6
Constr.                                                                                                   11.6     32.3      36.9       23.1       .       11.6        115.5
Equipm.                                                                     14.0      43.6      £.        28.3  t9.8                                 7                 104.7
G.    Storm W. Drain3ge,   Stwks.                                                                18.3     44.1      61.8    1.2=       70.7      65.0      56.9      40.7    233.3                  405.0
H.    Water Supply,          Stwks.                                                             67.0   106.1       108.5    21         80.8      26.8      32.6      25.6      .8        88.        536.3
Constr.                                                                                4.9      4 9       13.0      9.8       4.9                27.7                  32.6
Equipm.                                                                     11.0      21.9      32.9      26.8     23.3      15.6       11.0    76.                    109.6
I.    Envirorm. Sanitation, Stwks.                                                    15.2       15.2    15.2       15.2     6         15.2      15.2      51.7      51.7    133.8                  194.6
Equipn.                                                                                                            21.9      17.3      116.7    13I9      108.8       264.7
J.     Electricit;,          Stwks.                                                  133.9      96.5    62.1        54.5   347.0       55.3      60.4      90.7              206.4                  553.4
Constr.                                                           126.8    111.0      79.3    317.1       82.3    109.5     124.5    121.8  I T            90.8        846.o
LEquir.                                                  26.4               44.1      66.2    136         3. 34.2                                                      170.9
L.     Golf Course & C.H.,  Stwks.                                                              116.0    185.7     162.5   464.2       23.2                          34.9                58-0       580.3
Constr.                                                                     23.1      34.7      57.B      46.2     34.7      20.8       13.8    11.5       19.2        192.5
Equipm.                                                                                                   67.2     75.2      43.9       37.6    2          63.2        287.1
M.    CQnaeercial Ctr.,      Stwks                                                               10.4     13.1       8.8     32.                  4.6       9.2                138                   46.1
Constr.                                                                     28.6      42.8     71.        46.1     39.5      32.9       13.3               22.6        225.8
Equipm.                                                                                                                        1.0       1.1      2.1                    2.1
N.     Coni5y Serv.,         Stwks.                                                                                                              21.1      18.4      13.2      52.7       1Q         58.7
Constr.                                                                                                            20.5       32.7      28.7     81.9 E                 91.0
Equipm.                                                                                                                       40.8      61.3    10í6!      28          130.9
0.    Streets of the R.D., Stwke.                                                                                   19.6      19.6      60.3     72.4      60.3       48.3    24.3       290        289.9
P.    Beach Developt.,       Stwks.                                                                                 16.4      1:3       26.2     22.9      16.4               -U         11.2        93.1
Corntr.                                                                                                            33.9       38.8      24.3     97-°      21.3        118.3
TOTAL                                                   408.8   408.8  1,297.7   1,067.0  1,218.4   1,192.3  4,775.4   1,210.5  1,068.2   1,150.4   1,054.7  4.483-          911.1    10,579.1
October 1971



TABLE 22
MEXICO: ZIHUATANUO TOURISM PliJECT
II. CITY OF ZIHUATANEJO
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSENENTS BY QUARTERS AND YEARS
(In Thousand US Dollara)
Ltter                                        Ql       Q2         Q3       Q4      YEAR I    Q5         Q6        Q7        Q8       RÁ  II    Q9        QiO        Ql1    Q12  IIARII  Q13(YR IV)              TOTAL
A.  Severage Systea, Stwks.                                                                                   70.0      76.9      146.9     81.1    109.6      175.4    153.5      519.6       74.1         740.6
Canstr.                                                                                          37.7       37.7     38.6     54.8       87.6     76.7      252.1                    347.5
29.5      47.3      41.3                 20.          138.9
C.  Water Supply,    Stlks.                                                               21.4     23.0       23.5      38.0      105.9     42.4     32.9       52.6     46.o      173.2       49.4         329.2
Constr.                                                                       3.2      15.7      46.5       6ç4      51.9     33.9       29.7      21.2     l36.7       35.7         237.8
Equipu.                                                                                           7.0        7.      10.3      15.7      25.2      22.0      73.2                     80.2
E.   Stora  Drainage,  Stwks.                                         54.3       54.3    36.2      52.9       70.5      88.2   2 4          92.4    125.7      201.3    l76.0   9_                          956.2
TOTAL                                                        54.3      54.3    57.6       79.1      179.7     294.3     610.7    316.7    402.1       619.1    536.7   1,874.6       292.8      2,832.4
October 1971



TABLE 23
MEXICO: ZIHUJATANEJO TOURISP PROJECT
III. ZIHUATANEJO INTERNATIONAL AIRPORI
ESTIM&TED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSWENTS BY QUARTERS AND YEARS
(In Thousand US Dollars)
Code                                                                                                                                                                      _1i Q                   I     T
Letter                                        Ql       Q2       Q3         Q4     YEAR  I     Q5       Q6       Q7        Q8    YIARII        Q9       Q10       Q11      Q12    IZARIII  Q13(YRIV)   TOTAL
A.    Maneuv. & Road,        Stwks.                           8.6       16.1      24.      20.7      34.0    47.6       54.4    156.7    56.4         70.3     112.5   98.4        337.      70.8       589.8
Oonstr.                                  222.6     íÉ       370.9    370.9   469.2    667.3   1.378.         508.5     591.6      517.6  369.7    1   4 557.5           4,645.8
Equipo .                                                                                   32.7      32.7     52.3       99.9      87.4   62.5       302.1    45.7        38J.5
B.     Buildinigs,           Stwcs.                                                                  18.6     26.0      29.7                30.3       5.2              15.0              5             124.8
Oonstr. 7B4.3    1040                                                                     118.9     297.2    133.2      178.8    204.4  127.8        6        128.4     1,069.8
Zqui4n.                                                                                    36.5      36-5     59.8      5. 5       44.2    31.6      186.1                261.9
C.    V.Aids & Electricity, Stwks.                                                                             8.2                                                                  ? 1.3  1.3            9-5
Conotr.                                                                          15.7      33.5      liE.2    11.0        8.8               5.9       2.7    10.2           85.1
Zqni.                                                                                                         18.7       30.8      49.3    43.1 71419          193         161.2
D.    Fuel Storage,          Stj¿ke.                                                                  9.5      2.9                 12.4      2.0 ±90                                                     14.4
Constr.                                                                19.2      37.8      44.9     101.9     11.4       15.4                         26.8                 12d.7
Equ5pu1 12.0                                                                                         12.0     19.1       22.7      36.2   31.7 123.71          16.6        138.3
E.    Nav Ai.ds & Canmn.,    Etulce.                                                                  4.6      6.9                 11.S      1.9                                     1.9                 13.4
Constr.                                                                  9.5     13.2      13.9      36.6     19.4       29.1      19.4                Z       14.2        113.7
Eqtip_                                                                                     14.2      1=.2    38.7        44.2      27.7    15.1      12j7      21i         164.6
TOTAL                                                8.6    238.7       247.3    391.6    540.6   731.5   1,058.0   2,721.7    964.0   1,147.3   1,098.7   800.8    4,010.8   926.7          7,906.5
October 1971



TABLE 24
MEXIGO: ZfAI.TASEJO TOURISM P}OJECT
IV. TRAINflG  AND FEABIBILITY STUDIES
ESTIMATED SCHEDUIE OF DISBURS8X82<TS BY QUARTERS AED YEARS
(In 'Thousand,JS Dollras)
Code
Letter                                        Ql        Q2       Q3        Q4       R  1      Q5         Q6       Q7        Q8     YEAR II    Q9        Q10        Qll      Q12   YEAR III   Q13 (YR IV)    TOTAL
A.     Technical Training                                                                             15.5     34.9      48.8      99.2    55.ó       55.8       48.8    34.9      1            15.5        310.0
B.     Feasibility Studies                           18.6     24.8    37.2                 4 43.4    43.4      37.2      24.8    148.8       18.6                                                           248.0
C.     Technical Assistance                                   15.5      21.7      37.2     24.8       24.8     21.7      15.5       m                                                                       124.0
TOTAL                                    18.6     40.3    58.9       117.8     68.2       83.7     93.B      B9.1    334.8       74.4     55.8       48.8     34.9     213.                     682.0
October 1971



40Ico 0ZIHUIT7ANEJO TOIURISM PR0J0flT
r    T1 D ANUlAL FIIWCOIAL RHQUIHEI21S or ACiBOlS
1BM I                                                                  YRAR II         _                                                        1BAR III
TOTAL             8886K 11              FISCAL PillO                 TOTAL                98ANK LAN             FISCAL PURD3                  SOTAL    ~1K LOA1                          1
XtO-O     t'0         obs' tisoC          oo os ~USVOOO             ISO800us UJioOO              'lNs! 000         o$¡~           00         twni       US'O         SOF        l''O         '0        cO
xtxpt  Tori.nl1.. A8    1/                        62^901..6   5,036.b   21,31L.2   1,706.5   b1,590.4  3,329.9        115,886.0   9,278.3    55,159.6   4,416.3    60,726.b    4.862.0          80,238.5    6,4.24.     50,016.2   4.00.5    30,222.3   2.1b9.7
'iiiillt5 y S¡di«                                  2.b98.0      200.0    1.58.8       12b.0      9b9.2      76.0        2.b9h.0      200.0     1.548.8      12b.0       9849.2       76.0                      -            - 
To"l                                              65,b02.6   5.236.4   22.h63.0   l.h30.5   42,539.6  3.b05.9          llb.3b.0   i.u78.3    56,10h.b   4.54.03    61.675.6    4,93b.0          60,236.5    6.b2b.2    50,016.2   4.004 5       0222.3    2.
qW,,ToRT or HIO AIULIC U30w7 u  (SHR)
lx  To.lM Af. .                                                            -            -         -         -           7,160.5      573.3      3,396.0     271.9      3,76h.5      301.b        1,603.h      28h.5      2,247.0     179.9      1,356.4      108.6
00ty or 2ibhlinrijo                                2.685.3      215.0      950.5       76.1    1.734.b    138.9        18.568.9   1.1466.3     6,526.5      522.7    12.040.4       964.0       7.,831.5    2.228.3    12.b58.6      97f5      15.372.7   1.230.b
ToIla                                              2.685.3      215.0      95M.5       76.i    1.73h.6    138.9        25,729.4.   2,060.0      9.92b.5     791.6    15,80i.9    1.265.4        11,434.9    2.516.B     1.705.8   1.177.b    16.729.1    1.339.4
N*TION$L 8ATK POR PUb8LIOC UKS AbD S RVICBS (iSP)
eity of Ziheoojo                                   1.261.5      101.0     417.1        35.0      814.4      61.2        12.3bS.1     9bb.4     b.335.3      317.1      8,009.0      641.3       23,761.7    1.9M2.7    10,656.5       853.2    13,10b.2   1.0&69.
T_t_l                                              1.261.5      121.0      1.7.1       35.b      811.1.     65.2        12,345.1     988.1.    4,335.3      347.1      6,009.8      641.3       ?3,76b.7   1902.7    10.6s6.5        653.2    13,108.2   1.0b9.5
MH6T2R6 O  Pl8LIC 6ORKS (SOP)
'~t.-J.Iiirlatir Airp>rt 1/                       13,65b.1   1.093.2    7,979.9       63B.9    5,674.2    454.3        ol,948.1   6.501.1    41,143.3   3.V4.1    40,804.c    3,267.0           54,618.8    4,373.0    49,629.0   3.973.5       L,S9 98      399-5
T)ooi    o13,654.1   1.093.2    7.979.9                                               63B.9    5,674.2    454.3   b 1,948.1   6,%51.1    41,113.3   3,294.1 40,b.5                3.267.0       5S,618.8    4.373.0  b9.629.0?? 3.973.5   b,Sb9.8            399.5
2*¶P~T O? T704R2I2
Twsh.lsal Tfrdning                                    -                                                                 3,122.5      250.0      1,936.0     155.0      1,186.5       95.0        1,172.5      250.0      1,936.0      155.0     1.186.5       95.0
T7.                                                   -           - -        -                              __ -         3,122.5     250.0      1,936.0     155.0      1.186.5       95.0        3,172.5      250.0      1.936.0      155.0      1.186.5      7
M-!s-RT OF lATl0ll8AL PATRII~Y (SF1)
TOChoIo.1 AZsUstOce (Ac80íl.0)                     1.249.0      100.0      774.4       62.0      474.6      38.0         1,2bs9.D    100.0       771.4       62.0       4174.6       38.0            _           _           .                                 -
7o00.                                              1.249.0      100.0      774.4       62.0      474.6      36.0         1,249.0     100.0       774.4       62.0        1.74.6      38.0            -
DIUNO TOTAL                                       84.252.5   6,745.6   33.011.9   2.J43.3   51.237.6  4.102.3          242,77b.1  19,437.b   114.821.9   9.193.1   127.955.2   10.244.7        lS3,179.b   15,466.7   126,943.5  10.163.6    66.235.9   5.303.1
VI 8601odig lind oqi0.Ii-or.
(b t-obr 1971






Annex 1
Page 1
inPPRAISAL OF THEI ZIHUATAUJO TOURISM PROJECT
i9IRKErT 1A
Introduction
1.       Mexico, with its numerous attractions for tha visitorS is in an
advantageous position to participate in a rapidly expanding travel
market. The main market for the new resort at Ixtapa-Zihuatanajo will be
the U.S., though it is estimated that there will also be a fair number
of Mexican vísitors. Specifically, the proposed project ia expected to
compete particularly with Acapulco, Hawaii and selected Caribbean desti-
nationa for beach holiday traffic from the U.S. and elsewhere.
(a)  The U.S. Travel Market
2.       The U.S. ia olie of the rmost dyn c travel generating markets in
the world. According to a recently released Department of Commerce cen3us,
about 108 million people in 38 million houaeholds in the U.S. took at least
one trip in 1967. Altogether, 183 million trips were taken (consisting of
one or more persons from the housahold) or 361 million person-trips. This
compares with 275 million person-trips in 1963, a 319 increase. More
important is the increase in long-distance travel. Tripa over 500 miles,
for example, grew from 10  of the total in '963 to about 171 in 1967, much
of the increase being by comercial air transport.  Of significance for
the Zihuatanejo project is the fact that about half of the total person-
trips in 1967 were generated in tha Southern and Westarn atates of the
TJ.S. (status ncaúest i>,eico) anJ.tht 'alnost 158. Mil]idn pers¿n-trips
ihvolvea travel on vacation.
3.       Apart from the growth of family income, an important factor that
ís influencing travel is the total leiswre time available.  Longer paid
vacations, the four-day work week, national holidays fixed on Mondays, and
earlier retirement add considerably to total leisure time available.
4.       án official analysis of the length of paid vacations shows a
sharp rise in the length of paid vacations offered by companies between
1964 and 1967 (Table 1).  Companíes ara aleo offering longer vacationa
after shorter qualifying perioda (Table 1).



Amnex 1
Page 2
Tabla 1:  Lenwth of Paid Vacatioras in the U.S.: 1964-1969
Jistribution of U.S.
Paid Vacationa                       Workers on Payroll of
Offered bv ComPanies                 these Companies
No. of    After Average   Type
Weeks      No. of Years    of                                5 Year
Vacation   Servica          Worker        1                  Gain
2 or more        3          Office         98      99         + 1
Plant          93      97         + 4
3 or more        5         Office           6      16         +10
Plant           5      12         + 7
3 or mora       10         Office          50      71         +21
Plant          41      58         +17
3 or more       15         Office          81      87         + 3
Plant          71       78        + 7
4 or more       20          Office         47       67        +20
Plant          38      53         +15
5 or more       25          Office         NA      13         NA
Plant          NA      12         NA
Note: Distributiorp are cumulative. Thus the proportion eligible for
2 weeks paid vacation inclules those aligible for longer periods.
Source: U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
5.       This trend is likely to continme.  Some companies are alreaay
adopting the four-lay work week. Aboreover, as the length of paid vacations
increases, greaber numbers of people are taking more than one vacation a
year.
(b)   The Market for Foreign Travel
6.       With ragar. to foreign travel, U.S. citizens travelling overseas
(eaxcluding Canada) increased from 2.2 million in 1960 to over 7.9 million
in 1970, growing at a rate of about 149 per year on average.  U. S. visitor
expanditures for travel abroad increasel from US$2.6 billion in 1960 to
US$6.2 billion in 1970.



Annex 1
Paye 3
7.       A principal factor aEfecting the volume of foreiín travel is the
level of income. Various studies of the likely growth of family income
in the U.S. have been made, and based on past trenls there is every pro-
bability that there will be a rapid increase in the number of households
with incomes in excess of US$10,000 (at constant prices). In fact, few
developments will have greater impact on the spending patterns of the
1970's than the almost dramatic reshuffle of family income that is
expectec to take place. 1/ In the mid-sixties, leas than 30% of all
families in the U.S. had earnings of $10,000 or more a year. By 1980,
the proportion is projected to exceed 559 measured at constant 1966 prices.
In the mid-sixties about 55- of all family income acerued to the US$10,000
and over bracket. By 1980, this proportion is projected to be 80%. The
consequences of these changes on the demanM for foreign travel will be sub-
stantial.
3.       Since family income ¡s a principal factor influencing U.S. travel
abroad, the potential travel market may be defined to be those families
earning US$10,000 or more a year. On this basis the table below correlates
the growth of U.S. visitor flows to foreign countrias (excluding Canada)
with the number of U.S. I?wmilies earning more than 410,000 a year at
constant 1967 prices.
Table 2:    U.S. Family Ixicome and Foreign Travel: 1960-67
Number of U.S.    Number of U.S. citi-  Nunber of U.S. citizens
families earning  zens going abroad,    going abroad as a per-
$10,000 or more   (excluding Canadian   centaga of number of U.S.
in constant 1967  travel over land       families earning 410,000
Year  Dollars            boraers)               or more
000)        (000)                             (>)
1960       8,977               2,235                     25.0
1965      13,825               4,078                     29.5
1966      15,255               4,568                     29.9
1967      16,329               5,093                     30.3
9.       Table 2 shows a gradually increasing ratio of travellers going
abroad to families earning $10,000 or more.  This trenw may be expectad to
/ Data used here i8 based on an appraisal of past trends and represent low
to moderate forecasts mado by the National Industrial Confer'enca Board
on data supplied by the U.S. Department of Commerce anil the National
Planning Association.



Arnex 1
P ag eW,
continue in the future. As a minimum the proportion will remain at 30%.
Consaquently, in 1980, of the total 34 mi]7iiion familíes thlt are foruecast
to have incomes over $10,000 (at constant 1966 prices), the potential
U.S. market for travel abroad In that year is likely to be at least
10 million persons.
10.      Studies of the growth In "discretionary' income in the U.S.
(defined as annual earnings accruing to individual families in excess
of US$10,000) indicate that the potential market for travel abroad may
be more than 10 million persons. In the closing years of the 19501s,
discretíonary income as defined above totalled $50 billion, or sllghtly
over 10% of total personal income. By the mid-19601s such income had
more than doubled, and represented about 17% of total personal income.
In the decade of the 1970's, discretionary income is forecast to grow
to $350 billion by 1980. (at constant 1968 prices), and could then
represent 30% of total family income.
11.      The table below correlates the growth in discretionary income
with the nLmber of U.S. visitors going abroad, Between 1960-1967 with
every increase in total discretionary income, the numbers going abroad
increased more than proportionately. Thus in 1960, for every million
dollars in discretionary income in the U.3. 37 persons travellel abroad.
By 1967 the numbers going abroad had increased to 44 for every million
dollars of discretionary income.  Extrapolating this trend, by 1980 the
numbers golng abroad for every million dollars of discretionary income
would at least increase to 50 persons. On this basis the total potential
U.S. market for travel abroad in 1980 would be arourd 17-18 million
persons.
Table 3:    U. S. Jiscretionary Income and Foreign Travel:1960-80
Number of U.S. citi-
Number of U.S. citizens   zens going abroaA per
Discretionary  going overseas (exclud-   million dollars in dis-
Year   _ncome___  ing Canada)                     cretionary income
(billions US$)            (000)
1960          60                 2,235                        37
1963          78                 3,199                        41
1965         100                 4,078                       41
1967         115                 5,093                       44
1980         350                17,500                       50
(projected)



Annex 1
Page 5
12.      Coupled with these devolopment9 in inccnes, major changes are
taking place in the marketing of travel in the U. S. The Civil Aerorautics
Board is gradually easing restrictions on air charter operations in the
U. S. and the trend seems to be in the direction of openirig up new destina-
tions to air charter carriers.  Travel agencies are also moving in this
direction. Thomas Cock ia already offering tour Dackages using charter
carriers and American Express for the first time is considering doing the
same.
(c)  Travel to Mexico and.Zihuataneo
13.      Considering the size of the U.S. travel market, the numubers
visiting Mexico are still relatively very small. Mexico and Canada are
the only two countries that U.S. visitors can drive to and yet In 1970
Mexico received only 1.8 million U.S. visitors, compared to Canada's 14
million. Nevertheless, U.S. visitora to Mexico have more than doubled in
the past decade, increasing by 11.5% a year, and in view of the projected
growth in foreign travel by U.S. citizens in the next decade, a further
doubling of travel to I:exico in that period wauld appear a very conservative
projection.
14.      Mexico is a good example of the changing role of various modes of
transportation in tourism development.  In the past, with increased owner-
ship of automobiles in the U.S. and improvement in land communications, a
f-Lrly large proportion of visitors drove into Hexico in private cars.
This is changing, and although not dramatically, road transportation is
yielding to aviation as the dominant mode of trarsportation of visitors
(see Ta'ole 4). Thus, between 1963 and 1969, use of air-transportation
increased at a rate of 13.6%, while that of automobile-transportation grew
at a rate of less than 10%. The main factors encouraging the use of air-
transportation has been the cor.struction of new airports in tourist desti-
nationa in Mexico, the establiíhmnent of direct air-links and a decline in
the costs of air-travel.
15.      More than 50,5 of all U.S. visitors to Mexico originate from the
4 border atates of Arizona, California, New Mexico and Texas (see Table 5).
Most of these visitors (73`) drive into Mexico, although their expenditure
and length of stay patterns vary enormously. The visitor from California,
Lfor example, stays on the average about 18 days and apends US$360, while
the Texan stays for only 3 days and spends US$126 per day. This pattern
is gradually changing, however, as can be seen from the fact that increased
use of air-transportation holds true both for border and non-border state
visitora.
16.      Foreign vis-tors to PIexico spent an average of 13.6 days in 1969.
The average length of atay vanied, however, depending on the mode of trans-
port used and the country or state of origin. Generally, visitors arriving
by automobile stay longer than those coming by air, except in the case of
the State of Texas.  If Texas is omitted, the average length of stay of
all other visitors jumps to about 18 days. While this is true for the
country as a whole, the average length of stay at arny one destination in
PIexico is lese.  In Acapulco, for exaznple, it is estimated to be about
6 days.



Armex 1
Table 4:     MEXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
MEANS OF TRANSPORTATION USED BY FOREIGN VISITORS TO MEXICO 1963-1969
(percentages)
Means of
Transportation    1963    1964      1965     1966      1967      1968      1969
Private Car       51.9    54.7       54.6    50.6      49.3      47.7      47.4
Plane             37.9    35.3       36.0    39.8      41.8      42.3      43.5
Rail              2.6       2.5       2.2     2.2       2.0       2.2       2.3
Bus                6.0      6.4      6.2      6.2       5.9       6.5       6.1
Boat              0.4       0.3       0.3     0.4       0.4       0.7       0.4
Not Specified      1.2     0.8        0.7     0.8       o.6       0.6       0.3
TOTAL           100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0       100.0     100.0     100.0
SOURCE:  Departnent of Tourism



Annex 1
Page 7
Table 5:   MEXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
Origin of U.S. Visitors to Mexico by Mode of_Transport
1969
Visitors
Total         Visitors     Percentage     Visitors      Percentage     Arriving      Percentage
Origin of Visitors     Number of     Arriving      of Total       Arriving     of Total        by Other     of Total
Visítors      bv Air       Visitors       by Car        Visitors       Modes         Visitors
(000)         000%)                      (000)           (%)          (000)           (%)
Arizona                   108.9        12.4          11.4           84.6           77.7          11.9          10.9
California                279.2       135.1         48.4           130.3          46.7           13.8           4.9
Florida                    28.4        22.1          77.8            6.2          21.8            0.1           0.4
nlhinois                  120.0        74.2         61.8            38.1          31.8            7.7           6.4
Louisiana                  24.3        13.9          57.2           10.4          42.7             -             -
Michigan                   31.7        17.9          56.5           12.2          38.5            1.6           5.0
New Jersey                 20.6        18.3          88.8            2.3           11.2            -              -
New Mexico                 38.6         2.6           6.7           26.1          67.6            9.9           25.6
New York                   88.8        80.5          90.7            8.1            9.1           0.2           0.2
Ohio                       23.5        14.7          62.5            8.5           36.2           0.3           1.3
Pennsylvania               18.4        14.8          80.4            3.5           19.0           0.1           0.5
Texas                     530.4       107.5          20.3          352.9           66.5          70.0           13.2
Othersa/                  492.3       348.6          70.8          134.3           27.3           9.4            1.9
Total             1,805.1       862.6          47.8          817.5          45.3          125.0           6.9
e,/ "1Others" include perEonF from other states in the U.S. and the rest of the vorld.
,OURCF: Bpnco de Merico, 3.P. (Specií1 Survey)



Annex 1
Page 8
17.      The remarkable development of tourism to the Pacific Coast of
Mexico is attributable basically to two factors: the provisíon of direct
air accesa from the U.S. and the supply of first-class accommodation.
Acapulco, for example, was a tourist destination almost 45 years ago.
However, it was not until the international airport was built in 1964
that the rapid rise in visitor arrivals bagan. Since then foreign visitor
numbers increased on an average by more than 199 per year compared to an
average growth rate of only 5, per year between 1960 and 1963. The growth
in visitor arrivals was accompaniel by an increase in first-class accommo-
dation which expandel by 189 per yaar between 1963 and 1970.
18.      The experience of i4azatlan and Puerto Vallarta on the Pacific
Coast is similar and demonstrates the important role played by infrastruc-
tural and other facilities. Air accesas is of particular significanca, since
it will be many years before the coastal area gets an adequate road network.
19.      Zihuatanejo will offer beach holidays which will be particularly
attractive for U.S. visitors during the winter months. It irlí be compet-
ing with winter resort areas such as Acapulco, Hawaii and selected Carib-
bean islands which can offer equally attractive climatic and scenic
attractions at that time of the year. It will have the advantage over
Hawaii and the Caribbean, enjoyed by Acapulco, of offering a combination
of a beach holiday with visits to i.lexico City and other centers where the
rich archeological, historical and cultural attractions of the country can
be enjoyed.
20.      On the assumption that Zihuatanejo will share in the beach holi-
day market outlined above, Infratur has projected this market at about
8 million in 1980, of wihom more than 2 million are expected to visit
Hawaii. Excluding visitors to Hawaii who count as domestic travellers in
U.S. statistics, this figure would represent about the same proportion of
total foreign travel in 1980 on the projection outlined in para. 11 above,
as these destinations represented in 1970. The traffic flow forecast to
Zihuatanejo in 1980 - 420,000 - would. represent about 51 of the projected
total market for Acapulco, Hawaii and selected Caribbean destinations and
about 101 of the projected total visitor flow to Aexico in that year,
assuming a growth rate in the next ten years of 7.1% annually as compared
with 11.5% in the past decade.
21.      In tems of accommodation, the project's share of total and first-
class accommodation in IMexico would be only 1.6, and 6.2% respectively in
1983, assuming that total accommodation woull grow at the same rate as in
the past ani that the growth rate in the supply of first-class accommoda-
tion would be substantially reduced in view of the very large recent addition
to such capacity an, in view of the need to cater for more midile-income
visitors.
22.      While the majority of visitors to Acapulco have been foreigners
in recent years, very larga nimbers of Mexicans hava also visited the
resort.  In 1969, the latter numbered 414,000 as compared with 466,Oo



Annex 1
Pagn Q
foreign visitors.  Infratur in its projections for Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo has
not forecaet a similar ratio between domestic and foreign visitora, but has
rather conservatively estimated that domestic viaitors would number about
20% of total tourists. As the majority of domestic visitore to Acapulco
travel by road, and aB acceso to Zihuatanejo from lMexico City by road ui1l
be via Acapulco in the foreseeable future, it i8 likely that domestic
traffic will continue to favor Acapulco.  Tlence a coneervative projection
of domestic visitora to Zihuatanejo seems justífied.
23.      The bulk of visitors to Zihuatanejo will arrive by air.  At
present, foreign visitors arriving by air spend on average much more per
day than visitors arriving by roal. In 1969, the former spent on average
US$31 per day. With the expected rise in prices, estimated at 5% a year
and equal to the average increase in the past five years, average daily
expenditures at Ixtapa by foreign visitors are estiíated at Us$41.50 in
1975 when the first hotels are expected to be in operation.  The breakdown
qf this amount ¡8 calculated to be as follows:
Item                      .u4ount (US$)         Percentage (%)
Accoammodation                       14.44               34.8
Food and Beverage                   11.29                27.2
Fntertainment                        4.44                10.7
Local Transport                       4.32               10.4
Purchases                             4.98               12.0
Other                                 2.0                 4.9
TOTUL                         41.50               100.0
Source:  Dank of Mexico3 figures adjusted by Misíion.
Some of the tourists are likely to visit the area only, while others are
expectel to visit it as well as other destinationa In Mexico. The average
length of stay ¡a assumed to be 4 days, somewhat leas than in Acapulco but
greater than in Puerto Vallarta.






ANEX 2
Page 1
MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF TI£ ZIHUATAiEJO TOURISM PROJECT
FONDO DE PROMOCION DE INFRAESTRUCTURA TURISTICA
1.     The Fondo de Promocion de Infraestructura Turistica (ILfratur)
was established as a trust ftnd by agreement between the Federal Govern-
ment and the Bank of Mexico in June 1969. Ita purposes as set out in
the Trust Agreement are:
"(i) The promotion and carrying out of infrastructure
projects in the tourist sector, supplemented by
other Federal Government investmenta, whose
desírablity may have been decided upon in tech-
nical atudies entrusted to the Banco de Mexico,
S.A., the conclusiona of which have been approved
by the Department of the Treasury and Public
Credit.
"(ií) The encouragement of private investment to supple-
ment the above-mentioned ínfrastructure invest-
menta.
"(iii)  The purchase, urban developnent, subdivision, sale
and rental of real property, subject to conditiona
or general requirements approved by the Technical
Coimnittee of this Trust.
"(iv)  Collaboration with Departmenta of the Federal Admin-
istration and with the Governmente of States and
Municipalitíes, for the purpose of developing the
tourist industry as.a whole.e
2.     The aum of Mex$ 30 million was provided initially by the Federal
Governrnent as Infratur'a capital and by September 1971, the Federal Gov-
erment had provided an additional Mex$ 22 million.  This amount had been
apent mainly on the purchase of land for the projects at Zihuatanejo on
the Pacific coast and at Cancun on the Caribbean coast, on construction
work at Cancun and for the preparatory atudies of the two projects.
3.     While the legal powers of Infratur in ite day to day operations
-- such as the power to make contracta, to acquire property, to engage
staff -- are exercised by the Bank of Mexico as Trustee, the overall
supervision of the operations of Infratur is the responsibility of a



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Technical Comnittee of three members, one appointed by the Department
of the Treasury and Public Credit, one by the Bank of Mexico and one
by Nacional Financiera. The powers of this Cominttee are:
"(i) To approve the Trustta programa of general and
regional activities, and lay down guidelines for
such activities.
"(ii)  To lay down the general basis on which agreements
and contracta are to be made for the execution of
infrastructure projecte in the tourist sector,
and for the provision of related services.
"(iii) To lay down the conditions or general requirementa
governing the purchase, urbanization, subdivision,
lease or sale by the Trusteo of real property, and
fix the renWial, price of sale and any other require-
mente that it may deem expedient with respect to
such operations.
11(iv) To approve the annual budget of expenditure.
"9v)  To settle any questiona that may be submitted to it
by the Trustee, and exercise any other powers that
may subsequently be conferred upmn it by the Trustor
in the form of a written communication from the
Department of the Treasury and Putblic Credit to the
Trustee."
4.0   No written statements of policy in aerms of these powers have
yet been issued by the Technical Conmittee, but policies have evolved
as progrese has been made in the preparation of the projecta at Zihua-
tanejo and Cancun.  During loan negotiationa, agreement should be
reached that a policy statement should be prepared within one year of
the signing of the loan aLter consultation with the Bank. Subjecta
to be covered in such a statement should include the financial objec-
tives of Infratur, policies on the acquisition, sale and lease of
land, policies in financing operating costa, and other matters
referred to in para. 3 above.
5.     In developing new tourism infrastructures, Infratur has to work
with existing governnental institutiona at the Federal, State and
local level as wjell as with private investora, and it has autonomy only
within those areas of land which it can acquire by purchase. While
Infratur could advise on development in existing resorts, it la not
clear that it could implement any programa In such areas without
acquiring aizeable property there.  Its role is comparable in some
aspects to that of a private land developer, but it is likely to be



ANIF,
Pag,
able to mobilize larger resources and to operate on a larger scale than
most private developers in Mlexico and to achieve closer coordination
with those state agencies which have responsibility for providing infra-
structures external    the resort area, such as airporta, main access
roads, electricity and water.
6.     Infratur, financed by the Federal Government and using other
funds available to it as authorized by the DepartLlent of the Treasury
and Public Credit will be responsible for developing all the infrastruc-
tures within its own land, though it will have to observe technical
standards as laid down by the responsible goverrinental agencies. Infra-
tur i9 seen as having a developmental role; its primary purpose is not
to make profits. In the conduct of ita operations however it ls
expected to recover its investments, and the Federal Governnent expects
it to repay monies advanced plus interest.
7.     In endeavoring to establish new resort areas, Infratur expects
to have to offer substantial incentives to attract the fírst investors.
Among the incentives will be the assured provisicn of all needed infra-
atructures and the advantage of investing in an area with adequate zon-
íng and controls over neighboring developments0 The principal incen-
tive is, however, likely to be in the price of land. Infratur expects
to offer sites for the first hotels at Ixtapa at prices which will be
low by comparison with establisned resort areas auch 2as Acapulco. The
ínitial prices are expected to be about US$ 20 per m  for hotel sites
and from USI 6-8 per m for house sites, rising by 9-10% annually
thereafter on the most concervative projection. It is recognized that
`he alinual increase could be substantially higher once the resort is
established and closer to the historical rise in Acapulco where from
1965 to 1970 prices of house sites rose on average by about 20%
annually. Recent land prices for hotel sites in Acapuleo have been as
high as US$ 280 per m2.
8.     lJhile the initial price of land is low ln relation to present
prices in Acapulco, it is doubtful whether higher pric s could be
charged in a completely new area and even US$ 20 per mi may be high
viewed as an incentive price. The price estimnated by Infratur in the
9th year ¡s US$ 100 per m2 which would be high given the assumptions
on average room rates and investment costa of hotels made in the
report. Such a price could probably be realized only if there ís a
continuing inflation in average room rates which would justify higher
investnent costa.
9.     The financial projection made by Infratur for revenues from
land sales contains the implicit asaumption that sales will be "cash"
sales, i.e., the land will not be leased or sold on deferred payment
terms. On this basis, sales of hotel and house sites which will be



ANNEX 2
Page 4
developed in the firat atage of the project (i.e., for 3,500 hotel rooma
and 500 houses) will yield US$ 8.7 million.  Wlth very little further
investment, additional sltes could be so.ld for an estimated US$ 12.4 mil-
lion in 1981, and Infratur proposes to retain for sale in the 18th-20th
years an area along the main beach at Ixtapa wliich will be developed in
the first atage.  This would allow Infratur to obtain the benefit of the
long-term rise in land prices, and these later sales are estimated to
yield a further US$ 12.0 million. Thus over a twenty year period, Infra-
tur expects to recover the US$ 23 million investaent in the first atage
development at Ixtapa.
10.    Infratur will also incur expenses in operating and maintaining
common services and facilities at Ixtapa.  It proposes to levey charges
on hotela and house  to cover part of the costa of these services, The
projection of operating revenues and costa made by Infratur 1B shown in
Table 1. Annual charges for water and aewerage will be sufficient to
cover the operating and maintenance costa of these services. The annual
charges to be levied on hotela and house lote of US$ 65 per hotel rocm
and U5$ 271 per house lot are intended to be incentive prices.  On this
basis, substantial operating deficita are projected by Infratur during
the first seven yeara of operations.
11.   While the need to offer incentive prices to attract investora in
the early years la clear, the annual charges particularly on hotels pro-
posed by Infratur appear low. The proposed per room charge would be a
very amall fraction of total annual operating costa of the hotela and
increasing the charge to US$ 200 a year might be feasible. On this basis
a amall surplus on operating account would be achieved in the 5th year of
operationa and substantial surpluses thereafter (Table 2). D(aleg
negóttznttons agreement was reached that the basis for the annual  harzges
fcr hotels cnd house altos uould be a~eed withln one year o£ thb  aigning
of the proposed loan.
12.    On the basis of the charges proposed by Infratur, the internal
financial rate of return Qn the (lst stage) project at Ixtapa would be
1.6%.  If the annual charge per hotel room were to be US$ 200, the
financíal rate of return would be 5.3%.
13.    Infratur will pay 8% on funds provided by the Federal Government
and interest on the proposed Bank loan plus the service charge, expected
to be ó.25%, levied by Nacional Financier¿l. The Federal Goverrment will
be responsible for repaying the Bank's lomn. Although Infratur la
expected to repay all capital funda, no fixed repayment schedule has
been established in view of the uncertainties of projecting revenues
frcm the sale or lease of land. In Table 3, 25-year loans with 5 years
grace have been assumed. Qn this basis with an annual charge of US$ 200
per hotel room., revenues fran operations and from the sale of land in
the first stage of the project would not be adequate to meet debt serv-
ice charges in full.



ANNEX
Page 1
14.    Infratur presently expects to develop the second and third stages
of the project at Ixtapa in 1982/83 and 1986/87 respectively. The invest-
mente in infrastructure at the second and third stages will be lower per
hotel room than in the first stage. As a result the financial profit-
ability of the second and third stages will be greater, and Infratur
expects in the long run to cover deficita on the first stage from the
surpluses earned on the second and third stages. To cover the earlier
deficits shown in Table 3, adjustments might be made in the debt repay-
ment schedule, or in the timing of land sales. These adjustments would
£robably be adequate, but in the last five years of the maturity of the
oans a cumulative deficit of US$ 7.0 million í8 incurred. Thi8 could
only be covered by surpluses earned on atages 2 and 3.
Staffing
15.   Infratur's professional ataff now numbers 27 excluding the Direc-
tor and his two principal assistanta. The breakdown of the total ia as
follows:
Engineers                      12
Economist8                      5
Lawyera                         3
Accountants                     6
Airport adviser                 1
16.   A large inerease in staff will be needed to supervise the execu-
tion of the projects at Ixtapa and Cancun. A project unit has been estab-
lished within Infratur to execute the project at Ixtapa. A director of
the project unit has been nominated who is acceptable to the Bank.
Financial Position
17.    Frora the interest earned on ite initial capital, Infratur was able
to cover its operating expenses during 1969 and 1970. In 1971, however,
it has invested heavily in land at Cancun and Ixtapa, it has undertaken
substantial on-site works at Cancun and the expenses of preparlng the two
projecta have risen sharply. These resulta are reflected in the summary
Balance Sheet attached (Table 4).
18.    The Balance Sheet as at September 30, 1971, shows a large excess
of current liabilities over current assets, pending the transfer to
Infratur of additional fiscal funde. It i8 necessary that Infratur
ahould have adequate liquid resources to meet current obligatione in
order, ínter alia, to secure more favorable príces from contractora, and
assurances were obtained during negotiationa that the Federal Government
would provide Infratur with capital funds for the project as needed.






Annex2
MEXICO ZIRUATAAEJO TOURlSM PROJECT
1/
I;.rlATUR: PROJ2ECTED 07UTEINM INhC0  AI;D EXPN'SES AT IXTAPA -
(in Eax.$ 000)
Isar                                      1975            1976            1977            1978            1979            1980            1981            1982           1983-1991
Operatíng Year                                    1                                                                --- 39-17
Revenues:
Annual Charges: Hotels                         611             814           1,221           1,628          2,035            2,239           2,242          2,6146            2,o14Y
Annual Charges: besidences                      34             102             203             339             509             729           1,000           1,322             1,695
Annual Charges: Other                          102             136             204             272             340             374             408             441               476
Water Charges                                  415             629             893           1,200           1,562           1,987           2,486           3,053             3,883
Commercial Center Renta                         70             140             245             327             467             653             840            887                -
Golf Course Rent           *437                                664             927           1,259           1,637           2,079            _                _                 _
Total                                      1,669          2,485           3.Q22            5,025          6,550           8,061           7,176           8,349             8,903
Expenses:
Road Mtaíntenance                              655             682             655           1,123             599             626             599           1,122               599
Hydrauilic Works Maintenance                   142             142             142             142             142             142             142             142               142
Water and Sewage                               567             744           1,005           1,263           1,601           1,946           2,354           2,813             3,480
Sanitation                                   1,376           1,171           1,171             901             901             632             740            740                740
Public Lighting                                164             164             164             164             164             164             164             164               164
Golf Course                                  1,510           1,510           1,510           1,510           1,510           1,510             -               -                 -
Coa.mercial Center                              83              83              83              83              83              83              83              83               -
Fuel Service                                   558             558             558             558             625             563             563             563               563
Residential Street Maintenance                 168             168             168             257             149             149             149             257              _149
Beach Development                              344             344             344             344             344             344             344             344               344
Promotioan                                   2,500           2,500           2,500           2,500           2,500           2,500           2,500             -                 -
Adninistration                                 500             500             500             500             500             500             50o             505               500
Sub-Total                                                  8,565           8,800           9,345           9,118           9,159          8,138            6" 2S             6,681
Contingeacy (15%)                           _t,285           1a¿65           1,320           1,402           1,368           1,374           1,221           1,009             1,002
Total                                      9,852           9,851          10,120           0,7147         10,486          10,533           9,359           7,737             7,683
Surplus (or Deficit) before
Capital Charges                             (8.183)         (7,366)        (6,427)          (5,722)         (3,936)        (2,472)          (2,183)            612             1,220
1/  Excluding income fran sale of land erd c    -1
Hotels: annual charge of IHex. $2,500 (or   >     per roor.-
Residential lot, annu21 charz-  nf R:o.3,'90 (or UZi271) Prr an aver're lot ( n60 m2).
Water, charges, Vex.$2.40 (or TUS$0.19) per m3, to cover cost of purchased wat,r and operating costs for water distribution and sewage system in the tourist zone.
2/  Reavy maintenance expenditures are made in every fourth year.
Sourcet Infratur



Annex 2
Table 2
MEXICO ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
INFRATUR:  PROJECTED OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES AT IXTAPA -
(In Mex.$ 000)
Year                                       1               1976            1977            1978            1979            1980             1981            1982            1983-1991
Operating Year                                                                   3Y 35B
Revenues:
Annual Charges: Hotels                        1,875           2,500           3,750           5,000           6,250           6,815            7,500           8,125             8,750
Annual Charges: Residences                       34             102             203             339             509             729            1,000           1,322             1,695
Annual Charges: Other                           102             136             204             272             340             374              408             441               476
Water Charges                                   415             629             893           1,200           1,562           1,987            2,486           3,053             3,883
Commercial Center Rente                          70             140             245             327             467             653              840             887               -
Golf Course Rent                                437             664             927           1,259           1,637           2.079              -               -                _
Total                                       2,933          4,171            6,222           8,397          10,765          12,697          12.234          13,828             1L.8o
Expenses:
Road Maintenance                                655             682             655           1,123             599             626              599           1,122               599
Hydraulic Works Maintenance                     142             142             142             142             142             142              142             142               142
Water and Sewage                                567             744           1,005           1,263           1,601           1,946           2,354            2,813             3,480
Sanitation                                    1,376           1,171           1,171             901             901             632             740              740               740
Public Lighting                                 164             164             164             164             164             164              164             164               164
Golf Course                                   1,510           1,510           1,510           1,510           1,510           1,510              -               -                 -
Comuercial Center                                83              83              83              83              83              83               83              83               -
Fuel Service                                    558             558             558             558             625             563              563             563               563
Residential Street Maintenance                  168             168             168             257             149             149              149             257               149
Beach Development                               344             344             344             344             344             344              344             344               344
Promotion                                     2,500           2,500           2,500           2,500           2,500           2,500           2,500              -                 -
Administration                                  500             500             500             500             500                              500             5°0               500
Sub-Total                                   8,67            8,566           8,800           9-345           9,118           9,159           8,138           6,728              6,681
Contingency (15%)                             1,285           1,285           1,320           1,402           1,368           1,374           1,221            1,009             1,002
Total                                       9,852           9,851          10,120          10,747          10,486          10,533           9,359            7,737             7,683
Surplus (or Deficit) before
Capital Charges                              (6,919)         (5,680)         (3,898)9        (2,350)            279           2,164            2,875           6,091             7,121
1/  Excluding ¡neome frca sale of land and capital charges.
Hoteis: annual charge of Mex. $2,500 (or US$200) per room.
Residential lot, annual charge of Mex.$3,390 (or US$271) per an average lot (760 m2).
Water, charges, Mex.$2.40 (or US$0.19) per m3, to cover cost of purchased water and operating costs for water distribution and sewage system in the tourist zone.
Source: Infratur with revenue projectiona adjusted by Bank mission.
October 1971



HEXIGO.  ZIHATANEJO T0URISM PROJEOT                                                                                        T.bil 3
I8JFRATUR OPERATION AT IXTAPA
ILLUSTRATIVE CASH FLOW
(in M...$ million)
Year                                     1972      1973     1974      1975     1976      1977     1978      1979     1980      1981     1982      1983     1984      1985     1986      1987     1988      1989     1990      1991      1992     1993     199.      1995      1996
F8N1 PROVIDED BY:
fflwal.2Funde                             62.6      60.7     30.2        -         -        -                  -         -        -         -        -         -        -         --                          -         -        --
IBiLL1oeno                                21.3      55.1     50.0        -        -                  -         -                  -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        ---
Total                                   83.9   115.8       80.2                 -         -        -         -                  -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         ---
Net Operating innome       -        -         -     ~~~~~~(6.9)   (5.7)    (3.9)   (2.4)    0.3       2.2      2.8       6.1      7.1      7.1       7.1      7.1       7.1       7.1      7.'       7.1      7.1       7.1      7.1       7.1      7.1       7.1
Land Sales                                 11.3      4.7     lo.       12.1     14.0      10       12.5      15.3     18.5   131.5          -       8.6        -       -          -        --               38.1    42.5       68.8        -  
To tal                                  11.3       4.7     10.4       5.2      8.3       6.      10.o1    15.6      20.7    134.3       6.1     15.7       7.1       7.1      7.1       7.1      y.1      45.2    49.6       75.9      7.1       7.1      7.1       7.        7.1
Tot-al Funds                                 95.2   120.5       90.6      5.2       8.3      6.2      10.1     15.6    20.7    134.3         6.1     15.7       7.1      7.1       7.1       7.1      7.1     45.2      49.6    75.9        7.1      7.1       7.1       7.1      7.1
APPLICATIONS:
Investaente
ñrojet xpenses                             0.      98.3      66.0 o             -               -                       -         -        -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -                    
Lend kquislt4on                           21.0        -         -        -        -         -                  -         -        -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        ------
pro3ectUlt (Hexio0)                        4.9       4.9      4.9        -        -         -                  -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        --                           -----
Pr3ect lnít (Ixt.apa)                       2.9      6.6       4.0       -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -        -                  -----
Pr~tion                                     4.8   --8.0       5             .2.....
Total                                   83.9    115.8      80.1        -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -                  -         -       -7         -        -            
Debt Service
Fis-cal ui                                            -        -                          15.5      15.5     15.5      15.5     15.5      15.5     15.5      15.5     15.5      15.5     15.5      i5.5      15.5    15.5      15.5      15.5     15.5      15.5      15.5     15.5
IBED Ioens                                                                                12.3      12.      122 1.3            3A    12.3         12.3      12.3     12.        23 1      23.3    3.j.      jL       12.3     12.3      12.3     12 .3     12.3      12.3     12.3
Total                                      -        -        -         -        -       27.8     27.8     27.8      27.8      27.8     27.8      27.8     27.8      27.8     27.8      27.8     27.8      27.8     27.8      27.8      27.8     27.8      27.8     27.8      27.8
Total Aorplicationa                          83.9    115.8      80.1        -        -      27.8    27.8       27.8      27.8     27.8      27.8     27.8      27.8      27.8     27.8      27.8     27.       27.8     27.8      27.8     27.8      27.8     27.8      27.8      27.8
BY ler                                       11~ 3       .7     lo 5      5           3 *  (J <16<   <1¿)   (12.21    (7~j 1    fi5    (21 7    (12.1)  (20~L    (2) (n   7)  ()2   207  (           (20.7     173 4     21.8     48.1    (2.)(Qf    2,)    (2o0)   (20.7
Aooaolated                                   11.3     16.o      16.5    31.7       40.0      18.4      0.7    (11.5)  (18.6)   87.9         66.2     54.1      33.4      12.7     (8.0)  (28.7)  (h9.4)  (32.0)  (10.2)   37.9              17.2     (3.5)'  (24.2)  (44.9)  (65.6)



Annex 2
Table 4
MEXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
INFRATUR
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION, 1969-1971
(in Mex. $.000)
December  31                  Sept. 30
1969       1970                 1971
Current Assets
Cash - Banco de Mexico            24,813      12,798               4,986
Cash - Banco Comercial
Peninsular, S. A.        2,250        164                   47
Accounts Receivable                   -           22                 146
Total Current Assets           27,063     12i984                5,179
(Less)
Current Liability
Account Payable                    -_43                           20,044   /
Net Working Capital                  27,063      12,941             (14,865)
Fixed and Other Assets:
LIand                                 -       19,487              25,982
Buildings                                        -                   345
Other construction                                                31,849
Furniture and Equipment               -          -                   210
Deferred Expenses                  4,112      19,890              12,862
Equity                               31,175      52,318              56,383
Represented by:
Capital from Federal Govern-
ment                            30,000     52,175              60,068
Retained Earnings (or Deficit)     1,175         143( 3,685)
31,17S     52,318              56,383
2/ Short-term advances from the Bank of Mexico.
Source: Infratur



Annex 
Page 1
NJVCICO
APPRAISAL OF THE ZIYUATAMEJO TOURIS  PROJECT
AIRPORT D-EVLOPMENT
1.        The existing ailport at Zihuatanejo (see Map 2) is unacceptable
for any but light aircraft and the site is incapable of a practical develop-
ment to international standards. A substitute site just south of Coacoyul
has been identified and found to meet all pertinent internatíonally accepted
criteria for airport development. The total investnent in this part of the
overall project will amount to 154 million pesos (US$12 .3 million) and will
be disbursed over the firat two and one half years of the project.
1. Descrjjtion of the Airport Project
2.        The airport project consista of the provision of a runway and
taxiwayo with lighting, heavy and light aircraft parking apronrs, terminal
building,control tower and technical block, fire station, fuel atorage area
and apron hydrant system, parking lot and acceso roads, navaids, visual
aids and comiimication equipment. The various elements oa the project are
further described below and shown on the Airport Master Plan (see Map 3).
a. Airport Delopent
3.        First stage development of the runway will be 250Om long on an
alignment of 08/26 magnetic to provide 95% wind coverage and to allow opera-
tion of DC-8-63 aircraft non-stop to New York. Future growth to 35OOm ¡8
wíthin the site capability.  Pavement width will be 60m and thickness will
be .82m consisting of .30m selected subgrade, .25m sub-base, .20m base and
.07m asphaltic concrete surface. There will be tu-rning bulbs at each end
of the runway. Standard high intensity edge lighting will be provided.
4.        Taxiways stubs will be constructed of Portland Cement concrete, 23m
wide and .27m thick over a .20m sub-base and .3Om selected subgrade.  Medium
intensity edge lighting will be provided.
5.        The heavy aircraft apron will consist of the same pavement as the
stub taxiways. The light aircralt apron and ite connecting taxiway will
be the same as the heavy apron except the surface will be .O4m asphaltic
concrete instead of .27m Portland Cement concrete. Thi8 will allow future
use as a heavy apron after only inereasing the thickness of the surface
course. Medium intensity edge lighting will be provided.
6.        Storm drainage will be collected in open ditches along the edges
of the flight strip, taxiways and aprona.  Culverts will be provided where
these ditches pass under paved areas.



Annex 3
Page 2
7.        The runway aligrnent will pase over a lagoon formed by storm sur-
face drainage which cannot pase over the sand dune along the edge of the sea.
This partícular lagoon overflowa into an adjacent lagoon when the water level
ia sufficiently high. The second lagoon does have an opening to the sea.
A chamnel between these two lagoong will be dredged to assure easy paesage
of water from the airport area through the lagoons to the sea.  Since part
of the first lagoon will be on the land sade of the runway after it i8
constructed, large culverta must be provided under the runway to allow passage
of water back and forth to relieve any damming action the runway might create.
8.        Visual approach alope indicator lights (VASI) will be installed at
the threshold of Runway 26.
9.        A fuel atorage area will be constructed just outside of the terminal
area and will be connected to jet fuel hydrants on the heavy apron.  Gasoline
fuel will be dispensed by tanker trucks.
10.       A VOR/DME navigational aid will be installed on the airport for use
as an enroute aid as well as a terminal approach aid.
b. Terminal Building
11.       An international terminal building will be constructed utilizing
as much as possible the general aesthetic theme accepted for the rest of the
project buiíldings. Flows within the building will be designed to keep the
various conflicting categories of passengers separated, i.e. arriving and
departing domestic and international. The design i8 based on the forecast
of 250 arriving or departing international paesengers and 80 arriving or
departing demestic pasaengers per peak design hour in 1978, but will allow
incremental expansion of ticketing areas, airline offices, wçaiting and
baggage areas, and inspection areas to accommodate demands through at least
1990.
c. Other Buildinga
12.       A control tower will be constructed with a one story technical block
adjacent to it. All necessary communication equipment will be provided.
13.       A fire atation of four equipment bays will be constructed.  It will
include space for dormitory, dining, food preparation, training, storage and
offices. The fire fighting equipment will be provided under the normal equip-
ment replenishment budget of the national airport operator (ASA).
d. Access Roads
1h.       A 6.lom wide acceso road consisting of .04m asphaltic concrete
surface, .20m base and .30m sub-base will be constructed from the main
Zihuatanejo-Acapulco highway to the terminal building complex. Other
connecting roads of the same construction but of narrower widths in accordance
with intended use will be provided within the airport complex.



Alnex 3
'P-e 3
e. Utilities
15.       The electrical services will be brought from the main distribution
substation in Zihuatanejo to the airport substation as part of the airport
project. Distribution within the airport will be under various contracts
depending upon the ultimate use.
16.       Potable water will be provided through the use of bore holes and
underground storage tanks. Presaure for the domestie system will be provided
by pneumatic tanks.  High pressure pumps will be provided for the fire hydralt
ring system.
17.       Sewage disposal will be accomplished by meana of septic tanks anid
leaching fields.  Aircraft sewage wastes will be passed through a triturator
and industrial treatment plant to neutralize the antiseptic solutions prior
to introduction into the airport sanitary system.
18.       Industrial wastes will be passed through the industrial treatment
plant to remove oil and other non-water soluble material from the wastes
prior to introduction into the sanitary system.
19.       Solid wastes from the aircraft and airport will be incinerated in
a gas fired furnace having at least two chambers to burn all material com-
pletely so that no smoke will be discharced. The practice enployed at other
Mexican airports of dumping or burying these wastes will not be continued
at Coacoyul International Airport.
f. Aeronautical Con iderations
20.       Procedures have been approved by Civil Aeronautics (DCGA) based on
the VOR/DME for both approach and departure from the airway and the airport
(see Map 4).  The transfer of the existing NDB from Zihuatanejo to Coacoyul will
provide a means for aircraft not equipped with VOR/IME to navigate and land at
the new alrport.
21.       In the future, either end of the runway could be fitted with ari
instrument landing system (ILS). Such installation should be seriously
considered as soon as heavy aircraft begin to use the airport in any quantity7
The reason for this í8 that vertical and lateral guidance during landing
approaches 18 highly desirable for large jet aircraft.
22.       The existing bi-lateral air agreements between Mexico/Canada and
Mexico/United States do not list Zihuatanejo as one of the points to be served.
Since these two countries are the major sources for the tourist supply for
this project, the Goverrnent has taken steps to add Zihuatanejo to the agree-
menteas a co-terminal with Acapulco.  Thia will allow either non-stop or
multiple-stop flights from Canadian and United States cities to Coacoyul
International Airport.



Annex 3
Page 4
g. Engineeripg Services
23.       Alh  engineering work aseociated with the airport project will be
accomplished by Secretariat of Public Works (SOP) with technical aseistance
provided by Secretariat of Communication9 and Transport (SCT)  Airports and
Auxiliary Services (ASA), Aeronautical Radio of Mexico (RAMSA5, and National
Company of Aviation Combustibles (NACOA). SOP has designed and supervised
the construction of many airports in the past and ¡a fully competent to exe-
cute this project.
h. Environmental Considerationa
24.       The topography around the airport site reduces the probability
of noise problema for the village of Zihuatanejo and the tourism development
area in two ways. First, because of the relatívely high terrain to the north
and east of the airport, approach procedures will carry aircraft over the oea
for safe descents. Takeoffs to the west will follow this same path while
takeoffs to the east will be away from the project areas. Second, the high
terrain between the airport site and the village will tend to deflect ground
noise away from the populated areas. Noise over the beach areas to the south
of the airport site should not be a problem because these beaches are not
particularly attracti.e from the development point of view because of their
steepness, narrowness, and short, very strong breakers.
25.       The leaching fields asacciated with the sewage disposal system will
introduce a pure effluent directly into the ground water with no harmful
effecta, Aircraft and induetrial wastes will be treated prior to their
introduction into the sanitary system to remove all harmful elements.
26.       Solid wastes will be incinerated in a furnace designed to release
no unburned material into the air. Ashes will be buried in a landfilU area
on the airport.
27.       The provision of a channel connecting the shoreline lagoons lowers
the depth of the lagoon at the airport and reduces the possibility for
insect and disease producing stagnant w^ater to collect.
2a.       The development of the airport at this site will require the des-
truction of up to 5,000 coconut-producing palm trees and the relocation
of up to a maximum of ten families (squatters).
B. Cost Estimate
29.       The cost estimates and their breakdown are shown below in sumnmarized
form per contract. Detailed cost estimates for the airport project are shown
in attached table.



Annex 3
Paíe5
Table 1
Pesos (000)                 US$ (000)
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreien   Total
Land Acquisition         8,350        -     8,350     668.5       -      668.5
A. Maneuvering Areas &
Access Road        46,887    28,833  75,720   3,754.0  2,308.5  6,062.5
B. Terminal, Other
Buildings &
Utilities          12,845      6,794  19,639   1,028.4    544.0  1,572.4
C. Visual Aida & Elec-
trical Supply       2,081     1,369   3,h5o      166.6    109.6    276.2
D. Fuel Storage &
Supply              2,443     1,352   3,795      195.6    108.2    303.8
E. Navigational Aids
& Coammunications    1,597     2,403   4,000     127.9    192.3    320.2
Contingencies
Physical (9.8%)     9,569      5,921  15,490     766.1    474.1  1,240.2
price    (9.4%)     9,220      5,705  14,925     738.2    456.8  1,195.0
Engineering   (3.3%)      5,281       -     5,281      422.8      -      422.8
Supervision   (5.0%)      7.921       -     7,921     634.2  _ -         634.2
Total Airport
Project Costs        106,194    52,377 158,571   8,502.3  4,193.5 12,695.8
30.       The cost estimates were developed by SOP and are based on quantities
obtained from field survey data and architectural preliminary drawings. The
unit costa used are comparable to costa of similar work designed and con-
structed under the supervision of SOP, and are considered reasonable.  Con-
atruction is expected to take two years.
31.       An item for contingencies, amounting to approximately 17% of the
total airport project, has been included to allow for variations in the scope
of work and price increases. Considering the construction costa alone, 10%
was added to allow for physical increases in the worle and 7% per year was
added to allow for equipment price risaes and increases in labor costa.



Anmex 3
Page 6
C. Procurement
32.       A high percentage of the material required for the project ¡a pro-
duced locally. While contractors for building conetruction are fairly numar-
ous in Mexico, contractors for large earth moving are not.  The fuel system
installation will be done by foreign contractora as well as the manufacture
and installation of the commmnicationa equipment. All of these contracts
will be awarded through international competitive biddlng in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for ProcurementIl after a prequalification acreen-
lng of interested contractora.
33.       A portion of the Navaid equipment will be obtained from Wilcox
Electric Conpany, Division of American Standard, Kansas City, Milsouri.
The co0t of this procurement will be about US$ 160,000 and will consi8t of
the manufacture and installation of a Wilcox VOR/DME. There ía ample justi-
fication for purchasing this equipment from this sole manufacturer. All
VOR's in Mexico (41) are Wilcox, supply support ls based on this ene type
of equipment, the electronic maintenance technicians are trained for this
equipment, test equipment for this specific VOR la available in quantity
in the country, the only DME 't in Mexico (11) are Wilcox and the Wilcox
DME la specífically designed to mate with the Wilcox VOR.
D. Disbursement
34.       Disbursement of the proposed loan would be made on the basis of
76% of the expenditures of contracts.    Disbursementa are expected to take
place over a 2-1/2 year period from tne third quarter of 1972 to the first
quarter of 1975 (seo Table 23). Since this la a combined project, any sur-
plus loan amounts for this portion should be applied against possible under..
estimates in the other portiona of the total project.
E. Aviation Administration
35.       The responsibility for the administration and operation of avia-
tion in Mexico falls under four organizationa. The design and supervision
of construction of airports and their buildings ia the responsibility of
two divisions within SOP. After construction, the maintenance of the air-
field works ís the responsibility of SOP except for fíeld lighting. The
responsibllity for the operation and maintenance of the terminal buildings,
maintenance of the field lighting and collection of landing and rental
charges i that of ASA. RAMBA la responsible for the operation and main-
tenance of the navaida, communication gear and their operation areas (con-
trol tower, etc.) and i in complete control of enroute and terminal air
traffic. Directorate General of Civil Aeronautics la in charge of estab-
lishing air routes and procedures, licensing, negotiating bilateral air
agreements and other policy type matters. DGCA is a Governmental agency



5age 7
and reports to SCT. RA2LSA also reports to SCT but i3 a private corpora-
tion which is partially owmed by the Governmer. and the airlines serving
Mexico. ASA, the airport operator, Js a Goverrmentenal agency but reports
to neither SOP nor SCT. It reports directly to the Secretariat oL the
Presidencia.
36.       A fifth organization operates tne fuel services.  NACOA is a
partially Governnent owned private corporation which operates under very
exacting standards.  The fuel being processed is continually under test
to assure the airlíres that the fuel meets their specifications.  Since
the fuel being processed actually belongs to the airlnes involved, the
only income NACOA realizes is derived from a through-put charge.  This
charge is established by SCT, not by NACOAL
37.       The various other charges are alio estabáiihed by SCT, although
some are upon the recommendation of the operating services.  For example,
enrioute comnunication chiarges and navigational alá user charges are estab-
lished by SCT upon the recomniendations el' DrGC  ard RAZBA; landing charges
for each category of airport (4) and terminal building rental charges are
established by SCT upon reconm.endations of ASA.  The responsibility for
collecting these charges rests with RAMSA and ASA respectively. As a
result, a pilot is required to obtain departure clearances from both
organizations prior to take off.
38.       Fragmentation of authority for aeronautical affairs such as
exists in H-Iexico creates many difficult problems. H-ioever, correction of
this situation is not vital to the successful conclusion of this project.
E. Financial Projections
Income from Operations
39.       Revenue would be earned from.
(a)  Landing fees for conmercial aircraft.
(b)  Landing fees for general aviation aircraft.
(c)  Fees for use of flight aprons and remaining
overnight.
(d)  Participation in the sale of aviation fuel.
(e)  Rertal fees aná concessions.
(f)  Sundry services.
40.       In order to calculaze rzke income resultirig frcm conmercial air-
plane landing fees, the yearly .aovement of passen-ers by flight sectors,
and the use factor of trhe differe.nt types of aircraft were taken into
consideration.  Based upor. the acove as we1` as the historical experience
of the Acapulco and Mexico CÍty airports, dlferent ccmbinatioris of air-
craft wera corisidered fcr tila nati.nal arn =ternational flight sectors,
with the percentage of t Ie ¿ir flees .-pa'ic4£patiorA progressively chang-
ing in each one of tn-e years irn the forecaet.



Page8
4W1,.     Landing fee tar~ffs 'or the period beginning in 1972 have been set
by a deoree of the 24th July, 1969.  The tariffs are determined accordirig to
the following schedule:
Class of Aireraft
I      Up to   2,)C00 kg
II     Frcm    2,401 to   ,sOOO kg
III    Ercm    L,001 to  10,000 kg
IV     Fom   10001 to  20,000 kg
V      From   20,001 to  40,000 kg
VI    Fro'   4O,0,C1 to  60,000 kg
VII   Frcmi  60,001 to 100,000 kg
VIII  Fron  100,001 to 125,000 kg
IX     Fron  125,001 to 150,000 kg
X      F~rom  150,001.
Landing Pees by Type of Airplane (Pesos)
Type of Airplane                     TWeight In Kg.                   1972
DC-9-30                                   48,924                    1,650
B-727-100, B-727-200                      78,000                    2,615
B-737                                     48,471                     1,650
DC-8-50                                  143,000                    5,975
DC-8-63                                  158,550                    6,515
DC-10                                    233,295                   11,015
L-101 1                                  185,277                    8,135
B-747                                    308,000                    15,455
B-707-320-C                              151,120                    6,095
Twin Otter                                 5,223                       190
Hawker Siddeley 748                       20,200                     1,035
In considering the types of airoraft currently in use and the plans of
airline companies, airoraft were grouped according to weight and number
of seata.  The traffic projections were translated into the probable use
of different types of aircraft and their probable flight schedules,
assuming certain load factors.
42.      An average landing fee for general aviation was projected for
small plane landings correspomding to domestic and international flights.
It was assumed that the percentage of domestio and international flights
of general aviation would each be 50C at the opening of the airport, but
that the proportion of international flights would gradually increase.



Annex 3
Pare 9
43.       Income from the u    2 oparking aprons, barre in fuel sales, leases
and various services was ca1ceLated on the basís o£ íncome earned fron eu¿h
services during 1970 at Puerto Vallarta and Acapulco, with an appropriate
adjustnent for the conditions likely to be met at Zi1uatanejo.
Operation and MIainten2nce Gosts
44.       In calculating annual operating and mainterance costs, operating
and maintenance cost data for the airports of Acapulco and Puerto Va"larta
during the year 1970 were used.  The maintbenance cost of the mareuvering
area (runways, taxiways and platforms), v7a calculated at 3.25% per annum
of the invesctment in these facilities taRIng into consideration also tMture
enlargements.  The recormended figure of 2.% per arnum was increased in
order to cover such elemente as the hot climate and the early introduction
of large capacity aircraft. The cost of upkeep and cleaning of the terminal
area, incIudLng buildings, services, parking lots, etc. was calculated on
the basis of data from Acapulco and Puerto Vallarta.  Sim'ilarly wages and
fringe benefits and the costs of equipment and supplies were calculated on
the basis of data from Acapulco and Puerto Vallarta, after making allowance
for the increases planned by LSA.  Year'y indirect costs were calculated
on the basis o£ the share of general expenditures of ASA allocated to each
airport.






Annex 3
Table 2
2MICO ZIHUATANEJO INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
PROJECTIED  OPEIG DICOME AUn EXPENSES
(in Mex. * °o°)
rear                    1975      1976      1977       1978      1979      1980      1981      1982       1983      1984    1985       1986      1987      1988       1989      1990      1991
Operating Year                  1         2         3          4         5         6         7         8          9        10       11        12        13         14        15        16         17
Rweven u
giig feo for comercial aircraft    2,271          4,163     6,340      8,802    11,825    14,426    17,564    20,558    24,288    26,713  29,646    32,916    35,856    40,091    43,963    48,616    53,836
Landing fee for general aixtraft          301        329       359       392       428       467       510       556        607       662      722       787       859        937     1,021     1,114      1,215
Fee for use of platfozm                    65        73         82        92       100       108       122        136       152       161      170       181        192       204       217       232        247
Sale of avation fuel                       25        36         45        53        60        70       171       280        399       466      539       618       703       799        896     1,005      1,123
Rental fe. and concession                 240       300        365       430       480       549       726       918      1,127     1,245    1,372     1,511     1,660      1,828     1,999     2,189      2,396
Sundxy service                             41        56         62        70        81       101       155       213        276       311      349       391       436       487        538       596       658
Total Revenue                         2,943     4,957      7,253     9,839    12,974    15,721    19,248    22,661    26,849    29,558  32,798    36,404    39,706    44,346    48,634    53,752    59,475
Exe= S
Direct cost
Maitenae of operational area          2,485     2,505      2,525     2,550     2,575     2,600     2,688      2,775     2,878     2,930   2,990      3,050     3,119      3,196     3,274     3,369      3,463
Upkeep& oleaning of tenainal            934       992      1,049     1,110     1,167     1,184     1,313      1,410     1,514     1,574   1,638      1,707     1,782      1,867     1,954     2,048      2,152
Wages and benefit                       744       801        857       917       973     1,029      1,117     1,212     1,315     1,373    1,436     1,505     1,577      1,662     1,748     1,840      1,942
Equipaent and suppliesa                 313       340        369       396       422       W49       491        537       586       614      644       677       712        752       793       837        886
Miacellaneous                            42        52         63        79        86        97       113        132       152       163      175       188       202        218       235       253       272
Sub-Total                           4,51B     4,690     4,863      5,052     5,223     5,359     5,722     6,o66      6,445     6,654   6,883      7,127     7,392     7,695      8,004     8,347     8,715
Indirect cout
Adinistration expense for A.S.1.        306       358       409        469       516       568       648       735        830       883      941     1,004     1,072     1,148      1,226     1,312      1,406
Total Expense                       4,824     5,048     5,272      5,521     5,739     5,927     6,370     6,801      7,275     7,537    7,824     8,131     8,464     8,843      9,230     9,659    10,121
Operating Profit (or LOas) before
Capital Cnargee                        (1,881)      (91)    1,981      4,318     7,235     9,794    12,878    15,860    19,574    22,021   24,974    28,273    31,242    35,503    39,404    44,093    49,354
3eptenber 1971






Page 1
M3tICO
APPRAISAL CF THE ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
THE WATER SUPPLY. SEWJERAGE AJD STORW WATER DRAINAGE FPROJECT
A. Scope of Proiect
1.        The development of the Ixtapa tourist resort by Iifratur, where
3,500 rooms and 500 private residences are to be built will trigger a rapid
development of the nearby town of Zihuatanejo.  The population of the
Zihuatanejo area is expected to increase in ten years to about 50,000
inhabitarts.  This represents more than a ten-fold increase over the present
population.
2.        The pro ject will provide wjater supply, sdwerage and storm drainage
for the first phase of this growth, and the facilities are thus designed
to supply 20,000 irliabitants of Zihuatanejo as well as the Ixtapa tourism
zone.
3.       Tnio entities will be responsible for the construction and operatior
of' the various elements of the project.  Secretaria de Recursos Hydraulicos
(SHR), a federal agency, will undertake all water supply, sewerage and storm
drainage works for Zihuatanejo as well as the Ixtapa water supply works
and sewerage treatment facilities.  Inside the Ixtapa tourist zone, Infratur
will construct the water distribution system, together with the sewage
collection network (including pumping equipment) and storm drainage works.
B.  Description of Project
WTater SuiPly - Ixtapa
4.        The project vTill provide the :xtapa tourism zone with water from
the Ixtapa Valley aquifer situated some 6 ka to the north of the tourist
zone.  The facilities incluce:
(i)  t,hree wells auqipped.  it:1 ;p=pz and electrical motors
ard chlor-r.atior. ecq-,en-
(U)  1.8 ki of l01 1,-.pel-úzes connecting the wells with the
transm:,isjion m.a-~n;
(iiíi  a taan5.:__r. raizr  of as_to. cercz-it 18" and 20"1
in diameter a.-d ',7.o w   -L ern4g-. .;
(iv) a 'coa,ter p-r&, n-" 3tat-co. to e_-ver 127 1/aec through
a '.7 i. ~.  r.a-i t o a~ 10Cçx m> S'9at tank sítuated
the lwxa',a zc,-c



Arnex>4
Page 2
(V)  the d',tributl ,+em lr.s,le .le Ixtapa zone,
includíng a sm' -             tank,   small booster
station te surn'y +*i  c ` .1  gronds around the golf
course, a nou,t 10?.0 e>s -^f  str-ibution lines,
house c,onnec.-mrs ad -ve   - "tior equipment.
5.         The transmission maíns  -apacít+.  -s designed so that, when the
local sources of Zihuatanejo are f':lly deveionec, another 100 l/sec could
be supplied from the Ixtapa valley sources by ex.ending the transmission
main to Zihuatanejo.   i.it+,4rg th§s adc  ional  .nacity now is cheaper in
present value costs than building a nara Ie 'ire in 1979 at discount rates
up to 25%.
6.         Elernents (i) to (ÑV) are to be built by SRH, while the distribution
system will be constructed by Infratur.
Seweraie - Ixtali
7.         Sewage collected from the hotels, the residences and the comercial
distriet will flow to a pumping stationr and be punped to stabilization ponds
built by SRH outeide the Infra-Ir nroperty.  The pond effluent would be used
for irrigation.
8.         The length of sewers to be installed is about 16,500 m.  Sewer
lines will be made of concrete pipes in diameters varying from 8" to 24"
and in reinforced concrete for diameters of 30" to 60".
Storm WJater Drainace - IxtalDa
9.         Storm water drainage in Ixtapa will protect the residential sectioil..
drain the hotel boulevard, and discharge storm waters into the lagoon. Some
7,500 m of lateral drairis, 3,500 mn of in',erceptors and 200 m of outfalls
will be constructed.
Water Supnlv - Zihuataneio
10.        Water from the Zihuatanejo aquifer which has a potential capacity
of 75 l/sec will be developed by construction of 3 new welle.. The distri-
bution systen will be desigred to serve a population of about 20,000 in-
habitants, the total new area to be supplied amounting to about 110 ha.
Distribution works include the construction of a 1,500 m3 reservoir, 37.5 kn
of 2½9" diameter pvc pipe and 17.5 hm of asbestos cement maíns ranging from
U" to 12" in diameter, two booster pumping stations, chiorination equipment
and the supply and installation of 2,000 connections wn.th domestic water
meters.



Annex 4
±'ag,e
Sewerage - Zihutaneojo
11.       The sewerage system of Zihuatanejo will serve the area supplied
with water (110 ha) including the separate section of the town in the
Las Brisas beach developnient. Sewage fram Las Brisas will be pumped over
the mountain separating this area from Zihuatanejo. It will then flow by
gravity to Zihuatanejo's putnpíng station.  Sewage from Zihuatanejo and Las
Brisas will then be pumped to stabilization ponds situated 1 ln outside
the town's limits. Sewerage and sewage disposal works include: 38 km of
lateral sewers of 8" diameter, 7 km of collectors rangíng in diameter from
10" to 24", two pumping stations, two force mains of 4.8 kn and 1.9 km with
respective diameters of 18" and 12", the stabilization ponds, and the hause
connections (15 km of 6" pipe).
Storm Drainage - Zihuatanajo
12.       Storm water drainage consists basically of a main interceptor
arnd four secondary lines discharging into the bay. The diameters of the
concrete storm water drains vary between 24" and 60" and their length
totals about 9.7 kn.
C.  Cost Estimates of Project Elements
13.       The estimated cost of the water supply, sewerage, sewage disposal
and storn drainage component of the Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa tourism project is
sumnarized in the following tables.  The first table is for works undertaker
by SRH, the seccnd for works undertaken by Infratur.  Cost estimates by geo-
graphical area are given in Tables 8 and 9 of the Main Report.  Cost esti-
mates were prepared by SRH and Estudios y Proyectos (consultants to Infra-
tur). Urit costs are based on the Mexican cost of gocds and civil works
and appear reasonable. A price contingencies allowance of 7% per year and
technical cor.tingencies of 15% per year have been assumed, and these provi-
sions should be adequate.  Design costS are estimated at 4% of construction
costs.
D.  Procurement
14.       All contracta for the supply of equipment would be subject to
international competitive bidding.  In view of the fact that numerous
small civil works contracts will be required for construction of the works
and that only local contractora are likely to submit bids, it is proposed
that for civil work contracts only national competitive bidding be required,
E.  Administration of Project
15.       Both Infratur and SRH will employ consultants for the design of
their respective parts of the project. Supervision of construction will
be done by SRH's own engineers and technicians, and by Infratur's new divi-
sion of works in the tourist zone.



Annex h
F.  Financial Aspects
16.        Financial projectiona were made for tne water supply and sewerage
components of the project in the form of Income Statement forecasts for SRH
and Infratur respectively Sor the years 1972-84. The projections for Infratur
are included in the consolidated statement of operating revenue and expen-
diture shown in Table 1 o£  =nnex 2.    The projectiona -efr  SM.I  ,re
shown in Table 3 of this Annex.  The two statements are not on an identical
basis. For the SRH operation (bulk water supply to the tourist zone and
retail supply and sewerage in Zihuatanejo) the table takes into account
operating expenses, depreciation, and a return on capital; for Infratur
(water distribution and sewage collection in the tourist zone), depreciation
and return on capital are not included, since these are assumed to be recouped
in the sale price of land in the tourist zone.
17.        These differences in presentation are suggested by the differing
nature of the two developments; for the tourist zone, capital outlays
represent a once-for-all expenditure to be sold to developera as a package,
with operation and maintenance covered by inclusive consumer charges, wqhereas
in Zihuatanejo there ¡a an established community, and costs would have to
be recovered through water rates.
18.        For the SRH operation, rates of Mex $1.60 per m3 for bulk supply
to the tourist zone, and of Mex $1.20 and 2.40 for retail distribution in
ZihuataneJo (the lower rate for residences and the higher for hotels) would,
three years after completion of the project, cover costs including depreciation
and provide a return on net fixed assets rising to about 9% in 1984.  This
surplus arises predlominantly from the bulk supply to the tourist zone. For
sales in Zihuatanejo the forecast covers only the population which can be
served by the first stage works - i.e., using Zihuatanejo own wells.
19.        Within the tourist zone, an average resale price of Mex $2.40 per
mi3 for the water purchased in bullk from SRMH would cover Infratur's distri-
bution costs over the period, together with sewer operating costs, but
(as indicated above) not depreciation or any return on capital.
20.        For these projections, water sales in thle tourist zone were based
on forecasts of tourist inflows (at an average of 4 days each) and rooas
available, indicating occupation rates of betwieen approximately 60% and
90 of hotel capacity. Per capita demand was assuned to be 600 lcd, less
15% water losses in distribution. To the results were added estimates of
residential consumption in the zone.
21.        For Zihuatanejo, sales were based on population forecasts, less
a deduction for those not connected (50%, falling gradually to 27% at the
point where Zihuatanejo's resources are fully used). Those connected were
asaumed to require 360 m3 per year per connection, at 7 persons per connection,
plus an allowance for losses in transmission. As stated, calculations were



Annex 4
Page5
made only to the point in population growt,h which can be supplied from
Zihuatanejo's own resources (reached in 1979). Further demand could be
supplied from Ixtapa bulk supply, and the supply system is designed for
this (see paragraph 5 above); but extensive distribution and sewerage
works in the town would also be requlred and these are not allowed for in
the projections at this stage.
22.        Other as8umptions included the following:
(a) Operational personnel costs were based on detailed
estimates supplied by the Mexican authorities.
Administrative costa for Zihuatanejo distribution
were assumed to rise in proportion to the nunber of
connections.
(b) Maintenance expenses were assumed to rise gradually
to a level of roughly 1% per annum of fixed assets
(0.3% for sewers).






Annex 4
Table 1
MEXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
GOST OF W1RKS TO BE UNDERTAKEN BY SRH
Local         Foreign           Total              Local          Foreign           Total
Item                                          Thousand Mex $                                      Thousand US$
1. Ixtapa Bulk Water Supply
Construiction                               3,307          1,998            5,305                 265            160              425
Design and Contingencies                    1,147            692            1,839                  92             55              147
Sub-Total                   4,454           2,690           7,144                 35'7            215             572
2.  Ixtapa Sevage Treatment
Construction                                2,166            428            2,594                 173             35              208
Design and Contingencies                      856             169           1,025                  69             13               82
Sub-Total                   3,022            597            3,619                 242              48             290
3.  Zihuatanejo Water  ,pply                                                      7
Construction                                6,327          1,664            7,991                 507            133              640
Design and Contingencies                    2,380             542           2,922                 191             43              234
Sub-Total                   8,707           2,206          10,913                 698             176             874
4. Zihuatanejo Severage
Construction                               11,906          3,509           15,415                 953            282            1,235
Design and Contingencies                    4,664           1,374           6,038                 373             110             483
Sub-Total                  16,570           4,883          21,453               1,326             392           1,718
5.  Zihuatanejo Storm Drainage
Construction                                3,986          1,963            5,949                  319           157              476
Design and Contingencies                    1,387             683           2,070                  111             55             166
Sub-Total                   5.373           2,646           8,019                  430            212              642
TOTAL SRH                  38,126          13,022          51,148                3,053          1,043            4,o96
October 1971



Annex 4
Table 2
MEXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
COST OF WORKS TO BE UNDERTAKEN BY INFRATUR
Local         Foreign           Total               Local         Foreign           Total
Item                                          Thousand Mex $                                       Thousand US$
1. Ixtapa Water Distribution
Construction                              2,404           1,988           4,392                 193             159              352
Design and Contingencies                    910             753           1,663                  73              60              133
Sub-Total                 3,314           2,741            6,o55                 266            219              485
2. Ixtapa Sewerage
Construction                              6,172           2,981           9,153                 494             239              733
Design and Contingencies                  2,438           1,178           3,616                 195              94              289
Sub-Total                  8,610          4,159           12,769                 689            333            1,022
3. Ixtapa Sto=n Drainage
Construction                              4,074           1,716           5,790                 326             138              464
Design and Contingencies                  1,661             575           2,236                 133              46              179
Sub-Total                 5,735           2,291            8,026                 459             184             643
TOTAL INFRATUR                  17,659          9,191           26,850               1,414             736            2,150
October 1971



Annex 4
Table 3
MEXICO: ZIHUATANEJO TOURISM PROJECT
SECRETARIA DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS - WATER SUPPLY AND SEWEBAE
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT (1972-84)
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                        1972     1973      1974     1975     1976      1977     1978      1979     1980      1981     1982      1983     1984
-          --------------------- ----                                                -     ----------------Thousandm .-
Water Output
Frnm Ixtapa Sources:
Bulk Supply to Tourist Zone                        -         -         -       202      308       437      589       764      974      1219     1490      1809     2089
From Zihuatanejo Sources:
Supply to Zihuatanejo                             153       176       235      460      650       860     1260     1530      1530     1530      1530     1530      1530
Less Unaccounted for Water                           23        26        35       70       97       132      191       230      230                230       230      230
Retail Sales in Zihuatanejo                         130       150       200      390      553       728     1069      1300     1300      1300     1300      1300     1300
------ - --------  ------------------------ Thousand Mex $ --_-_              _       _     _
Revenues
Water Sales:
Tourist Zone (Bulk) Mex $1.60/m3                   -         -         -       323      493       699      942      1222     1558      1950     2384      2894     3342
Zihuatanejo (Retail) @ Mex $1.38/m3 -/            179       207       276      538      763      1005     1475     1794      1794     1794      1794     1794      1794
179       207      276       861     1256     1704      2417     3016      3352     3744      4178     4688      5136
Expenses
Ixtapa Production Personnel                          -         -         -       170      180       190      195       205      220       230      240       250      265
Zihuatanejo Personnel & Admin.                       50        55        60      165       250      330      440       500      500       500      500       500      500
Maintenance - Water                                  14         15       15       50       100      150       200      200       200      200       200      200       200
Maintenance - Sewerage                               -          -        -        33        43       53        63       63        63       63       63        63        63
Chernicsls                                            1         2         3        8       11        16       22        28       30        33       36        40       43
Power                                                 3         5         7       60       90       120      170       210      220       232       245      260       275
Depreciation - Water                                 37        37        38      263       489      489       489      489       489      489       489      489       489
Depreciation - Sewerage                              -          -       -        215       430      430       430      430       430      430       430      430       430
105       114      123       964    1,593    1,778    2,009    2,125    2,152    2,177    2,203    2,232    2,265
Net Operating Income                                   74        93       153     (103)    (337)    (74)        408      891    1,200    1,567    1,975    2,456    2,871
Average Net Fixed Assets - Water                    1,143      1,107    1,069    9,947   15,600   18,110   17,622   17,132   16,644   16,154   15,665   15,176   14,688
Average Net Fixed Assets - Sewerage                   _           -        -    10,512   21,017   20,587   20,157   19,727   19,297   18,86    18,437   18,007   17,577
Total Average Net Fixed Assets                      1,143     1,107    1,069   20,459   39,617   38,697   37,779   36,859   35,997   35,021   34,102   33,183   32,265
Net Operating Income as % Return                      6.5        8.4     14.3      -         -        -         1.1      2.4       3.3      4.5       5.8      7.4       8.9
1/  Average rate, assuming approximately 85% sold at domestia rate (Mex $1.20) and the remainder at hotel rate (Mex $2.40).
October 1971






Anne
Page 1
MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE ZI~CALAZ¿0 TOURIa PROJECT
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Introduction
1.       The net benefits to the economy will consist primarily of expendi-
tures of visitors in the Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa area, 'ess the cost of operatirg
all the facilities to be provilded. The relevant investment is the capital
cost of the infrastructure project itself, plus the investment costs of
supplying hotel accommodation in Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo.  The additional
investment that is likely to take place in local transport, entertainment
and shopping facilities have also been taken into account, although they
are esthmated to be relatively small. Although properly chargeable to the
project, revenues and costs associated with private villas, and with inter-
national and domestic travel have not been taken into account, except those
directly related to the airport. The revenue and cost assumptions are
explained below.
Revenue and Cost Assxlnptions
2.       As the nroject is part of a larger whole, including the hotels,
its economic evaluation has been made in terms of this larger whole.  Sone
of the facilities to be provided wrould serve and be paid for directly by the
tourist, while others would be compensated for only indirectly.  Accordingly,
the costs and the benefits have been carefully analyzed so as to avoid arny
double counting.
3.       A l.arge portion of the benefits from the program of investinents
would consist of expenditures by visitors to the area on food, lodging,
entertainment, local transport, purchases and other minor items.  In
addition, the airport would earn revenue which is directly related to
investment in the project.  There would aleo be expenditures within the
project area by persons living in private villas and in condominiumsa, but
these have not been taken into account because of the difficulty of
estimating them.
4.       It is assured zhat visitor expenditures in Ixtapa would not be
very different from currenrt daily average expenditures of air-visitors to
Itiexico, which were estialated to be US$31 in 1969. Given past trenda in
tourism prices, however, these average expernditures have been inflated by
5% p.a. until 1975. Accordingly, ufhien the firet hotel opens in 1975,
average expenditures are forecast tv be about US$38 a day. They would be
a little higher in thXe Icta-3pa area (Z3$h,I . O  and considerably lower in
the Zihuatanejo zone (US$20.75) where cheaper acconmodation would be
available.  Consistent with current expen<diture patterns, it is also



Annex 5
Page 2
assumed that more than two-thirds of these expenditures will be spent in
hotels (US$ 27.76), on accommodation, lood etc., while the rest will be
spent on local transport  (TJS$ 4.32), snopping (UTS3  4.98) and sports and
other recreation (US$ 4.44).  These expenditures can be considered con-
servative when compared to actual expend-1a-^s of air visitors to Mexico
staying from 1 to 5 days, who spent US$ 46 a day on the average in 1969.
Revenues frcm the airport are relatively small and nost of the economic
benefits are derived frca hotel operatLons.
5.     In projecting project revenues it was assumed that the average
length of stay of visitors to Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa would be 4 days and that
the projected increase in additicnal hotel acconmodation would achieve a
Ievel of room occupancy of 75% in four years, with a first year occupancy
of 40%.  Occupancy of 1.8 persons per room is assumed to remain the sane
throughout the economic life of the project. These asaunptions are con-
sistent with the projected potential size of the market for the project
and would be more than adequate to financially compensate private hotel
investors.
6.     Economic costs are derived frcm the project's financial accounts
and are based on the actual experience of maintaining and operating simi-
lar facilities elsewhere in Mexico.  Some of the operating costs have
been indirectly estinated.  Thus, for example, the operating costs of
providing electricity and telephone services have been taken from hotel
accounts, and are therefore notdirectly reflected in the operating cost's
of these itema of infrastructure (see Tab'es 1 to 3).
7.     Investment costs include the capital costs of constructing infra-
structure facilities in ixtapa and Zihuatanejo, and also the costs of
constructing the airport. In addition, costs of constructing hotels and
other superstructure facilíties have been taken into account.  Hotel
investment costs are assumed to average US$ 20,000 a room in Ixtapa and
US$ 10,000 in Zihuatanejo. Investment costa of infrastructure reflect
the price increases expected over the next four years while the invest-
ment costs of hotels are calculated at 1975 prices. To the extent that
investnents in infrastructure if calculated at 1975 prices would be
greater, this would be compensated by the tendency of prices in the tour-
ism sector to rise faster than the general price level.  Investment in
private villas which eventually could be substantial, has been omitted
from the calculations. The costs and revenues of the project are sum-
marized below:



AnnexJ-
.Page 3
(US$ Ivállion)
Investment
Costs     Investment    Other       Total
Infra-      Costs     Investme2t  Investment  Operati 
Year  structure     Hotels      CostsL       Costo       Costa-  Revenues
1        -           -          3.73         3.73         -
2       5.37         -           -           5.37         -
3      16.59        6.6o         _          23.19
4      13.45       11.90         -          25.35         -
5       3.83        7.60        1.00        12.43        8.38      9.24
6        -         10.90        1.00        11.90       12.48     15.52
7        -         10.60        1.00        11.60       19.29     25.32
8    .              8.90        1.00         9.90       26.74     36.99
9        -          5.60        1.00         6.60       34,08     47.00
10        -          5.90          -          5.9o       39.24     55.25
11        _          5.60          -          5.60       44.23     63.04
12        -          3.90          -          3.90       48.34     69.60
13        _-                                   -         52.57     76.o9
14 to
24        -           -           -            -         56.00     82.00
1/  Includes investnent in land and an assumed figure for vehicles, boats,
buses, etc.
2/ Operating costa and revenues for year 14 to 24 have been averaged for
simplicity of presentation. Revenues and operating costs after that
year have gradually been reduced, asauming that the first hotels
opened close down after 20 years of operation.



Annex 5
Page 4
8.     The net benefits reaulting from the main categories of average
visitor ezpenditures are shown below:
Average Gross Daily      Net
EpeBnditure Item                           Visitor Exenditure   Benefits
-- s$) -   -(US )
Accommodation, food, beverage and
other expenditures in hotels                    27.76              9.72
Sports and recreational activities                 4.44              0.89
Local transport                                    4.32              0.86
Purchases                                         -4.98              0.50
41.50           11.97
9.     The project facilities and equipment have varying economic lives,
but as a whole it ¡a estimated that the project would have an economic
life of about 25 years.  The need to make modest provision for sorne
replacement expenditures during this period la considered to be offset
by the life of the main assets beyond 25 years.
Rates of Return
10.    Based on the aboye estimates, the internal economic return on the
program of investments would be 13.1%.  This calculation, however, does
not take into consideration the real economic costs of labor. Since the-
construction and operation of the project ¡8 expected to employ consider-
able numbers of relatively unskilled workers from the surrounding region
who a.re currently under-employed or unemployed, the evaluation of the
investnent calls for some of the labor inputs to be priced below the cur-
rent market wage-rates. Accordingly, unakilled labor was priced at 70%
below current market wage-rates.  On this basis the internal economic
return would be 19.4% and may be considered the Ilbest estimate."|
11.    Improved infrastructure facilities in the town of Zihuatanejo con-
atitute an important benefit to the local population. The above analysis
has not taken into account these benefita because of the difficulties of
separating that part of the investnent which will benefit the local popula-
tion frcm investment that ia needed for the development of tourismr, both
In Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo.  It i9 realistic to assure, however, that over
half of the investnents in infrastructure in Zihuatanejo would benefit
the local population rather than the tourism sector. On this basis the



Annex 5
Page 5
economic rate of return on the tourism program as a whole would Inerease
to more than 20%.
Sensitivity Analysis
12.    The rate of return would be sensitive to changes in occupancy
levels and delays in the opening of hotels. With varying as8umptiona
about occupancy lev-ele and opening dates., and with shadow pricing of
unakilled labor the internal economic return would range frcm 15.6% to
almost 20.8%. Results of this sensitivity testing are ahown in the fol-
lowing table:
Resulting Rate of Return.
(i)  Opening dates (2 year clelay)                   15.6
(i)  Decrease in occupancy level and
revenues by 10%                               18*0
(iii) Increase in occupancy levels and
revenues by  0l%'                             20.8
(iv)  No shadow-pricing                               13.1
(v)  Best estinate                                   19.4
It is clear that the rate of return is most sensitive to a change in the
value of labor and, to a lesser extent, to delays in opening dates of
hotels.
Employment and Income Effects
13.    The proposed programi's area o£ influerce is expected to extend to
32 "municipiosí"l/ in the states of lúchoacan and Guerrero, with a total
population of about 675,0CO. These "1sunicipiosi are anongst the poorest
areas in Mexico with per capita G0? aDlout half -"e nat4r4al average and
with high rates of urempLoyaier.t and under-emp1oymeerit.
14.    Between 196C and 19'70, it ís estiiated that whiie total population
in this zonae  ncreasad by 37%, tne economicaly active population remained
1/ A ama-1 administrative oistriet.



Annex 
.7
Page o.
etatic at 160,000 and in relation to total population decreased from
32.1% to 23.6% In 1970. Of the economically active population, only
about 30% are engaged in industry and services (8.5% and 22.3% respec-
tively), while the remainder are engaged ín agriculture and other
prlmary activtieas (69.2%).
15.    Investment in the proposed project la expected to increase
income and employment in the area. When in full operation it la esti-
mated that the project will provido direct and indirect employment for
a lnimnum of 26,000 persona and will Increase the value of output in
the area of influence by about 30% as coirnared with 1970. Direct
employnent ia estimated to be provided fJr more than 4,500 persona.
Direct Balance of Payments Impact
16.    The proposed project ia expected to increase gross foreign exchange
earnings by about US$ 7 million in 1975 when the first hotels open up and
by UB$ 62 million when the project becomes fully operational in 1986.
This compares with US$ 575 million earned by tourism in Mexico in 1970.
Because of the high proportion of foreign tourista that are expected to
visit the area and the low import content of operating costs, the esti-
mated net foreign exchange earnings of the project are relatively high.
At present, only 10% of every touriat dollar earned goes out of the
country to pay for imports, technical services, interest, dividends,
etc. With regard to the program of investments in the Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo
zone, the proportion ¡a likely to be scmewhat higher, since half the cost
of infrastructures would be financed from the proposed loan. On this
basis, net foreign exchange earnings would amount to US$ 36 million in
1980 and US$ 53 mil-Uon ín 1986, wqhich compares wíth the estimated
foreign exchange component of the proposed project of US$ 13 million,
including price contingencies and foreign exchange component of super-
atructure of about US$ 25 ndllion.



MEXICO
Summary of Operating Costs - Ixtapa, Town of Zihuatanejo and the Airport
(US$ Millions)
Year        Operating Costs          Operating Costs          Operating Costs           Total Operating
Ixtapa only  /        Town of Zihuatanejo          Airport  /                   Costs
only /
1               7.20                     0.79                     0.39                       8.38
2              11.09                     0.99                     O.4o                      12.48
3              17.16                     1.71                     o.42                      19.29
4              24.24                     2.06                     0.44                      26.74
5              30.83                     2.79                     o.46                      34.08
6              35.66                     3.11                     0.47                      39.24
7              39.90                     3.83                     0.50                      44.23
8              143.65                   14.15                     0.54                      148.314
9              47.12                     4.87                     0.58                      52.57
10              48.59                     5.18                     0.60                      54.37
11              49.37                     5.32                     0.63                      55.32
12-20             50.07                     5.46                     0.774                     56.27
1/  See Table 2 of this Annex
g   See Table 3 of this Annex
L3/ Operating Costs averaged after Year 12 - sínce it assumes that the project will be in full operation
at that level after that.
H3:



MEXICO
Summary of Operating Costs - Ixtapa & Zihuatanejo 1/
(US$ Millions)
Cost of Providing        Cost of Providing        Cost of Providing4/       Cost of Providing         Other Operating                 Total
Accommodation, Food        Recreational and          Local Transport 4         Shopping Gooda                Costs  O' Operating Costs
and other Services        Sport Activities 3_                                  and Services _ 
Year      1xtapa   Zihuatanejo     Ixtapa   Zihuatanejo      Ixtapa   Zihuatanejo     Ixtapa   Zihuataneio                                Ixtapa   Zihuatanejo
1         4.19       o.42          0.70       0.07           o.68       o.o6          0.88       0.09           0.74       0.15          7.20        0.79
2         6.50       0.53          1.20       0.10           1.17       0.09          1.49       0.12           0.73       0.15          11.09       0.99
3        10.20       0.97          1.92       0.18           1.88       0.18          2.43        0.23          0.73       0.15          17.16       1.71
4        14.42       1.17          2.80       0.23           2.73       0.22          3.53       0.29           0.76       0.15          24.24       2.06
5        18.42       1.62          3.62       0.32           3.52       0.31          4.57       o.40           0.71       0.15         30.83        2.79
6        21.24       1.79          4.26       0.36           4.16       0.35          5.38       0.46           0.69       0.15         35.66        3.11
7        23.76       2.23          4.82       0.4s           4.69       0.44          6.08       o.57           0.56       0.15         39.90        3.83
8        26.o8       2.41          5.31       o.49           5.17       0.48          6.71       0.62           0.39       0.15         43.65        4.15
9        28.19       2.84          5.75       0.58           5.59       0.57          7.25       0.73           0.35       0.15          47.12       4.87
10        28.90       3.01          5.95       0.63           5.79       o.61          7.51       0.79           0.44       0.15         48.59        5.18
11        29.31       3.10          6.07       o.64           5-90       0.63          7.66       0.81           0.44       0.15         49.37        5.32
12-20      29.51       3.18          6.13       0.66           5.96       o.64          7.73       0.83           0.74       0.15         50.07        5.46
1/  Revenaes and operating costa have been gradually reduced after Year 20, on the assumption that the first hotels opened close down after 20 years of
operaticn, except in the case of "other operating costs", which remain at approximately the sa~e level.
2/ See Table 4 of this Annex.                                                                                                                                     < 
'/  Gross operating cost assamed to be 80% of revenues from this item.
i/ Gross operating cost asusmed to be 80% of revenues from this iten.
Gross operating cost assamed to be 90% of revenues from this item.
-/  Operating cost of providing street lighting, road maintenance, etc. (See Table 1 of Annex 3).
Note: Assumptions made with regard to average gross operating margins have been based on a financial survey of existing hotels in Mexico City, Acapulco
and Puerto Vallarta and on information provided by Infratur.  The assumptiona are considered conservative.



Aanex 5
Table 3
OPERATINO HOTEL FROJECTIoN F0R IXTAPRO TOURISO  DEVEDPMET
(in U,S. $ .000)
Operating Year                          1                2               3              4               5              6               7                s              9              10              11               12
1.  Roomo/DOcupancy (40%)             750  Ros          250  Rms        500  Rm     s      500R       500 Rms         250  Rms        250  Rrs        250  Rms 250 Rmss-
Occupancy (65%)                                -            750 Rms        250 Rms          500  Rms          oRms        500 Rms          250 Rms        250 Rms          250 Rms         250 Rms!
Occupancy (75%)                _                              -            750 Rms        L             1,500 Ros      2,000 Ros        2,500 Rms       2750            3,000 Rs         3250 Rs        3,500 Ros
Total Rooms                       750 Rms        1,000 Rros     1,500 Rms      2,000 Rms        2,500 Rms      2,750 Rms      3,000 Rms        3,250 Rms      3,500 Ros        3,500 Rms        3,500 Rms      3,500 Rms
2. Number of Occupied Roos
per day                     300 Ros          513 Ros        825 Ros      1200 Ros        1,550 Roo      1,825 Ros      2,063 Ros        22,275 Roms     2,1463 Ros      2,550 Ros        2,600 Ros      2,625 Ros
per year               109,500 Ros      187,245 Rms   301,125 Rmo   438,OO Rm          s 565,750 Ros   666,125 Rm    752,995 R.s      830,375 Ro    898,Q95 Ros    930,750 Ros         949,000 Ros   958,125 R.s
3.  Average Room Occupancy             40.0%            51.3%          55.0%           60.o%           62.0%          66.4%          68,6%            70.0%           70.4%            72.9%           74.3%          75.0%
Revenue
P'oodi                         2,847           4,864           7,829           11,387          14,710        17,320           19,574          21,591          23,370           24,201          24,675          2L4,913
Boverage1,296                           2,211          3,559            5,177           6,687          7,8714          8,899           9,8i6          l0,625           11,002          U1,218          1-1,326
Telephone                        933           1,592           2,563            3,729           4,8114         5,669           6,1407          7,068            7,651           7,922           8.078           8,155
Other                             28              144              71             103             133            156              176            1914             210             218             222              2214
78             134             214             312             401_           472              534             589             638             660             673              679
Total Revenue            5,278 (10.0)    8,845  W.o)   14,236 (OMo)  20,708 (lO.0)  26,745 (tOO.O  31,491 W0.0)  35,590 (X-0)   39,258 p0.)   42,0494  .O0)   44,003 ho)    44,866 00.0)   45,297   40)
OPerotin0L Cost and Expenses
Direct Cost
Beverage                          453             775           1,248           1,812            2,340          2,755           3,114           3,435           3,718            3,85o           3,925           3,962
Telephone                         234             399             6140            933           1,203          1,1417           1,601           1,766           1,912           1,979            2,018           2,037
Qthesao                            21              37               57              83             107            126             1143            158              171             177             180             182
W&ter & Eaect.                    148               82             128             186             2140           283             320             353              382             395             1402            1406
207             354             569             8310 1,0470°                 1,260            1,424             35311,7021                     1,761           1,796           1.813
Sub Total                  963 (16.6)    i,647 (18.6)   2.642 (18.6)  33,844 (18.6)   4,960 (18.5   5,841 (18.5)   6,602 (18.6)   7,283 (18.6)   7,884 (18.6)   8,162 (18.6)   8,321 (18.5)   8,400 (1B.5)
Othar Expenses
P~yr t1 atCot                   1,785 (314.5)    2,725 (30.8)   14,260 (29.9)   5,988 (28.9)   7,636 (28.6)  8,769 (27.8)   9,786 (27.5)  10.727 (27.3)  11,591 (27.3)  11,859 (27.0)  12,013 (26.8)  12,089 (26.7)
Pstratio n                        390              520             779           1,038           1,295          1,425           1,555            1,685           1,815           1,814           1,814            1,813
roat, Light, Power                156              208             312             416             520            572             6214             676             728              72B             728             728
ha,Pia   & MariitePowce            87              116             174             232             290            319              348             377             406              406             406             406
Repair &itnc234                                    312             467             622             775             853             931           1,309           1,387           1,087            1,086           1,085
Other                          570              973           1,568           2,279           2,943          3,465           3,916            4,32r,          4,676    _      4,842  _        4,937            4,984
Sub Total                 3.222 (62.2)    4,854 (54.9)   7,560 (53.1) 10,575 (51.1)  1-3,45  (5C.3) 15,403 (48.9)  17,160 (48.2)  18,794 (47,9)  20,303 (47.8)  20,735 (47.1)  20,984 (46.8)  21,105 (46.6)
Total Cost & Ricpenses          4,185 (80.8)    6.501 (73.5)  10,202 (71.7)  14.419 (69.6)  18,419 (68.9) 21,2244 (67.5)  23,762 (66.8)  26,077 (66.4)  28,187 (66.3)  28,897 (65.7)  29,305 (65.3)  29,505 (65.1)
993 (19.2)    2,344 (26.5)   4,o034 (28.3)  6.289 (30.4)   8,326 (31.1) 10,247 (32.5)  11,828 (33.2)  13,181 (33.6)  14,307 (33.7)  15,106 (34.3)  15,561 (34.7)  15,792 (34.8)






MEXICO TOURISM PROJECT
SCHEDULES OF IMPLEMENTATION, EXPENDITURES, AND DISBURSEMENTS
YEARS                  1                               11                               llV
QUARTERS    Ql       Q2      03      Q4      Qs       QÓ      Q7      as       09      Qio     Qll    Q12       Q13    Q14      015    Q16
IXTAPA AREA
LIAIILITY PERIOD
SITEWORKS            _                _lIllIllIl ItIIlIII
CONSTRUCTION                          _       _llIllIll l 1 nnuumumu lilI¡Ili
EQUIPMENT                                                     -       -       -        -       -        -  _ _         lIlIllIll _  IllIllIlhl
TOWN OF ZIHUATANEJO
SllEWORKS                    _        _       _       _        _       _       _       _        _   Ulilililill L;ABILLAIPERIOD
CONSTRUCTION                          _i_liIIIiii UlihllM lIihllil
EQUIPMENT                                             -        _       -               - _      _        tIIIll Riililil litilialill
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT                                                                                        -IABI-T                             -
SITEWORKS                       _     _       _        _       __                       _       _       _                   l       E R OiDNii
CONSTRUCTION                                                           _                _                        _      lIlhl lIl l IIIIMII
EQUIPMENT            _                                                         _        _       _       _                _     Uumuuuum
TECH-N_CAL                   _       _        _       __                          
ASSI STA NCECL   N
_ ~    ~     ___                                  ___                                    __                           DATE
CLOSING
LOAN AGREEMENT                                                                                                                 _
SIGNING DATE
EXPENDITURES
(IN U.S. DOLLARS)                              6,745,600                       1 ',437,800                       1 ,466,700
RATE                                              16.2%                            46.7%                             37.1%
DISBURSEMENTS
(IN U.S. DOLLARS)                                828,200                         8,442,600                       10,583,100                         2,146,1 00
RATE                               -               3.7%                             38.4%                            48.1%            9_8%
IBRD-6111(t)






MAP 1
lO                              O
:                                             r                             x!                    ;  <   ,            t........   t u^t^$ ....      mAv      ¢             x  MM C iL\
Q PJ C/ 6/ C0 C,5  41                                   -                               FS                                 \  ;  _   _X \  ci-327
/1                                                                                                                                                                                                NEEF TO71
x                                                                       -         1                                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XTAPA-ZIHUATNJOTURi$M PROJECT
~~~  f  ~~~~~~i~~~I1XTAPÁ  ~ ~ ~  ~         ~        ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ~       X¡ST¡N5 NATIONAL. ROAOO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~elgIIONITIIII
1\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--ROAD, SYSTEM SEONDITROE
¿-    A PUERrA RAY   "(  ZUA4IVAO-                                                                                                                                       IHUTAEJ
CUNNUN  fc                                                                                -.-.-.-.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  ETR ONTM
1  ?              -:/                                                          y    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARCAS F'OR PMOS¡LE M ¡N SECOND STAGE
GRANDE 4GLANO                  Q\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...~~~~~~1i>                                         j                                       --< RECREATION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REREtif
(¿II)                          ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~1RESIDENTIAL- 
P A  C l  F                    0C  O   ~A/ IVI                                                                                                                        NDUSTR¡AL       -
____________________                                            '7            5O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CL~F  COURIE






MAP 2
EXISTING ZIHUATANEJO AIRPORT
TOPOGRAPHIC OBSTRUCTIONS
ZIHUATANEJO
4fb -'--' / Zj,/,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10100                        ¡ 
O  G_ _e-OO               °                                            9
a   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~    rs99p{R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~59OR






MEXICO
COACOYUL INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
MASTER PLAN
/-                             - -A - -s -C, - -E --
L  < .CRcr,Mo ST>G]?                              /~~-< 
UATCR\LR ,WrAY LIGHITS/
-             --  -                                  .---- ----- ..                                                                     .
JttLS -,                                                                -                                                                                                                                                                                       I_RD-35_4






MAP 4
COACOYUL INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
APPROACH TERMINAL PROCEDURES AIRPORT SURFACES  (ICAO) AND TERPS' SAFETY AREAS
DEPARTURE AR
t                         ~~~~~~~~~~AP~RACH RA -
APROACH PROCEDURE (VOR) RUNWAE OR
NOTE: CONTOUIS AT 50 METER INTERVALS                   5996(R)



