Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reot No. 10792
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2753-COB)
JUNE 26, 1992
Country Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                        CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                              CFAF 320Y
CFAFI million (1990)                 USS3,125
ABBREVIATIONS
BCC                 Commercial Bank of the Congo
(Banque Commerciale d Congo)
CCA        --       Congolese External Debt Management Agency
(Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissewent)
CHU                 University Hospital
(Centre Hospitalier Universitaire)
CORAF               Petroleum Refinery Parastatal
(Congolaise de Raffinage)
DCMCE               Central Procurement Commission
(Direction Centrale des Marches et Contrats de l'Etat)
DIEP       -        Public Enterprises Development Program
(Developpement Institutionnel des Entreprises Publiques)
IMF        --      International Monetary Fund
MEM        --       Ministry of Energy and Mines
MOF        --       Ministry of Finance
PCR        --       Project Completion Report
SAL        -        Structural Adjustment Loan
SECAL      --       Sectoral Adjustment Loan
TA I       --       First Technical Assistance Project
TA 11      --       Second Technical Assistance Project
UCB                The United Congolese Bank
(Union Congolaise des Banques)
UNDP       --       United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January Ist - December 31st
The CFA franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF I to CFAF 50.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
sce of D,rector-General
)Watkviis EvuaItimn
June 26, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on The Republic of Congo -
Second Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2753-COB)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on The Republic of Congo - Second Technical Assistance Project
(Loan 2753-COB)," prepared by the Country Operations Division of the Occidental
and Central Africa Department of the Africa Regional Office, with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLMION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2753-COB)
Table of Contents
PREFACE .................................................... i
EVALUATION SUMAI ARY  .             .......................................... iii
PART L PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTE ..... ....... 1
A.    Project Identity ...........................1................ 
B.  Background ................... 1
C      Project Description ....................   2
D.    Project Design and Organization .............................. 4
E.     Project Implementation and Results .6........ .                           6
F.  Impact and Sustainability of Project.                                        9
G. Bank Performance.                                                             9
IL  Borrower Performance ........ .                                             10
L Lessons Learned .11
PART IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE.... 13
A. Technical Implemenation .13
B.  Fnancial Implementation .14
C.     Conclusions and Recommendations ........................    15
PART IIL  SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE BASIC LOAN DATA .... ....  18
TABLE 1: PROJECr TIMErABLE ........                 .................  18
TABLE 2: CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT .....                      ......  18
TABLE 3: MASSION DATA ...........              ....................  19
TABLE 4: STAFF INP S  ............              ...................  19
TABLE 5: RELATED BA1NK LOANS .......                  ................  20
TABLE 6: TA II DISBURSEMENT SCHEDUIE  .....                    ........  21
TABLE 7: ECONOMIC INDICATORS TABLES  .....                    .......... 23
This document has a restricted distribution and rnay be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
SECOND TECHIICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECr
(LOAN 2753-COB)
PREFACE
1.    Thir is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Technical Assistance
Project in the Congo, for which Loan 2753-COB in the amount of US$4.0 million was
approved by the Executive Directois on September 16, 1986 and became effective in February
6, 1987. The Loan Closing Date, originally anticipated for June 30, 1989 was postponed twice
to June 30, 1990 and December 31, 1990.
2.    An amount of US$750,000, or almost 20 percent of the Loan, was canceled in April
30, 1991. The last disbursement was made on December 13, 1989 and the Loan was closed
on December 31, 1990.
3.    This report was prepared by staff of the Country Operations Division of the
Occidental and Central Africa Department of the Africa Region (AFICO). The Congolese
authorities have also prepared a Completion Report: a translation of its evaluative sections,
also prepared by staff of AFlCO, is included here as Part II. Its findings were taken into
account in preparation of Part I and the report is available in full in the project file.
4.    This report is based, inter alia on the Report and Recommendation of the President
to the Executive Directors, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, data contained in the Management Information System,
and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2753-COB)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.    Project Objectives
1.    The collapse of oil prices in the mid-1980s tr;gered an economic crisis in Congo (Part
I, para. 2). In respo.ase, the Government drew up a program to stabilize the economy. This
program was later reinforced by measures developed in dialogue with the Bank and the IMF
and was subsequently supported by a Bank-financed structural adjustment loan (SAL'). The
project under review was designed to help prepare the SAL and build on work started under
the First Technical Assistance Project (TA I, Ln 2285-COB, US$ 11.0 million, approved in
1983, see para. 3).
2.    The project aimed to help the Government: promote non-oil sector growth, improve
public investment programming and financial management, and formulate a cost effective
strategy to develop the petroleum sector. Accordingly, it comprised three elements: the
services of a resident financial economist anI a macro-economic planner for a Steering Group
established in the Prime Minister's office to help him manage the stabilization and adjustment
programs (para. 5); short-term consultancies to design financial and economic adjustment
policies; and help in managing the petroleum sector (paras. 4 to 10).
B.    Results
3.    The results of project assistance to the Steering Group were largely positive, although
it proved less of a force for change and a less effective instrument for coordinating the reform
effort than had been expected at appraisal (para. 46). Results obtained from the short-term
consultancies and assistance to the energy ministry were mixed. Non-performance in the
energy ministry (para. 28) led to cancellation of a significant portion of the loan
(US$750,000). The project life was considerably longer than initially planned and Loan funds
were used for implementation as well as preparation of SAL measures (para. 20, and Part II,
para. 62).
4.    The resident advisors formed the base of the ad hoc Technical Secretariat for the
Steering Group (para. 14). In the opinion of supervising Bank staff, the performance of the
financial economist was not fully satisfactory, particularly with regard to short-term consultant
selection (paras. 22 and 31) 1/. By contrast, the macroeconomist gave able assistance in
/ The Borrower does not agree with this finding (see Part II).



- iv -
helping formulate a medium-term framework for adjustment, design scenarios for sectoral
public investments, and develop a computerized debt management system (para. 24).
5.    Studies on banking sector reform, public investment programming, private sector
promotion and education reform formulated recommendations for reform in these areas
(para. 30) but the findings could not be put into practice because of political and institutional
constraints (para. 34). Other studies specified in the Loan Agreement did not turn out to be
relevant, or were not done in a timely manner, or were not done at all.
6.    Studies on exploration in the Coastal Basin (Kayes) and Litchendjili gas field were
valuable: the Kayes study led to the participation of multinational oil companies in exploring
the coastal region while the Litchendjili study revealed good potential for natural gas
production and prompted a foreign investor to examine possibilities for a joint venture.
Efforts to revise the Mining Code and the framework for o;i concessions were contentious:
ultimately, the ministry objected to the Bank's examining these issues on sovereignty grounds.
It blocked transmission of the report to the Bank and did not adopt the policy
recommendations. Software and computer equipment were acquired (para. 35) to expand the
analytic capacity at the energy ministry with funds initially earmarked for studies. Overall, two
features of the this component stand out: long implementation lags and lack of commitment
of key energy ministry staff.
7.    Reports and Audits.  Reporting under the project was patchy (para. 32). Only one
audit has so far been received at the Bank. It was judged satisfactory. A final audit is
pending (para. 32).
C.    Findings and Lessons Learned
8.    TA II experience highlights issues which have arisen in similar operations and the
general conclusions drawn are common to many TA operations. This is not surprising: they
arise from dilemmas inherent in the need to respond to multiple, urgent priorities (para. 43
ff.).
9.    Project scope was very ambitious (paras. 4 through 9) and this resulted in a lack of
focus and placed great strains on Bank supervision capacities (parr. 36 ff.).
10.   The project's most serious deficiency was that it did not help the Government increase
and sustain its economic management capacity. The Government may have felt that it did
nr'. have time to take the long term view but needed immediate remeoies. The result was
that the project was essentially a tactical, not a strategic exercise.
11.   Other lessons are specific to this operation. Signs of the weakness of the political will
to implement reform seem to have gone unheeded (para. 40). It may be that the policy
dialogue was confined to too limited a circle: Bank staff may have underestimated the
Government's difficulty in establishing a consensus on reform. The result was that the project
faced unexpected difficulties at the implementation stage (para. 38). In part because of a
failure to establish a clear management structure (para. 14), project reporting and auditing
were deficient and the Bank did not take the action to correct these shortcomings.



-V.
12.   The tensions which run through TA II -- between expedience and urgency on the one
hand and the need to establish national capacities on the other, between the need to move
on several fronts at once and the need for a targeted approach -- are highlighted in OED's
recent review of TA experience in Africa and can be traced in the Bank's technical assistance
operations elsewhere in the region. There is no 'correct solution". The approach adopted
in TA II involved choices, all of which had their cost.



PROJECT COMPLEIlON REPORT
REPUBUC OF CONGO
SECOND TECHNICAL ASS[STANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2753-COB)
PART L PROJECr REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Project Name       Second Technical Assistance Project
Loan No.           2753-COB
Loan Amount               US$4 Million Equivalent
RVP Unit           Africa Region
Country            (former People's) Republic of the Congo
Sector             Economic management
B.    Backgrounrd
1.    Tbe structure of the Congolese economy underwent major transformation after
Independence in 1960. Until then, because of Brazzaville's role - 'he administrative capital
of the Federation of Equatorial African States and Cok.go's focal p.xition in central Africa's
transport network, the economy had been service oriented. Oil discoveries in the late 1960s,
followed by production of commercially viable quantities and major oil price increases in the
1970s, transformed Congo's economic structure, government finances, and balance of
payments situation. By the mid-1980s, the oil sector accounted for close to half of GDP.
Rapidly rising oil revenues led to the launching of ambitious development plans: public
investment increased several-fold in the period 1980 to 1985; free delivery of social services
was instituted and external borrowing expanded.
2.    Softening oil prices in 1984-85 and their collapse in 1986 placed the Government in
an acute liquidity squeeze. Substantial arrears were incurred on external debts. After initial
attempts to stabilize the economic situation on its own, the Government decided to request
assistance from the international community, including the World Bank and the IMF, and
requested the Bank to consider financing the Second Technical Assistance Project (TA II).
3.    The Furst TA Project. TA II was preceded by a first Technical Assistance Project (TA
I, Ln. 2285-COB for US$11.0 million, approved in 1983) which was designed to help the
Government improve macro-economic management. Project activities under TA I generated
much needed economic information and facilitated the analysis of sectoral data (see TA I
Completion Report, May 15, 1990). However, its results were not alone sufficient to permit
preparation and implementation of the comprehensive structural adjustment operation needed
to address Congo's economic problems. TA II was therefore conceived to build upon and
complement TA I achievements.



C.    Proiect Descriptiort
4.    Project act,vities were selected vo help the Government: i) design and implement measures
to promote growth in the non-oil productive sectors; ii) improve public investment programming
and the management of public finances (including debt management); and iii) formulate a more
effective petroieum strategy. Accordingly, the project comprised three principal components:
-      long-term assistance to the Office of the Prime Minister through the provision of the
services of a financial economi. t and a macroeconomic planner [Part A of the Loan
Agreement];
-     short-term consultancies to design financial and economic adjustment policy measures
[Parts B through G];
-      and assistance to the petroleum sector [Part H].
5.    Assistance to the Prime Minister's Office.  The crisis atmosphere created by the
worsening economic situation (para. 2) prompted the Prime Minister to become directly inivolved
both in daily management of economic affairs and in the broad macro-management of the
economy.  A Steering Group (Groupe de Pilotage) was created to help him  meet these
management challenges. A "Secretariat ad Hoc" (Technical Secretariat) was subsequently created
to provide the necessary technical support to the Steering Group for implementation of the
Government's short-term stabilization program and formulation of a coherent medium-term
economic adjustment program. The financial economist and macro-economic planner (,ara. 4)
were members of this Secretariat whose mission was seen as a prerequisite to establishing the
country's creditworthiness and providing the basis for economic growth. The appointment of
these two advisers was made a condition of Loan effectiveness. Their terms of reference are
summarized below (para. 6 and 7) and are available in full in the Project File.
6.    The responsibilities of the financial economist were wide: they included: helping the
Ministry of Finance and Budget (MOF) prepare the 1987 and 1988 budget; participation in the
deliberations of the IMF Stand-By arrangement and monitoring of public revenues and
expenditures under the program; assistance in designing measures to improve efficiency of the
public service system; advising on public enterprise issues, particularly with respect to public
investments or financial support to enterprises, and coordinating activities leading to future Bank
assistance to public enterprises; updating balance of payments estimates; making recommendations
on evernal debt management issues; and coordinating the short-term consultancies (para. 8).
7.    The responsibilities of the macroeconomic planner included the following: formulation
of a medium-term framework for the economic adjustment program; assisting in the design of
adjustment measures for public investments, especially in agricultur3 and forestry; development
of recommendations on employment and education policy; and coordination of short-term
consultancies in his area of expertise. He was also responsible for the implementation of the
petroleum development component.
8.    Short-Term Consultancies. Six institutions were targeted for assistance: MOF, the debt
agency, (Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissement -- CCA), the Central Procurement Commission
(DCMCE) and the ministries responsible for Planning and the Economy, Agriculture, and



-3 -
Forestry Development. Numerous tasks in each of these institutions were identified and included
in the Project. These included:
Ministry of Finance and Budget
a)    assistance to public sector budget preparation, periodic review of public revenue and
expenditure, and follow-up of balance of payment projections;
b)    a study on the banking sector;
c)    definition of the legal framework for future public enterprise reform;
d)    design of legislative and regulatory measures on civil serv.ce employment.
Caisse Congolaise d'Amorisser-ent
Wide-ranging assistance with external debt rescheduling [see Part C of the Loan
Agreement].
Central Procurement Commission (DCMCE)
Improvement of procurement procedures and monitoring (Part D of the Loan
Agreement].
Ministry of Planning and Economy -
a)    assistance in preparation and monitoring of the public investment program;
b)    studies on: legislation and practices affecting the establishment of private enterprises,
employment, foreign investments, and vocational training programs; and
c)    identification of practical, specific measures to make the education system more
responsive to the real needs of the economy [Part E of the Loan Agreement].
Ministry of Agriculture
The design of agricultural pricing and marketing, research, extension, and credit policy
measures [Part F of the Loan Agreement].
Ministry of Forestry Development
The design of measures to improve management, research, production, processing,
transport, and marketing in the timber sub-sector and to channel support and provide
incentives for small-scale producers [Part G of the Loan Agreement].
9.    Assistance to the Ministry of Energy and Mines. Assistance to this Ministry [Part H of
the Loan Agreement] was designed to improve management of the petroleum sector through:
a)    articulation of a petroleum development strategy to include the promotion of exploration
in the Coastal (Kayes) and the Central (Cuvette) Basins and updating of the framework
foc petroleum production agreements (Mining Code);



-4 -
b)    studies of the utilization of the Litchendjili ga.s condensate field; the financial and
technical management of the CORAF refinery ar.d its implications for the energy sector;
p3wer sector studies; and
c)    the design and implementation of a computerized system of technical information and the
acquisition of computers and associated software.
10.   Special Conditions. In addition te the appointment of the two advisors, which was a
condition of effectiveness, the Loan Agreement required that: each participatirg agency designate
a liaison officer to work with the advisors; and the Government and the Bank review project
implementation progress twice a year and chart a work program for the following six months.
D.    ProJect Design and Organization
11.   Clearly, the sco, e of the TA IX project was considerable (paras 4 to 9). This was largely
a response to the crisis atmosphere pervading the macroeconomic environment and the impact this
had on approaches to economic management. The ambitious design of TA II also flowed from
the significant contribution that the predecessor project, TA I, had provided in supplying the
necessary inputs for macroeconomic management -- the expatriate advisors recruited under TfA
I efficiently disch.ged key functions such as public inves.ment programming, debt analysis and
design of a macro-economic framework. In so doing, TA I substituted for scarce or non-existent
national expertise in these fields (see also para. 45).
12.   These vital economic management functions had to continue after TA I closed and TA
-I was the vehicle th-c allowed this to happen. Since TA I had not alleviated the dearth of
appropriately qualified national staff, and given the urgency of addressing Congo's economic
management needs, the focus of TA II was overwhelmingly on provision of high calibre expertise
for immediate "trouble-shooting" and puinctual tasks. For this reason, the project design had a
built-in reliance on expatriate expertise and was oriented to short-term results; the transfer of
know-how to national staff was not a priority.
13.   The project's administrative and organizational setting was also by the general atmosphere
of crisis and urgency and by the modalities established under TA I. At the request of the
Government, the interministerial Steering Group (para. 1) was strengthened and the Technical
Secretariat established to prepare the SAL. It was expected that the Steering Group would serve
as a forum for coordination within the Government and as a catalyst in forming a consensus on
the need for adjustment. The result, however, was otherwise (para. 46)
14.   Project Management.  The Lonn Agreement made no specific provision for the
management of TA II. It therefore remained in the hands of the same expatriate advisors who
had managed TA I.   This proved a most unsatisfactory arrangement 1/. Both of these
consultants were provided by the same firm. The financial economist administered the technical
aspects of the project, while the manager of the predecessor TA I project retained control of the
management of the technical assistance effort under TA II. Even though he was not formally the
project manager, he continued to sign Loan withdrawal applications and to manage the Special
/ The Borrower takes a different view: see Pi.rt II.



Account. This was a serious limitation on the project's usefulness and, ultimately, placed the
Bank in a delicate position.
15.   TA II, a significantly smaller loan than TA I (US$ 4 million as opposed to US$ 11
million), was intended to be specifically targeted to preparation of the envisaged reform program.
In practice, this did not happen. Each project component contained numerous tasks - in all over
twenty. Neither was the SAL itself -- the raison d'atre of TA II - a sharply focussed adjustment
operatiz.-. The wide range of issues envisaged under the SAL naturally translated into a widened
scope for TA 11. With benefit of hindsight and the experience gained during release of the SAL
second tranche, it is now evident that TA 1, TA II, and the SAL all exhibited the same weakness
-the so-called "Christm'.s Tree" syndrome. An associated weakness was that the Task Manager
(in the Country Operations Division) was responsible for supervision, or best, coordinating
supervision, of many disparate activities without clearly articulated lines of responsib!ivR or
adequate resources. Unhappily, these limitations led to uneven project performance: some tasks
were well supported by Bank supervision, others received lower priority from supervising s¢aff
of sectoral and technical divisions, still others were hardly supervised at all.
16.   Assistance to the Ministry of Energy and Mines. While the design of the long and short
term consultancies (para 4) may have evolved naturally from TA I, the design of assistance to
the petroleum sector -- indeed, the inclusion of this component in the project - was the subject
of much discussion within the Bank. Since the late 1970s, the Bank had been active in Congo's
petroleum sector, whether in the Petroleum Exploration Project during 1979-86 (Cr.0971-COB),
or the Energy Assessment during 1984-86. This level of involvement reflected the critical
dependence of Congo's economy and finances on the petroleum sector. At the same time as TA
II was being prepared, a follow-up operation to the Petroleum Exploration Project had already
reached an advanced stage of preparation. Judging that it was in the Borrower's and the Bank's
interest to combine these separate TA efforts as far as possible, and faced with the need to act
swiftly on petroleum sector policy to help shore up the country's deteriorating finances, the
Govermnent and the Bank agreed during preparation to include technical assistance for the
petroleum sector in TA 11 as a major component.
17.   The MEM has always maintained an independent posture within the Congo body-politic
and zealously guarded its turf in managing the energy sector and its enterprises. Traditionally,
the Energy Minister is one of the most powerful figures in the Government. A most difficult
challenge at the time was thus how to introduce reform elements in the energy sector while the
Minister maintained an arms-length posture vis-a-vis the Bank. The Bank decision to include the
reform of the energy sector within the envisaged adjustment package was made at the working
level. This made eminent sense from a technical point of view but it failed to recognize the
realities of the politico-institutional framework within which the project had to operate and proved
an unworkable arrangement (para. 28).
18.   Most of the Bank's preparatory work for TA II and SAL was done in close consultation
with the Ministers of Finance and Planning and their expatriate advisors. Though both Ministers
spoke on behalf of the Government, events proved that their influence on MEM was much less
than Bank staff had expected. The institutional setting for the energy component was thus both
inadequate and unfortunate, as evidenced by entrusting the management of that component to the
macroeconomic planning advisor. This may have sent the wrong signal to MEM senior staff:
their previous contact with the Bank had always been direct. Under TA II, MEM staff perceived
the relationship as indirect with the Technical Secretariat interposed between them and the Bank.



Significantly, the advisor entrusted with coordinating this component deferred to the earlier direct
Bank MEM arrangement, and took a passive stance. The result of this ambiguity was that
management of the energy component effectively fell between the cracks. a/
E.    Project Implementation and Results
19.   Since it was expected that TA II outputs would serve as inputs to the proposed SAL
operations, the project was originally planned to be implemented over two years - an unusually
short period by Bank standards. In the event, the project closing date was postponed twice and
the implementation period was close to four years - still somewhat below average for this type
of project. In the initial period implementation followed the agreed pace but the rapid
deterioration of the economic situation warranted prompt action on the reform front. For this
reason, preparations for the SAL were accelerated with regard to the availability of relevant TA
II outputs.
20.   The period of TA II implementation coincided with that of two related projezts: SAL and
DIEP (Public Enterprises Institutional Development). Lines of demarcation between these
projects occasionally were blurred and some TA II funds were used for SAL implementation, a
primary function of the DIEP project. Nor was this an isolated incident; a pattern of such mix-
ups can be seen. Some representatives of the Borrower seem to have cot.zluoicd that Bank TA
projects are simply sources of readily available financing for a variety of objectives which may
be more or less clearly specified up-front. This perception may have develbped through the
observation that, typically, tasks not implemented under one TA project are picked up by the
follow-up project. Examples: expatriate advisors were financed under all three TA projects; debt
management "cascaded" from TA I to TA II; and some sector studies planned to be carried out
under TA II spilled over to the DIEP.
21.   Resident Experts. Both the financial economist and the macroeconomic planner were
appointed for Loan effectiveness. Both had been previously financed under the TA I project to
assist the Ministers of Finance and Planning respectively. Their continuing to carry out these
functions as well as serving on the Technical Secretariat of the Steering Group seemed an
appropriate use of resources both to the Bank and the Government. Both advisors complemented
their technical expertise with a familiarity with working conditions and institutions in the Congo.
When their contracts under TA II expired, they were retained to help implement the SAL under
DIEP project funding.
22.   The performance of the financial economist was uneven: his selection of consultants was
poor and generally dictated by affinity to his firm of origin (see also paras 14 and 30). The
quality of his overall output was barely adequate but he fulfilled the reporting requirements of
his post conscientiously.  By contrast, the macroeconomist followed agreed procurement
procedures more rigorously and produced better quality output but he was less regular and
insufficiently detailed in reporting his activities to the Bank.
2/ See also Part II, para. 57, where the Borrower's report hW.ghlights
this as a deficiency in project design.



23.   Implementation of the assistance to the Ministry of Finance and Budget (Part B) had
mixed results. The financial economist did a barely adequate job of carrying out his designated
tasks: public sector budget preparation, revenue and expenditure review, and balance of payments
projections monitoring. After some delay, the study on the banking sector was carried out. Its
initial, narrow focus was subsequently expanded to provide a blueprint for banking sector reform
at the Bank's suggestion. Implementation of the other tasks specified under Part B of the project
was poor. The study of the legal framework for the reform of public enterprises was not
satisfactorily carried out by the first consultant and had to be completed by another, financed
under the DIEP. Similarly, the consultant cho:n to design legislative and regulatory measures
for the civil service performed poorly and had to be relieved shortly after appointment. Again,
the replacement consultant was financed under the DIEP.
24.    Assistance to CCA had already started under TA I. Much more work needed to follow,
especially on debt rescheduling and settlement of disputes. Although the consultants recruited
had worked before for the CCA, they were ill-prepared to train Congolese staff, and this was a
frequent source of complaint by the Director General. Moreover, much of the work on debt
rescheduling financed under TA 1I turned out to be useless and was ultimately abandoned. The
macroeconomic planner, however, developed a system for debt management which was judged
by Bank specialists to be simpler and more efficient.  The system  is presently working
satisfactorily at the CCA, and this positive development is reinforced by the training which the
macroeconomist provided for Congolese staff. The system he developed has been subsequently
used by other Bank borrowers, with equally satisfactory results. Had it not been for this timely
and constructive intervention -- the one "technology transfer" achievement of TA 11 -- the
unsatisfactory situation at the CCA could have continued indefinitely.
25.    Assistance to DCMCE was limited to a study that identified the necessary elements of
reform. It has not been followed by any action since that recommended would have adversely
affected vesttd interests within official circles. Resolution of this matter remains not a technical
but political issue.
26.    Assistance to Ministry of Planning and Economy also produced mixed results. Two
tasks in this sector were quite valuable for SAL implementation: preparation and monitoring of
the public investment program, and the study of legislation and practices relating to the
establishment of private enterprises. The study on the educational system identified several critical
points in educational reform. Among the recommendations was the liberalization of the
educational system, including the establishment of private schools. This last measure has been
adopted but many others remain to be taken. Finally, the study on vocational training programs
was carried out with financing from DIEP, not TA II.
27.    Assistance to the agricultural sector, including forestry, produced numerous studies, with
little impact on the formulation of agricultural policy. Despite the obvious importance of
agriculture and forestry development for the diversification of Congo's economy, government
commitment to reform and progress in this sector was not sufficiently strong. Although the true
constraints (marketing and rural roads) are well known, most of the TA work for agriculture and
forestry has tended to address other issues which are less crucial.
28.    Finally, the assistance to the Ministry of Energy and Mines had equally mixed results.
Studies on exploration promotion for the Coastal Basin (Kayes) and the utilization of the
Litchendjili gas field yielded useful results. The Kayes study was instrumental in attracting the



- 8 -
participation of several multinational oil companies for exploration in the coastal region. The
Litchendjili study revealed a promising potential for natural gas production and prompted an
American energy company to examine possibilities in Congo for a private sector venture. Studies
on exploration promotion in Cuvette, on the management of CORAF, and on power sector issues
were all tabled. Efforts to update the Mining Code and revamp the unsatisfactory framework for
oil concessions became contentious. The MEM objected to Bank participation in examining these
sensitive issues on sovereignty grounds. Upon completion of the study, the MEM blocked the
transmission of the relevant report to the Bank and adopted neither the conclusions nor the
associated policy recommendations. Some software and computer equipment was procured und&..r
the project to expand MEM's analytic capacity. Most funds initially earmarked for studies which
were not, in fact, carried during the first two years of the project were reallocated for the
procurement of more computers.
29.   Overall, two features are particularly striking in the TA II petroleum sector component:
the long implementation lags and the MEM's reluctance to participate actively in project
activities. Ultimately, US$ 0.75 million of the initial Loan amount was canceled because of the
non-performance of MEM.
30.   Many of the consultant services procured under this project were performed to high
professional standards but it should be noted that one company, CEGOS, enjoyed a virtual
monopoly in this area. The same occurred under TA I, as is detailed in the Project Completion
Report for that operation. Except for assistance to the energy ministry, most project activities
were implemented by consultants directly or indirectly connected with this firm. This situation
may be explained to a large extent by factors both in the Government and at the Bank. On the
Government side, TA I was managed de facto by an expatriate advisor who had access to the
country's highest authorities. This strengthened his hand in controlling the national technical
assistance effort (para. 14). Government officials, in their desire to maintain uninterrupted the
pace of TA work and in deference to the advisor's special connections, did not shift project
management to Congolese hands, even though the Bank urged this. The forceful action by the
Bank that would have been necessary to redress this situation was never forthcoming. This may
have been partly due to the disruption caused by the reorganization of the Bank and the
redeployment of staff at a critical stage in the implementation of this project.
31.   Procurement Issues. The absence of firm supervision by Bank staff early in project
implementation left the project's (de facto) manager to resort almost exclusively to sole-sourcing
in awarding service contracts. This was a clear abuse of a Bank procurement guideline which
allows for sole-sourcing only under special conditions. Whenever Bank staff pointed to the high
frequency with which this method was being used, the Government responded by formally asking
the Bank for waivers, or by insisting on the appointment of certain advisors.
32.   Audit Reporting. The Technical Secretariat of the Steering Group was responsible for
keeping records and accounts adequate to monitor the implementation of the project. A special
account was established, and related records were supposed to be audited each year by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. In the four years of the project life, only one audit
report was submitted to the Bank. It was, however, judged satisfactory. The final audit is still
pending and, given the non-accrual status of Congo, will have to be financed from local sources.
No qualified auditors have so far responded to the Government invitation - probably because
they have little confidence that they would be paid in present circumstances.



- 9 -
F.    Impact and Sustainability of Proiect
33.   The project design was oriented to implementing SAL measures rather than to institution-
building or improving the institutional capacity of the Government. Much of the technical work
needed for the reform program to proceed in a productive and timely fashion was done by the
advisors to the Steering Group: this precluded any sustained emphasis on the training of
Congolese staff to handle these tasks. The benefits of such an approach are clear but there is also
a cost to this approach: the Government does not acquire any permanent capacity of its own to
do the technical work needed. This deficiency is all the more acutely felt when sources of
external funding dry up, as indeed they have, and the country is in no position to afford
expatriate advisors.
34.   Some of the work done under parts B through G did, indeed, lead to significant benefits,
such as the incorporation of a medium-term framework and a public investment program as
integral parts of the planning process, the identification of a monitorable program for the reform
of the banking sector, and the establishment of a working system for debt management at the
CCA. But other activities -- studies on agriculture, educational reform, private enterprise
constraints and vocational training programs -- were delayed to the point where they lost any
relevance to SAL implementation. However, the conclusions and policy recommendations of
these studies should be drawn on before further studies, which may duplicate what has already
been done, are considered.
35.    Activities under Part H of the project did have significant long-term value. One such was
the petroleum exploration strategy for the Coastal Basin and the potential utilization of the
Litchendjili gas field. The hardware and software procured for the MEM Computer Center
undeniably improved the ministry's capacity to plan and manage the country's petroleum
resources.
G.    Bank Performance
36.   The President's Report identified possible slippage in implementation as the sole risk in
this project. While several components were implemented in a generally timely fashion,
significant delays did occur in other components, some as a result of the lags in SAL
implementation, others were not directly related to SAL. In some cases, delays were due to the
internal reorganization of the Bank which took place in 1987, the early phase of project
implementation, while staff responsibilities were still being sorted out. The limited resources
which could be allotted to supervision (see Table 4, Part III) compounded this.
37.   Technical Assistance projects are typically demanding of staff time and in particular call
for intensive supervision. TA II was no exception. The time that the Bank's technical and
sectoral divisions provided for the review of TORs, procurement of consultant services,
assessment of completed studies, field visits, and other back-up support was generally inadequate
although in some instances, notably project activities in the energy sector, it was good. The Task
Manager could, perhaps, have acted more forcefully to coordinate supervision inputs for
specialized components but the mobilization of such inputs depends on the incentives which
technical and sectoral divisions perceive. It was not until the SAL itself was well under way that
the combined resources for supervision of both operations were sufficient to allow significant staff
resources to be concentrated on supervision of TA II.



- 10-
38.   The large number of executing agencies on the Government side -- no fewer than eight -
- added to the complexity of the project and was no doubt a contributing factor to the numerous
implementation delays the project experienced. The involvement of so many agencies may have
been dictated by the comprehensive coverage of the SAL itself but as a practical matter,
expediency dictated that Bank staff deal with these various agencies indirectly, through the
intermediary of the Technical Secretariat of the Steering Group. Because of internal government
dynamics, essentially a wariness on the part of some ministers that their decision-making
prerogative might be preempted, the Steering Group proper was never able to fulfill its
anticipated role of a "super agency" (para. 5).
39.   The unusually short implementation period (para. 19) was a conscious choice on the part
of the designers of the project as was its reliance on the participation of expatriate consultants and
advisers. The objective was to get the adjustment process under way. These choices entailed a
relatively low priority for expanding the capacity of Congolese institutions or for training national
staff to design and implement adjustment measures. Little was done under the project to equip
the Congolese authorities with the institutional capacity to carry out similar future operations once
TA II was completed (para. 45).
H.    Borrower Performance
40.   The Borrower's performance was shaped by a number of structural and behavioral factors
which combined to make government commitment to adjustment weak. For all the dramatic
improvement that revenues from the oil sector had previously brought about in the
macroeconomic situation, it seems that they had an adverse effect on the country's institutional
development. This has been observed in other oil exporting countries: technically complex
macroeconomic management tasks were left overwhelmingly in the hands of expatriate
consultants. Meanwhile, due to the ostensibly socialist orientation of the Government, the hiring
of young graduates into the Civil Service and the public enterprise sector continued unabated.
This situation had been underwritten for over 20 years by a coalition of three major political
forces -- the Party, the Trades Unions and the Army. A true conflict within the body-politic
developed as the need for major reform and structural adjustment emerged. The contradiction
was in attempting to implement far-reaching economic adjustment without seriously affecting
strong vested interests. While some groups were committed to adjustment, others saw the process
ds a threat.
41.   In retrospect, it is clear that the Government's commitment to adjustment was weak, even
initially, and it grew weaker over time. Bank staff were aware of the conflicting interests within
the Congo but judged at the time that the reformists would be able to lead a national debate on
reform which would line up the support needed for adjustment to succeed. In retrospect, it is
clear that no such debate took place.
42.   Disturbed by the crisis atmosphere in the country, the Government insisted on launching
the adjustment program before the results of TA II were available. This hurried approach in
effect closed the options of developing national institutions or training national staff to manage
the adjustment process. Project management was left in the hands of an expatriate manager and
no provisions were made for the transfer of this responsibility to Congolese staff. The repeated
requests of CCA staff to remove the old advisory team and start afresh on the debt management



- I1 -
front were virtually ignored. Effectively, the Government left it up to Bank supervision missions
to deal with the implementing agencies' complaints and issues.
I.     Lessons Learned
43.   Review of the overall implementation experience with TA II highlights issues which have
arisen in similar operations elsewhere. The specific reasons for the limited impact of some
components and overall slippage, the political and social conflicts of the day and the varying
strengths or weaknesses of a given actor are particular to the project and to Congo, but the
general conclusions to be drawn from the exercise are common to many TA operations. Thtis is
hardly surprising since they arise from inherent dilemmas posed by the need to make effective
responses to multiple, urgent priorities.
44.    Even if the ambitious scope of TA II activities was arguably justified by the Congo's
dramatic situation, it resulted in a certain lack of focus to the project and placed strains on Bank
supervision capacities which proved too great (paras. 4 to 9). In the final analysis, it was not
judicious to include tasks for which adequate supervision could not ultimately be provided.
45.   Perhaps the project's most serious deficiency was that it did little or nothing to build a
national capacity for economic management: there was no training component and the support
provided by the expatriate advisers and consultants was task-oriented and self-contained. In
effect, the project "imported" ready-made solutions to specific problems rather than established
any problem-solving capacity within the economic ministries. This was a feature of the design
of the project and an argument can be made to justify it: the Government may have felt that it
did not have time to take more measured steps. The result was that the project was essentially
a tactical, not a strategic exercise.
46.   Other lessons to be drawn from TA II are specific to the operation. The signs of weak
political will to implement reform were there (para. 40) but Bank staff seem not to have heeded
them. The lesson here is perhaps that the policy dialogue was confined to too limited a circle:
Bank staff seem to have underestimated the Government's difficulty in establishing a consensus
and agreeing a common agenda for radical reform. The result was that when the project reached
the implementation stage it faced difficulties which had not been anticipated: long delays arose
from the Steering Group's inability to exercise sufficient authority over the numerous
implementing agencies (para. 38), even though it was headed by the Prime Minister. Insufficient
account was taken of the fact that individual ministers, notably the Minister of Energy, enjoy --
and defend -- a considerable measure of autonomy (paras. 17 and 38).
47.   Final'y, the Bank should have acted more vigorously to address the anomalies such as
poor aucliting performance (para. 32) and the excessive use of sole-source procurement (para. 31)
which resulted from the lack of any formal, agreed management structure (para. 14).
48.   Had the options selected under TA II been otherwise, if resources had been channeled
to appropriate training and project activities heen more selectively targeted, the results may well
have been more positive. However, the twu .reads which run through the preparation, design
and implementation of TA II -- the weighing of expedience and urgency against the time and
resources needed to establish national capacities, and the tension existing between the need to
move on several fronts at once and the desirability of a highly focussed approach. These



- 12 -
divergent and competing needs are highlighted in OED's recent review of TA experience in
Africa and can be traced in the Bank's technical assistance operations elsewhere in the region.
There is no "correct solution" to these problems. The approach adopted in the project under
review inevitably involved choices and all of these had their cost.



- 13 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Technical Implementation
49.    The Financial Economist.  Mr. Gerard's technical performance as advisor to the
Government and assistant to the Chairman of the Steering Group was satisfactory due to his
experience with structural adjustment in other countries (Gabon, Cote d'Ivoire, and Congo under
TA l); his relationship with funding sources (IMF, Bank, France, Paris Club, and London Club);
and his relationship with authorities and officials of other countries. The activity reports reflect
his technical competence and are a reliable account of his role in the programming, selection,
coordination, and evaluation of consultants and also his follow-up on finances and accounting.
50.   As a result, the authorities requested, and the Bank approved, the extension of Mr.
Gerard's contract beyond his initial 20 month assignment, under financing from DIEP (Public
Enterprises Institutional Development Project).
51.   Badget and Balance of Payments. The experience of Mr. Demangel in the field of
internal and external accounts of different countries allowed him to accomplish his mission
successfully. An extension of his contract was requested by the authorities and approved by the
Bank under the DIEP; at the end of his 10 months assignment financed under TA II. This
extension enabled him to train a group of public officials who presently carry out similar tasks
for the Steering Group and/or the Treasury Committee (Comite de Tresorerie).
52.   Legal Framework for PE Reform. M. Sage, who previously worked for the CCA under
TA I, was assigned for three months to analyze the legal framework for PE reform. His
performance was not totally satisfactory, however, due to frequent requests for his services from
another department in the CCA, namely the group in charge of settlement of disputes (Groupe
de Gestion des Contentieux). Such disputes increased as a result of the SAL-related stoppage of
road construction projects. As agreed by the Bank, Mr. Sage's uncompleted work was finished
by Mrs. van der Stricht under the DIEP. This work provided the basis for releasing PE
personnel envisaged under the SAL.
53.   Management of Civil Service Employment. The 13 man-month study was a follow-up
to work started under TA I. Its implementation under TA II was delayed by the serious illness
of Mr. Becheret and the resignation of Mr. Le Gay. However, a new advisor, Mr. Roty,
completed the work under DIEP in a short period, thus compensating for earlier delays. Work
accomplished in this domain under TA 1, TA 11, and now the DIEP has resulted in a reduction
of the number of civil service personnel from 73,348 at end 1986 to 70,864 at end 1990. Budget
allocations, including for social services, fell from CFAF 83 billion in 1987 to 79.3 billion in
1990.
54.   Study on Procurement Procedures.  The development of a procurement code was
financed under TA 1. Subsequent work done under TA II by Mr. Rainaut for six months in 1987
took into account some, but not all, comments made by Bank staff on the earlier draft. After a
new round of discussion with the Bank, the expert completed a draft decree for PE procurement
procedures. This was adopted by the Government at end 1988.



- 14 -
55.   Banking Sector Study. This study was to be implemented in two phases and was
awarded to CIFPB 3/. However, it was agreed with the Bank that only the audit and
recommendation phase, the first phase of the project, would be implemented. The important
delays that affected the progress of this study were due to the following:
-     misplacement of the submitted draft reports required in the terms of reference;
-     the request of the Steering Group Secretariat for additional information from the
authors of these reports;
-     the Bank's request for updating by two additional experts;
-     the Government's decision, with Bank approval, to implement the study in phases
independently of CIFPB.
CIFPB's ground work was satisfactory and was completed as mentioned above. This work led
to significant improvements in UCB's and BCC's balance sheets, as well as in the management
of UCB.
56.   Project Coordination. The internal coordination of the two major components of TA II,
finance/economy and macro-economy, was satisfactorily carried out. Because the Bank preferred
to deal directly with the department concerned, coordination in the mining sector was not as
successful. When misunderstanding developed, however, the project coordinator intervened
before both the Bank and the Government. As a result of his intervention, the computerization
of the MEM was implemented and completed at the same time as the other components of TA
1I, despite initial delays. However, the remaining three components involving the mining sector
led to a one-year extension of the loan, and were not completed until April 1991. The
consultants were not responsible for this delay, which was rather caused by the Bank's
supervision system (direct contacts between the Bank and MEM, decisions making process
involving the technical department rather than AFICO, the Steering Group Secretariat was neither
involved in the preparation of the consultant's contracts, nor did it receive their reports).
Progress on these components was retarded by strikes at MEM in 1990 and 1991.
57.   Overall, external coordination (Bank/TA II) was satisfactory. It would have been
stronger had the Bank kept the Steering Group Secretariat and the Coordinaljrs of TA II and
DIEP informed of all its correspondence with MEM.
B.    Financial Implementation
58.   Management and Accounting. TA II financial management and accounting was made
somewhat more difficult by the pre-existing TA I management structure which was maintained
in place until September 1989. The Chairman of the Steering Group Secretariat and the
coordinators were neither individually nor collectively responsible for the financial management
of TA II. This, however, did not significantly disturb the activities of the project, beyond
occasional delays in making payments. The procedures were revised in September 1989 to allow
3/ A French consulting company (translator's note).



- 15 -
the chairman of the Steering Group and the TA II and DIEP coordinators to take all necessary
steps to improve operations, starting January 1, 1990.
Nevertheless, the coordinator was able to keep a monthly report on contracts and payments.
59.   The content of the last report (04/30/1991) is summarized elsewhere in this report
[available in the Project file -- translator's note]. It is important to note that:
-      the US$ value is an estimate.  The Steering Group Secretariat did not
systematically receive dollar and CFA amounts of payments made on the loan by
the Bank's disbursemen. department;
-      the last consultants' withdrawal applications from  the mining sector were
prepared before April 30, 1991 but could not be signed and transmitted to the
Bank before that date (due to strikes at MEM, the absence of the Minister of
Finance, and the unavailability of his . .ag replacement). All withdrawal
applications were returned to the Steering Group Secretariat by the Bank's
resident mission and are presently ii'cluded in the Government arrears.
60.   Audit. The proecedures for starting the first audit were established before the initial
closing date of the loan. The audit was conducted in July/August 1989. The auditors' report,
dated 1/26/1990, was analyzed. Besides the commer.:s on the financial management mentioned
elsewhere in this report, most of which were taken into account, the report pointed to deficiencies
especially with regard to documentation. These, however, are explained by the simple fact that
the auditors included in their analysis expenses related to the activities of the Steering Group
Secretariat, outside the TA II project.
61.   It was, however, drawn to the attention of the auditors, both verbally and in writing, that
the authorities were satisfied with a single account covering both local spending related to TA II
and spending related to the Steering Group's other activities. As a consequence, only papers
related to TA II were subject to the audit, and those were submitted.
C.    Conclusions and Recommendations
62.   On the Technical Conception.  TA II support through the economic and financial
component was essential to the implementation and monitoring of SAL measures. The majority
ef the measures implemented in this field ("equilibres generaux", revenues, currency, credit)
resulted from the work initiated by or followed-up on by TA II. The results at the end of the TA
II project and during the DIEP were very satisfactory, especially in reducing public sector
spending both in investments and functioning.
However, the adjustment is not over. In particular:
-      it has to be continued in the areas mentioned above;



- 16 -
-      it must be expanded 4/ to include:
the Treasury
. taxation and expenditures at the local (collectivite) level; and
. autonomous organizations (particularly, CHU)
63.    On the Financial Conception. The Government has been able, at the cost of some effort,
to cover TA II expenses not financed upder the loan but this is becoming increasingly difficult
to do. The Government has accumulated arrears under the DIEP mostly because of the lack of
multilateral and bilateral contributions to fill in the gap in 1989 and 1990.
The question arises of why a Government contribution to operations of this kind is
necessary. What is the lheoretical justification fora Government contribution to a loan
which is in fact a support mechanism for the structural adjustmnent loan, itself a
response from the international community in light of the large deficit in public
finances? If no theoretical justification can be given, then it would be reasonable to
finance the projects that support the SALs 100%.
Moreover, a large part of the public finances deficit, especially obvious in Congo, is due to the
fact that financing, public and private, bilateral and multilateral, were widely available in former
more prosperous times thus generating today a very large debt. This debt is for many middle
income countries unsustainable. Another question that should be answered is whether a project
like TA II whose only benefit is the savings achieved (ex. public salaries), and which is meant
to support the SAL, should add to a country's debt. Moreover, in the absence of grant financing,
would it not be possible to make financing for such operations available on softer conditions than
is now the case?
64.   On Coordination.    Effective coordination is indispensable. The experience with the
mining sector corifirms that. It is therefore recommended that:
-      a local coordinator be appointed for the coordination of any project related to
structural adjustment;
-      all messages or documents related to the SAL or to the project be ccpied to this
coordinator.
65.   On FYnancial Management. The lessons of the past have been closely studied. The
Steering Group was reorganized to make it better able to meet the country's obligations as
borrower.
66.    The Bank's Attitude. With the exception of reservations expressed elsewhere in this
report, the Authorities were generally satisfied with Bank's attitude during TA II implementation.
Though Bank staff reactions and responses were not as quick as the Government would have
wished, staff did share Government's concerns and preoccupations. However, we believe that the
4/   The Authorities expressed their interest in this expansion of the
SAL during project preparation but the Bank was not forthcoming on this.



- 17 -
Bank should give its Project Managers full authority and responsibility to make decisions for
other Bank departments when the latter have taken more than eight days to consider a file.
67.    Government's A 'titude.  The Government, which initiated the structural adjustment
program and requested the TA II project, is convinced that it did the maximum possible,
considering the socio-economic and political situation, to make the project successful. The
Government hopes that the Bank shares this opinion and is awaiting its recommendations on the
subject.
68.    On Project Relevance to the Objectives. Except for the legal framework for PE reform
and the comments and recommendations cited earlier, the Government was very satisfied with
the impact of TA II. T..e Steering Group Secretariat was largely responsible, with project
support, for the efficiency of the Steering Group and the adjustment measures it implemented.



- 18 -
PART IIL SECOND TECNICAL ASSISTANCE BASIC LOAN DATA
(LOAN NO. 27T34COB)
-TABL  1:PkJCIMTAL
Initiating Memorandum                          July 15, 1986
Negotiations                                    August 7-8, 1986
Board Approval                                  September 16, 1986
Loan Agreement                                  September 29, 1986
Effectiveness                                   February 6, 1987
Original Loan Closing                           June 30, 1989
Actual Loan Closing                             December 31, 1990
TABL  2:CUMUAiW  LO           M~DSBURSEMIENT,
FY87       FY88        FY89        FY90
(i) Estimated Amount              1.00       3.30        4.00
(ii) Actual                      0.58        2.20        2.57     3.25*
(iii) (ii) as % of Estimated    58.0        66.7        64.3
amount
Ihe balance of US$ 745,516.00 was canceled on April 30, 1991.
Last Disbursement Date: December 13, 1989.



- 19 -
TABLE 3: MISSION DATA
Month/Year       No. of      No. of      Staff
Weeks       Persons     Weeks
|Appraisal               06/1986          2           2            4
Negotiations            08/1986           1           4           4
Supervision I           11/1987           1           1            1
Supervision lI          05/1988           2           2            4
Supervision III         05/1988           1           1            1
Supervision IV          08/1988           1           1            1
Supervision V           11/1988           2           2           4
Supervision VI          06/1989           2           1           2
Supervision VII         12/1989           1           1            1
Supervision VIII        06/1990          0.5          1           0.5
Supervision IX          11/1990          0.5          1           0.5
Supervision X           06/1991          0.5          1           0.5
TABLE 4: STAFF INPUTS
(Staff weeks)                       . .   l
FY86     FY87      FY88      FY89      FY90      FY91    FY92
LENP         6.7                    .
LENA                   6.8
LENN                   6.5
SPN                    3.5      21.4      16.6      5.5       .9       .8
PCR                              2.3                                   8.2
TOTAL STAFF INPUTS: 79.2



- 20 -
TABLE 5: RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan Title           Purpose           Approved      Status       Comments
TA -          Technical Assistance     07/21/1987   In process   Disbursements
P.E. Reform   package is parallel to the                         suspended
Structural Adjustment                              since
Loan, a main component                             12/04/1990
of which is the
implementation of a
sector wide Public
Enterprise (PE) reform.
National      To support Government's  09/11/1990   Not yet     Effectiveness
Agricultural   efforts to increase the              effective    date will be
Extension     production efficiency and                         postponed to
the income of small                               June 30, 1992.
farmers by facilitating
the development and
dissemination of relevant
agricultural technology.       .



- 21 -
TABLE 6: TA II DISBURSEMENT SCHEDUL-E
DATE                   AMOUNT
(US$ equivalent)
03/03/1987                        114,704.55
05/14/1987                        28,235.52
05/15/1987                         1,643.44
06/04/1987                        182,447.72
06/09/1987                        116,019.07
06/02/1987                         7,872.00
06/03/1987                        42,521.65
06/04/1987                        88,584.52
10/19/1987                       217,654.71
10/21/1987                        6,325.12
11/10/1987                       258,934.37
11/10/1987                        22,555.10
11/10/1987                        67,124.90
11/30/1987                        71,330.59
12/15/1987                         6,210.00
12/16/1987                        10,235.73
12/16/1987                        27,818.32
12/16/1987                        65,924.80
12/16/1987                        21,409.45
12/15/1987                         1,728.00
02/09/1988                        242,967.56
05/11/1988                        314,853.78
05/05/1988                        93,288.59
05/05/1988                        101,895.91
05/05/1988                        30,235.78
05/05!1988                        26,969.06



- 22 -
TABLE 6: TA IT DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
DATE                       AMOUNT
(US$ equivalent)
05/05/1988                            36,604.79
11/16/1988                           147,674.05-
11/16/1988                           301,661.89
11/16/1988                            35,048.70
11/16/1988                             7,159.61
11/16/1988                            48,541.06
11/16/1988                            74,985.47
11/28/1988                            16,301.35
05/19/1989                            16,793.36
05/19/1989                            22,636.50
07/05/1989                            94.483.07
07/05/1989                            132,736.71
07/05/1989                            55,676.11
07/1!/1989                            23,403.85
08/30/1989                            14,831.90
08/29/1989                            77,759.05
11/16/1989                            92,208.93
11/16/1989                            42,050.97
12/13/1989                           139,784.48
TOTAL                        3,254,483.99



-23 -
TABLE 7: CONGO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS TABLES
21 Feb 1992                                                                                                             Page 1 of 3
Mid-1990 Population (mfIs.): 2277000.0
1990 Per Capita GNP in USS: 1010.0
. -----A. Shares of Gross Domestic Product------  B.....S. Growth Rates (X per annu) -----
---.--- (from current price data)-----------  --.     - (from constant price data).------
1965    1973    1980    1988    1989    1990     65-73   73-80   80-90    1989    1990
Gross Domestic Product, m.p.     100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0           6.5      4.6     3.6     3.1     0.5
Net Indirect Taxes               14.0    10.7     4.9     4.4     3.8      ..         ..      ..
Agriculture                      19.1    15.7    11.7   13.9   13.1    13.2          4.1     2.1     3.6     5.5     3.5
Industry                        18.9   22.1    46.6    29.9   38.6   38.9           8.2      8.7     4.9     9.3     0.8
(of which Manufacturing)           ..     ..      7.5     8.6     7.1     7.2         ..      ..     6.8     4.4     0.5
Services                        61.9   62.2    41.7    56.2   48.3   47.9            6.8     3.1     2.7   -1.8   -0.5
Resource Balance                  -17.1  -11.8   -0.1       0.2    12.6    14.6         ..      ..
Exports of GNFS                 36.0    31.6   60.0    40.6   '7.5    48.6          15.0     7.0     4.6     7.6    -2.2
Imports of GNFS                 53.1    43.4   60.1    40.4    34.9   33.9           7.8    -1.7   -5.2   -1.4    -6.7
Total Expenditures                117.1   111.8  100.1    99.8   87.4   85.4           5.4     0.3     1.1    *1.0   -1.0
Total Consumption               94.7    79.8   64.3    81.2    71.4   69.5           3.9     3.3     3.3     1.9    -1.3
Private Consumtion            80.5   62.3   46.8   60.1    52.8   50.9             3.0     3.2     3.1     1.8   -1.8
General Government             14.2    17.5    17.6   21.0    18.7    18.6         7.4     3.7     3.8     2.2     0.1
Gross Domestic Investment        22.4   32.0   35.8    18.6   16.0   15.9            9.3    -4.9  -11.7  -14.3       0.4
Fixed Investment                 ..      ..    32.9    19.6   16.4   16.5           ..      ..
Changes in Stock                 ..      ..     2.8    -1.0   -0.4   -0.6           ..      ..
Gross Domestic Savings             5.3    20.2   35.7    18.8   28.6   30.5             ..   -0.3   -5.3    66.0       5.9
Net Factor Income                -2.7   -5.6   -9.6  -13.8  -12.7   -12.4             ..      ..      ..      ..      ..
Net Current Transfers              ..      ..      ..      ..      ..      ..         ..      ..       .
Gross National Savings              2.7    13.2    22.3     2.4    14.6    16.2         ..   -5.2   -19.2  3764.0    16.6
In millions of LCU's
(at constant 1987 prices)
Gross Domestic Product         179050  289600  452110  702840  724720  728310       6.5      4.6     3.6     3.1     0.5
Capacity to Import             100300  187340  271990  270200  360630  354000       8.6      2.4   -1.5    33.5    -1.8
Terms of Trade Adjustment      47625   61921   64795  -55572   10241   11315          ..      ..      ..      ..      ..
Gross Domestic Income         226670  351520  516910  647260  734960  739630        5.1      2.6     0.6    13.5     0.6
Gross National Product         170470  267390  403880  605660  632480  637760       6.4      4.1     3.2     4.4     0.8
Gross National Income         218090  329310  468680  550090  642720  649080        4.9      1.9   -0.1    16.8      1.0
C. Price Indices                 ..................(1987=100)------------------- ----Inflation Rates (X p.a.).---
1980    1985    1986    1988    1989    1990     65-73   73-80   80-90    1989    1990
Consumer Prices (IFS 64)          56.1    95.5    97.8   103.7  108.0        ..       3.4    10.5      7.1     4.1
Wholesale Prices (IFS 63)         54.0    92.5   96.0  102.6  105.0          ..       3.4    12.2      7.6     2.3      ..
ImpLicit GDP Deflator             79.7   131.2    92.9    93.8   106.9  107.3         4.8      9.2     0.5    14.0     0.4
Implicit Expenditure Deflator    69.7  108.3    97.0  101.8  105.9  105.4             5.5    12.1      3.4     4.1    -0.5
D. Other Indicators              65-73   73-80   80-90
Growth Rates (X p.a.)
Population                       2.6      3.3     3.4
Labor Force                      2.0      2.1     1.9
Gross NationaL Income p.c.       2.3    -1.3    -3.3
Private Consumption p.c.         0.4   -0.1    -0.3
Import Elasticity:
Imports (G+NFS) / GOP(np)        1.2   -0.4    -1.4
Marginal Savings Rates:
Gross National Savings          33.9   58.7       3.0
Gross Domestic Savings          44.6    77.3    18.7
ICOR (period averages)
1965    1973    1980    1989    1990
Share of Total Labor Force in:
Agriculture                     66.0   64.2   62.4
Industry                        11.1    11.5    11.9
Services                        22.9    24.3    25.7
Total                           100.0   100.0  100.0



-24-
21 Feb 1992                                   TABLE 7: CONGO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS TABLES                                    Page 2 of 3
E. Merchandise Exports            ------------Volume Index (1987=100)                    -Value at current prices (mill. USS)------
1980    1985    1987    1988    1989    1990       1980    1985    1987    1988    1989    1990
X.FUEL                              58.2    91.2   100.0   118.1   129.2  129.2        727.4   951.7   683.6  597.4  867.8  1076.5
X.TIM                              114.2    67.4   100.0   93.3   130.9        ..      105.6    59.6   110.8   117.3   124.5
X.MAN.DIAMONDS                      17.5   139.2   100.0    62.7   62.6        ..       38.0    11.1    19.6    16.1    16.6
X.BEV.COCOA                        493.4   305.9   100.0   104.2    98.4       ..       21.0    10.2      2.4     1.9     1.5
Manufactures                          ..       ..      ..      ..      ..      ..        8.6    47.0    30.9    36.0    44.7   34.3
Residual t                            ..       ..      ..      ..      ..      ..       18.6   112.2    60.3   110.8   144.4
Total Exports FOB                   57.1    97.0   100.0   112.4   127.1   119.2       910.5  1144.9   876.7  843.5  1154.8  1349.6
F. Merchandise Imports
Food                               921.0   379.2   100.0   128.7  145.1        ..       68.8    29.7    15.0    18.3    18.7   23.6
Fuel and energy                   1825.3   410.8   100.0  254.4    63.6        .,       57.7    18.5      6.2     7.4     3.3    10.0
other consumer goods                50.0   130.4   100.0   115.2  104.4         ..     343.8   349.4   212.3   233.7   282.5   157.7
other intermed. goods               26.9   129.0   100.0   116.6   98.5         ..      90.8   146.8   115.9  135.3   108.4  161.7
Capital goods                       75.5   205.0   100.0  122.4  108.2         ..      107.4   202.0  163.4   244.0   200.9  197.1
Total l3mports CIF                  64.8   154.4   100.0   119.0   102.0   103.7       668.6   746.4   512.8  638.7   613.8  550.1
G. Merchandise Terms of Trade
Merch. Exports Price Index         181.9   134.6   100.0    85.6   103.7   125.6
Merch.  Imports Price Index        2G1.3    94.3   100.0   104.7   117.3   124.7
March. Terms of Trade               90.4   142.8   100.0    81.8    88.3   100.7
H. Balance of Payments            -------USS millions (at current prices)........
1980    1985    1987    1988    1989    1990
Exports of Goods & NFS            1021.2  1219.4  973.9  935.5  1243.0  1444.9
Merchandise (FOB)                910.6  1144.8   876.7  843.2  1154.8  1349.6
Non-factor services              110.6    74.7    97.2    92.3   88.2    95.3
Imports of Goods & NFS            1025.3  1155.6   952.0  1082.8  1000.2  1103.2
Merchandise (FOS)                545.2   630.1   419.9   522.7  502.5  424.6
Non-factor services              480.1   525.6  532.1   560.1   497.7  678.6
Resource Balance                    -4.0    63.8    21.9  -147.4   242.8   341.7
Net Factor Income                 -161.6  -228.0  *255.7  -305.9  -356.6  -496.1
(interest per DRS)                68.7   167.8   136.1   130.7   141.2   153.1
Net Current Transfers              -64.4   -37.5   -56.8  -56.6  -42.0   -42.1
(workers remittances)              0.8     2.6     7.2      5.2     4.9     0.0
Curr A/C Bal before Off. Grants  -230.0  -201.7  -290.6  -509.9  -155.8  -196.5
Net Official Transfers            63.3    40.4    67.9    64.4    92.9    73.5
Curr A/C Sal after Off. Grants   -166.7  -161.3  -222.7  -445.5  -62.9  -123.0
Long Term CapitaL InfLow           242.4    27.8   173.2      8.8  -323.8   110.5
Direct Investment                 40.0    12.7    43.4      9.1    -1.1    -1.1
Net LT Loans (ORS data)          455.9   205.4   154.3  333.2  -37.5    -5.6
Other LT inflows (Net)          -253.5  -190.3  -24.6  -333.5  -285.2   117.2
Total Other Items (Net)            -16.6   132.0    44.5   438.7  380.5   125.5
Net Short-term Capital           -55.2    90.3    16.9  398.1   301.1   159.3
Capital Flows N.E.I.               0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Errors and Omissions              38.5    41.7    27.6    40.6    79.4  -33.8
Changes in Net Reserves            -59.1       ..     5.0   -2.1      6.2  -113.0
Net Credit from IMF              -10.0       ..     1.9    -0.7    -1.9    -0.2
Other Reserve Changes            -49.1     1.5      3.2    -1.4     8.1  -112.8
As share of GOP;
Resource Balance                  -0.2     3.0      1.0   -6.6    10.7    12.8
Interest Payments                  4.0     7.8     5.9      5.9     6.2     5.7
Current Account Balance          -13.5    -9.3   -12.6  -23.0   -6.9   -7.3
Memorandun items:
Reserves excl. Gold (miL. USS)      85.9     4.0      3.4     3.8    16.2
Reserves incl. Gold (mit. USS)      92.6     7.6      8.8     8.4    20.6
Official X-Rate (LCU/USS)          211.3   449.3   300.5   297.9  319.0   272.3
Index Real eff. X-R Base 1980      100.0   100.2   101.9  102.0  101.9  103.5
GDP (milLions,current US#)        1705.6  2160.9  2297.9  2219.6  2269.2  2675.7
....... ...........  _....................... ............... ........................................................... ............_



-25-
21 Feb 1992                                    TABfLE 7: CONGO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS TABLES                                    Page 3 of 3
1. Government Finance             ---------------Share of GOP (t) ................            ----------Growth Rates (X)---
1980    1985    1987    1988    1989    1990               80-86    1987    1988    1989    1990
Current Receipts                    29.2    33.7    19.6    19.0    21.5    26.3               1287.3   -39.3    -7.5    33.4    23.5
Current Expenditures                27.0    21.5    27.5    29.4    25.8    29.1                 15.1    -9.0      1.9     3.0    13.9
Current Budget Balance               2.2    12.2    -8.0   -10.5    -4.3    -2.8                   ..      ..
Capital Receipts                     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0                ..      ..
Capital Expenditures                13.6    17.0       5.0     7.7     5.8      4.1               6.4   *48.3    47.7   -11.6   -28.6
Overall Deficit                     -11.3    -4.8   -12.9   -18.2   -10.1    -6.9                  ..       ..      ..       .
Offical Capital Grants               0.9      0.3      0.1    .0.1     0.1      0.3              -0.1     0.3      0.3     0.0      4.2
External Borrowing (net)             11.2     3.1    14.1    17.3      7.9      8.6                ..       ..      .
Dom. Non-Bank Borrowing               2.6     3.1    -3.0    -1.3       1.8    -1.9                ..       ..      .        ..    -2.0
Domestic Bank Financing              -3.3    -1.8      1.8     2.1     0.2    -0.1                 ..     O.3      0.1    -0.9    -1.6
J. External Capital 'lows,        -------Net Disbursements (USS mill.)---------  ---Debt Outstanding & Disbursed (USS mill.)----
Debt & Debt Burden Ratios            1980    1985    1987    1988    1989    1990       1980    1985    1987    1988    1989    1990
Public & PublicLy Guaranteed LT      456      205      154     333      -38      -6   1242.3  2341.8  3431.5  3549.9  3544.6  4380.3
Official Creditors                   56     108      143     147      26       61    589.9   938.5  1973.7  2043.0  2067.0  3139.3
Multilateral                       17      36       42      91      -2      -17    117.8   335.8   506.1   567.7   548.1   582.1
of which IBRD                   -3       10       17      47       6       -4     39.4    57.5   120.1   154.1   155.8   164.2
of which IDA                      1       3        1       1       0        0     22.0    66.7    73.9    73.9    73.8    74.9
Bilateral                         39       72      101      56      28       78    472.1   602.7  1467.6  1475.3  1518.9  2557.2
Private Creditors                  400       97       11     186     -64      -67    652.4  1403.2  1457.8  1507.0  1477.6  1241.0
Suppliers                           1      33      -11      30      -3        0    156.4   145.9   113.9   131.3   147.4   150.1
Financial Markets                397       -6      -41     139     -58      -67    475.8   746.0   841.4   914.7   878.3   882.1
Private Non-Guaranteed                  0       0        0       0        0       0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Long Term Debt               455.9   205.4   154.3   333.2   -37.5    -5.6   1242.3  2341.8  3431.5  3549.9  3544.6  4380.3
IMF Credit                            -3       -2       -3      -3      -3       -2     22.3      9.9    19.2    15.3    11.5    10.8
Net Short-Term Capital                -55      90       17     398     301      159    246.1   679.1   900.1   595.7   769.7   727.2
Total inct. IMF & Net ST             398      293      168     728     260      152   1510.7  3030.8  4350.8  4160.9  4325.8  5118.3
Bank and IDA ratios:
Notes:
Share of Total LT DOD
1. IBRD as X of Total              3.17    2.46    3.50    4.34    4.40    3.75  Data on Economic Indicators tables
2. IDA as X of Total                1.77    2.85    2.15    2.08    2.08    1.71  should follow the definitions and
3. IBRDOIDA as Z of Total          4.94    5.30    3.65    6.42    6.48    5.46  the concerts of the Standard fables and
Standard Attachments. The indicators
Share of Total LT OSR                                                                should include data through the most
1. IBRD as X of Total             11.16    1.75    2.90    4.55    6.36    7.38  recently completed calendar year (or
2. IDA as X of Total               0.28    0.18    0.15    0.22    0.26    0.37  fiscal year in the case of fiscal year
3. IBRD+IDA as X of Total          11.43    1.93    3.05    4.77    6.62    7.75  countries). Staff estimates may be used
if final or preliminary actuals are not
0Ow to Exports Ratios:                                                               yet available. The use of estimates and
1. Long-Term Debt/Exports        120.61  190.22  339.22  374.40  282.51  301.69  preliminary figures should be indicated
2. IMf Credit/Exports              2.17    0.80    1.90    1.61    0.92    0.74  by:
3. Short-Term Debt/Exports        23.89   55.16   88.98   62.83   61.35   50.09
4. LT+IMF+ST/Exports              146.67  246.19  430.10  438.84  344.78  352.52  e a estimated data
p a preliminary data
DOD to GOP Ratios:
1. Long-Term Debt/GDP             72.84  108.37  149.33  159.93  156.20  163.71
2. IMf Credit/GOP                   1.31    0.46    0.84    0.69    0.51    0.40
3. Short-Term Debt/GOP            14.43   31.43   39.17   26.84   33.92   27.18
4. LT+INF+ST/GDP                  88.57  140.26  189.34  187.46  190.63  191.29
Debt Service/Exports:
1. Pubtic & Guaranteed LT          7.05   31.14   38.51   38.49   21.79   16.80
2. Private Non-Guaranteed LT       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
3. Total LT Debt Service           7.05   31.14   38.51   38.49   21.79   16.80
4. IMf Repurcha-es + Srv Chg       0.75    0.19    0.40    0.39    0.35    0.55
S. Interest only on ST Debt        2.96    2.86    5.14    4.85    3.67    3.31
6. Total (LT*IMF+ST Int.)         10.76   34.19   44.05   43.73   25.81   20.66
................................................................................



