Doc      Dt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
oIi(.  lC) 3 - C&4
Report No. P-4381-COB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMIENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$4.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
August 26, 1986
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
I
Currency Unit.      -          CFA Franc
US$1.00             -          CFAF 350
CFAF 1 million      =          US$2,857
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
.



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
CONGO
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      The People's Republic of the Congo
Amount:        US$4.0 million equivalent
Terms:         Payable over 17 years, including 4 years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:   The Project comprises a two year-program of technical
assistance and short-term consultancy services to help the
Government design and implement policy measures aimed at
promoting growth in the non-oil sectors of the economy and
formulate a more effective petroleum development strategy
following the steep decline in oil prices. The project
would also help the Government in specific areas of public
sector investment, finance, and external debt management.
Benefits
and Risks:     The principal benefit arising from the Project is expected
to be in the form of a set of actionable policy measures
designed to reestablish creditworthiness and promote
economic growth over the medium term. The project's main
risk is that the policy measures to be formulated under the
Project would not be implemented. This risk is considered
acceptable in light of the recent policy decisions taken by
the Government. To facilitate project execution, the Bank
and the Government would review every six months the
progress achieved in meeting project objectives, and work
programs for the following six months.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs
Foreign        Local         Total
1US$ m'llion-        -
Financial and Economic
Adjustment Component            1.90           0.56          2.46
Petroleum Sector Component         1.20           0.10           1.30
Total Base Cost                 3.10           0.66          3.76
Unallocated                        0.45           0.04           0.49
Price Contingencies                0.45           0.02           0.47
Total Cost                      4.00           0.72          4.72
Financing Plan
IBRD                            4.00              -          4.00
Government                         -           0.72          0.72
Total                           4.00           0.72          4.72
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                   1987           1988           1989
Annual                        1.0           2.3            0.7
Cummulative                   1.0            3.3           4.0
Rate of Return:                    Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:            No separate report



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
FOR A SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed loan to the
People's Republic of the Congo for the equivalent of US$4.0 million to help
finance a Second Technical Assistance Project. Interest on the loan would
be at the standard variable rate. The loan would be amortized over 17
years including 4 years of grace.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
1.        The assessment of the Congolese economic situation in this report
is based largely on the work of the economic missions which visited the
Congo in March and November 1985. It is supplemented by a review of the
Government's 1986 public investment program, and data on recent economic
developments. The missions' findings were discussed with Government and a
Country Economic Memorandum is being finalized. Annex I presents selected
economic and social indicators for the Congo.
Background
2.        Congo is part of a larger area in Certral Africa which has Jong
suffered from low population density, making development of economic
activities problematic. Congo, the size of Italy. has a population of
1-9 million.  Currently, about 60 percent of the population is concentrated
in the southern part of the country anC particularly in the two large
cities of Brazzaville, the capital city, and Pointe Noire, the port and
major economic center. Before independence in 1960, Brazzaville was the
administrative capital of the French Federation of Equatorial African
States. The combination of the Pointe Noire-Brazzaville railroad, built in
the 1930s, and the river transport system, linking Brazzaville to the main
economic centers in this territory, gave the Congo a major trading role in
the Federation. The country developed the most prominent service-oriented
economy in Africa (60 percent of GDP). Other economic activities included
forestry, agro-industry and light manufacturing for export (about
17 percent of GDP). Agriculture was by contrast bac'k-ward.
3.        After independence, Congo had to adjust to a reduced role in the
region. The country chose a centrally planned development strategy
emphasizing nationalization of economic activities, mostly in foreign
hands, and the building of infrastructure. Oil exploitation, which started
in the late 1960s and was boosted by the two steep price increases in the
1970s, gave the successive governments the means to implement this policy.
It also gave them the opportunity to generously subsidize a large part of
the population through public employment and free delivery of social
services.



to reschedule debt service and discuss new lending is scheduled for
end-August 1986.
Stabilization and Structural Adjustment
8.        A complete turnaround in economic and financial policies,
supported by debt relief and large inflows of long-term funds, is required
to re-establish a viable financial position and sustainable economic
growth. The first priorities are to stop the deterioration of the fiscal
balance through drastic cuts in public expenditures and to provide
incentives to agriculture, forestry and industry. Unemployment in urban
areas will be a critical factor in the adjustment process. Hence, there is
a need to develop urban sources of employment. A stabilization program
prepared along these lines with IMF assistance covers the remaining part of
1986 and 1987. The objective of the IMF program is to reduce the deficit
of the non-oil sectors' current account from 36 percent of GDP in 1985 to
21 percent in 1986 and 15 percent in 1987. Internal and external arrears
would be eliminated. The program emphasizes restrictive demand management
policies combined with measures aimed at increasing supply responses in the
non-oil sectors as well as diversifying exports. This would be achieved
through a drastic reduction (35 percent) of public expenditures, an
increase in fiscal revenues other than oil-related, a restrictive credit
policy, a liberalization of pricing and marketing policies, and the
initiation of a public enterprise reform. A close working relationship has
been established between the Fund and the Bank for the preparation of the
stabilization program. The Bank reviewed the public investment program and
helped formulate the package for public enterprise reform.
9.        During the next five years, the weight of the oil sector in the
economy will remain such that any change in prices or production will have
much more impact on the stabilization aspects of the reform program than
the effects of policy reforms and supply responses in other sectors of the
economy. For example, current account deficits could be eliminated, if oil
prices increased to US$23.6 per barrel in 1991 (US$16.6 in 1984 terms).
However, if by 1990-91 oil prices stayed at US$15 per barrel, the current
account deficit would remain above US$300 million, and the Congo would be
unable to service its rescheduled debt thereby requiring a large amount of
concessional assistance and further measures to reduce public spending.
10.       The adjustment effort will require substantial changes in the
composition of output. The construction, transportation and services
sectors, which contributed 77 percent of non-oil GDP in 1984 will decline
in importance as public investment is cut in 1986 and 1987. Recovery for
these sectors towards 1989-90 seems possible, if a series of measures are
taken to better involve local firms in infrastructure rehabilitation and
maintenance and to restore the Congo's competitiveness as a trade and
services center for neighbouring countries. Thus, projected growth would
not compensate for the sharp decline initiated in 1985 until the mid
1990's. By contrast, with appropriate incentives, the agriculture,
forestry and manufacturing sectors could resume their growth and export
patterns of the pre-oil era, and their share in non-oil GDP could increase



- 4 -
from 23 percent in 1984 to 33 percent by 1994. On this scenario it would
take a decade for CDP growth to exceed population growth; the growth of GDP
is projected to be an average 1.1 percent per annum in the 1986-90 period,
and 2.3 percent per annum in the 1991-94 period.
11.       The required adjustment efforts will need to be accompanied by a
sharp decline in public and private consumption. During 1986 and 1987,
total consumption is expected to decline by 23 and 17 percent,
respectively. The scenario assumes no growth in public consumption for
some years thereafter, while private consumption would grow by about 1
percent per annum on average, beginning in 1991. Public investment, which
amounted to about CFAF 167 billion on average a year in 1983-85, would be
reduced to CFAF 50 billion in 1986 and CFAF 40 billion per annum on average
over the 1987-94 period. Investment in the oil sector is assumed to stay
at CFAF 60 billion a year over the same period. Non-oil private investment
would gradually increase from CFAF 20 billion in 1986 to CFAP 40 billion
during 1991-94. The investment rate which was an unsustainable 30 percent
in 1984 would decrease to about 16 percent in 1986 and stay at that level
for at least a decade.
12.       Congo's outstanding public debt rose from some US$ 625 million in
1977, to US$ 1,800 million in 1985. The central Government accounts for 85
percent of the total, with the remaining representing principally publicly
guaranteed external debt of state-owned enterprises. Debt service
obligations also increased, and in 1985 represented about 34 percent of
exports of goods and services, and more than 50 percent of total fiscal
revenues. As the Government's external position deteriorated, it
accumulated substantial arrears that by mid-1986 amounted to about CFAF 80
billion or about 45 percent of scheduled debt service. The reschedulings
approved in the Paris Club and contemplated in the London Club should
substantially alleviate the debt burden on the fiscal and external
balances.
Creditworthiness
13.       The Second Technical Assistance Project is proposed on the basis
of the recent decision of the Government to implement a stabilization
program covering 1986-87. In the longer term, Congo1s creditworthiness
would be based on the Government's ability to implement a far reaching
economic adjustment program, including the retrenchment of the public
sector, the development of sustained non-oil sector growth and formulation
of a more effective oil sector strategy, supported by the international
financial community through a combination of debt relief and new lending.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN THE CONGO
14.       Total Bank Group commitments in the Congo amount to US$185.9
million: six Bank loans (US$111.7 million) and eleven IDA credits
(US$74.2 million). Eleven loans and credits totalling US$90.2 million have
been fully disbursed. Past operations have been designed mainly to assist



- 5 -
the country's efrorts to improve its basic transport infrastructure, better
exploit its natural resources and upgrade the educational system. The
largest share of past commitments (54%) went to finance rail, river and
road transport projects, followed by mining and petroleum projects (19%).
The realignment of the Congo Ocean railway under the Second Railway Project
and the River Transport Project were both designed to increase the
efficiency and capacity of transport services along the country's primary
transport corridor. The Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project was
designed to improve sector management and increase national benefits from
oil exploitation. The ongoing Third Highway project aimed at facilitating
agricultural output by improving public road maintenance with special
emphasis on feeder roads. The Wood Processing Project approved in FY83,
was mainly designed to diversify exports, promote regional development and
ensure that the projected timber traffic for the rail and river transport
system materialized as anticipated. It was undertaken as a joint venture
between Government and foreign private partners. A macro-economic
Technical Assistance Project was approved in May 1983 to help the
Government manage its external debt and domestic public finances and
prepare adjustments to its five-year development strategy.
15.       These projects were conceived in the expectation that the
Government would give priority to improving public sector management and
the overall economic environment. In the absence of these elements,
project objectives could not be fully met. Most projects suffered from
inadequate design and insufficient attention to the socio-economic
environment and in some cases, poor implementation. The Second Railway
Project cost three times as much as anticipated and did not bring about all
expected benefits. The River Transport Project was implemented
satisfactorily but did not address the broader issue of the relationship
between the Government and ATC, the transport agency, and thus failed to
improve its management and financial performance. The Third Highway
Project achieved its objectives of constructing low-cost roads, but the
Government did not ensure its replicability. The Education Project was too
complex and poorly managed. The Wood Processing Project encountered
considerable financial difficulties due to the high production costs and
tax imposed on exports, combined with long delays in the transport of logs
to port and poor performance of the state monopoly responsible for timber
exports. The two technical assistance projects (macro-economic management
and petroleum) which were intended to help the Government put in place
economic adjustment policies and increase petroleum exploitation,
eventually achieved this objective, but at a high cost.
16.       The sharp deterioration in the position of the Government in 1984
further affected implementation of all projects. Accumulation of arrears
led to a suspension of disbursements in September 1984. They were resumed
in February 1985. This prolonged suspension of disbursements brought the
relationship between the Congo and the Bank to an all time low. During
that period it became evident that a new approach was called for. The Bank
proposed to the Government a program of assistance emphasizing the
rehabilitation of the public enterprise sector, the establishment of
favorable conditions for the promotion of private initiative, particularly



- 6 -
in agriculture, and the stabilization of oil revenues over the long term.
However, this program was contingent upon a clear and upfront Government
commitment to tackle the country's serious internal and external fit. ncial
imbalances at the root by sharply reducing the public investment program,
curtailing current expenditures and eliminating parastatal sector
inefficiencies. The Government agreed to the proposed approach and
prepared its structural adjustment program accordingly. However, the
Government was too slow in responding to a rapidly deteriorating financial
situation and the approach became no longer feasible.
17.       The major goal for Bank assistance is to help the Congo
reestablish its economic viability and creditworthiness over the medium
term. This in turn hinges heavily upon the ability of (i) the non-oil
sectors to sustain growth and increase exports; and (ii) the petroleum
sector to maintain output over the long term at levels not too far below
those obtained in recent years. It is also dependent on the determination
of the Congolese authorities to Implement its stabilization program as
agreed with the IMF. The proposed program of Bank assistance would support
economic adjustment through policy-based ]ending for public enterprise
reform, to be followed by operations in agriculture and road rehabilitation
and maintenance. The proposed technical assistance project would help the
Government design a program of policy reform to restore creditworthiness in
the medium term, primarily by assisting it in formulating a non-oil growth
strategy and an oil development policy aimed at maintaining production over
the long term.
18.       IFC made its first loan to the Congo in April 1981.  The US$3.5
million loan went to finance part of a US$15.6 million project to modernize
the existing veneer plant of Placongo and to expand its logging capacity.
However, in March 1982, IFC suspended its commitment to the company because
of a serious deterioration in its financial position. IFC also approved an
equity participation in a promotional company, Socift6 d'Etudes de la
Cellulose du Congo, which studied the feasibility of establishing a pulp
mill in the Congo. A US$1.5 million loan to Congolaise Industrielle des
Bois (CIB) was approved to help expand the company's logging operations,
and construct, equip and place in operation a sawmill, and related
services. Due to an unexpected shortfall of CIB's internal cash generation
in the past two years, in 1986 IFC extended a complementary loan of US$0.7
million to assist in CIB's financial restructuring efforts. IFC has also
approved a loan of US$0.2 million and an equity participation of US$1.6
million equivalent in Congolaise de Bois Impregnes to help construct an
utility pole plant to process eucalyptus trees.
PART III. ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT ISSUES AND INSTITUTIONS
Sectoral Issues
19.       Agriculture accounts for only about 6 percent of GDP. It has
heavily suffered from the drift of the population to urban areas, an
inadequate transport system, inappropriate pricing and marketing policies,



-7-
poor allocation of resources, and competition from Zairian producers. The
migration of young men to the cities, encouraged by the two oil booms has
seriously weakened the work force in rural areas and hampered efforts to
stimulate production. The lack of feeder roads has remained a major
constraint to agricultural development. To make up for the alleged
deficiencies of the private sector, the government created state marketing
boards with monopoly powers.  Poor management of these trading monopolies
and low regulated prices have discouraged producers. Producer prices have
consistently remained at about half of levels prevailing in neighboring
Cameroon. At the same time, agricultural research and support to farmers
have been neglected with the result that considerable efforts are now
required to develop suitable technical packages. Finally, Congolese
farmers face stiff competition from their Zairian counterparts in supplying
Brazzaville and Pointe Noire with cassava, the basic staple. It is
estimated that two thirds of the cassava consumed in Brazzaville come from
Zaire, because of the attractiveness of the CFA Franc as a freely
convertible currency. Rehabilitation and development of the agriculture
sector are key elements in any adjustment program.
20.       Livestock and Fishing.  The fast growth in demand for meat and
fish products has been mostly met by imports, which account now for about
one half and two thirds of total consumption, respectively. State farms
set up to increase domestic production of livestock have been undermined by
subsidization of frozen meat imports. While industrial production of fish
has stagnated over past years, artisanal production has risen steadily.
With an appropriate set of measures this subsector could provide meaningful
employment opportunities in the future.
21.       Forestry was the most dynamic sector in the economy in the early
1960s. Although accounting for only 5 percent of GDP, it contributed about
60 percent of exports. However, exhaustion of the more accessible forest
areas in the South and management problems of state owned companies and the
state marketing office resulted in a dramatic decline of production. Today
forestry accounts for only 1 percent of CDF and 5 percent of exports. It
is estimated that the Congo has the potential to sustain a log production
of about 2 million m3 per annum, slightly more than three times the present
output. Efforts at increasing domestic value added in the sector have not
met with great success so far, as the proportion of processed wood in total
output has remained steady at around 10 percent.
22.       Industry is dominated by loss-making state enterprises.  Most of
these enterprises are not economically viable and should be liquidated. A
small number could be rehabilitated and considered for possible
privatisation. By contrast, private sector production of beer, soft drinks
and shoes has increased steadily over past years and seems to be highly
profitable. In 1984, the industrial sector's share of GDP was about 7
percent.
23.       Energy. Wood and charcoal are the major source of energy for
household consumption. Domestic petroleum uses are equivalent to about
250,000 tons or less than 5 percent of crude oil production. Coraf, a



- 8 -
mixed enterprise, operates a refinery and HydroCongo, a state enterprise,
has the monopoly for sale and imports of petroleum products. HydroCongo
has accumulated heavy losses. A restructuring of the subsector is
necessary. Over the past five years, demand for electric power increasing
at 20 percent per annum far out-stripped production which grew at 13
percent per annum on average. The resulting gap has been covered by low
cost purchases from Zaire. SNE, the state company responsible for power
generation and distribution, has also accumulated losses and is in serious
need of rehabilitation.
24.       Transportation.  Investment in transportation has been a
consistent priority of the Government, but results so far have been
disappointing. Considerable resources have been invested over the past
decade to improve the performance of the rail system. The deterioration of
the railroad system has been checked and its overall performance has
Improved. The financial situation of ATC, the public enterprise
responsible for the management of railroads, river transport and ports, has
become critical as a result of a large debt, and poor managerial
performance. Substantial resources have been invested in the past five
years in new roads development. The program has suffered from cost
overruns and delays. The debt incurred for its financing is a major factor
in the deterioration of the country's financial situation. Network
rehabilitation and maintenance are crucial for the adjustment of the
economy, but only a small fraction of the resources spent in the past is
now available for this purpose.
25.       Education.  Since its independence, the Congo enjoyed one of the
highest primary school enrollment rates in Africa (80 percent). Enrollment
at other levels of education was negligible. Over the past twenty-five
years, however, enrollments of all levels of the education system have
steadily increased. In 1985, 36 percent of the total population and a
third of the population aged 15 and over attended school. Students receive
generous fellowships, and are guaranteed employment in the public sector
after graduating from secondary or higher education. In recent years, the
quality of education has deteriorated considerably due to the rapid
increase in enrollment, the poor quality of instruction, and lack of
incentives for academic performance. As a result, repeater rates are
unusually high at all levels, but particularly high in primary school.
Drop-out rates are low, but only because regulations governing repeats are
not observed. A comprehensive reform is needed to make the system more
relevant to the country's requirements.
Urban Development and Employment
26.       The Congo's share of urban population in total population is
about three times the average for sub-Saharan Africa. A large part of the
urban population is employed in the public sector. Under the IIMF
stabilization program, a reduction of staffing in the public sector is
being initiated. This cannot be pursued too rapidly as other sectors have
a limited capacity to generate employment. It is highly unlikely that
those unemployed in the cities will seek to engage in productive activities



in the countryside. However, the flow of rural young people seeking
employment in cities would be checked. In this case, the private sector in
urban areas would have to generate about 75,000 jobs in the next four to
five years to accomodate the growth of the labor force and the reduction of
employment in the public enterprise sector. The urban private sector at
present employs only about 52,000 people. It is likely to suffer as a
result of the deflationary impact of the stabilizationl program. Measures
would need to be adopted to counteract this impact, including the removal
of the administrative bottlenecks to enterprise creation, the reduction o2
minimum guaranteed wages, the training and retraining of people with
entrepreneurial talents, and the putting into place of a credit system to
support small-scale initiatives.
27.       Public Enterprises.  The Congolese Government has traditionally
viewed the public and parapublic sectors as having the primary
responsibility for both economic and social development. There are 88
wholly owned enterprises and a further 15 mixed enterprises with majority
Government ownership. With a workforce of 37,000 employees, public
enterprises account for about 27 percent of modern sector employment. Ten
key enterprises, notably the public utilities, plus the sugar refinery,
cement factory and marketing boards dominate the sector, representing over
50 percent of total public enterprise revenues, and losses.
28.       Unsound investment decisions, poor management practices and
overstaffing are at the core of the financial difficulties experienced by
the sector. Its performance has continued to deteriorate over recent
years. Between 1981 and 1984 losses in the sector increased fourfold to
about CFAF 34 billion. Outstanding debt of the sector also increased
steadily to about CFAF 430 billion in 1984 and an estimated CFAF 555
billion at end 1985. The bulk of public enterprise debt is from commercial
banks and suppliers with a maturity of less than five years. Most
enterprises are unable to pay suppliers, replenish working capital, service
their debts and have accumulated large arrears between each other and
Government, reaching over CFAF 80 billion in 1984.
The Structure of Public Sector Management
29.       The public sector in the Congo consists of the Central
Government, autonomous agencies, and state-owned enterprises. Ministries
are organized under a coordinating body which also advises the Minister on
policy matters. The Minister is the politically-appointed executive head
of the Ministry, but has little authority over matters such as employment
policy, as the Central Committee of the Congolese Workers' Party often
mandates these aspects.
30.       Since the development of petroleum resources, the Government has
guaranteed employment to secondary and higher education graduates with the
result that the public sector is overstaffed, responsibilities are
ill-defined and the decision-making process is concentrated in a few
individuals. As part of its stabilization program, the Government is
expected to freeze Central Government employment beginning in 1986, and to



- 10 -
reduce the overall size of employment in state-owned enterprises by 35
percent.
The Office of the Prime Minister
31.       In mid-1985, in the midst of a rapidly deteriorating economic and
financial situation, the Prime Minister created a Steering Group under his
chairmanship to implement Congo's first attempt to arrest further
deteriorat'ton of its economic performance and establish stabilization
measures through a structural adjustment program. Although the program
proved insufficient, it served as a basis for the preparation of a
short-term stabilization program financed by the rIF under a Stand-By
arrangement. The Group includes the Minister of Finance, the Minister of
Planning, the Economic Advisor to the President of the Republic, and the
Chief of Cabinet of the Office of the Presidency. The Steering Group is
assisted at a technical level by a Secretariat composed of representatives
of the above-mentioned offices. Expatriate consultants financed by the
Bank under the TA project for macroeconomic adjustment provide advice to
the Secretariat. This assistance, however, will terminate in December
1986, the loan's closing date. Further assistance is needed to help the
Steering Group implement the short-term stabilization program, and to begin
to formulate a coherent package of policy measures designed to reestablish
creditworthiness and promote economic growth over the medium-term.
32.       The Ministry of Finance is by far the most complex Ministry of
the Central Government. The General Directorate of Customs and the General
Directorate of Revenue are the largest within the Ministry. Three
departments, however, play a key role in economic management: (i) the
General Directorate of the Budget has sole responsibility for the
preparation and execution of the Government's operating budget; (ii) the
General Inspection of Finances is charged with the periodic monitoring of
the public finances; and (iii), the General Directorate of Financial
Control is charged with the responsibility of controlling the public
finances.
33.       The first TA project assisted the General Directorate of the
Budget in introducing a system of program budgeting requiring a careful
analysis of budget proposals submitted by each Ministry, and a final
allocation of resources consistent with resource .vailability and
priorities. A computerized monitoring system was also established to
enable the General Inspection of Finances keep track of budgetary receipts
and expenditures and thus meet established public finance targets.
Although the monitoring system was fully operational, the Government
authorized expenditure expansion and in 1984 and 1985, public expenditure
surpassed budgetary targets in 1984 and 1985. The 1986 budget preparation
exercise was to utilize for the first time the system of program budgeting.
However, the rapid deterioration of Congo's external position and public
finances required that the budget be hastily prepared, leaving little time
for analysis. Nevertheless, the local staff involved in the process have
been trained, and the system is expected to be utilized in the preparation



- 11 -
of the 1987 budget. Additional technical assistance is needed in specific
aspects of public finance.
34.       The Congolese Amortization Fund (OCA) is an autonomous
institution under the tutelage of the Ministry of Finance. Its
administrative committee is chaired by the Minister of Finance. CCA's
principal responsibilities consist in proposing an external debt policy to
the Government and executing agencies in conformity with the framework of
the economic and social development plan and in managing the Government's
investment portfolio. Its most important functional areas are the
Directorate of the Debt, which is responsible for negotiating central
government debt and for guaranteeing state-owned enterprise debt.
35.       Large scale external borrowing began in the mid-1970s in the wake
of the oil boom. The Central Government, the largest borrower, relied
heavily on commercial credits to finance infrastructure. There was also
considerable borrowing by state-owned enterprises with Government
guarantee. Until 1981, there was no systematic record-keeping for debt
monitoring. With UNDP assistance, and with Bank financing under the TA
Project for macroeconomic management, a team of external consultants
established a computerized debt monitoring system. The system was to be a
simple vehicle to produce information on debt service obligations which are
included in the Central Government budget, but contained deficiencies at an
operational level. No attempt was made to collect information on and to
monitor the debt of state-owned enterprises, with the exception of a
requirement that state-owned enterprises submit signed debt contracts to
CCA.
36.       The deterioration in the country's economic situation and
substantial increases in debt arrears heightened Government awareness of
the need for a comprehensive debt monitoring system. CCA has therefore
expanded the scope of its debt monitoring system to include all external
public and publicly guaranteed debt. Experts financed under the first TA
Project helped the Government prepare external debt rescheduling packages
which have been approved by bilateral donors and are under consideration by
commercial donors. Additional assistance is needed to help the Government
prepare additional multi-year debt rescheduling packages.
37.       The Ministry of Planning is responsible for formulating the
country's National Economic and Social Development Plan.  The plan includes
a public sector investment program which is carried out over a five-year
period. The program establishes the internal and external sources of
financing, including a ceiling on external borrowings, and provides a list
of individual projects to be financed under the program.
38.       The 1982-86 plan established an ambitious public sector
investment program. However, the program suffered from inadequate
technical preparation, and the notable absence of financial and economic
feasibility studies. In the first three years of the program, only about
30 percent of investment targets were achieved. Projects under execution



- 12 -
however, proved extremely costly and the Government had to increasingly
borrow on commercial terms in order to cover cost overruns.
39.       Under the TA Project for macroeconomic management, substantial
efforts were made to adjust public sector investment to levels which were
more consistent with available resources, to redefine priorities in favor
of productive activities, and to determine the technical, financial and
economic feasibility of projects included in the program. These efforts,
however, proved unsuccessful in light of Government unwillingness to adopt
such a framework. Most projects under execution suffered from inadequate
design and had marginal or negative economic rates of return.
40.       In light of its recent Stand-By arrangement with the ]MF, the
Government has adopted a revised investment program for 1986 which is fully
consistent with resource constraints. This revised program was prepared
with assistance provided by the Bank at Government request. Individual
projects have been selected for execution on the basis of priority and
economic viability. The process would need to be continued during the next
two years. Supplementary measures, such as efforts to improve project
execution capabilities to avoid cost-overruns would also be needed.
41.       The definition of sectoral strategies, with the exception of
energy resources, is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Planning,
while individual ministries are charged with their implementation. Thus,
in the key non-oil productive sectors, agriculture and forestry, the
Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry and the Ministry of Forestry
Development are charged with implementation of the sector's strategy. Two
institutions under the control of the Ministry of Agriculture and one under
the Ministry of Commerce have played an important monopoly role. Under the
recently approved Stand-By arrangement, however, the Office des Cultures
Vivrieres (OCV) which was sole buyer for, and marketed most fooderops; and
the Office du Cafe et du Cacao (OCC) which had sole responsibility over the
collection and export of coffee and cocoa have lost their monopoly powers.
The role of the Office National du Commerce (OFNACOM) which exercised
monopoly powers over some 14 imported products has been reduced to include
only four products. The Office Congolaise du Bois (OCB), an autonomous
agency under the umbrella of the Ministry of Water and Forestry, has
monopoly powers on the internal and external marketing of logs. The role
of OCB is expected to be reviewed by the Government in the context of its
Public Enterprise Reform.
The Petroleum Sub-Sector
42.       The Ministry of Mines and Energy is responsible for policy and
strategy for the mining, petroleum, power and water subsectors, and also
for the supervisory control of several public sector enterprises. The
Minister is assisted by his private office for the administrative tasks,
and two directors respectively in charge of the Directorate of Studies and
Planning and the Directorate of Supervisory Control and Policy. The
Minister is also supported by two General Secretaries, heading the
Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons, and the Directorate of Energy and



- 13 -
Water. However, because the importance of petroleum to the nation, the
Director of Hydrocarbons reports directly to the Minister. The General
Manager of each of the state enterprises reports directly to the Minister.
Annex V provides further information on exploration, production and
refinery operation.
43.       A new Government in 1974 nationalized the bulk plants and retail
outlets of foreign companies and created HydroCongo, a national oil company
in charge of transportation and distribution of petroleum products.
HydroCongo also has a direction of Exploration and Production which acts as
a counterpart to oil companies particularly for e':ploration permits in
which it has a participation.
44.       In Congo, the contractual and fiscal framework concerning
petroleum goes back to the 1962 Mining Code and its Regulations. An
updated law was promulgated in 1982, but its regulations have not yet been
issued. All but one of the current exploration agreements and all
production permits were granted under the old law whose main provisions
are: (a) an initial exploration period of five years extendable for two
periods of three years each linked to relinquishments of 25 percent of
initial area; (b) royalty of 12 to 17.5 percent; and (c) corporate tax of
50 to 75 percent. In the event of a discovery, the permit holder can apply
for a production permit for the field, with a 50-year validity. Both ELF
and AGIP hold offshore exploration permits which must be relinquished in
November 1987. The then free areas will have to be studied and organized
into blocks to be offered to interested oil companies. Presently, there
are two onland free areas - the Kayes acreage on the edge of the ocean, and
the Central Basin or Cuvette, which would be promoted for exploration later
this year.
45.       Production permits are presently held by ELF Congo (seven) and
AGIP Resources (two). Cumulative production as of January 1, 1986, is
about 321 million barrels. A study of the Congo reserves carried out under
the Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project, indicates that the
remaining producible reserves would sustain the current production level of
110,000 bid for considerably more than 20 years.
46.       The US$5 million petroleum sector technical assistance IDA credit
approved in 1980 was to help the Minister of Mines and Energy?s capacity to
supervise exploration and development of petroleum resources as well as to
strengthen HydroCongo's operating efficiency. The project did not achieve
all its objectives and some work is still to be done in terms of oil field
development strategy, and exploration promotion effort, as well as to
improve HydroCongo's efficiency.
47.       An energy assessment was carried out in April of this year and a
report is under preparation. The assessment identified the following
issues:
(a) Upstream (Exploration and Production) - The need to optimize
income from petroleum resources in the short term and for the



- 14 -
next 20 to 30 years: through improving: (i) the legal and fiscal
framework for future contracts expenses; (ii) the institutional
capacity of tbc Government to monitor petroleum operations and
verify costs for purposes of taxes and participation; (iii)
promotion preparation for onshore acreage and for offshore
relinquishments; and (iv) prefeasibility studies preparation for
the Litchendjili gas recycling project and for a possible rapid
increase of onshore production.
(b) Downstream (Refining, Transportation, Marketing) - The need to
cut production costs at the CORAF refinery; to tighten
distribution costs and control losses; and to review the basis
and methodology of the price structure and for possible cuts in
individual product prices.
48.       The glut in the world oil market and the resulting decline in oil
prices have led companies to try to reduce charges in their operations and
renegotiate their contracts with Covernments. Because of the critical
importance of oil revenues for its economy, the Congo needs to prepare for
this situation by the design of a policy containing specific measures aimed
at (i) minimizing the decline of its revenues; (ii) ensuring the operation
of its facilities in the most cost-effective manner; and (iii) maintaining
the exploration/development effort. The proposed project would assist the
Government in these efforts.
The Bank Role
49.       Apart from the petroleum sector TA credit discussed in
paragraph 46, a First Macroeconomic Management Technical Assistance loan of
US$11 million was approved in 1983 (paras. 14, 31, 33, and 35).
50.       The First Technical Assistance Project for Macroeconomic
Management aimed at providing decision-makers with crucial information
systems to improve financial management. These systems, however, were not
utilized adequately as the Government was unwilling to abandon its
expansionary policy and undertake strong financial management measures.
More recently, however, the assiscance provided by the project helped the
Office of the Prime Minister to focus on the need to undertake measures to
arrest further deterioration of the economy, and as a result, a Steering
Group was created under th^ chairmanship of the Prime Minister. Experts
provided under the project helped in the preparation of the "structural
adjustment program" which was adopted by the Government in mid-1985.
Although the program proved insufficient in the light of the severe
internal and external imbalances, and did not establish a credible
medium-term framework, it served as a basis for preparation of the
recently-adopted short-term stabilization program. The experts also
helped the Government negotiate the IF financed Stand-By arrangement.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
51.       The possibility of a second loan to finance technical assistance
to the Government was discussed in the context of a Bank review of the
Government's public sector investment program, and is based on the need to
undertake longer-term structural policy measures, particularly in the
non-oil sectors.  Project appraisal was completed on July 5, 1986, and
negotiations were held in Washington on August 7 and 8, 1986.
52.       The commitment of the Government to change is demonstrated by its
willingness to carry-out a short-term stabilization program financed by the
IHF and supported by the international financial community. This effort
must now be followed by a program of economic adjustment to restore
creditworthiness. The role of the Bank through the proposed Second
Technical Assistance loan is to help the Government expand its activities
from financial stabilization to economic adjustment by preparation and
implementation of a coherent package of key economic and financial policy
measures which are required to reestablish the country's longer-term
viability and creditworthiness.
Project Objectives and Description
53.       The proposed project represents a manageable package of
assistance designed to make the maximum impact on decision-making in the
Congo. It would comprise a two-year technical assistance program
principally to design and implement measures to promote growth in the
non-oil productive sectors and formulate a more effective petroleum
development strategy to the country. It would also help the Government in
areas of public investment, finance and debt management. The project would
consist of three components:
(i) long-term assistance to the Steering Group at the Office of
the Prime Minister through the provision of services of a
financial economist and a macroeconomic planner; and
(ii) complementary short-term consultancies to design specific
financial and economic adjustment policy measures;
(iii) assistance to improve the efficiency of the petroleum
subsector.
Assistance to the Office of the Prime Minister
54.       To ensure day-to-day access to decision makers, the project would
provide two long-term advisors, each for a period of two years appointed to
assist the Secretariat of the Steering Group at the Office of the Prime
Minister. The main responsibility of the advisors would be to help the
Government implement its short-term stabilization program, and at the same
time, formulate a coherent medium-term economic adjustment program designed
to reestablish the country's creditworthiness and provide the basis for
economic growth. A condition of effectiveness would be that the two



- 16 -
advisors have been appointed to assist the Secretariat of the Steering
Group. Terms of Reference for the two long-term advisors and work programs
for the first six months of project execution were agreed with the
Government during negotiations and are provided in Annexes VI aud VII.
55.       The first of the two experts would be a financial economist. He
would assist the Steering Group in the implementation of specific areas of
the stabilization program, and would complement other technical assistance
provided by the IHF. The financial economist would work with the Ministry
of Finance in the preparation of the Government budget for 1987 and 1988,
and would be involved in maintaining control of Government revenue and
expenditure to meet specified targets under the IfF Stand-By arrangement.
In this context, he would assist in the design of measures to improve the
efficiency of the public service system, and would provide advice on public
enterprise issues during the initial phase if its reform, partlcularly with
respect to public Invectuent or Government financial support to
enterprises. He would further serve as overall coordinator of activities
leading to future Bank assistance to public enterprises. He would also be
responsible for assisting the Steering Group in maintaining current
information on balance of payment performance and for preparing
recommendations on actions to be adopted as required, Including external
debt management issues. The financial economist would be responsible for
coordinating some 43 man-months of short-tern consultancies included under
the project for the design of measures in his areas of responsibility.
56.       The second long-term advisor would be a macroeconomic planner.
He would be responsible for assisting the Secretariat of the Steering Group
in formulating a medium-term adjustment program. He would work with the
Ministry of Planning and with the relevant ministries in the context of
some 59 man-months of short-term consultancies for the design of economic
adjustment measures involving public sector investment, agriculture,
forestry, and recommendations on employment and education policy. The
macroeconomic advisor would also coordinate the administrative aspects
relating to the hiring of consultants for the execution of the petroleum
development component. He would liaise with the Ministry of Mines and
Energy for this purpose.
Short-Tenm Consultancies
57.       The project would provide 102 man-months of short-term
consultancies. Under the general coordination of the financial economist,
some 43 man-months of consulting services would be made available to the
Ministry of Finance, the Office of the Prime Minister and CCA as follows:
(i) 10 man-months to assist the Ministry of Finance in preparing the 1987
and 1988 public sector budgets; preparing periodic reviews on Government
revenue and public expenditure to determine whether targets established
under the IMF arrangement have been met; and following-up on
balance-of-payment projections as required; (ii) 6 man-months to the
Ministry of Finance for a study on the banking sector, in coordination with
Banque des Etats de l'Afrigue Centrale (BEAC), who carries out a yearly
audit of the banking sector. The study's primary objective would be to



- 17 -
determine the financial viability of each bank currently operating in the
Congo, by examining the credit system and procedures, the portfolio of each
bank and the status of loan arrears; and providing recommendations on
actions to be adopted for each situation, including financial
restructuring. The study would also examine the system for granting credit
to small and medium enterprises; (iii) 3 man-months of consultant services
to complete a study of the legal framework of public enterprises currently
being financed under the first technical assistance project; (iv) 6 man-
months to CCA for preparation of external debt rescheduling packages that
would be presented to bilateral and commercial lenders in 1987-88;
(v) 6 man-months to the General Directorate of Procurement for review and
reform of the existing procurement process, which proved costly to the
country; and (vi) 12 man-months to design legislation and regulatory
measures for the public service system with a view to reducing the state's
fiscal burden and improving the efficiency of the Public Administration.
58.       Short-term consultant services to be coordinated by the
macroeconomic planner would be of the order of 59 man-months. This
assistance would be key to the formulation of a medium-term economic
adjustment program, and would need to be geared to the design of specific
measures. It would comprise: (i) 16 man-months to the Ministry of Economy
and Planning for the preparation of public sector investment programs in
1987 and 1988 which are consistent with resource constraints including the
preparation of economic feasibility studies for specific projects as
required; (ii) 10 man-months to the Ministry of Planning for the review of
legislation and practices relating to the establishment of private
enterprises and to foreign investments and recommendations on reducing
labor rigidities and adding incentives to increase employment by the
private sector. In this context, existing vocational training programs
would be reviewed and recommendations prepared to increase their relevance
to meet this objective and measures would be prepared to reform the
education system and make it more relevant to the country's current needs;
(iii) 24 man-months to the Ministry of Agriculture to design agricultural
policy actions on pricing and marketing, research, extension and credit;
(iv) 9 man-months to the Ministry of Forestry Development to design
measures to improve timber exploitation conditions and support small
producers.
Assistance to the Petroleum Sub-Sector
59.       The proposed project component would assist the Ministry of Mines
and Energy through financing of:
(a) a complementary study on the strategy for developing petroleum
resources, using as a basis the updated reserves study and
looking in particular into all the financial, contractual, fiscal
and legal aspects relating to crude production and its costing,
in order to maximize the Government1s revenue;
(b) strengthening of MME's capability to deal efficiently with and
monitor the petroleum subsector through consulting services



- 18 -
including the preparation of negotiation scenarios, tgreements
and support during negotiations;
(c) exploration promotion of:
(i) Central Basin (Cuvette) including the reinterpretation of
the 1980 airmag survey, finalization of promotion report and
organization of promotion meeting;
(ii) Coastal Basin (Kayes) blocks and free offshore blocks
including the finalization of report and organization of a
promotion meeting;
(d) purchase and installation of an Information Management System;
(e) prefeasibility study for the recycling of Litchendjili gas
condensate field; and onshore light oil development;
(f) complementary study of the CORAF refinery and its global economic
impact.
(g) power sector studies.
Project Implementation
60.       The project would be implemented over a two-year period.  The two
long term advisors' major responsibility would be to assist the Steering
Group in the preparation of measures to be adopted by the Government to (a)
successfully implement its short-term stabilization program; and (b)
carry-out a medium term economic adjustment program. The advisors would
also be responsible for assisting the Secretariat of the Steering Group in
the selection of short-term consultants to be financed under the project
for preparation of specific actionable measures under (a) and (b) above.
To ensure adequate cooperation from agencies involved in the Project,
liaison officers would be designated to liaise with the long-term advisors.
The advisors would review the studies and recommendations prepared by the
short-term consultants and would submit the results to the Steering Group
for consideration and subsequent adoption by the Government. To ensure an
adequate project performance, the Government and the Bank would review
(i) the progress in meeting project objectives; and (ii) proposed work
programs of the consultants every six months for the duration of the
project, beginning March 31, 1987. The advisors would be responsible for
submitting the output of the short-term consultants to the Government and
the Bank and for preparing periodic evaluations of the work completed by
the short-term consultants. Together, they would prepare quarterly reports
on the level of commitment and disbursement of loan funds.
Project Costs and Financing
61.       Total project costs are estimated at US$4.7 million, of which the



- 19 -
foreign exchange component would amount to US$4.0 million. A breakdown of
the costs by major categories is provided in the project summary and in
Annex IV. It is a common characteristic of technical assistance that, as
project implementation progresses, both the Bank and the Borrower usually
discover possibilities for additional assistance in areas not previously
contemplated. Accordingly, an amount of US$450,000 has been included to
finance activities as yet unidentified. These funds would be used
following agreements between the Government and the Bank. An allowance has
been made for price contingencies equal to 13 percent of base costs.
62.       The proposed loan of US$4.0 million would cover 85 percent of
total financing requirements. This level of cost sharing is not uncommon
for projects of this kind. The remaining project cost of US$0.7 million to
be financed by the Borrower would correspond to the cost of local
counterpart support and local costs of consulting services.
Procurement
63.       Data processing equipment and associated software, financed under
the project would be procured through limited international bidding, in
accordance with Bank guidelines to ensure compatibility with existing
equipment. Selection and employment of the two long-term advisors would be
in accordance with Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. Because of
the need to retain individuals with a high degree of experience, the two
long-term advisors would be selected from a short list of consultants that
would be submitted to the Bank for approval. Short-term consultancies
would be grouped in adequate packages and would be selected and employed in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
Disbursements
64.       This proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of 30 months.
It would finance 82 percent of total expenditures for consultant services,
and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for data processing equipment and
related software. Retroactive financing would be provided for expenditures
up to US$120,000 incurred after August 31, 1986, for project start-up
activities.
Special Account
65.       In order to expedite disbursements for eligible expenditures, a
Special Account of US$100,000 equivalent would be opened at the Brazzaville
branch of the BEAC for such expenditures. On receipt of satisfactory
evidence that expenditures financed out of the Special Account were
eligible for financing, the Bank would replenish the Special Account from
the Bank Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Accounts and Audits
66.       The Secretariat of the Steering Group of the Office of the Prime



- 20 -
Minister would maintain records and accounts adequate to monitor the
implementation of the proposed project. The Government would have the
special account, and related records audited each year by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audited accounts would be submitted
to the Bank each year no later than four months after the end of each
fiscal year.
Benefits
67.       The project's principal objective is the formulation of a
coherent set of policy measures designed to reestablish creditworthiness
and promote economic growth over the medium term, particularly by
revitalizing the non-oil productive sectors after more than a decade of
neglect.
Risks
68.       The project's principal risk is that implementation of the policy
measures may be delayed. This risk appears acceptable in light of the
policy decisions recently taken by the Government. To facilitate project
execution, the Bank and the Government would review every six months the
progress achieved in meeting project objectives, and the work programs for
the following six months.
PART V - RECONMENDATION
69.        I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the poposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
August 26, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-21-                                             ANNEX I
T AB  L T                                       Page  1 of  B
'M                       (MM 11       BMAB
19301 i-01 n7e       D6    k rma            or rFRICA B OF 3*6A A  t. AtICA ANAID %AST
al       eml. no
SOTa                              342.0       342.0      342.0                .
SUaILTUBAL                        1014.3      10.3       104.7
a MwUin (VW)                           ..          ..      1220.0             100.3                   1134.9
(RLOGBA  OF OIL BQOLALIT')         69.0       114.0      129.0            351.5                     423.9
ronuanu.mo-uaT (Twufmfl)    933.0            1206.0     1777.0
UUAnl PO#UhMOS (2 oF rt.           29.5        33.3       35.1              32.0                     49.0
vannzanou ucitorl
POPULAION LIU TIR  2w0  (KILL)                           3.4                *
VAUOUAI POLATIOI (M=LL)                                  9.0
POUATIO&No  waunm                                        1.3
rI eq. M.                         2.3         3.5        5.2              45.1                     27.5
FUR lq. M. &=I. LUI               8.9        11.4       14.1             114.J                    70.1
POPUlArlOnw AR STUXl  (3)
D014 *1S                        41.0       42.1        61.1 43A                                  43.5
15-4 TU                          55.I        54.A       51.1              51.5                     53.0
65 M  AD=                         3.1        3.2         3.4               2.7                      3.3
voFm.ano ctov mn Ci ()
iOTAL                             1.9         2.4        3.0               2.J                      2.J
URSA.                             7.2         5.0        4.S               5.1                      4.4
0U10  31RTH am1 (M TOM)            40.4       41.7        43.1              47.0                     400
C301U OUDRI UTS (FIR sN00)         17.5       1l1          J.0              13.0                     11.5
GEtnE  1r?LoDUCTIO  KAT             2.4        2.9         3.0               3.2                      24
FAMILY PLLIICa
AOPOS,  lA  (13003)               ..         .. a.        a
USERS (o    01or 114131  3 )      a.     .   a.                            4.                      21.4
IDK1 OF 00 POW. PR CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      94.0       100.0       74.0              32.9                     35.1
8R4 CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIS (I OP ERQSEU )          105.0        34.0      106.0              33.5                    213.2
PROTEINS (Cuim   K DAT)          37.0       36.0        40.0              55.4                     77.6
OF ICK IAL AND PULS             15.0        14.0       14.os             lbS                      17.3
XILD (ACES 1-4) DRAI lAS           22.1        15.9        *.0              14.4                     12.a
TEKX
LIC ExMCT. AT mUin CTZARZ)         49.0       57.6        43.4              52.0                     17.3
IIQW  NMsT. RATS (M T14S)        125.4      104.5        82.0             10.3                     94.3
CESS TO SAZE MATER (tr)
TOtrAL                             -         27.0       23.0 /d           42.4                     47.2
U1            ..6U.O                         43.0       44  A7.5                                    3.4
RURL                              ..          4.0        7.9_             3s7a                     45a
ACCESS TO 310IC7T DISPOSAL
(Z oF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         4.0         ..               2.9                      45.9
Us                                ..          .0         ..                57.7                    43.0
RUlAL                             ..         4.0         ..               20.7                     23.4
POPULATION PIR rHTStCIAN        16100.0    11070.0      3510.0 ft        1179.                     431.0
POP.                             1300.0 Lf   300.0       790.0            2459.8                   1345.
PoP. PER HOSPITAL RE
TOTAL                           240.0       220.0 f    220.0             931.1                    421.3
maJ                             200.0 ft   300.0 A    290.0 7h           343.8                    343.0
RURAL                           230.0 A    210.0    170.0               4371.1                   2511.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL ED          ..         28.7 I       .               27.2                     25.7
*VEURS  SIZE OF HOUS9:lLD
TOTAL                             6.5         ..         ..                 .
ORAI                              ..          ..         4.1 /d...
RUVIAL                            ..          ..
AVERAz NO. or rms/Roosl
rOTAL                             2.1         ..
RUA                               ..          ..         ..                 ...
PERCENTAGE Of OWELINGS VITH ELECT.
TOTAL                             - -
UNI                                A.O        ..        11.4 it
RtRl                              ..          ..         .                  ..



-22 -
ANNEX I
T A IILR  34
Page 2 of 8
CONC1, P. R. or THE     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHIEET
CO)NGO, P. K. or THEI                  RISIERKCGE GROUPS (HEiGHTID AVKRAOEIH) In
MlST                      (POST RECENT ESTIMArK) /lb
CRICINT           HIDDLE INCG4E            MIDDLE INCOME
1lh%L!.     197o1  ESTmNATNlb.      ALI'LCA S. OP SAHIARA    N. AV'RICA & MIl EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUsTEJI ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   rOAL                     78.0          .      .                       95.7                       HY.8
MALE                    103.0         ..           ..                1OO.n                      103.7
FrHALR                   53.0         ..           .                  13.2                       75.2
SECORDARTi TOTAL                     4.0          *                              17.3                       41.9
HALE                      6.0          .,          ,.                 it.9 SU 9
FEMIALE                   2.0         ..           ..                 14.0                      34.6
VOCArUINAL (2 or SECONDARY)           27.8          9."          9.5                5.9                       1U.0
PUPlL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             53.0         62.0        58.0                41.1                       29.7
SECONDARY                           20.0         33.0        39.0                25.5                       18.8
COaIuaPTu N
PASSSNCER CARS/TIHOUSAND POP          47.3         12.4         2e.6 /d            20.8                       17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          11.6         53.8        59.4               107.8                      175.9
TV RCCEtVERS/THOUSAND POP              0.1          1.5          2.3               20.8                       51.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CI RJLATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                1.1         0.5         13.4               18.4                       37.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCEICAPITA        ,.           .,           ,.                 0.4                        2.4
TOTAL LABDR FORCE (THOUS)            366.0        437.0       567.0
FEKALE (PERCENT)                    36.1         35.4        38.2                36.2                       11.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               52.0         42.0        34.0 /d             54.5                       42.4
INDUSTtY (PERCENT)                  17.0         21.0        26.0 7              18.3                       27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               38.5         36.1        31.9                36.8                       26.2
MALE                                50.2         47.5        40.9                47.1                       46.2
FEMALE                              27.3         25.2        23.7                27.2                        5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1         1.3          1.5                1.3                        I.b
1NOat1 DISTRIDUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOSE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5X OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
HICHEST 2OZ OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
LOWEST 20_ oF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..           ..          ..
POVERSt  TARGET tROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUrE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..           ..               590.7                      226.3
RURAL                                ..           ..          ..                275.3                      134.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCONE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..           ..               545.6                      431.5
RURAL                                ..           ..        190.0 Ie            201.1                      326.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
[fREAK                               ........
RURAL                                ..           ..          ..                  ..                        29.t
NOT AVAELABLE
NOT AlPLICABLE
Is   The group averages for each indicator are populationrrelghted arlteherte means.  Gbverage oF countriea
among the indicators depends on availability of date and Is not unilorn.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, "Dats for 1960  refer to any year between 1959 and 1956; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimte" between 1981 snd 1983.
/c   1977;  Id 1980;  le 1978;  If 1962;  Ig 1972;  /h 1976;  h  1979;  /1  1958.
JUNE, 1985



ANNEX I
-23-                                                Pag-e  3of  8
PIF1NMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOES
Not: Ai bdmaugh fi an msda.ritaue. gvaly jda she maw nlasoi ead siahh. ii should Sa hi nabiadI thatdu ma no ha maaasaalpi
comepabl bamm of dti lick of staadinu  dalhoirs ad cumu md by dilbus conetm  in coliCi1g in dma. The data am. -ralass. mno to
damibh orid  or maiude. indibcawz tan dctadaiM ajor d           m  hasete   ounti.
Th relinainr poop wre III its seam coutry roup oa mabjs mosey ai (2) a commiry nop winth amawbas hiahor swamn liomes Ilen l* cuentry
group dusth  ljatcomtry ltpt far "Hig inco  Oil Eaonaesroup we  MMd  neans Noni AIotti d Mie Eat scbheun baum do(ror
weaculsurt iaiwtlfs. In do fitanr poup data slw na   m  popultion weighted wzl*msie -- for uh dmdasoer aid shown ly whe imajiority
artti coune in a group hU dua for bham lndirator. Sinai dw cowerap otf ounrmi amog th indic   dapan  on the availabdty atdaia snd in no unirorm.
cauuon mum tbe hercisd in amabtims avreoron  indictlor tO another. Them a Dnnma only statml incompnng the valueoroewindcalora a  tame amonm
the country mi ntamr groups.
AREA (thousand sq.kn.l                                             Crud MM RooDeper th ar ei-Number of live births in she year
Toal-Total surfac  are comprising land area and inLand watera;     per thousand of mid-year population: 9M. 1970. and 1913 data.
1960, 1970 and 1933 data.                                         Cnd Das  Rwe (per rhsmadj-Number of deaths in the year
4citnkh --Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or        per thousand of mid-year popuation; 1960. 1970. and 1913 data.
permanently for crop  pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to   Geu Repredn  Rear-Average number ofdaughtcrs a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her normal req'rduct3vc period if she experiences
present agspecific fertility rates: usalily five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USSl,GNP per capita estimates at currenl          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market pnces. calculated by same convcrsion meihod as World        Fen*  ne-Aernpuin. Aval (dhosadaj-Annual tam-
Bak Alias q1911-33 basis); 1933 data.                              ber oficeptors orbirth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMnriON  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family plnning program
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.        FrAm  Plaiy-Vsn (pew ofamed men  -The percen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-    tage of onaried women ofchild-bearing ag who are praticing or
tncity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practictg any form of contraception. Women
1912 data.                                                        of child-bearing age am gnewraly women apd 15-49, although for
some countries cont,aceptive usage is measured for other age
POPI)LATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                   groups.
? aNd Pp ia, MId4er (thomnds)-As or july i:1960. 1970.             FOOD AND NURIm       ON
and 1913 data
n eft.da     w&ctnio co   rt Capift (IP9-7f - JOO-I-ndex of per
V,mmr hpuiladk   'parcmew of tetar)-Ratio of .arban to total       cptanulproduction of aDl food commoditie. Producion
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed antd sed for arculture. Food commodities
abiliiy ofrdata among countries: 1960. 1970. and 193 data.         include primary commodities (e.g. suprcane instead or sugr)
N',uieioa  Pr*ecie,u                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and sea are
Population in year 2000-Thc projection of population ror 2000.     exclude !); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds,
madc for cach economy separately. Starting with information on     vegetables, fruits. nuts. sugrcne and sugar beets, litock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
intemational migration in the base year 1980. these parameters     on national average producer price weights; 1961-65 1970. and
were projected at five-year intcrvals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                Per Cspna Sppyiy efCalores percet efreu*resuusl-Com put-
Stasrimarr populurron-Is one in which agc- and sex-specific moor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
ialisy rates luve not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Availabte supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultancously remained at replacement lcvel  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
nct reproduction rate - 'J In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used it
.onstant and cqual io ihe death rate. the age structure is also    food processing. and losses in distribution. Requiremenis were
conviint. and the grnowwh rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normnal activity
ltze was csilmated on the basis of ihe projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the bear 2000. and t he ratc of decline of ferility  age and sex distribution of population.andallowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                         waste at household level. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Populaini Momentum- Is the tendency for population growth to       Per Capita 5Sppy ip of Ate/u (xras per 4rJ-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply offood per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countnes established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the wear r is measured as   provide (or minimum allowances of 60 grams of total proten per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace.  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment leSel from year i onward. 1915 data                           75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Population Drnity                                                  average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per tq km -Mid-year population per square kilometer 1100 hec-      Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data
tarrs) of total area. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Cqkapita wreia&Sipplyjon.U4imtmend Pase-Protein supply
Per iq. kmA ugr uiura larun--Computed is .Ibove for agricultulral  of food denved from animnJls and pulse* in grams per d3a. 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data                               1970 and 1977 data
Poputl.tion .4ge Strrcrurc (percent)  Children s1- 14 years1. work-  ChI  dages I-4  Deat Rare (per thsoad- Number ofdeaths of
ing aget 15-4 years).and retired 65 %cars and ocr; as percentage  children aged 14 %cars per thousand children in the same age
orf mnd-vear population. 19q6. 1970. and IYM3 data.                group in a given %car. For moss developing countries dtlt dernied
from life tables: 1960. 197O and 1983 data.
Popuataion Growrh RRate (percent J-roral  Annual growth rates ol
total mid-)car population i'r 1950-bO. l19l-7t 0and 1970-83        HEALTH
Popadariaa Growth Rate (percent)-arben- Annual gronth rates        Life Expccrany at Birr (yels) -Number of 3ears a nrwborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data         infant would live if prevailing patters of mortality for all people



-24 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 4 of 8
at the time of of iu birth wer to suy the sme thirooout its life;  Paap-ieachler Ratio - rimary, and sewrwary-Toul students cen
1w9e, 1970 and 1913 data.                                       rolkd i primary and smondary lnels divided by number or
#W   Mwt*p Ae. (p. ih )-Number or infants who di                mchen  the corresponding lvel
before reaching oe ye of ap pe thousand live birth in a 
ya; 1960. 1970 and 1983 dafL                                    CONSUMPTlON
Aces toSe   W    (oreV  o   m -utf _         1w_, ad            Pswq    Cw  (r (pe  im d  _publaj-Pamenger can com-
rual-Nwumber of people (totaL urban. ad rural) wtb reasonable   prim motor cars stung les than eight penons: excludes ambul-
anm to afe water sapply (isncudes tend s Tfae wars or           ans heares and military vehicles.
untrated but uncontaninated wanr sub as that from protected     #a  Reelw  (p. rJemssdpeIudr-i)-All types of reeives
borehols, springs and unitary wels) a pecenta  of their rnm-    for radio bradcasts to geeral public per thousand of population;
tive population. In an urban area a public fountain or stndpost  excludes un-licensed rceivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 2O0 meet from a hous may be considered    regstration or radlio set was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within rasonable       of tho  housem. In rural areas  notbecompaae inct Countesb                     iceninS
reasonable     would inmply that the housfe or member of the
housdhold do not have to  -n  a disrportionate panrt of the day  TVrvnc s (pe t aisoadpaoinleW-TV  receives for broadcas
in fchbiqg the family's wteur ands.                             to generl public per thousnd population; excludes unlicnsed TV
in cn* the Iais water needs.                        s_.         sen    in countne ad in yeas when reistration of TV se was
Accesr to Erut. Wapeool (peca of fefpuletl.a-td ma.            ineffct
ad ronda-Number of people (total. urban, and rural) served by  in eltct
eacrera disposal as percentaes of their respective populstions.  Newwpar Cbuadu (per thmmd poeplludm)-Shows the aver-
Excrea disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of '-daly general intert newspaperC defined as a
without treatment, of human cxcretA and wastewater by water-    penodical publication devoted primauly to recording genal new .
borne ystens or te use of pit privies and similar insallationa.  It is considered to be -daily' if it appe  at kst four titaes a  k.
POp.hia per Phpsie-RFPpulation divided by number of prac-       C _iSe  Aau  Attendae per Cap  per Yer-Based on the
ising physicians qualified from a mndical school at univesity level.  number or tickets sold during the year, induding admisions to
Pophb. per Nw_iq Pmew-P'pulation divided by number of           drive-in cinem    and mobile units.
practicing male and faeale gaduate nurses amutani nursF
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                       IA        FORCE
Popa-m per Hasp"l  d-sea    wi,-   d ewat-lbpultion             Tea Lakw Fe fCe rh.mas4I-Economically active perns, in-
(totaL urban and rual) divided by their respectve number of     cluding armed force and unamployed but excluding housewives,
hospital bed availb  in public and private gnral and specialed  students, etc.. covering popuation of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals bd  eavbiaitbl on cenim. Hoit are pl advarious countries are not comparabe: 19. 1970 and 1983 data.
permnently staffed by at leat one physician. Establhnents prov-  Fea   (aJFenule lbor fore as perentae of total labor
iding princpally custodial car ar not included. Rual hospit     form.
however. indude health and medical cenIcrs not permnanntdy staffed  Ariebwe (preeutj-Labor force i farmi   forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medial asistant nure midwife. etc.)    and fishing as pesurstage of total labor fome: 1960, 1970 and 1930
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a linited range  data.
of medical facilties.                                           Ia&ury (peremaf-Labor force in mining, consuructiors. manu-
Abdsois per Hapiml hi-Total number of adrmisions to or          facturing and electricity. water and s as percentage or tota tabor
discharge from hospitals divided by the number of beds.         force 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
Purrlps  HRa (pereml-ua ale. adftale.-a            patien
HOUSING                                                         or activi rates are computed as totaL rmak and female labor force
Areq  Siew of Huhlda (prns per h0W          o)-r4eaL wa         as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
and rural-A household consists ofa group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1993 data. These ar bsd on LOas
living quartcrs and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sx structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Nwmber of Perses per Room- Arstl. Arbone, ad rural-     Ec&osea    Depea*sry Rurie-Ratio of population under 15. and
Averagc number of persons per room in all urban. and rural      65 and over. to the working age population (those aged l5-64).
.xupied conventional dwellings respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-perrnanent structures and unoccupied parns.                 INCOME DISTRIBDLION
Perentager of wDeAWag wrih Ekencricnl-eaeal, urban. an  ral-    Pe        reuvre of Toal Dispusabk Ixcome nbt in cash nd  i kdi_-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households rtaked by total house-
tage of to:sl- urban, and rural dwellings respectively          hold incomc.
EDUCATION                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4hsted Exrolmt Ratios                                          The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
PrAmar'v school - torta, male and female-Gross total. male and  levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of aD ages at the pnmary level as percentages of  Estimted Absobte  ue"  Itew Leel (USS per ctapirsj-urhan
respective pnmary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider pnmary school age to be b-Il years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nLttntionally adequatc diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios gpven For some counenes with universal  Estimated Relative Nu.ry Income Level frSS per capita j-whan
eJucation. gross enrollmernt may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative potenr  income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard pnrrary-school  average per capita personal income of the country Urban level is
age                                                             derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost or
Serondarr ;dhool - toral  nie and female-Computed as above:     living an urban areas.
vecondarv ed ucation requires at least four vears of approved pn-  Estiatred Populatior Below Absoltarr Powerry lucome Level (per-
mary instruction, provides general. %ocational. or teacher training  een i-urbac and rural- Pfrcent of population turban and rural
instructions lor pupils usuallv of 12 to 17  ears of age. correspond-  Aho are "absolute poor
enec courses are generally excluded.
Var-auonal Enrolnewnt (percent of setondar,- -V,cational institu-         Comparatiwe  nalasis and Data Division
tions include technical, industrial or other programs which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independenily or as departments of secondarv institutions                                June 1985



-25-                                      ANNEX I
Page 5 of B
cmm nUcs
- i DQc ,wsr, 19%6
Auumal  Rutd PACs         AnmalI IohE
CFAF Mu.        z         1970-76     1976-79     1979.44     1979.4
GMe aM-                           920.1       1OD.0    l    5.I        13.7        29.2        11.8
msD :ma  ive_n                 274.9        29.9        11.4        22.4        31.1        12.7
O=_qxl_                           486.5        52.9        16.4         1.9        19.9         8.0
um_e DkSw p                       335.7        36.5          ..          ..        45.8        12.3
V I       of 6a I af              585.1        63.9        18.3        18.4        37.5        15.2
Io       of Cods6u  af            50.9         54.4        18.3         1.1        27.7        17.3
MM, !LMl, rAD  wrzr. 1964
Valms addd              s1vym:              Vahu adue PC upIay.i
CFAF Bils      Z           mud         2   X AF did
A     t=                           61.3         6.9       Z73.7 I/     65.5          223.9
IM         (bjudin 01l)            48.4         5.5        M0.2         4.8        2,396.0
__                     -          395.7        44.7         4.6         1.1       86,021.7
se_lm                             293.0        33.1        75.6        18.1        3,875.7
86.4         9.8        43.3        10.4        1,995.4
Toaa                              884.8       100.0       417.4       100.0        2,119.8
1/ Iudlmg .oyuinz In pri1vate aicultz  (263 tbmuud).
ud cclawn  al]amu1t in infa   smctr.



ANNEX I
-26-                                          Page 6 of 8
In CFAF bili
L979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    19851/
Qe6= pacts               51.7   102.1   209.7   250.4   269.4   323.2   332.1
Cran    act s!urm       55.6    86.9   108.2   138.7   192.0   L97.3   235.1
tznut Surplz             -3.9    L8.4   101.5   111.7    77.4   L25.9    97.0
CaptuL  ElLitures        11.3    49.1   100.6   198.4   172.5   L66.3   162.2
as X of GDP
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
CuzzentLPts              20.3    28.3    38.7    35.2    33.2    34.7    35.2
Q=em   bqwei1     s      21.8    24.1    19.9    19.5    23.9    21.4    24.9
MX tsurplus              -1.2      5.1    18.7    15.7       9.6    13.7    10.3
Cqdfa  BuIizs            4.4    13.6    18.6    27.9    21.4    18.1    17.2
a/EstFm
MU-EY AND (Di1
In CFAF biU.lcs, ed of peuzI
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
nqey and Quai-4my                44.9    61.4    92.1   1L5.9   113.8   122.3
Credit to tr.l CaverQmt          20.7    21.6       4.4    19.3    18.0    39.1
Credit to the Ec y               45.6    56.0    94.2   131.2   151.9   180.6
Net Forelp Assets                -3.0      8.8    23.6      4.7   -21.7   -37.0



ANNEX I
-27-                                    Page 7 of 8
BAIANE F PAI1S
In CFAF bllSA
1971     197T      1979     1981      1982    1983    1984
Eisp,rcs )(gid)        28.9      75.0    120.9    314.3    385.8   457.9   588.1
Iswts (daf)            46.6      83.9    124.0    412.2    468.7   524.7   500.9
E9D -q    D "..  Gop  -17.7      -8.9     -3.1    -97.9    42.7   -66.8    87.2
Factor P       (zt)   -2.0       -5.2    -20.2    -40.5    -55.8    66.3   -78.2
ft"fers 1/  0.8       -7.8       2.2      3.1      -7.4    -1.6    -1.4
cu t          -18.9    -21.9    -21.1   -135.2   -146.1  -134.6        7.6
K.T Captal (ne)         15.1     33.3     25.6      40.8    125.8    39.8    21.1
Swrt-TeinCa01pS     (net)  2.9   -3.4      4.8      54.5    -81.9    32.1   -98.4
Mmtuy Cpidtal (met)   -           -        0.3       2.0      0.9    14.7      -
Othe Captal             0.4       0.5       1.6      1.1      3.9      3.2     -
Erzro    d Oxiss8i      -        -6.1     -6.9      41.7     76.4    22.5    28.6
Owvl. Balme            -0.5       2.4      4.3       4.9    -20.9   -22.2   -41.1
1/ Pivate md official
RRENI TRADE
In CFAP b-lllsm
1971     1974      1979     1981     1982    1983    1984
o1l                     0.2      38.5     73.2    256.5    321.0   383.2   497.9
Wwd                     6.1      11.9     14.1      17.2     20.2    18.3    26.6
Coffee                  0.2       0.2      3.5       0.9      1.5      1.4     2.1
Odaer                   9.3      11.9     14.6      14.9     23.2    21.6    28.0
Total EBqpws (fob)     15.8      62.5    105.4    291.5    365.9   424.5   552.6
In CAF binihm
1971     1974     I979      1981     1982    1983    1984
Foodstuffs              3.0      1.4       3.2      25.8     29.9    32.4    36.4
8a?.hIJ1r and Appliances  -               10.6      39.4     68.9    51.5    45.2
Materials   -        -         6.7     39.5      47.6    52.6    47.8
Q%Lca1s                 -         -        2.3       3.0      5.2     6.0      6.6
Otier                                     61.8    160.5    136.7   161.7   195.7
Tocal 3ints (cif)      32.9      56.6     94.6    268.2    :88.3   304.2   331.7



-28-                                       ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 8
EaSA  D~EB  (wd oaf D      _  1985)
Debt cutstadhn  (Uding i.unmd)                     2,214.2
DIbt a    cs i  ud diMxnmi (DID)                   1,794.9
Det service  rem
-  as pffa= of  grr of godS &i as                   26.7
-  a pezsc of awat p'i=mt mwum                      42.3
DOD                                                   95.0
UbJsbuinm                                             16.7
DiubxuMd                                              67.1
5.7



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of June 30, 1986)
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal                               Amount (less cancellations)
Number      Year     Borrower  Purpose              Bank    IDA   Undisb. 1/
-   - (US$ million)-
Ten loans and credits have been fully disbursed.    76.00   22.24
971-COB     1980      Congo   Petroleum              -       5.00    0.54
1047-COB     1980      Congo   Railway II             -      30.00    0.84
1179-COB 2/  1982      Congo   River Transp.          -       17.00    3.16
2227-COB     1983      Congo   Roads III             12.70    -        2.10
2285-COB     1983      Congo   Tech. Assistance I   11.00    -         2.00
2298-COB     1983      Congo   Wood Proc.            12.00    -        5.85
Total                                 111.70   74.24   14.49
of which has been repaid               36.92     .90
Total now held by Bank and IDA         74.78   73.34
Total undisbursed                      10.79    3.70   14.49
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of June 30, 1986)
Nil
1/   Prior to exchange rate adjustments
2/   Credit 1179-CM has been denominated in Special Drawing Rights.  The
dollar amounts represent the dollar equivalent at the time of credit
negotiations for the IDA amount and the dollar equivalent as of June
30, 1986, for the undisbursed amount.



ANNEX III
30                           Page 1 of 1
People's Republic of the Congo
Second Technical Assistance Project
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Operation prepared by Government
and Bank: June 27 - July 5, 1986
(b) Appraisal: June 27 - July 5, 1986
(c) Negotiations: August 7 - 8, 1986
(d) Planned date for effectiveness: December 1986
Section II: Special Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Agreement would be obtained on:
(a) Each agency participating in the project would designate a
liaison officer to liaise with the long-term advisors.
(b) The Borrower and the Bank would review every six months beginning
in March 31, 1987, (i) progress in project implementation and in
meeting project objectives; and (ii) the work program for the
following six months.
The following would be a condition of Loan Effectiveness:
That the two long-term advisors have been appointed to assist the
Steering Group.



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
CONGO
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENTS                            Foreign      Local       Total
Cost        Cost        Cost
LONG-TERM ASSISTANCE                          518,400    160,000      678,400
-  Financial Economist                       259,200     80,000      339,200
(two man-years)
-  Macroeconomic Planuer                     259,200     80,000      339,200
(two man-years)
SHORT-TERM CONSULTANCY
SERVICES FOR PUBLIC SECTOR
FINANCE AND DEBT MANAGEMENT                   580,500    172,000      752,500
Ministry of Finance and Budget                135,000     40,000      175,000
- 10 man-months for budget
preparation and monitoring,
and balance of payment
projections.
- 6 man-months for a study of                 81,000     24,000      105,000
the Banking Sector
- 3 man-months for definition                 40,500     12,000       52,500
of legal framework on
public sector enterprise
reform.
- 12 man-months to design                    162,000     48,000      210,000
legislation and regulatory
measures of the public
service system.
Congolese Amortization
Fund (CCA):
- 6 man-months for pre-                       81,000     24,000      105,000
paration of debt re-
scheduling package.
General Directorate of procurement:
- 6 man-months for review                     81,000     24,000      105,000
and recommendations of
procurement procedures.



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
PROJECT COMPONENTS
Foreign      Local       Total
Cost        Cost        Cost
SHORT-TERM CONSULTANCIES
FOR ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT
MEASURES                                      796,500    236,000  1,032,5000
Ministry of Economy and
Planning:
- 16 man-months for pre-                     216,000      64,000     280,000
paration and monitoring
of public sector in-
vestment program, and
technical support for
renegotiation of sus-
pended projects.
- 10 man-months for review                   135,000      40,000     175,000
of recommendations on
vocational training pro-
grams and relevance on
employment, and to pre-
pare specific measures
on reform of education
sector.
Ministry of Agriculture:
- 24 man-months for design                   324,000      96,000     420,000
of policy measures on
pricing and marketing,
research and extension,
and credit.
Ministry of Forestry Development:
- 9 man-months for                           121,500      36,000     157,500
promotion of investment
ASSISTANCE FOR THE
PETROLEUM SECTOR                            1,208,000      95,000   1,303,000
Ministry of Hines and Energy:
- Technical Assistance and                    378,000      42,000     420,000
Complementary Studies
for definition of petroleum
development strategy using as
a basis an existing updated
reserves study.



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
PROJECT COMPONENTS
Foreign      Local       Total
Cost        Cost        Cost
- Exploration promotion                       350,000      15,000     365,000
. Coastal Basin (Kayes) promotion
including finalization of pro-
motion report and organization
of promotion meetings.
. Central Basin (Cuvette)
promotion Including reinterpre-
tation of 1980 survey, finaliza-
tion of promotion report and
organization of promotion meetings.
- Preparation and negotiation                 120,000       8,000     128,000
of petroleum agreements
- Prefeasibility study for the                 30,000          -       30,000
utilization of the Litehendjili
field
- Complementary study for                      50,000       5,000      55,000
financial management of
Coraf Refinery and its
impact on sector
- Design and implementation                   100,000       5,000     105,000
of a computerized system of
technical information
- Power Sector Studies                        180,000      20,000     200,000
TOTAL BASE COST                             3,103,400    663,000   3,766,400
UNALLOCATED                                   446,200      41,000     487,200
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                           450,400      21,600     472,000
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          4,000,000    725,600   4,725,600



- 34 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 5
CONGO
PETROLEUM SUB-SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTAKCE COMPONENT
Petroleum Sub-Sector Annex
A. Geology
1.       The Congo's totel land area is approximately 342,000 km2 and the
offshore about 23,000 km  (Map IBRD.20031). There are two petroleja
prospective sedimentary basins, the Coastal Basin (aboat 28,000 km ) and the
Central or Cuvette Basin (around 100,000 km2). These are separated by the
Mayunbe basement ridge lying to the wesk of Brazzaville.  The Coastal Basin
consists of an onshore segment (7000 kmi ) with littie oil production so far,
an offshore shelf area (0-200 m) of about 7,8000 km  with abundant production,
and a deep offshore (200 m - 300 m) with no production or discovery yet.
2.       The Congo Coastal Basin is a folded wedge of Cretaceous and Tertiary
sedinents on the west side of the Mayumbe ridge. The thick edge of the wedge
(in excess of 30,000 ft) rests on the ocean floor and the thin edge is exposed
on land. About halfway within the wedge lies an evaporite layer (salt)
varying in thickness from a few hundred to a few thousand feet.  Both the pre-
salt or lover section and the post-salt or upper section contain oil source
rocks and reservoir rocks with appropriate protective covers. The structures
above and below the evaporite are generally not inmediately superimposed, and
the cost of testing a pre-salt structure is about twice that in the higher
one. Exploration of the pre-salt section was moreover hampered because the
evaporite blanket tended to act as a screen to seismic penetration, before
very recent developments in seismic technology were available. A favorable
combination of folds and faults with reservoirs has resulted in several
hydrocarbon pools or reservoirs, about 36 of which have so far been identified
in the 12 known fields.
3.       The Congo Coastal Basin is one of a series of oil- and gas-bearing
basins lying in the region of rifting between the African and South American
plates. Sediments in this area consist of three major units: a basal unit of
predominantly continental deposits, a middle unit of evaporitic deposits, and
an upper unit of essentially marine sediments.
4.       The pre-salt section (sands, shales and mrls) which rests on a
rugged surface of Pre-Cambrian metamorphic basement, is of Late Jurassic and
Early Cretaceous ages, whereas the post-salt section (sands, carbonates,
shales) is of Middle-Cretaceous to Late Tertiary ages. Gravels and sands were
deposited immediately in the narrow and elongated north-south basin resulting
frcm the initial rifting in Late Cretaceous time.  These coarse sediments gave
way to thick fine grained clastics often carbonaceous, which are generally
regarded as the main source for the large oil resources along both the African
and South American margins. The evaporite episode (the Loeme salt) is of mid-
Cretaceous (Aptian) age. The evaporites (which can reach a thickness up to



35                    ANNEX V
Page 2 of 5
1300 m) were formed during a period of basln restriction due to the arrival of
marine waters that were evaporated at a rate similar to their inflow. The
Loeme salt is often responsible for salt-induced folding in the overlying
section, thus contributing to the folding disharnony between the pre- and the
post-salt structures. Increased opening of the sea communications as well as
further rifting of the continents apart from each other was followed by
deposition of carbonates and clastic sediments of the upper section.
5.       This brief account of the prevailing stratigraphy obviously leaves
out all the depositional details (facies changes), which, when and where they
are worked out in great details, show the existence of sub-basins separated by
highs, deltaic areas, channels, etc.
6.       Ten zones with one or more reservoirs are currently producing, five
in the pre-salt and five in the upper section. The post-salt reservoirs are
generally of poor quality, whereas the more elusive pre-salt ones usually have
good porosity and permeability characteristics, which accounts for high
productivity (deliverability) wells. However, by far the bulk of the reserves
lies in the post-salt section because most known structures were found in this
part of the sedimentary section, where the testing was easier and at lower
cost.
7.       Inventoried structural features add up to approximately 127: about 69
in the post-salt and 58 in the pre-salt section of which B are onshore.
Several of these features are mere structural leads that need to be developed
into mature prospects to drill. The most promising structures and/or those
best located from a logistical point of view, will be drilled first.
8.       The Central Basin or Cuvette is the western part of the enormous
Congo Cuvette, an intracontinental sedimentary area of more than 1 million km
which minly extends in Zaire. The Central Basin has an upper rock section
somewhat similar to that of the Coastal Basin but thinner and resting on older
rocks, which might be a better prospect for gas. The upper part of the
section is known to contain source rocks, reservoirs and protective
formations. Structures are assumed to be of the rifting type (horsts and
grabens). Of very difficult access, this basin has not yet been properly
studied apart from a reconnaissance airmagnetometric survey.l/
l/         An airmag survey of about 53,000 line-km was flown in
19B0.   It was financed under the first Technical
Assistance Project to the Petroleum Sector (CR 9T1-COB).



ANNEX V
- 36 -                          Page 3 of 5
9.       Conclusion.  The most prospective areas are obviously in the Coastal
Basin where 9 fields are currently (February 1986) producing about 113,000
bld, and two new-fields are to be developed. The very high risk acreage lies
in the Central Basin, a virgLn area as far as exploration is concerned, due to
its remoteness and difficult access.
B. Exploration History
1.       Past Exploration.  Surface geology was started in 1925.  SPAFE, a
predecessor of Elf, which was granted in 1949 a 40 year e.xploration permit,
pursued surface activities (geology, geophysical surveys, shallow
strategraphic drilling) until 1951. A new exploration permit was signed in
1956, and additional surveys were carried out such as airmag and seismic
surveys. Finally, the first well was drilled at the Pointe Indienne
structure, some 15 km to the north of Pointe Noire. This well was a discovery
(1958) and the field was put on stream in June 1960, reaching peak production
in 1962 (2,532 b/d). The first offshore well, Congo Marine-1, was a dry hole
and the venture came to an end. In November 1968, Elf and Agip which had
entered into a cross-interest agreement (65/35), signed exploration contracts
for the offshore Pointe Noire Grands Fonds (PNGF) and Madingo Maritime blocks
respectively. The first wildcat well spudded on the large Emeraude structure
was a discovery (1969). Agip's first well at Loango was another discovery.
In all there have been 26 wildcats with oil or gas in the post-salt section
and 14 in the pre-salt, a total of 40 possible discoveries (which have a
sizeable amount of proven hydrocarbons), of which only 12 have been delineated
and 9 put on production. Additional exploratory drilling is necessary to test
undrilled structures and to delineate the reserves of the undeveloped
discoveries, in order to establish which are commercial and will warrant
development. Despite the large exploration effort undertaken by operators,
there are still about 26 known structures left undrilled, apart from possible
structures below the salt which have not yet been discovered.
2.       Present Exploration Status.  Onshore, only one block, Loeme, is under
license to Elf Congo in a joint partnership with HydroCongo (15%). The
situation of the offshore acreage is as follows: Elf Congo/Agip are exploring
the remaining Pointe Noire Grand Fond block, Agip/Elf the remaining Madingo
block; Amoco with partners share Marine 1 with HydroCongo (50/50), and Conoco
and partners Marine 2. Elf and Hydro-Congo are partners (85/15%) in the
deeper offshore Haute Mer block. Both Amoco and Conoco are exploring the pre-
salt section, and are planning to drill one well each. Elf and Agip may drill
some additional exploration wells next year in order to finalize the
evaluation of their acreage before the final relinquishment date in November
1987.



- 37                             ANNEX V
Page 4 of 5
3.       Future Exploration Trends.  The Central Basin and the onshore Kayes
acreage are ready to be promoted through the sale of promotion reports and the
organization of a promotion meeting. The offshore acreage to become free next
year will be restudied and then pronoted sometime in 1988, if there is need
for it. The current project's petroleum component will support the
promotions, contribute to the attractiveness of exploration and facilitate
negotiations through a simplification of the fiscal and legal framework.
4.       Oil Reserves.  Known bydrocarbon reserves are located entirely in the
Coastal Basin, and about 91% in its offshore part. According to an updated
reserves study financed under the first technical assistance project to the
petroleum sector, the total remaining producible reserves estimated from
developed, delineated and non-delineated discoveries (36 oil-bearing
structures) are sufficient to last another 25 years at a current 110,000 bld
production rate. If only the developed and delineated fields are taken into
account, then the duration is slightly above 20 years. Haoever, these figures
are conservative or minimal. Indeed future reserves will be added from about
22 oil discoveries which need to be delineated, apart from future discoveries
(and thus future delineation of reserves) that may result fran drilling 26
still untested known structures, and also from drilling the still undiscovered
pre-salt structures. It would appear that the reserves at the current
production rate are likely to last longer.
5.       Gas Reserves.  The associated gas of the Congo fields is normally not
rc .rded and therefore, no reserve calculations have been performed. This gas
is usually used in the field for pressure maintenance, production (gas-lift)
and power generation while the excess is flared until additional usage can be
found. Recovery of this excess associated gas is not feasible, since it would
require the construction of a 220 km offshore gasline system. The reserves of
producible non-associated or free gas have been computed at a total of 1.7
TSCF. This rather low estimLte is due to the lack of systematic information
(lack of interest) for evaluating a resource still of little financial
attractiveness in the absence of a potential market.
C.  Petroleum Production
1.       Production History.  The Pointe Indi'nne field started production in
1960.  The field which still produces at a dally rate of 194 bbl, has a
cumulative production of 6.8 million bbl. ErTraude, a giant in terms of oil-
in-place (more than 4 billion bbl), went on stream in 1972 and so far has
produced in excess of I44 million bbl. Loango which came on stream in 1977,
has produced more than 63 million bbl, and its present production



ANNEX V
- 38 -                      Page 5 of 5
is around 22,000 bId.  AlItogether, Congo's cumulative
productionf/ as of January 1, 1986 was 320.7 million barrel-r
2.       Pipelines and Production Facilities.  All the crude is pipelined to
the Djeno Terminal on the shore some 30 km south of Pointe Noire. Three
pipelines in total more than 220 km, one from Emeraude/Likouala, one fran
Yanga/Sendji with a soon to be opened spur from Tchibouela, and one from
Loango with a contemplated spur fram Zatchi, all congregsee to Djeno where the
various crudes are mixed and conditioned for shipment. The average density of
the Djeno melange is taken at P9 or 27.5' API, a rather heavy crude. Crude
dersities vary from a low of 21.8' API for the Eneraude oil to a high of 36.90
API for the Pointe Indienne. Gas-separators, desalting and detgdration
facilities are installed on all production platforms. Fiscal production is
metered as it leaves the terminal for sale either to lifting tankers or to the
CORAF refinery for processing.
3.       Future Production.  Production projections depend mainly on technical
and financial constraints. The lower the crude oil price, the less capital is
available for oil field maintenance and development. Under current prevailing
crude prices and exchange rates, only those expenses that are absolutely
indispensable for maintaining production and those which have already been
ccmmitted for the development of Tchibouela development, will be actually
spent. Therefore, for the short time, one can expect that the production will
hover near the current level of 110,000 to 115,000 b/d.
1/         Production comes  from the following fields:   Pointe
Indienne (1960), Emeraude (1972), Loa-go (1977),
Likouala (1980), Yanga  (1981), Sendji  (1983), Mengo
(1980), Kundji (1981), Bindi (1982).



ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MACROECONOMIC PLANNER
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
The macroeconomic planner will be appointed to the Minstry of Economy
and Planning for the carrying out of his responsibilities, and will be
appointed advisor to the Steering Group at the Office of the Prime
Minister. He will also liaise with other Governmelnt agencies, as
necessary.
His period of appointment would be of two years.
Principal Responsibilities
The selected candidate will act as an advisor to the Steering Group,
and will have the following responsibilities:
(i) Assist the Government in preparing a medium-term economic
adjustment program to restore creditworthiness and promote
growth.  Specifically, he will:
(a) assist in the preparation of the Government's public
sector investment program taking into account resource
constraints and the need to determine sectoral/project
priorities, including the need to carry out adequate
feasibility of projects included in the program;
(b) assist in the preparation of measures designed to promote
employment in the private sector, placing a major emphasis
on urban employment;
(c) assist in the design of an educational policy reform;
(d) assist in the design of specific measures geared to increase
investment and productivity in the agricultural sector,
through policy actions on price and marketing, research and
extension, and credit; and
Ce) assist in the design of a package of incentives and related
actions geared to increase investment in the forestry
sub-sector.
(ii) Assist in the selection of and coordinate the consultancy
services provided under the project to the Ministry of Mines and
Energy for purposes of improving the country's petroleum
development strategy.
(iii) Assist in the selection and coordination of short-term consulting
services with the relevant government agencies for:
I



ANNEX VI
- 40 -                             Page 2 of 3
(a) preparation of the Government's public sector investment
program;
(b) review of empioyment legislation and practices, and
preparation of recommendations for reducing labor rigidities
and providing incentives for employment creation in the
Congo, placing particular emphasis on urban employment. In
this context, existing vocational training programs will
be reviewed and recommendations provided to increase their
relevance;
(c) preparation of measures to reform the educational system,
including the elimination of the present system of student
fellowships and allowances;
(d) design of a package of incentives to increase agricultural
investment production, including the prices paid to
producers, the system of domestic and export marketing, and
accessibility to credit;
le) preparation of a package of incentives designed to increase
investment in the forestry sub-sector, with specific
measures to support the development of small producers.
(iv) Assist in the preparation of work programs every six months
beginning on March 31, 1987 for purposes of execution of the
project, and participate in the reviews between the Government
and the World Bank on project execution goals.
'v) Submit to the World Bank periodic evaluation reports, including
the output of short-ten consultants.
(vi) Maintain adequate records of commitments and expenditures under
the project.



-41 -                            ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
WORK PROGRAM FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS
AFTER LOAN EFFECTIVENESS
MACROECONOMIC PLANNER
TASK                                   EXPECTED OUTPUT
I.  Preparation of 1987 Public             Approval of the 1987 Public
Sector Investment Program.                 Investment Program by Steering
Short-term consultancy, as                 Group.
needed.
II.  Preparation of Technical              Recommendations to serve as a
Recommendations for projects               basis for negotiations with
suspended under Public Investment          contractors.
PrograLm. Estimated period of
short-term consultancy
2 man-months.
III.  Selection and Employment of          Ongoing.  Design of measures
short-term consultancy for                 expected to be completed in
preparation of measures on                 following work program.
agricultural pricing and
marketing policy estimated time
for completion: 6 man-months.



- 42 -                           ANNEX VII
Page I of 3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FINANCIAL ECONOMIST
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
The financial economist will be appointed to the Ministry of Finance
for the carrying out of his responsibilities and will be appointed advisor
to the Steering Group at the Office of the Prime Minister.
His period of appointment would be of two years.
Principal Responsibilities
The selected candidate will act as an advisor to the Steering Group,
and will have the following responsibilities:
(i) Provide the technical advice necessary to assist the Government
in restoring fiscal and balance of payments equilibria over the
shorter-term. Specifically, he will:
(a) assist in the preparation of the Government's public sector
budget, in the carrying out of the revisions, as necessary,
and of periodic reviews of its execution, taking into
consideration expected fiscal constraints, and restrictions
on expenditure as agreed under the IMF Stand-By Arrangement;
(b) assist in the preparation of balance of payment information
as needed, including the country's current position, and
projections, and recommendations on measures to be adopted
with a view of reducing external imbalances, including
handling of debt management issues; and
(c) provide advice on public sector issues, particularly
regarding public enterprise issues in respect to public
investment and Government support to enterprises.
(ii) Assist in the selection of and coordinate the execution of
short-term consultancies with the Ministry of Finance, and in the
case of (a) below, with BEAC for carrying out:
(a) a study of the banking sector, including an analysis of the
financial viability of each bank currently operating in the
Congo, by examining the credit system, the portfolio of each
bank, and the status of loan arrears; and of the system for
granting credit to small and medium enterprises. The study
will also provide recommendations on actions to be adopted
for each institution, including financial restructuring;
(b) completing a study for streamlining the legal framework of
public enterprises;



43 -                           ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 3
(c) preparing legislation and regulatory measures of the public
service system;
td) preparing, in coordination with the General Directorate of
Procurement, recommendations to improve procurement
procedures;
(e) preparing the Government's annual public sector budgets and
reviewing actual revenues and expenditures as needed to
determine whether established targets have been met; and
(f)  preparing, in cooperation with CCA, external debt
rescheduling packages to be presented to bilateral and
commercial lenders.
(iii) Assist in the preparation of work programs every six months
beginning on March 31, 1987 for purposes of execution of the
project, and participate in the reviews between the Government
and the World Bank on project execution goals.
(iv) Submit to the World Bank periodic evaluation reports, including
the output of short-term consultants.
Cv) Maintain adequate records of commitments and expenditures under
the project.
(vi) Act as overall coordinator of possible World Bank assistance for
public enterprise reform.



- 44 -                           ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
WORK PROGRAM FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS
AFTER LOAN EFFECTIVENESS
FINANCIAL ECONOMIST
TASK                                    EXPECTED OUTPUT
I.  Preparation of the 1987                Approval of the budget of the
public sector budget.  Expected             Steering Group.
time of preparation:
2 man-months.
II.  Definition of Legal Framework on       Framework will serve as a base
Public Enterprise Reform.  Consultant       for initiation of the the reform
already in place.  Expected time for        of the Public Enterprise Sector.
completion 3 man-months (March
1987).
III.  Follow-up on Government              Recommendations to be submitted
revenue and expenditure targets.            to Steering Group for approval.
Task will be part of permanent
responsibilities of financial
economist. Short-term
consultancy, as needed.
IV.  Selection and Employment of            Ongoing.  Study will be completed
consultants to carry out study              during following work program.
of the Banking Sector.
V. Follow-up on balance of                  Recommendations to be submitted
payments position. and                      to Steering Group for approval.
preparation of projections3 as
necessary. Short-term
consultancy, as needed.



MRD 20031
,    )    v   | _-_-_- _                              \s         . CtENTRAL  AFRICAN    REPUBLIC                                s
T HE CONG;O *   \   
.                      ~~~CAMEROON                                            /                
eo              to                     D -7 o o <                 >  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iy              0  -  D t
c |  (f >>g/                       '2                                                                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZAiRE f'
UV&6,    ...., .. ,        ' i
)   >        t      t(,1()~~E    DF  IA         CUV   tE                           -.
'    A   B   O    \J.,                                                                       l                     r 
\    ,]             \ ~~~~~4b..             \                 wM r  J                AtAUX <t                PEOPLE'S PEPUBlIC OF THE CONGO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R-d, G--   -    r-di  ,:@> (1  .l;n w lbml
W\a1X4- L _MW _ VXGJ a s ./S X ______~~~~~~~~~~P.-, P-e    od I. br C-o,nctrll CFEDI
< N t<A><{12>, s|/tX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -_- d-V|4bl R .......... Eort
sUt_^N          I  A        
r %S   * S      0 D            Je~^            1.BFNJ          }     r) ld
zrierr; Ar ^2r 4 7 D 50 0 15,D VaO 7SDP  C) 
KA--.S ;4OIwTIWIIEEI
,  C#UF    I<cOSrAL  BA=SSN                   7  A  I R E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0, A,poLES



