I        TTI                 i L        !             R ETPR!TFn
jREPORTS       DESK|       r                            Report No. TO-516a.
|      WIITHIN
L ONE WEEK
L~~
This report was prepoared for use within lhe.Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
L.]
TNTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REAPPRAISAL OF
A ROAD PROJECT
IN
IRAQ
June 13, 1966
Projects Departrnent



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US $1           =   ID 0.357 = 357 fils
ID 1            =   US $2. 80
ID 1, 000, 000  =   US $2, 800, 000
-Fisca]. Yea>r
April 1 to M:Varch 31
Units = metrics



IRAQ: ROAD PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
Summary                                                      i- ii
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                   1
II.  BACKGROUND                                                     1
A. General                                                     1
B. The Road Network                                            2
C. Design Standards                                            3
D=  DirPc tnrat,e (General of Roads and Bridges                3
E. Maintenance                                                 4
F.  Gontrol of' VehieTo                                        5
G. General Conditions of Inland Transportation                 5
H,  RoadlFinancng                                              7
TII.T  ' T-I DTCT'P8
ALLA  .  Desripic;                                                8 'V .~4
1) Construction                                            8
2) EmpIo.JL'oy,IIiI e n tJ ofJtIL' Cons                1O u I a nU
3) Maintenance Program                                    10
1J  LU1  u  Z4 1., ,Liild UE  U I  utIi   I I UQJ tn  U       - 1
C. Execution of the Project                                   12
D,  rniridxinaig of the ru uoj ec U'1
TTY  ,fIlfTlUflrlk-n  , Trm  ,-- r - nAm rcfl                      I CU
A,  General                                                   12
B. Individual Roads and Bridges                               13
V.  CON CLIPSIOONS AND RECOWIENDATIONS                            17
TABLJX3
1.  Classification of Highways
20  Organization (hart for the Di Jrtornate Ctneral of Roadn anr Brid ge
3.  Yearly Expenditures for Road Maintenance
1| (Gmrowt.h of Veoh:Lele Regitrationsc an flriviir Liene
5. Government Rerenues Collected from the Road Transport Sector
6   Cost Est-mate of Road Project
7,  Estimated Operating Costs of a 10-12 ton Capacity Truck in Iraq
MAP
This appraisal report is based on a Bank H'ission to Iraq in January/
February 1964 consisting of Mr. Bergan and Mr. Baldwin and on a re-
appraisal made in October/November 1965, by Mr. Bergan and Mr. Bickers.



TRAG:  ROAD PROJECT
Summary
i.       The Government of Iraq has asked the Bank for a loan of
U.S.$23 million equivalent to cover the foreign exchange cost of a road
project comprising:  a) the construction of five roads with a total length
of 390 kcm. and a 500 m. lone bridee: b) consultants' services for super-
vising this construction, and for a comprehensive road transport study;
and c) a maintenance improvement nrogram..
ii        This would be the secnrd Bank loan in Tran    The first B2nk lc,an
for a floocd control scheme,was signed in 1950; it was cancelled by the
Government in 1955 hpfnre comnpletion and prepaid0
iii.      The road pronec-t was first appnraise  in Tnrmqry/Februarv 196)i and
negotiated in August 196h, but presentation to the Board was delayed by the
isse of cnpenns.-tion to foreign onT.^..ers of nationalized properties in Iraq.
This no longer presents an obstacle, but in view of the lapse of time a re-
apnrais   -f t   p. +-,ro   W3S ^arried ,ou,+ 4in October,/r 19645 and som
changes were made in the roads to be financed by the proposed Bank loan..
ivo       l'otal est,imated cost of the revised project is U.S.$54 million
estimated at UqS.$23 million equivalent or 42.6 per cent, The local cost of
ID 11.1 mil:lion, or U.S.$p31 m.llion equLvalent, will be pro-vided by the
Government from yearly allocations of development funds.
v.        Overall plans for development in Iraq are determined by a Planning
Board headed by the Prime Minister, and implemented through the Ministry Of
Planning, who delegates the actual execution of projects to the ministry
concerned. Responsibility for road construction and maintenance rests with
the Ministry of Conmmunications and one of its divisions, the Directorate
General of Roads and Bridges (DRB).
Vi.       Final surveys and designs for the project roads and the bridge
have been completed by the DRB or byr foreign consultants wJho will also
be respons:ible for supervising construction,   Construction and equipment
contracts have been awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding, and existing procedures are satisfactory to the Bank.
vii.      One highway included in the original project has in the meant:ime
been completed and is deleted from the revised project; in addition section
1 of the Sharqat-M4osul road was awarded to a firm from a non-member
country, and has also been deleted.  All ':he other roads, and the Fallujah
Bridge, are retained in the revised project, and another road from Safw3an
t,o the new port of Unmm (asr has been added.



- ii ..
viii.     The DRB needs technical assistance in improving maintenance
operations,, and funds for procuring additional equipment for maintenancE!
and for expanding its repair shops and soil laboratcries. Recent exuend-
itures on the upkeep of roads have been Jnsufficient) but the Government has
agreed oradluallv tc) increase the appropriations of funds for road mainten-
ance.
ix.       T'he new roads are important as final links in the country's inter-
citv highway netwnrk.  The nr r       economi cal1lv nuctifiPri by low  trans-
portation costs over these routes, and will undoubtedly stimulate the growth
of prduction a    comerce n the areas concerned.     Direct benefits to r'^ d
users alone are est;imated to yield returns  enQral1y in the rw.e_o of 12 to
pe mr rcent
x.       'The project provides a suitable basis for a loan to the Government
of UT S.$23 million equivalent, A 20-year ter   including a )-y            of
grace, would be appropriate.



REAPPRAISAL OF A ROAD PROJECT
IN IRAQ
1 INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Iraq has asked the Bank for a loan of U.S.i23
million equlivalent to help finance:  a) construction of five asphalt-
surfaced roads totaling 390 km., and of a 500 m. bridge;    b) consultantst
services for the supervision of some of the road sections and the bridge,
and f'or an overall transport studv;  c) a maintenance improvement program,
including procurement of equipment for road maintenance and the cost of
consultants to assist in reorganizing maintenance operations.
2.        T'his is the first Rank transnortation nroiect in Iraa.   The first
and only previous Eank loan to Iraq was made in 1950 for a flood-control
nrniect   T'he *oan w2s c_nonlLrd hv Tran in 1q5 hbefore comnletion of the
project and. the amount outstanding was prepaid.
3.        T'he road project was first appraised by a Bank Mission in January/
February 16, and     loan negotiations tnok nlace in Auiuisit. 1Qo()i  r Presentatio n
to the Board was held in abeyance pendUng the conclusion of satisfactory
arrangements for compensating foreign owners of properties nationalized by
the law of 126),   EJecause of this delay, and of some changes in the Project,
rea-pprais-al wasC -ade i;  1ct(e/Nvmbr96      by M-,5 A     D
D.H. Bickers. The revised project is based on final survey and design cf all
the ~   -- road  Vn th  bridge  complet ed eLh-r by- forig -osl3t I-  by---  the- 1+  k  
Directorate General of Roads and B3ridges (Ministry of Communications), which
is rsons.ble for the     untry's          r0d network,
II, BACKGROUND
A. General
4.        ]:raq covers an area of 172.000 square miles, wqith a population of
about 7 million.   I'he Euphrates and Tigris rivers flow the length of the!
country from north to south, and if properly used their waters can support
some of the most productive agricultural areas in the Middle East.    The
region between the two rivers, the flat and low-lying area of Mesopotomia,
depends essentially on irrigation for producing important crops of rice,
barley, wheat, dates, and vegetables.   To the north, the hilly country re-
ceives sufficient rainfall for dry cuLtivation.
5.        The oil industry is of paramount importance to the economy of the
countrv.  In the Dpast ten vears oil exoort earnines. net of investment in-
come paymenits to the oil companies, have more than doubled, and in 1964
accoumted for ID 1l10 million (U.S,$390 million), nr about 90 npr cent ot'
total foreign exchainge earnings. Government revenue from this source amounted
to some ID 130 millinon  (USo$36hmilLion), half of which was earmarked for
development; purposes.



-2..
6.        The Development Board created in 1950 was, inter alia, in charge
of planning and execution of road proJects.  In the first years the Board,
staffed with foreign experts, was mainly concerned with flood control
schemes ancd irrigation projects, but steps were also taken for planning and
execution of a network of roads based on modern design standards to link
the main towns.
7-        The Bnord was not fullv successful in its first attrmnt to get an
overall road program underway, due mainly to staffing problems, inadequate
designs and inexperienced contra.rtnnq.. Around 1956a however, more con-
sultants were called upon to assist in design and supervision and experienced
foreig-n contractors were encouraged to submit bids for works,  The con-
struction of the new roads gradually gained momentum, only to be interrupted
for El period after the re-vrolution in 1c958.
8.        In 1959 the Development Board was abolished and its functions
transferred to a newly created Ministry of Planning, which delegated ex--
ecutior of the + pr eA-+ct  +4th r+1, nc1irv e .istries.  Roads becam  the
responsibility of the Directorate General of Roads and Bridges (DRB),
Ministry of wu      un,catio  In 1  .6  a DPla  Boar -onsistA     f -F' P
~L4Li US J  0   'AIIUILLL4A.,  U.LLIs L ±1   .L/L4. tV  I _±.1ILI.LLIS  SV.tLJ  U  LLI L  U-LLIV,  U± 4 L  .
permanent rmembers and four Ministers (the Prime Minister, and Ministers of
I ±PlA1Ji.LL, 1'iLL1dLI0anCe alnu Economic AfLi.,1± )/ wdas establishedL dCIU put 1in charg  of
drafting a new Five-Year Plan covering the period April 1965 - March 19170,
As now pub:lshed, the Plan provides for expenditures of ID 4\ million
(U.S.$123 million) on new construction of roads and bridges within the five
yearS.     Of this sum the items included in the Bank project account for
ID 15.3 mi:Llion (U.,S.$h2.8 million).
B, The Road Network
9.        At present the DRB has abou-t 8,700 km of main roads under its
jurisdiction, in the following categories:                             %
Nlew paved roads built to moderni standards   2,100 km      2L;
Old paved roads                               1,960 km      22
Earth andi gravel roads                       b,J3W km     .5
Roads uncder construction                       320 km       4
Total  8,680 km    l)
10.       The 2,100 km of new paved roads have been constructed since 1950,
to link the most important towns with Baghdad (see map),  They have been
designed to modern standards, usually cornprising a 2-lane carriageway of
6.80 m. to 7.30 m. width, with shoulders between 2.50 m. and 3.0 m.. They
are well built and have been well maintained. There are still a few missing
links in the main road network, but these are under construction as part of
the project. When they are completed the total will be increased to 2,500 km.
11.       The second category of roads is those built and paved before the
second Wor:Ld Wnlar, Their standards and condition are inadequate for preSent



- 3 -
traffic, and they are gradually deteriorating despite the efforts of the
DRB's Maintenance Division. Base failures and poor alignment make re--
construction necessary in the near ruture.
12.       The earth and gravel roads are nearly all in very poor condition.
Movement over them is slow and costly, and many are impassable altogethei-
during the rainy season0
C. Design Standards
13,       Table 1 gives details of the design standards adopted by the IDRB
which are applied to all new road construction. The standards are similar
to those in Europe and the USA for modern highways, and are acceptable to
the Bank,
D. Directorate General of Roads and Bridges (DRB)
1h.       The creation in 1959 of a Ministry of Planning led to complete re-
organ:ization of the Ministry of Communica-tions, which today consists of the
followiing Directorates:
Roads and Bridges
Port Administration
Railways
Post and Telegraph
Civil Aviation
Iraq Airways
15       Tlhe Directorate General of Roads and Bridges has a resident diStrict
engineer anti staff *in rharge rf maintenannp and cnnstrintion in   each of-. nine
districts, whose boundaries coincide with the administrative provinces or
"liwnast  (see table 2)  The staff includes 71 Iral engivners and technicians
and 23 foreign engineers from various countries.
16.       The DRB is    de                 onal experiened road engineer; are
particularly required.   Its present workload goes beyond its capacity and has
necessit-ated an incre-a-sed u-se of consulitnsfrurvey, design andA supe=i
vision. Execution of the work has been principally by local and foreign
^                        0  osn4 cs ^ 1 - 4 Ptt onn hess1-  z 1,  1,_  s rwl lrLt|LDD  tr
c-lvJsr2ac-'.orsJ On'd onJLy) i  a 1 cw cases ilaS workJJ  LeeLn u.%Aert. a  u,y t ueD Len:UyiJ
own forces,
17.       The DRB controls the execution of road projects, which are decided
in Uth  fs   pIlc  b-LAU.LLUIr, JBoad.LU, adLL pJrepardLtLU     Ln dJY by th
Ministry of Planning. The Ministry of Cormmunications has recently obtained
authority to decide contract changes in quantities, prices, aligrnment, etc.,
without the approval of the Ministry of Planning, provided the value of work
involved does not exceed ID l,VOV,UUU \U*.$)0UYUU'UVU). 0Un U1e whIole, csO-
operation between the Ministry of PlanningJ and DRB has improved and is now
satisfactory.



- II -
18,       Eor the past decade, road contracts have been awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding. Advertisements are placed in the
local newspapers, including the English language Baghdad News, and the
foreign embassies are notified so that they may inform interested firms in
their countries. Free copies of the t1ender documents are availa ble to them
on request.. Foreign contractors are r equested to stipulate in their bids
the amount required. in foreign exchange, A number of international firrrs
have secured contracts in the past, and are interested in securing work in
the future1,  They are considered on equal terms with local contractors, of
which there are abcut twenty capable of offering strong competition. Bids
are opened in public, and the resulting proces-verbal, together with the
recommendation of the DRB is submitted to the Ministry of PlarŽning for final
decision. These procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank, would also be
followed for the proposed project.
19.       T here are a number of claimS outstanding from foreign contractors
related to contracts let under the monarchy or the regime of General Kassim.
Statements bv the CGovernment and the contractors about the amounts in disoute
differ so widely as to make any estimate meaningless. While the Bank iE not
in a positi1on to pn'S iinon t-he merits of those e.n1ims it hs hbeen concsrned
about the delay in settling them, in as much as it affects the willingness of
contractnrs and others to rio hiibiness in Trim andi refleets on the cnrpelit,
standing of the Govrernment. The Bank has therefore raised the matter on
several occ-aions nrl iandurged the flovMTsrnn+. to come to a rnompt settlememt
Contracts let since 1963 have generally not given rise to claims by con--
tractors and difficulties of this kind1 are not expected in the pro,ect
proposed for Bank f inancing.
20.      (Contract conditions and the technical specifications used for
rodnA T.Ttorks gr n crarmllyr basedA WV onEur,n, ,tand- arAd, an  -are -nn et'Ole+ t1 o
v. WflA  WBv 6S.fl. La  LVI  5ctv> lAsJ  --vvOcs.J  LJO .iA  W-SLI JU±  jJSiJ*   vv0 LLCa± l1  CA  fa- 0L JW ~ L..PL LA vA..  U
the Bank. The DRB now has a practice of dividing road works for contracting
into seg.,.enfts of al)out U500 Ir-L, each,. Ut.he cos-UtC of.L .  CI-L-y i genr  U l V bet.Lee
ID 10 and 2.0 million (U.S.$2.8 to 5.6 million).
E. Mlainternance
21e       Of the 8,1400 km. of roads under maintenance, the 2,100 km. of new
paved roads are all well m,,aintain.ed, but this is not true of the l,960 km.
of old paved roads,, due partly to the difficulty of keeping roads built to
inferior standards in good condit ion by maintenance alone. The earth roads
are scarcely maintained at all.
22,       An important part of the problem has been the inadequacy of finds
allocated for maintenance. Talie 3 shows the amounts provided by the
Government in recent years. In the fiscal year 1965/65 (ending Narch.l965) only
ID 91 per km. 'U.S.'2"" was allowed for routine maintenance, perioaic re-
surfacing, and maintenance equipment, which was about the same as the average
annual expenditure per km. in the past four years. Expenditures of this
order are too low for' proper maintenance of the type of roads involved. The
provision of funds for routine and periodic maintenance wras discusse(d during



loan negotiationss and the Government gave assurances that budgetary
allocations would be gradually increased and would also include adequate
allowances for replacement of depreciated equipment. It is considered
essential that the allocation should be sufficient for the proper upkeep of
the existing road system, and should also take account of the fact that, with
some ID 7 million being spent annually on new road construction, the overall
requirement is continually increasing.   The     allocation for the year
1965/66 has been increased to ID 1 million (U.S.$320 per km.). which appears
to be satisfactory for the time being,
23.       The available maintenance equipment consists of about 590 units,
half of which are more than 6 years old. Additional maintenance equipment
and spare parts are needed for a better balance of types and to allow fcr
the growth in the road network.
2)4.      Ihe main workshop in Baghdad requires additional tools and equip-
ment. It is the orly major shop, and a similar shop is needed at Mosul in
the north and at Basrah in the south.   Each of the 9 maintenance districts
will eventually have a small workshop suitable for minor repairs, but fcr
maJor overhauls eairpment must for the time being be shipped to Baghdad.
The main soil laboratory, also in Baghdacd, is well organized.  The field
laboratories are usuallv sunnlied by contractors as part of their contract.
25.       The Naintenance Division nefeds strengthening, nnd its nnernt,icns
should be improved. The employment of outside experts to study the present
orra.rd izatin mn ' h;c-w  n-rr%vrT rl i fnrar -n t.hcr rv n wic+.
F . (ontrol of Vehicle Loads
designed for an axle-load of 14.5 tons for class A and 12.8 tons for class B
roa ds, th-ough- 4the 'legal axle-loadA 4  onl  11.0 ntons .  St eps0 h"ave a-ls-o b -en
2.0'4I   UiI0,LA.I   ULL  ".~ ± O ~ L U   _L  nl.~I.y  .L-L   'J UJ1 -' £0V L1 
taken to improve control.   Public Road Law Fo. 47 of 1959 established the
UJIet1siu   and weight LIUfor.  L  -V-LI±  IIL0UV ove UVpU b  roUaL d  and proviel Ui1th
authorities with the legal basis for controlling loads; since 1957 fifteen
permanent Iwei g,4 ng stations lave been operati4ng in various partls ofl th1e
IIIIL1LIU VI0~0L  L  d U.L IJL±  1  V  UeI jJ±d IJ.-L1  ..L  OJ UL   J uO  0±  U1i
country ancl ten more stationary scales are in stock, ready for installat;ion
if a need for addit;ion.al stations should arise.  The im,port or use of tires
capable of carrying illegal loads is prohibited, and this is enforced by
regular inspect[on of vehicles at With  wLgLLng stadtULoU1.
u.  UtIe-radl CoIl.iLU. L oIl f 0I laldlU T±Ira.,poJrtatUioUn
27(.      :LI[ JUsu o-ver a UCdUca   Ulle niumbter of Ve1C±Le  in Ira4 hlds mloule tlhan
tripled. Over the eleven years to 1964 the annual average increase was about
11 per cent. The iastest rate of groiwth was shown by private cars (l4 per
cent p.a.), but the slower growth in trucks (8 per cent p.a.) hides the fact
that since the average size of vehicle was also increasing, capacity was in-
creaSing at a faster rate. (See table 4).



28.       Although private cars and taxis outnumber buses and trucks by 2
to 1, the latter vehicles account for much more than half the traffic outside
the cities.   Consequently the main direct beneficiaries of road improvement
are the operators of commercial vehicles, and especially truckers; but road
transport today is highly competitive, and reductions in the operating costs
of commercial vehicles are to a large extent passed on to shippers and con-
sumers by way of lower rates.
29.       The trucking industry is characterized by a large number of very
small firms in which the drivers are either part-owners or have some other
personal relationship with the vehicle owner. Large users of transport
services have found it cheaper to sub-contract this function than to employ
their own drivers, for whom the incentive to care for vehicles and minimize
costs generally would not be so direct. There has been a pronounced move-
ment towards use of larger vehicles and diesel traction, and by far the
most common type of truck is now a twco-axle, diesel-engine vehicle of 10-12
tons capacity.
30.       There is substantial competition among the various forms of trans-
port particularly on the most important route linking Baghdad. the capital,
with Basrah. (still the country's only port) which is served by water trans-
port along the Tigris as well as byr road and rail. Freilght traffic on this
route is much heavier south to north than in the reverse direction, re-
flecting the preponderance of imports over exports moving through Basrah
(apart from, the oil exports which move directly to the coast via pipeline).
31.       The changes in traffic share's between 1961 - 1964 of the three
forms of transonrt conveying imnorts fronm the nort of Basrah are shonwn helow:
1 9_           196,
Road                                  20.050          32 5%
Bar-es                                L1 oM 29n5
l00O%           100.0%
There was an attempt to increase the railway's share of traffic generally
byr a Cabinet Order, in September 196L. that government shipments should be
offered to rail whenever facilities were available, but this has proved to
bh inmnraticahbl  andri is now to be dropped.  On this particular route the
railway's competitive position will be improved in future by conversion of
the single track from meter to standari gauge (rnow completed apart from
sidings and loops, etc.), by introducing larger capacity wagons, by com-
private sidings to customers' premises, On the other hand the road haulierst
positionwTi.ll alsobq .c   prvd*-e thepoton         bridge at rr-,la Ali, I
"'s       - -¾afl   * --.tJjJ- --~ A~f --, .y -&P   V  -tJ  V L,~4  ViJlL  jJJLIU V XIIR   VfJ L~,S   a   U 0ai1,10  rL  LJ.9.L   a
serious bottleneck, is replaced by a new bridge and its approach roads, which
f.   par cI- f theu Bank  -4-4Jc.



-7-
32,       One effect of all these developments will be to accelerate the
decline in importance of the river traffic on the Basrah-Baghdad route.
The barge traffic will also be affect;ed by completion of a new port at Umm
Qasr in the south, which will serve as an alternative to Basrah, and which
will have road ancL rail connections but no practicable link for inland water
services.
33,       The provision of modern road and rail facilities between Basrah
and Baghdad, and indeed, on the whole of the 1,000 km. route Basrah-Baghdad-
Mnsul- will undroubtedlv intensify comnpetition between the -two forms of
transport. However, this represents a south/north axis along which a large
proportion of the countrv's totahl population is connentratedj and nr wh-ich
good communications form a basic requirement for developing the whole economy.
TPhere shonld er+.tinlir be rnono for bnotnh rnod and rail services
3L)       The railways ennoy inherent avantages nin carrying much of the bulk
traf'fic; f'or example the wheat produced in the Mosul area or imported through
Basrah, and pe+role,w products mo-v.ng from.L"f        L the refineryl Baghdad,  rt-
ularly over the fairly long distances between the largest centers of pcp-
ulaIo     They- ,1-P ha-- +he- benfi    of-n copeefeeo+ongoit-ae
with their customers. To provide the right basis for economical road/rail
competitnw Lon., howeve n-trn ',an  p rt   y'reurement is ta  both for..s  +otns=
port should properly bear the true costs incurred by their activities.     As
-n[iLLJ~catedV.L U,LVV, W1.L UUVw tiUU de   noyt J. VWt be Uthle case with respect to move-
ment of goods by t;ruck.
H. Road Financing.
35.       During the past four or five years the Government has been spending
acoDLt TuD 7 millioni annually on new road construction and some ID 70C0,000 per
annum on highway maintenance.    (The amounts spent regionally by the liwas are
insignificant).   On the revenue side, there is no earmarking of funcis -- from
fuel taxes, vehicle registration fees, licenses, etc. - for appropriation to
highway expenditures; all such revenues go into the Treasury's general funds.
36.       An accurate and up-to-date analysis of the revenues obtained from
road users is not possible from availab:Le data.   However, Table 5 sets out
figures broadly calculated for the year ending March 1963, which suggeSt
that total revenue from motor fuel taxes, import duties on vehicles, tires
and spares, and from vehicle registration and licenses, came to approximately
ID 8.4 miLlion. This slightly exceeded annual expenditures on highway con-
struction and maintenance; but by far the largest contribution, ID 6.4 million.
came from the gasoline tax, which nowadays means that it came essentiaLly from
users of private cars, pick-ups, taxis and the smaller type of buses. Freight
vehicles and la rge buses are now very largely diesel-powered, but the t ax on
diesel fuel contributed only ID 200,000 to the total revenue.
37.       In view of the fact that diesel vehicles probably generate more
vehicle-miles in total than the gasoline-driven vehicles, and are the prime
beneficiaries of new highway construction recently completed or underway,
there appears to be a considerable disparity in the spread of highway tax-
ation.  It is considered that the situation calls for further study, with a



- 8 -
view to finding means for closer reflection of highway costs in the taxes
paid by various classes of road users. This might well be undertaken by the
consultants employed for the overall highway study, and the suggestion is
being made to the Government of Iraq.
III. THE FROJECT
A. Description.
38.       The project comprises:
a)  the construction and reconstruction to modern standards of
390 In. of main roads in different parts of the country and
of a 500 me long bridge over the Euphrates;
b)  the employment of consulting firms for:
1. supervising construction of certain roads and the bridge
included in the project;
2. an overall road transport study to advise the Government
on a coordinated program for development;
c)  a road maintenance program, including employment of a number
of experts to advise the DRB on improvements in maintenance
operations and organization, and procurement of additional
equipment for maintenance and repair shops.
(1) Construction
39.       This part of the project colrers the following (see map):
Roads
Sharqat-Mosul (excluding section 1)         109 kmI
Kut-Nassiriya                              176 km.
Garmat Ali-Basrah                            1)4 Im.
Baghdad-Khalis                               69 km
Safwan-Umm Qasr                              22 km.
Total        390 km.
Bridge
Fallujah bridge over the Euphrates. and approaches.
)bo.      The! Sharqat-_Mosul roadl is t.he2 lnt. rem:aining links neededS to cnm-
plete a modern 10 km. highway between Mosul in the north, and the capital
of BaPn-irlnr  ThInn ?newTY cnsct+viie,oJ ^n wil] r,, nortVlo.T, +Ih al4i-nmn  of +Ie cld
road, which is like!ly to be flooded if a proposed dam is built at Sharqat,
but will ir fact be slightly shorter.  Two spurs will be built to serve the



towns of Haamam Alll and Qaniyarah on the epsting road=  ronstrnc-tiJn has been
divrided into four sections, each awarded as a separate contract.  Section I
was awaarded last year after international competitvie bidding to a firm frc)m
a non-member country, and is not now considered for financing from the!
ProJe^t.  Bids for section.s II, ITI and WT have bee  nr ived renan+1tr
and contracts awarded.
41.         The Kut-Nassiriya road will serve an important agricultural
area  4ewe    the E`uphrates cand .. gr-s rivers a.d --,.'" ci- e  4h OLi o
Nassiriya proper access to the country's overall road network. The new
-wilI part IJ±f 0.o.LUW thle old road's a.l-grUzent, and partly le r c
The road is divided into three sections. A contract for Section I was
awvaruded .i lJan-ary l96r 5" a"er JrlL-r J Loolal compeIt.-LL.ve bJidding. B. ds for
the other Sections are called for and under consideration.
42.         The Garmat Ali-Basrah road section (14 km.) will provide the
approach roads for the new Garmat Ali bridge crossing the Shatt-al-Arab
river ncorth of Basrah, on the route to Baghdad. A contract for the approach
roads was awarded to a local contractor in April 1965 after international
competitive bidding, but work was slow in starting, due to delays in granting
rights of way.  The new bridge will replace the present very inadequate
pontoon bridge over the river.  Construction of the bridge, designed by
the Hungrarian consulting firm of Komplex, is under way and will be super-
vised by the samte cnnsultants.  It will be financed entirely by the Iraqi
Authorities and is not included in the Bank Project.
43.         The Baghdad-Khalis road is the final link in the main road to
Kirkuk.  The new alignment follows closely an existing road which is no
more than an earth track, and through traffic has had to take a longer
route via Baqouba, consisting of an old bitumen-surfaced road, in poor
condition and inadequate for heavy traffic. Construction is divided into
three sections, the first of which consists of 4 km. of divided 4-larne
highway. Bids for this section were received in May 1964, but the lowest
bidder subsequently withdrew his offer. New bids were received in July
1965 and the contract was awarded to the lowest bidder. A contract for the
second section was awarded in August 1965. Offers for section III were re-
ceived in December 1965, and the contract has now been awarded.
44.         The road from Zubair to Safwan, which was included in the
original project, wqas completed in June 1965, and has consequently been
deleted from the revised project.
45.         The fifth road in the project will.connect a new port at 13mm Qasi
to the highway from Safwan to Zubair. It will be the only road serving
the port, and will provide easy access to the trunk route to Baghdad. and
beyond.  The port is reauired as an alternative to Basrah, where there is
no room for expansion to accommodate future increases in Iraq's overseas
trade. Bids for construction of the road connection were opened in
O)ctober 1965, the lowest bid coming from the local contractor who built the
new Zubair-Safwan highway.  This road was not in the original Bank project,



- 10 -
but in view of the exclusion of other highway sections which no longer
qualify for Bank lending it has now been included.
46.       All roads in the project will form part of the country's primary
highway network, and will be built tc, Class A standards, with a paved
carriagewaY of 7.30 m, and shouilders of 3.0 m. width.
h7_       The new bridge at Falluiah. on the newly reconstructed road
Baghdad-Ramadi, is also part of the project.   This is a 500 m. long
structure designed hv the contractor and. approved bv the British consulting
firm of Rendel, Palmer and Tritton.   It is a prestressed concrete beam
structure with average spans of 0in r. supported by reinforced piers set in
caissons.  Wlork has been under way since April 1964, when the contract was
awarded- toa Yugoslav~ firm..  Progress. has been slow, owing to deay  i
delivery of compressed air equipment for the caissons, and its completion
may need rrmore thain +th  9 months st+irpulat   in the contract
(2)  En.ployernt of Consultants
l80    All th1-e iter,s of-L construct,.on included inc th  rjcthv  een
4 ~ ~ ~ ~    I~4.UIIO Ut  UI)V_LLUJJI 4.LL.U     i 1   Ull~ VfJi  J  I ±0V 
finally surveyed and designed, and all tender documents prepared, either by
-P-4-A - .          __ 1- 4-1, nLD   QC sPE : A4AT  4-1A e wor . w`  LA un.er-
.LUJ. C.;S1  %,'j1L10LLU1Lit.O U.  Uy  Uiie  IJiLl)e  "LUpC1 V] .  .L ol l U.  U1IU  WUJ. L  VJ±±  UC  UIIUCJ -
taken by Rendel, Palmer and Tritton ior the Fallujah Bridge and by Inter-
continentalue  vtuJet UtuladlIy/ JU- UIIU fodrEd UtheU± °hr[-o lU a Un Ku-NassbLrya rLodsU
For the other roads supervision will be by the DRB themselves.
h9.       A five-year road development plan for the period 1965-1970 has
now been approved by a government decree and made public.   It inciudes
mainly the reconstruction to modern standards of trunk roads connecting the
main. towns.  Future road planning WiLl be more difficult, and. neitner tne
Ministry of Communications nor the Mdinistry of Planning is adequately staffed
to conduct the kind of economic studies needed to guide investments over the
next 10 to 15 years. The Government has agreed to engage consultants to
helpo in identifying road priorities in the five years after 1970, and also
to consider the need for an expanded program for secondary and. feeder roads
even within the current plan period L965-1970.   In addition the consultants
will. evaluiate potential road-rail competition over certain main routes,
particularly along the lower part of the Euphrates river, where the exi.sting
highways are still. in very poor shape.
(3) M;aintenance Program
50.       As mentioned earlier, the present maintenance equipment is in-
adequate and needs to be renewed and increased. The two new workshops
planned for Basrah and Mosul to comp:Lement the main shop in Baghdad must be
equipped and the Baghdad shop itself requires additional equipment.
51.       To assist the PRB in strengthening and improving maintenance
operations, the Government has agreed to employ two foreign experts, both
for a period of about two years. The cost has been included in the project.



T~  rnQ+-  7.,z+AYnn+.-1 
1o0      TPotal costs of the Proj-ct nctim.A     ned atT 'IC) 19,0000 r orr  US$' I), .0
million equivalent, are summarized belowq (see detail in Table 6). Expend-
itures, _~ m.ad before .April1, 196 'Ain _epc  of some of' the items in +I,-
4. IU V %  .  3;  AI ICI'A  LJ~L'.J  .34)  .LJ.  .3,  .&   _1 -.J   .31   ±  t  I) LL/lIit,  .JJ.  - -..  .1.  - -¼1 _~.  -1  -)1
project, amounting to about ID 215,000, have not been considered for :financing
fr Lom thie Iroject .
L-ta U1  L_q I_ ±fri UC'lt
.1 UUd± i  'UDU: L'  r lA  4.~L±, vJu;) U  4:L.L u3J c  ji ou
000  ID        000 ID         000 U$_
Construction:
1. Road construction (390 kln)  13,400        4,690        13,135
2. Brldge constr-uction (500 m) l,L0            700         1,960
Supervision by Consultants            900           295           830
Maintenance:
1. Equipment                    1,500        1,500          4,200
2. ExTperts                        70            55           155
Road Survey by Consultants            100            80           225
Contingencies                      2,340           890          2,495
ID  19,300      ID 8,210       $ 23,000
or US$ 5h,000
.D3~.     Sor,ie of t Ulihe costus shovLIL lor theuroa:I. ruoads U ULIU the bridg   ae badseU. on1
calculations obtained from final engineering, as prepared by consultants or
Uy uth DJRBD3 tile remaLdr1uer reprebeuL, acuLuaL priues aLreduy o±-ereu Uy coln-
tractors. The figures should thus be substantially accurate, but to saf'e-
guard against possible increases in actual quantities and unit prices ofiered,
a 15 per cent contingency has been applied to the estimated cost of con-
struction and supervision.
54.       The cost of equipment for maintenance and shops is based on
tentative lists prepared by the DRB. Final lists will be worked out in con-
junction with the maintenance experts to be financed by the project.
55.       The foreign exchange component of the project is estimated at
US$ 23 mill-ion, based on separate percentages for the different items as
shown in Table 6. The 35 per cent foreign exchange cost for road construction
is based on analysis of recent contracts.. The foreign exchange component for
the bridge is estirnated at 50 percent, and for consultants! super-visry
services is based on the existing contracts. The foreign exchange cost of
expe^rts for maintenance and for the overall transport study has been estlimated
at a maximum of 80 per cent.
56.       It is proposed that disbursements of the loan will be based on the
percentages shown :Ln Table 6 for the roads and the bridge, and. on actua:L
foreign exchange costs for equipment and consultants.



- 12 -
Cc  D-ecu-4io- of hPrrc
'-aS  ,   UUJ  AlA  JL ~ L  I I UjJ K,  U
57,       A:LI the road sections and the bridge included in the project nave been
or will be   awarded to contractors                     as a result of
internati onal competitivfe bidding _and in            _ w            _a with .procedures laid
|~~~~~~~~~~~~ Il3'iD|Ult|'^tt  ,fib|V   l U Ix dLiU   LAI  C1UU IUldlUUC   WV.LU1I p.E'Ut_UUU.E't' d-  
doi,m in the Bank's "Guidelines".
D. Financing of the Project
58.       The revised project is part of the overall highway program inc:Luded
in the five-year development plan for 1965-1970.  It is proposed that the
Bank should finance the foreign exchange cost of ID 8.2 million or US$ 23
million equivalent, which would leave !D 11.1 mllion to be provided by the
Government from the development budget, which is financed from oil revenues.
59.       The project is timed for completion in 1969 and expenditures from
April 1, 196 are expected to be spread as follows:-
Total (in 000 ID)    Local (in 000 ID)    Foreign (in 000 US$)
1965             2,500                1,40                 2,950
1966             6,ooo                3,h5o                 7,150
1967             6,500                3,730                 7,750
1968             3,300                1,720                 4A,20
1969             1,000                  750                   700
19,300               11,090                23,000
TV_ P,lCnlMTTn .nJTIqTTPTTTTN
60.       Ihe propcsed roads, and the Fallujah Bridge, will make valunb:le con-
tributions to Iraq's primary highway network.  Three of the five roads re-
present final stages in the construction of major highways, linking Baghdad
with the next three largest cities - Mosul, Basrah and Kirkuk. A fourth road
will provide the only connection between the new port of Urrmm Qasr and the
country's highway network; and the fifth and longest section will provide a
much needed facility between Kut and lWassiriya and will serve an important
and developing agri.cultural area. The new bridge at Fallujah will replace a
35-year old one-lane structure across the Euphrates, to accomodate the grow-
ing volume of commercial and tourist traffic between Baghdad, Ramadi, arid
points beyond in Jordan, Syria and Lebanon,
610       There can be no doubt that each of the items in the project will
make a material contribution to future development of the economy, but there
are substantial difficulties in attemDting to auantify the benefits com--
prehensive:ly. In the past no economic analyses have been made to support
nlans for highwav :investment; and there are considerable shortcomings in
statistical and other data required for such studies.



- 13 -
62.       However, the direct benefits accruing to road users alone, in terms
of lower vehicle operating costs and time savings, offer adequate justifica.-
tion for each one of the items in the project, and represent economic returns
on the investment ranging from 12% to 50% without taking account of the in-
direct benefits they may also generate.
63.       One difficulty in calculating direct savings to road users is the
ahsence of adequate data on existing traffic flrwq- Traffic   oUDntS arp not
taken regularly and although the DRB has for some time considered provision
of 30 automatic counters, no order has yet been placed    There is alson in-
sufficient staff to provide and process information of this kind. The DRB3
now fully recog-izes the need for better data, and recerntlyr set up a Traffic
Section which will be responsible for traffic information, accident statis-
ti;cs, etc.  Tn aA.4-4tJon, the consultants er.ployd fCor the road s+itrd,  11%npa+
of the Bank project, will be specifically required to provide comprehensive
ecor.omic appraisals of furture invest-menrt plans, nd ,skr.  neessar oro
vide background data themselves.
64.       For purposes of the present project some traffic counts were made
by Bank staff, supplemr-ented by- others s-upplied b-y the  B at the request of
the Mission. The rates of future incre!ases in traffic were assumed to be
rno hlgher thani 8 per cenr for any of the roau secuions in the early years,
and much lower in later years. These are thought to be conservative assump-
tions, bearing in mind that the number of vehicles was increasing at anl
average rate of 11 per cent over the past decade. The growth in the total
number of vehicles has shown a fairly close correlation with growth in the
gross national product, which increased by about 6-½ per cent per annum over
the same perliod. If the same long-term relationship were to continue in
future, an annual increase in vehicles by 8 per cent would imply an increase
in GNP by less than 5 per cent per annum, which is lower than current esti-
mates suggest. Furthermore it is to be expected that the new roads in the
Project will tend to attract bigger increases in traffic than is experienced
on the highway network overall.
65.       Estimates have also been made of vehicle savings expected from
operating on modern paved highways instead of the existing facilities which
in some cases are nc more than earth or desert tracks.  Figures were compiled
with the help of individual vehicle operators in Iraq, and by reference to
experience in other countries. The most common class of vehicle using the
routes concerned is the 10-12 ton two-axled truck, and its importance is
emphasized in this context by the relatively high level of its unit costs.
Estimates of savings in operating costs, per km for this vehicle are shown
in Table 7,
B. Individual Roads and Bridges
66.       Sharqat-Mosul (146 km): This section will complete construction of
a modern all-weather highway between Y10sul and Baghdad - the country's two
largest cities - which started about 8 years ago. Mosul Liwa is the center



of a major dry-farming region, and provides more than 40 per cent of the
country's wheat production, 20 per cent of the barley, and important quan-ti-
ties of melons, rice and fresh fruits. A standard gauge railway connects
M,-sul and Baghdad to the south, and provides a route to Turkey, via Syria,
to the north. In spite of the poor condition of the highway between Sharqat
a nd Mosul, however, the road route to Baghdad is already an important linlc,
with a traffic of some 1,000 vehicles a day. Truck driving time between
Baghdad and Mosul will have been reduced from 20 - 25 hours five years ago
to about 6 - 8 hours when the highway is completed.   The net economic return
on investment in this section. in terms of direct savings to the road's users
alone, is estimated to be about 15 per cent.
67.       Kut-Nassiriya   (176 kln):  This is the largest and most costly road
in the pronect.  The terminal citipq are the third and fourth largest in
southern Iraq, but at present there is no all-weather road access to
M ssczq i rih. r T'he neSrw higahwanv will renlacp nn earth rand whinh is in ve-rv -nnor
condition, and is impassable in wet weather. At Kut it will join the Basrah-
Batghdand highwa ar.d so p       a  r-k +.r linL toll the m+. 1nir GitieS of Traq.
684       It _il  pass through rich agricultural county, be+ween -h   Ti
and Euphrates which supports a population of some 200-250,000 people. The
land produces ma.jor crops ofwinter     ; grin,An  a varietyof-less imotnt
UcX,> HU - >Wcz vijo 9- o  wine p>s   ains.a , an a. - x  Cx.  v  f-  ... ]:- ---..
summer crops, of which the more important are melons, rice and cotton. It is
flood-irrig,a.ted In4r.tt  srig and early -,u.r Iu ..    rir-     o  and
.L. LI.JU   L   _L  LL  UL~I1  OjJ.Pl±1% 1A6 Ctl   %-C1LY OUIIUuI1  UU UJL   kJ VUJ  I  U4..JXl
accumulations of salt are important prcblems and although steps are being
talcen ,u, .J.u1p0ve Ucontrol01 0ver flodn  and _ dUr   I n lthere iLs scoe Lor uL r-
ther large-scale projects in the future, and for commensurately large in-
creases- in agric-ultural productiorul.
69.       Output from the region has a'so suffered fror the effects of recet
agrarian ref'orm, and has probably fallen 30-50 per cent below levels normal
before 1958. For this reason again a substantial expansion in output can
be expected in the f'uture, once the initial problems of reform are overcome.
70.       The new highway will facilitate ard encourage movement of cash
crops from t;he area, which will also be stimulated, first, by provision of
a grain silo at Kut at a cost of ID 725,000 (US$ 2.0 million), and secondly
by construction of cotton textile and hosiery factories at a combined capital
cost of ID 1.2.4 million (us$ 34.7 million), again situated in the town of'
Kut. These factoriets are beir,g built and financed in part by the U.S.S.R.,
and the ultimate intention is that they should rely essentially on loca1
sources of raw cotton.
71.       Kut is a rapidly expanding town which will itself provide an
increasingly important market for loca:L farm produce. At the other end cf
the project road the development of Nassiriya as a distribution center f'or
the surrounding area will undoubtedly be stimulated by provision of its f'irst
modern link with the national highway system. At the present time traffic
is estimated to amount to some 500-600 vehicles per day and the rate of
return reflected in savings to vehicle users alone when the existing bad road



- 15 -
is replaced is estimated to be at least 12 per cent.
72.       Approach roads to the Garmat Ali Bridge:   The only serious bottle-
neck now remainine onT the new highwav between Baghdad and Bnsrah is at the
crossing of the Shatt Al Arab, at Garmat-Ali. The existing single-lane
nontoon bridge is in very poor condition and causes substantial delays to
traffic, which is of the order of 3,000 vehicles a day. Moreover, vehicle-s
are subnert to severe loading a     c      , which, for example, require the
load on a 12-ton truck to be limited to no more than 5 tons. In practice
this means that trucks incur a further delay of about an ho"l in .ransshipping
the remainder of the load, as well as a general charge of ID 2 per load for
+he .addition.all ha ndlin, ar.d .-.,ovelme-n .n .anothen-r vehile to- or from Basrah.
(The additional costs incurred in this way amount to some 10 per cent of
average rece-i pts for the -whol W. r 1- J-urney ubewen Basrah an'd Baghdad.'
Heavy indivisible loads which cannot be transshipped are obliged to use an
aLlternative route 4UoU the west, cnUIIsLtig o.Ur tIh miitU patL oJ pJUUI ethCLI
roads which are impassable at certain times of the year.
73.       The new br:idge itself is being financed separately, and the pro;ject
covers only the 14 ikn oI approacn roads on eitner side. The exilsting approa-
ches pass through densely populated urban districts, and are heavily con-
gested with a mixtuire of through traffic and local circulation of pedes-
trians, bicycles and animals. The total investment, taking the costs of
the bridge and approach roads together, is estimated to yield a net return
of some 50 per cent in terms of savings to vehicle users alone.
7h.       Baghdad-Khalis (69 km):   This road represents the final link in
the new-f highway from Baghdad to Kirkhuk, the country's fourth largest town
and center of the rich northern oilfield. Through traffic from Baghdad at
present uses a route via Baqouba to Khalis, over an old and poorly surfaced
asphalt road that also carries substantial local traffic and has a density
of at 'Least 3,000 vehicles per day.
75.       The new and more direct alignment will pass closer to the Tigris
river and serve areas producing large quantities of dates, figs, grapes and
other fruits as well as crops of rice, wheat and barley. There is an exist-
ing earth road serving the settlements along the river, but this is little
more than a track. IMajor irrigation schemes and other agricultural projects
are scheduled for the next few years. 'rhe new highway is in keeping with
these developments, and will cater for the expansion of local transport needs
as well as for through traffic to Khalis and beyond.
76.       The first four kilometers of the new route will pass through suburbs
of Baghdad, and will consist of a four-lane divided highway. The present
road has no base, and the bitumen surface is badly pot-holed, and quite
unsuited to the present traffic which is in the order of 2,000 vehicles
ner dav. WIhen the new road also serves as part of the main throueh route
to Khalis and beyond, total traffic on this stretch will be at least 3,00(
vehicles per datnrandna ratepof return of abont 1  nper cent is expneted from
savings to vehicle users alone.



- 16 -
77.       The remainder of the new road to Khalis   will have two lanes, and
will carry about 1,000 vehicles per day diverted from the present route
via Baqouba, plus about 400 local vehicles per day to and from the villages
en route.  The rate of return for this section, in terms of savings to vehi-
cle users, is estimated at more than 25 per cent, this result reflecting
in Dart that the new road will be shorter than the Pxisting route.
78        Saifwqn-TTmm 0Qar (22 km.)  This. will nrovide the only road outlet,
for the new port and town of Umm Qasr, situated south of Basrah, and almost
on the Kiruniht border,, The rprt will not be in operation until early 19A7.
During the period of construction contractors' vehicles have used a route
which joins the new '-ubair=Safan road 17 kmm south of Zubair, and consi.st
of about 7 kn of old oil-surfaced road and a further 30 km of unsurfaced
desert trak.Th e n.w, road follows.* +th  -sn-++ posse 4 I  rout+e from TTwn.
Qasr to the Zubair-Safwan road, and only 22 km of new construction is required
;n4±  4p.S.A  o.  VL±_  .J7  1-  4OS     A-,- I-.+
tX  ,| Cl\_W V  .ll;  1ilS  -)I s "I.1  usva   %:s v w ulv . 
79.      Thel--- por4 - s-- b, creal as .a free port, and as a-  aeative
to Basrah, where there is no space for providing more berths.   To begin with
it will have three berths, all for dry cargo, but this co-uld certainly be
increased to six berths in the future, and possibly to as much as twelve
1 justifiieud  y traflfic trends.  It Will accommoduate vesuels of up Ut .2 J-eet
draught, and this could be increased without difficulty to 38 feet.   Records
over the past 20 yea:rs snow only slight siltation at the new site.  At
presen-t the maximum draught of vessels at Basrah is 29 feet in spite of
continuous operations of 5 dredgers.   Ships of 12,000 gross registered tons
or more cannot approach the quays at Basrah and must unload into lighters..
80.       In the calendar year 1964 some 1.1 million tons of dry cargo were
imported, and some 470,000 tons exported through the port of Basrah. For
inland transport fac:ilities, therefore, the demand is dictated essentially
by the import traffic. In view of the substantial requirements of the
national Development Plan, it is thought that imports are likely to increase
by at least 6 per cent per annum in the next few years. This means that by
1972, six years after the new port comes into operation, import traffic will
have increased by 600,000 tons per annum, and there is thus a strong possibility
that expansion will be required at Umm Qasr in the near future.
81.       A new town for a population cf 10,000 is also being constructed
around the port. The first inhabitants will be the port workers, drawn
mostly from Basrah, but there are good prospects of attracting other indus-
tries when the port is in operation. An American firm is already interested
in siting a steel works in the town, and feasibility studies are at present
underway,
82.       The new port will be served by a single track railway line which,
lilce the new road, will connect with the main route between Basrah and
Baghdad. The port authority believes that about half the import and export
traffic will be railborne. the remainder travelling by road.   The highway,
however, will undoubtedly be the most important of the two transport links



- 17 -
so far as the population of Umm Qasr is concerned. Bearing in mind also
that the headquarters of the Port Administration, and offices of shipping
agents, etc., will still be located in Basrah, and that the port and town
must rely entirely on outside services and supDlies. it is concluded that
the import/export traffic itself will c,nly account for a fairly small pro-
nortion of total vehicles using the new highwav.   It is considered that the
savings to vehicle users alone are likely to represent a return of at least
12-15 per er!nt on the investmennt
83.       Falluiah Rridge: This will provide a two-lnanre *rosing of the
Euphrates on the principal freight and tourist route between Baghdad and the
wtecs+  tThe prese.ntst o.mi-ti,re n, oe-lann 1-"-!r;r n hii 1+. 'AC: -un7-c ncr ,Tqh_n
motor traffic was still very sparse, and is now the cause of considerable
congesti .on, 4w-ith  LJ the tru  traffi.c   VYL SJAh loc31 pe  an  and
animal. movements across the river.  The old bridge will be retained in fu-
4--re to sere te 4town 4tra ffic alone. CSpot count-s of trafi  suges -aPN-----
U   QV    YtI; VLI UWI   J. J.L IL L1 J It:  Sd)V   v  ULLS A UI  I  .LI .tL%  Qur   0
daily movement of some 2,000 vehicles, but this is increased in the holiday
~ LJy     LL.L~  ~JLi~±U.eI~LJL~  LIUV%1IiI1L.U   UU  AJ   US. A   V   j  L. U-ZI ± 0L U5 _ I  5 i  V.L.
s  so; i  Us l uy   IU.Le;   con;> u.s  ave F :lIuvru4e;lLD Dk  a -1 UIJe e>it rra1x:;c sut::L.; aAsz v:o
u4.       re.constr-uction of -wo roadu SeCtlons to 'he west ox a.ll-UJ 11ar
proposed in the near future.   The first is the Ramadi-Haditha road (at a
cOSb of IV _5. milli.on) wnich passes north-west along the ZupiwtesV valley.
The second is the long stretch from Ramadi., via Rutba, and thence north-
westwards to, the Syrian border (Iu 11.7 million). Both of these developments
will attract more traffic and increase the pressure on the river crossing at
Fallujah. Taking irnto account the cosits of delay to road users (which would
multiply much faster than the expected increases in traffic) eliminated by
the new bricdge, a rate of return on the investment has been calculated at
about 12 per cent.
V.  CONCLUSIONS AND RICOD3NDATIONS
85.       The engineering of the project has already been satisfactorily
carried out either by consultants or by the Directorate General of Roads
and Bridges, The cost estimates are reliable and the project is economically
justified.  Arrangements for procurement and project execution are satis--
factory.
86.       The project provides a suitable basis for a loan of US$ 23 million
equivalent to the Iraqi Goverrmient. A 20-year term including a 4-year
period of grace would be appropriate.
June 13, 15966



Table 1
IRAQ: CDIJSSIFICAT I'_I ! OF HIGHW.YS
Number of            Design  M1in Rad.    Max    Width Width
Vehicles             Speed    Curve       Grade   Pav't Shoulders
Class   Per Day     Topog.    KPH       M          %       M      M
Probable
1984) Tfc.
A
2-      4000        Rolling    96       317         4      7.3   3.0
-lane               Mtl£n'.    u8                          7.0   20_
B       1000-       Flat       96       317         4      7.0   2.5
2-      2000        Rolling    80       213         5     7.0    2.5
lane                Mtn.       64       131         6     6.7    2,0
c       500-        Flat       80       213         5      7.0   2,5
2-      1000        Rolling    64       131         6     6.7    2.5
lane                Mtn.       48        70        10     6.0    2.0
D       100-        Flat       64       131         6      6.o    2.0
2-      50o         Rolling    48        70         8     6.0    2,0
lane                Mtn.       40        49        10     6.0    lo5
E       0-100       Flat       64       131         6      5.5    1.5
2-                  Rolling    48        70        10     5.5    1.5
lane               Mltn.       32        31        12     307    1.25



IIRAQ: DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF ROADS AND BRIDGES
ORGANIZAriON CHAR'T
[  DIRECTOR GENERAL
__ _-
A SSISTA NT ___- -TCHIEF ENGINEER
DIRECTOR GENIERALJZ___                              __
PRSONNE    LEGALAN    7CCOUNS            QULITY    7 ROAD 7     CENTRALGO WF     7
E L  E|XPROPRIATI  __________j   SURVEY    CONSTRUCTION  LAIRATORY I  
F  ]7  FRSDNNTENAN7CE  F     7
AUDITING   R S AND   STO SPLANNIN
DIVIIO'               ERIAD             BRIDGES     DESIGNC
E~         [I
RESIDENT ENGINEER]
CE N'TRAL
__   _          ~~~~~~AND STORES __  _    _  __
ED ._                       _ L                     |  I     |
r-
IBRD - 2853  _ -



Table 3
IRAQ: YEARLY EXPENDITURES FOR P[AINTENANCE, ETC. BY THE
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF ROADS AND BRIDGES
----------Year ending 31st March-----------
(Thousand ID)
1961     1962      1963     1964     1965
JPrmftinp Mnintpnance nnO                           __A)4 5E  I 2C    )1,0
Periodic Resurfraclng            200       200      200      150       200
Lridg e &r Fery  i. nternc        L9        5        LJ5      28        33
Bridge &K Fer ; Lj, WperatXon-    88.       a2       97   ~   .100     1'3_
Vt-'Jerig.hing Stlatluons Operation  25.,   _0 3J-4          _30        :32 
-  .                                         It'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  K/ 
Maintenance Equipmenit                                        145 60  6 
ID   907       977     1,011     818       970
TLe--+       r.gth of4n+i  rintained A. 760 m,, 7 7or0 hm .  8J,20 N,mRn 9ni,, 8 ,360 h,n
Mc; n+ an nra nvr.av,1- +1,rccz
per kilometer of road *    ID   102        97        96       75       91
US$ equivalent    286      272        269     210      255
*  Based on routine maintenance, pericdic resurfacing, and maintenance
equiJe -t --ea tl- es O



Table 4
IRAQ: GROWITH OF VEHICLE RE GISTRBT IONS AND DRIVING LICENCES
191                                            p-,~-.~~-r  -  ¶  fr-v,.Y+ 1-,  ,nc-.  .,o v  l
i;53   595     i9 s7   iy959   i96i    1 963     197641   G -+> v>11yezrDji
Ty3T                 %                                                   %   Total AvErage per annum
I        (~~~~~ c orn- p-ouri M
Private cars        8,3:35  35 15,338 195:356 24,253   34,306  35,202  35,804  48  + 330%     + 14%
Taxis               4.,615  19  5,265   6,546   7,678 114,242 14,713 14,446    159 +213%      + 11%
Buses              3s,260  14   3,311   39,500  3,990  5,590   7,200   6,498   S9 + 99%       + 6%
Trucks              75529  32   9,D43 10,869   13,173 16,829  17,328  17.h73   2). +132%      + 8%
Grand Total 23,7:39  100 32,957 4o,271 49,094    70,967  714,443 74,221 100   +213%      + 11%
Numberne  driving 29 32:3      44.,529 56,533 79,580  100,699  116,144  123,)494   +321%      + 14%
liCences, issued:   ,



IRAQ: GOVEFWMENT REVENUES COLLECTED FROM THE
ROAD TRANSPORT SECTOR -
ESTIMATES FOR THE YEAR END)ING MARCH 31st, 1963.
ID 000            ID 000
Taxes on
Gastol irne                                    6,3En
Dl-iel                                           200
Mot,-v oils                                                      #~170  792
Import Duties on:
Tyres                                            720
Vehicles                                         510
Sp re parts                                      220             1,450
v eriic:es                                       1O6
Drivers                                           4o               200
o4-, al p
I UU L  UPJ I V



Tahle 6
.r.Q: COST ESTIM TTEV( NM ROADTh  Tl.Ovrr
Total             % of
A. Construction of Roads     Km.     000 ID             Total   000 ID    000 U'S$
1,  Sharqat-Mosul
Section II           45     1,400
Section III          hh    1l,L0o
Section IV           20    0,60     3,,400
2.  Kut-Nassiriya
Section I            61    1,700
Section II           59    2,300
Section III          56    3,000    7,000
3,  Garmat Ali-Ba,srah   14     0,50    0,500
4.  Safwan-Umm Qasr      22     0,500   0,500
5.  Baghdad-Khalis
Section I             4    o,600
Section II           33     0,700
Section III          32     0,700   2P0C
won0           1,ho                   h~35  469o  13,135
B. Bridge Construction
Falilujah Bridge                1,400   1,400         50      0,700      1,960
C. Supervision by Consultants
Road No. 1 - Intercontinental 0,220
Road No. 2 - Intercontinental 0,200
Fallujah bridge - Rendel,
Palmer & Tritton                0,070   0,490         60      0,295     0,830
D. Equipment for Maintenance
and  hp              1,f0                            100 -IEnniff0 no200
E. Experts for Maintenance                 0,070         80     0o0o5       o.155
F. Road Study by Consultants               0,100         80       0,080     0,225
G. Contingencies on Construction           2,340         38      0,890      2,h95
Total   m1,           ID -I21 $r2,
_  8,210  $ 23,000
or U.S. $ 54 million



Table 7
IRAQ: ESTIDvLTED OPERATING COSTS PER KILOMETER
OF A 10-12 TO0N CAPACITPY TRUCK (2-AXLE )
(1 f'il = ID O.O1 = 0.28 U.S,cents)
Road Surface   _avings - c 'i(i) minus col. (ii)
(i')         ( ~~ii)        (iii j(i 
Unimprove(d        Pa-ved
Earth cr
Dete r.iorated
Grave:L
Fils per Kmn    Fils lper Km    Fils per Km             %
Depreciation                          16e3            LOnO            6A Q 39
Interest                              L.O             2.8             1.2               30
Maintenance                           22.0           10.0            12.0               55
Fuebl                                 :3.0            2.0             loO               33
Lub\riCrrt s                          (D.6           o.4              0.2               33
Tyres                                 12.0            9.0             3.0               25
Insurance (3rd part-y CnIly)          o.6             o.4             0.2               33
Garagirng                             :L.3            0.9             O.4               31
Driver                               15. 8           11.0             4.8
75. 6          46.5            29.1                38
NC0T1*  All taxes S!z1 :lice.ce iees are e-c'Ll-- ,A



K,;           WX -'     ~ ,,,                _______-,
'a.J
_      . . -  t   w              ,  tJc~~~~~~~~~~144   . --I t \A6
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
I R~                     K
_ _ _ ,,, j = >)--4  /N I 7
'J             -    ',     ft  /) AN CGk;l
-   -  ()Id >.l.d ronds  ~~~~~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~~e_b  -_  ,   /I  
N*~~~~~~ -6 *     A                      K an



