J -7  /~ ('                 C°RJY                  R ERESTRICTED
Report No. P-491
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do. not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
IRAQ
FOR
A ROAD PROJECT
June 23,    1966



REPORT AND RECOPIIESIDATIOH OF THE PRESIDEIT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ONi A PROPOSED
LOAN TO IRAQ FOR A ROAD PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Iraq in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to $23 million. The loan would be used to assist in
financing part of the road program included in Iraq's current five-
year economic plan.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.     Steadily rising oil revenues, a large share of which has
always been allocated to development projects, have in the past
limited Iraq's need for recourse to the Bank. The Bank made one
loan to Iraq in 1950 for flood control. As a result of a rapid
improvement in the Government's financial position part of the
loan was cancelled at the request of the borrower and the balance
pre-paid. In recent years, however, a considerable increase in
public expenditure has led the Government to seek external financing
on a larger scale.
3.     Early in 1963 the Government requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the development program. A Bank mission visited
Iraq in the spring of 1963 to assess the general economic situation
and to identify areas suitable for Bank help. On the basis of that
mission's report, the Bank informed the Government that it was
prepared to lend to Iraq for transportation and agriculture where
the highest priorities existed.
h.     A road project was identified and appraised in January/
February 1964. The Bank, in May 1964, invited the Government to
send a delegation to negotiate the proposed road loan. Negotiations
were held in August 196a. The delegation was headed by Mr. Alwan,
Minister of Agrarian Reform, and included Messrs. Frangoul (Central
Bank), Abdul-Mawjood (MLinistry of Communications) and Al Alawi
(Ministry of Planning).
5.     Immediately before the August 1964 negotiations, the Govern-
ment had nationalized the banking and insurance industry and about
30 leading commercial and industrial firms, including the bulk of
foreign investment in Iraq apart from the oil industry.   Following
the nationalization measures the Bank informed the Government that,
wJhile it was prepared to negotiate the terms and conditions of the
proposed loan, it would not present it to the Executive Directors
until it was satisfied with the progress made in paying compensation



for foreign-owmed property affected by the nationalization laws. The
valuation and payment of claims took longer than expected.  By September
1965, hoTwever, most foreign owTners had 'seen compensated and the Bank
informed the Government that it was prepared to resune consideration
of the proposed loan.
6.     The project was re-appraised in October/Alovember 1965 and a
number of changes wYere made in the works to be financed wuder the
proposed loan. The resulting changes in the draft loan documents
were negotiated with the Government thro.gh an exchange of letters.
7.     Anothler miatter of concern to the Bank is the long-standing
dispute bettieen the Government and foreign contractors who have
claims for wrorks or services contracted or performed under preceding
regimes. Though the Bank has not passed judg-ment on the merits of
these claims, it has, on several occasions, urged the Government to
settle these disputes whlich could have an adverse effect on the
iTllingness of foreign contractors to work in Iraq.  Followring a
recent inquiry by the Bank-, the Government has reiterated its deter-
mination to settle the disputes with contractors and indicated the
steps it has taken towzard the examination and settlement of claims.
I shall continue to followv closely the progress made in reaching a
settlement.
8.     The followring is a summary statement of the only previous Bank
loan to Iraq. No IDA credits have been extended to that country.
Amount
(U.S. .$, million)
Year      Borrower            Purpose                  Bank
1950       Iraq               Flood control             12.8
of which has been cancelled        6.5
6.3
of w,hich has been repaid          6.3
Total now outstanding               -
9.     Apart from the proposed road loan, no other operations in Iraq
are under active consideration.  In keeping Tith the recommendation of
the 1963 mission and following a project idenfication mission which
visited Iraq in 196ht, an irrigation project wJas appraised by the Bank
in 1965.  IJhile the project itself wsas not found suitable for financing,
the Bank indicated its -willingness to assist agricultural development
by helping to devise a program for the rehabilitation of existing irrigaticn



projects. The Govermment has not yet reacted to tlhe Bank's proposals.
If accepted, they wTould require as a first step a program of preparatory
work which might lead eventually to further lending.
PART II  - DESCRIPTION OF TI-E PROPOSED LCMI
10.    Borrorrer:                 Iraq
A:,aount:                 ',23.-0 million equivalent in various
currencies.
Purpose:                   To help finance the construction or
reconstruction of five roads totalling
390 ikm; construction of a bridge over
the Euphrates River; a road transport
study; a proran for the reorganization
of maintenance operations and the
procurement of maintenance equipment.
APmortization:             In 33 semi-annual instalLients beginning
July 15, 1970 and ending July 15, 1986.
Interest rate:             6`r per annum.
Comniltmlent charge:       3/8 of one percent.
PART III  - TTIM PROJECT
11.    An appraisal report entitled "Reappraisal of a Road Project
in Iraq" (Report No. TO-510a) is attached.
12.    Agriculture and population are concentrated on about one-sixth
of the total area of Iraq along the Tigris and Luphrates Rivers. The
rail and roacd networks are centered on the 'lesopotanian plain extending
from the mountains in the north to the ports on the Gulf.
13.    The present 8,700 kilometers of main roads are still inadequate
though the Government has, over the past decade, spent about one-fourth
of development resources on transport and caonunications.  The growth
in the transport sector as a whole has closely paralleled that of
national income ijith an average rate of 6'< between 1953 and 1963.  The
number of vehicles has increased by 9') yearly and emnployment in the
transport sector has nearly trebled over the last six years of that
period.
14.    The current five-year development plan envisages a total invest-
ment of about $280 million for transport and com-munications, of wihich
$124 million ijill be devoted to rebui2lding or extending the road net!iork.
Priority is at present given to the completion of the trunc road con-
necting Basra, Baghdad and IIosul.



15.    The road network is the responsibility of the Directorate General
of Roads and Bridges (DRB) in the JAinistry of Communications. IJhile DRB
has acquired adequate experience in the execution of road projects its
staff is insufficient to cope with the current program and has to be
supplemented by consultants.
16.    The project is intended to eliminate the remaining missing
links in the truklc road. The project covers the following five
road sections scattered from the south to the north of the country:
(i) a link to the new port of Umm Qasr; (ii) the reconstruction of
the only outlet to the north of the port of Basrah; (iii) a new road
connecting the Euphrates and Tigris rivers through an intensively
cultivated area; (iv) the final link in the new highway between
Baghdad and the Kirkuk oilfields; and (v) the last leg of the
Baghdad-Nosul highway.  In addition, a bridge on the Euphrates will
improve Iraq's communications with the neighboring countries to the
west and with ports on the Mediterranean and the Red Sea. The roads
and bridge to be financed are substantially the same ones as appraised
in 1964 except for the deletion of two road sections and the substitu-
tion of a neu- one following the 1965 re-appraisal.
17.    Direct benefits to users of the roads and bridge in the project
are estimated to yield returns generally in the range of 12 to 25
percent. Some of the roads are expected to generate additional benefits
by providing better access to agricultural producing areas or to the
new port of Umm Qasr, thereby stimulating production and trade.
18.    The maintenance program included in the project covers the
purchase of additional modern equipment to complete the existing
equipment and the employment of outside experts to study and propose
improvements in the present organization of DRB's -Haintenance Division.
This program is important as a means to protect the considerable in-
vestments made in Iraq's road systenl.
19.    Until recently expansion of the highway system in Iraq has been
guided by the need to connect the main urban centers. Further needs,
however, will not be so obvious and more comprehensive studies will be
required to identify priorities in both location and type of roads.
For these reasons the project includes a road transport study to advise
the Government on a coordinated long-term program of inland transpor-
tation investments.
20.    The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is
estimated at $54 million, of which $23 million in foreign exchange,
which will be covered by the proceeds of the Bank loan. Of the
latter amount, approximately $13 million is for the roads (35% of
total cost), $2 millioni for the br-dge (50%O of total cost), $h million
for road maintenance equipment and the remainder for consultants'
services and contingencies. Disbursements of the loan would be based



- 5 -
on the above percentages for the roads and bridge and on the actual
foreign exchange cost of equipment and consultants. The balance of
the project costs ($31 million) will be provided for under the
development budget.
21.    Detailed engineering has been completed for all construction
works included in the project. Construction is under way for most of
them. All contracts for works and equipment have been or will be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding by pre-
qualified contractors.
22.    The Bank loan will cover foreign exchange expenditures retro-
actively to April 1, 1965, an exceptionally long period. This date,
which corresponds to the beginning of Iraq's fiscal year, was agreed
upon during the re-appraisal in October 1965, instead of the date of
December 1, 1963 provided for in the initial draft loan documents
negotiated in August 1964. The processing of the loan documents has
been unusually slow partly due to the delay in the Governmentts
approval of the documents and partly due to our efforts to seek
clarification of the status of the contractors' claims referred to in
paragraph 7 above. Hence, if the loan were approved and signed in
July 1966, foreign exchange expenditures qualifiying for reimbursement
by the Bank may be in the order of $6.5 million. In view of the past
history of this loan and of the special circumstances which caused the
delays in its presentation to the Executive Directors, I recommend
this amount of reimbursement as an exceptional case.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
23.    The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Iraq, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. The draft Loan Agreement conforms
to the pattern usual for loans of this type. Attention is drawn to
the following provisions of the Agreement:
(i)   Section 5.01(e) requires DRB to maintain adequate staff.
(ii)  Section 5.10(a) requires Iraa to maintain adequately its
roads and bridges and to lirmit the dimensions and weights
of vehicles in accordance with sound engineering practices.
(iii) Section 5.10(b) requires Iraq to maintain, repair and renew
all road-maintenance equipment and use such equipment
exclusively in the maintenance program included in the
proposed road project.



-6-
PART V  -  THE ECOUO0IY
24.    A report on the "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Iraq"
(EA-155a) was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 17, 1966.
There has been no substantial change in the economy since the report was
prepared.
25.    While oil revenues play a decisive role in Iraq's economic develop-
ment, oil production is approaching the capacity of present installations.
In the next few years, oil and other revenues are likely to be insuffi-
cient to finance public expenditure -- both for current and investment
purposes -- at the level proposed. The Government is pursuing its efforts
to check the upward trend in current public expenditure but will, never-
theless, have to resort to external borrowing for the financing of part of
the development plan.
26.    The current balance of payments is kept in equilibrium chiefly
as a result of oil exports.  Foreign reserves at the end of 1965, before
the seasonal upsurge due to the payment of oil royalties, amounted to
$275 million representing about eight months of imports at the 1964
level.
27.    External debt contracted for econom;ic development amounts to
about $300 million, two-thirds of which had been disbursed at the end
of 1965. Debt service will reach a maximum of $25 million in 1970,
equivalent to about 6% of the 1964 foreign exchange earnings. Iraq
should therefore be, able to service additional external debt on con-
ventional terms.
PART VI - COMIPLIA1'CE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMM4T
28.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMI DATIOW
29.    I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:



- 7 -
RESOLUTION iA0.
Approval of Loan to the Republic of Iraq
in an amount equivalent to U.S. $23,000,000
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic of Iraq in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-three million
U.S. dollars (U.S. $23,000,000), to mature on and prior to July 15, 1986,
to bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum, and to be
upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan
Agreement (Road Project) between the Republic of Iraq and the Bank which
has been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June    23, 1966



