RETURN TO 
|  REWRN  TCi  |  1rtX . r' '  NRESTRICTED
jREPORTS           '-1t-j   ILL      IU[ I                     Report No. TO-520c:
vv I IMi
II _r_
This report was prepared for use within the 13ank and its affiliated orgonizations.
They do not accept. responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REHABILITATION AND EXPANSION
OF' TrHE
rVT, - T.- % L I7  A i- VVr I, r l  AN  AA tI,r   f. A I,r  -y A  r.  V%7??1t   f  =V   ltft   ln n*'
1.REG'.JION LAGJUW1NEJRA. AtNDJJ SJiAN J'UM1AN DELJj R¶IO 1R1Rt1GAi. T. IOJIN DuiSA T iCT 
MEXICO
April 20, 1966
Projects Department



CURRENCY ECIUIVALENTS
US $1. 00     =    12,.5 pesos
1 peso        =    0. 08 US cents
1 rnillion pesos =  US $80, 000
A T T' A  '1TTI It T I T.T 
r4rJ VfL JA0Ji Jva .
1 hectare     =    2. 47 acres
hi'URNT 'iI REPORTS DESK
ROOM A-124 BY:i



MEXICO
IREHABILITATION AND EXPANSION OF THE
REGION LAT U,GLERIL Mj1TD S,'.iT JM'LR TT ZT. wRT I?pTfLTIOTO   DISTRICTS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY
I.  TNTRODUCTION                                            1
IT. RAKlROUND                                                1
IIIT  TIE, PRCtTErT AREAS                                     2
A. G-nera'                                               2
B. Climate, 'ropography and Soil                        3
Water Supplies                                       4
Tani, 'Pe sure , i 
Technical Services                                  5
£  .LI   ~  '..L  4--
Farm CredLt LI
Present Production and Values                       6
Nlbrk-etir,g andu 'Prices                            7
I v  ~I rz .1VI)U±LJ. LU I .  .
Iv     PzR1OJECT 
Ueneral
Project Works
Wiater Requirements and Supply                       9
Phmp Irrigation                                    10
S-tatus of Engineering                             11
ConstructLon Cost EstimLates                       11
Construction Schedule                              12
Operation and M4aintenace Cost Estimates           13
Financing                                          13
V. ORGANLZATIr ILNAD 1MA1U]ENNT                            - 4
General                                             i4
Regional Development Commiss ions                   14
aisin Plarnning Commissions                        15
Irrigation Districts                               15
Constructi.on                                      16
Technical Services                                 17
Requirements for Farm Credit                        18
Additional. Soils Studies                           18
Water Charges                                       19
Future Land Use                                     20
Benefits and Justification                          20
Conclusions and Recommendations                    22



-2-
ANTIIEES
1. The Ejido System
2., Farn Credit
3. Reg.ion Lagunera Irrigation Dis-trict - Estimated increase in net
value of annual production following rehabilitation
4., San Juan Irrigation District - Estimated increase in net value
of annual production following rehabilitation
5. Reg:ion Laguiera District - The existing system and proposed
new works
6. San Juan District - The existing system and proposed new works
7. Reg.ion Lagunera District - MaintenanLce equipment
8. San Juan District - Maintenance equipment
9., Reg:ion Lagunera District - Water supply and demand
10, San Juan District - Water supply and demand
11. Reg:on Lagunera Project - Estimnate of costs
12. San Juan de]. Rio Project - Estimate of costs
13. Reg:icn Laguniera Project - Cost of rehabilt-ation woxks undertaken 1962-3
14  Region Lagunera Project - Constructicn schs1dul.e
15. San Juan del] Rio - Constructioin sahedule
16. Reg:ion Lamuanera Proiect - Operation and maintenance after
rehabilitation
17   San Juan Project - Oneration and Tnainten.ance after rehabilitation
18. Reg-Lon Lagxiera Project - Annual expenditure
1]9.. San ,Tan Prc,nect - Annunl expendit1ure
MAPS (3)



REiABILITATION Aivu EXPAN'SIOIT OF T<rSi
REGiIoN LAGUNERA AIED SAN JUAN DF;L RiO IRRIGA'TIUN DuS1 3TRICTS
SUMMARY
i.        The Mexican Government has applied to the Bank for a loan of
US$19 million equivalent to help finance the rehabilitation and expansion
of the Regio'n Lagunera and San Juan del Rio Irrigation Districts. The
cost of the work in the Region Lagunera District has been estimated at
Ps 720 mil'lion (US$57.6 million) and in -the San Juan del Rio District at
Ps 98 million (US$7.8 million).
ii.       The project would increase the quantity of water for irrigation
in both irrigation districts through the construction of additional dams,
and reconstruction of the canal systems.  It would also include land
leve'Ling of the en-tire irrigated area and provide for the improvement of
agricultural services.
iii.      The project would permit an expansion of the irrigated area
from 52,600 ha. to approximately 85,0o0 ha. in thle Region Lagunera
District and from 5,400 ha. to aporoxinately 10,000 ha. in the San Juan
del Rio District.  It would also regulate the water supply and prevent
damages from floods,
iv,       The Secretaria de Recursos Elidraulicos (SRH) would be responsible
for the extecution of the project.  SRH has a competent staff and an
efficient organization for carrying out the project and similar Bank
financed projects executed under its direction are making satisfactory
progress.
v.       W4ater users would make payments to the Government over a period
of 25 years after the construction has been completed to assist in
defraving the investment cost of the proiect.   The water users would also
pay a water charge to cover the entire cost of operation and maintenance.
vi.       Annual economic benefits as a result of increased net value of
aprimilbtra1l nrrviun(tinn arp iostAim;;t.d at Ps 12n million (1S[tSQ(if m; ll-ion)
for the Region Lagimera District and Ps 19 million (US$1.5 million) for
the Sian Jumn del Rio Distric-t  The respective rates of internal return
would be about 11 per cent and 16 per cent.   The project would also
inrrpase emplnmen1 opportunities for thse rural population, especially in
the Region Lagunera District.  The unemployment problem has becone acute
since the opportun-ity to .TTInrla  mi   lab+ orer  i n +Iith  Tni- + States
no longer exists.  The Mexican Government assigns a high priority to the
project in order to alleviate the soc:ial problems connec+ed with unemploYyment.
vii.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of U-S$1l million for a
term of 20 years including a grace period of 6 years.   The borrower wou!Ld
be the M ac:onal Fln,ancilera, S4,  an  ge,c- of the Government of Mexico



NEXIJiC u
R-EIBAILITATl 0-1i Ai\-U EiP ANLSJ .1 0J OW 71-E
REGLUIN LAUUNEHRA AND SAN JUArŽ D-hi. hiU IAAiUAYIUlUn
1. IINTURODUCTION
1,,       The Mexican Government has requested a Bank Loan to helo finance
the rehabilitation and expansion of the Regi6n Lagunera and San Juan del
Rio Irrigation Districts.  Two previous loans have been made by the Bank
for the rehabilitation of irrigation projects, Loan 275-ME in January
1961 for US$15 million, and Loan 336-ME in April 1963 for US$12.5 million.
Construction work under both of these loans is progressing satisfactorily.
2.        This report contains an appraisal of the project based on
reports and information supplied by the Mexican Government and on the
findings, field studies, and discussions by a Bank Mission composed of
Messrs. Bartsch, Platenius, Rinnan, Snelson (FAQ), and Van't Leven (FAO),
which visited the irrigated areas during August 1965.
II. BACK:GROTJND
3.        Roughly one-half of the population of Mexico derives its
livelihood from cultivating the land wrhich makes agriculture the principal
occupation. However, since per capita. productivity in agriculture is
generally lower than in most other activities, it contributed only 16 per
cent to the GDP in 196h.  During the l.ast decade the average growth rate
of crop production has been 5.2 per cent per year, reaching a record
rate of 8 per cent in 196a.
4.        As a result of careful planning Mexico has reached the stage
where the country is virtually self-sufficient in food supplies, in
spite of an annual population growth cf 3.6 per cent and an increase
in per capita food consumption.  Exports of products of agriculture,
livestock raising, and fisheries represented 48 per cent of the value
of total exports in 1964.
5.        Lack of sufficient land to keep the rural population fully
occunird is Mexico's orincinal agrarian problemn.  Many of the holdinzs
are uneconomic in size and the pressure on the land is increasing.
6.        Arid and semi-arid climatic conditions prevailing in many
regionsn of' Mexio;r tngpthpr with n 1nr  nrnnnrtinn of mnnintainouzs terrain
limit the area of cultivable land to about 30 million hectares of 16 per
cent of thbe total landr area  There a  fpw finevulone1 areas with



- 2 -
suitable c:Limate and topography which could be opened up for settlement.
Under the circumstances, a continued increase in production can be attained
only by using the available land more inltensively and this means, in
most instances, putting more land under irrigation.  In fact, new irriga-
tion works have largely been responsible for the sustained increase in
agricultural production during the last decade. Whereas in 1950 about
10 per cent of the crop was irrigated, it had increased to 20 per cent or
4 million hectares by 1962.
7.        The endeavour to increase the area under irrigation as rapidly
as possible led to the construction of some irrigation systems which do
not make full use of the potential water resources.  Excessive loss of
water in unlined canals and insufficient storage capacity of the
reservoirs have been common defects.  SRH has now come to the conclusion
that the rehabilitation of some of the existing irrigation districts
will yield a more rapid and higher economic return than the constructior
of nen ones. This nolicy r does not preclude, however, thpe construotion
of new works, where special circumstances make them clearly desirable.
Tn mrist in!;:fannce  rehabilitation wor  would include the construc-tion
o.f additional reservoirs, redesigning the canal system, and lining canals
and laterals where sage losses are excessi-ve        the two+- " Di, r n
under consideration these measures would nearly double the areas which
could be supplied with an adeqa-te eqantity of' l-rratinn water
III.  THE PROJECT AREAS
A. General
8.        The projeict would cover two Irrigation Districts, the Region Lagunera
in -wich 52,600 hectares are presently irrigated and the San Juan del
Rio in which 5,400 hectares are presently irrigated.
9.        The Regi6n Lagunera District iEs located noar the city of Torreon in
ET  _.L  fl... 9L..   T Iff.  _ .  __  *l  _ .   _-  _h  _  f2  e.L   ...  _! -  ____,_ n  > _ 1 :..   _ 2_2___ ___.
vu-vort  CtaLUVl 1ire.iuau aiiu Idle 0an t uan uel. rLZo VTb1UriL;b1s U5 lWC;aeu apprXJZ.L-
mately 100 miles north of Mexico City (See Map No. 1). Irrigation has
been practised in both of these areas for many years and within the past
20 years the Mexican Government has improved the facilities for irriga-
tion principally through the construction of dams to provide better
regulation of the water supplies. Though reasonably well constructed,
some features of the irrigation works are below optimum standards for
good operation. In addition, maintenance has been inadequate because
of a shortage of funds and failure to collect adequate water charges
to cover such costs from the irrigators. As a result some of the
irrigation facilities have deteriorated.



10.       This adverse condition is recognized by the authorities and
the farmers, and the!re appears to be general agreement that remedial
action mnat be taken by the Miexican Government. With regard to other
Mexican irrigation projects where rehabilitation is under iway, particularly
those financed by previous Bank loans, provision has been made to collect
the water charges and other funds needed to operate and to maintain the
Districts in good condition.
11.       Basically, each of the Distr:icts is well suited to irrigation
farming.  Ini both Districts much water is being lost by the lack of
adequate storage facilities and througlh seepage in the unlined canal
systems.  If' the works are supplemented by providing additional storage
facilities and modern canal systems, both of the Districts should attain
high levels of agricultural production.
B.  Climate, Topography and Soil
12.       In the Region Lagunera District the climate is arid with an
average rainfall of 240 mmn which occurs principally in the period from
June to October. In a total of 33 years of record the annual rainfall
varied from hOO mm f16 inches) to less than 200 mm (8 inches).   Tempera-
tures during the summer average about 260( (790F) and in the coldest
months of December and January the monthly averages are slightly above
13°C (550F). Night frosts occur frequently in the winter period and this
limits the scope of winter cropping.  'ailstorms appear occasionally but
affect smal'L areas.
13.       In the San Juan del Rio District the climate is semi-arid
with average rainfa:Ll varying from approximately 410 mm (16 inches)
to 500 mm (20 inches) depending on location in the District. The highest
concentration of rainfall occurs d-uring the months of June to October.
Maximum temieratures of about 35°C (95 F) occur in May.   In winter the
temperature may drop to 00C (320F) in the early morning.   The lowest
temperature recorded was -6.50C (20°F) in January.
lb.       The topogoraphy is generally favorable for irrigation in both
areas.  In the Region Lagunera District the lands are approximately 1,100
meters (3,600 feet) above sea level with slopes of generally less than
1 meter per kilometer. In the San Juan del Rio District the lands are
approximately 1,900 meters (6,200 feet) above sea level with gentle
slopes from the surrounding hills to the rivers averaging 1 meter or
slightlv more per kilometer.
15.       In the Regi6n Lagunera District the soils are of alluvial origin
and generally heterogeneous in nature. The irrigable area is part of
an old mountain lake without external drainage whiclh over manv years
has been filled witha silt and coarse outwash materials by the tributary
rivprs.  The District does not have any drainage nroblems inasmuch as
privately owned irrigation wells are extracting the grouncl water at a
rate greatpr than t'he recharge_ and subterranean water levels are
receding rapidly.



4
16.       Soil surveys ilere conducted in 1949 and in 1965 covering
' 'f'. 'neta es  AL.±I LU  u ,\r 11  LI  _L       *    -  
350,000 hectares. JiVou' lw,OOO   ecI'ares in IAe project area were
identified as belonging to the Coyote series which are soils of high
productivity-y and :LoW salt content. tIne-y gLve a gocd response T,o
combined applications of nitrogen and phlosphorus.
17.       The soils of the San Juan del Rio District are formed by the
decomposition of volcanic ash. in the higher elevations of the District
along the main canal the soils are about one half meter in depth. They
become deeper at a short distance from the canal and are very deep in
the lower portions of the valley. Permeability of the soils is satis-
factory and no serious drainage problems exist in the District. The
soils are neutral to slightly acid, low in salinity and give response
to applications of nitrogen and phosphorus. The shallow soils of the
upper part of the District require good irrigation management. Informa-
tion about the soils of the San Juan District is based on soil surveys
carried cut by SRH for the purpose of selecting the most suitable land
for irrigation. Spot checks by the mission confirmed the general con-
clusions reached by SRHO
Water Supplies
18.       In the Regi6n Lagunera District about 800 million cubic meters
are now released from the Lazaro Cardenas reservoir to irrigate approxi-
mately 52,600 hectares of land. In previous years and especially in
1962 severe shortages were experienced because of poor operation and
utilization of the reservoir. Since 1963 SRH has been given full
authority over the water releases from the reservoir and better operating
practices are in effect.  These take advantage of the large storage
capacity of the Lazaro Cardenas reservoir to equalize the wide variations
in annual runcff.  'Because the reservoir is amroximatelv 2LO km up-
stream from the principal irrigated area, regulation of all the river
flow is -imoossible and contributions fromr the tributaries below the dam
cannot a:Lways be efficiently used for irrigation. For many years prior
to 19L6, when the dam was comnleted. the District was onerated without
any storage facilities and therefore the existing canals were designed
to carrv verv large flood flnows to the land. Water losses in the
existing unlined canals are very high and contribute to the reservoir
of subterranean waters which are be:ing  pinpdi  wel 1sh to irrigate
efficiently up to 60,000 hectares of land within and near the Irrigation
Distric+.t  (See para 45 through 98)
1_        In the San Junn del Pion fstrict water supplies are now
adequate to irrigate approximately 5,400 hectares of land. The San
Ildefonso Dam on the Prieto P&r togetvher wict    a  land. of  Sanl
reservoirs on the lesser streams regulate more than one half of the
41    . ,v 1 ~,1 ;  ,  +1 e  hl 4 e.+ n4 n+  I ;T'Vkn  n fi  4-.,  ;n  r1 en,  T+ ,..
the Caracol River and the lower reaches of the San Juan River which
are ur.contIr0l le-d anlu soriie oil thL e fluo WS from,. theeL   1-reUa catava-dLL
able during the irrigation season. On the Caracol River there are floods
rneail± y everiy jeaU--L whiCh ilnunLda au    -)rIe±y 5U0 h1tCULares Uo lanu.



Land Tenure
20.       The great majority of farmers in the two Irrigation Districts
n ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~       -   .   _ .   -   -   I   I   -w  -- S   1 v s 
are classified as "ejidatarios", farmrers wno Jointyly nolda the commurxual
land.  (See Annex 1)  In the Regi6n Lzgurcra District they represcnt 93 per
cent of the farmers and they occupy 82 per cent of the land. In the
San Juan District 84 per cent of theb farmers are ejidatarios and they
occupy 82 per cent of the land. The remainder are owners of small and
medium size farms. The average size of holdings is 5G5 hectares in
the San juan del Rio District and 3.8 hectares in the Rcgl6n Laguncra District.
However, the average area per farm unit serviced by gravity irrigation
is only 2¢0 and 1.3 hectares respectively.
21.       The small size of individual holdings gives the ejidatario
an income which is barely above the subsistence level, even though crop
yields, Especially for cotton in the Rcgi6n Laguncra District, are
coryazarat:ively highe
Technical. Services
22.       Providing technical services to the farmers is the respons-
ibility of the Secretariat of Agriculture. Recommendations for agri-
cultural practices are based on the fincdings of the IUational Institute
of Agricultural Investigations with headquarters in Mexico City and a
branch station in Torreon which serves the Regi6n Lagunera District.   This
station is well organized and research is strictly oriented toward
the solution of current. practical problems and results are gratifying.
23.       The or!anization of the extension service follows the
system prevailing throughout Mexico. The Secretariat of Agriculture
has less than 300 extensionists in t;he entire countrv who serve primarilv
as specialists.  Direct contact with individual farmers is maintained by
a large riumbrrr of Innsnprtors of' the- Fjid,al Blank and the National Agri-
cultural Eank who work under the technical direction of the extension
specialists and who examine proposed cropping patterns. sign loan agre!e-
ments, provide seed, fertilizer, and insecticides in kind and supervise
farming operations to assure that thiey are carried out according to
plans previously agreed upon. The system is essentially one of super-
vised c-rePdit. While the niimher of Nield inqmertorq is arermatep the-ir
professional training is not altogether satisfactory. EXtension work
e'on'ev' nc, irrigatior practices- is~~ carrie  outi. byrr spclalists of' S-RR
supervisors of irrigation units, an(d ditch riders.
Farm Credit
24.       Credit to farmers in both project areas is provided mainly
by s.r _4PIc4al ka-1-., . +h1 L-;; Anl D-1, -m +h \1 ;  n   x .. .n
Banik. The former grants credit exclusively to ejidatarios;   the latter
cea-mrs cial bky LI, merc nts fand cotnboers.                    are
cmmluercizil banks, merchants and cot-ton brokers.



25.       Ihe two official banks make loans in kind and in cash.
The proportion of loans given in kind include seed, fertilizer and
insecticides; the portion given in cash is for tractor and spraying
services and a small amount for hand labor. Tnis last item is
actually an advance to cover living ccosts since practically all the
labor is carried out by the farmer ancd his family.  The usual rate of
interest is 1 per cent per month on the outstanding balance of the loan.
Both official banks grant medium and long term credits sparingly,
largely because recovery on these types of loans has generally been
unsatisfactory. Details of the farm credit system are given in Annex 2.
Present Production and Values
26.       In addition to the 52,600 hectares which are irrigated by grairty
in thc Reg:ion Lagunera District there is interspersed within the
District, but outside the jurisdiction of SRH, a slightly larger area
irrigated by pumps.
27.       Climatic conditions are ideal for growing cotton which occupies
93 per cent of the planted area.   Although the average yield is only 2.0
tons of seed cotton per hectare in the entire District, the average yield
in one rehabilitated sector has been :3.0 tons in 1964 and on individual
plots more than 4.0 tons have been obtained. Low yields on certain plots
are due to salinity, poor land leveling, and insufficient quantities of
fertilizer used.  Farm operations are mechanized to a high degree and
this is made possible by the prevailing system of collective farming.
Although thQ land is ass-i pned to the ejidatarios in individual narcels.
cotton is planted by combining these parcels into blocks of 30 to 40
hpctaresj thus farilitating npet control and the use of mechanical
equipment.
28.       The Miniistry of Agriculture maintains an efficient pest control
se-arce        -6-- r51aes  -the+me of p:Lanting andhavs,dieso
spray schedules, and distributes free of charge parasites for the control
of the most injurious cotton insects    Asaresult, the L           r
is remarkably free from insects affecting cotton.
29.       Diversified farming and the production of food crops is a
cll r  C 4- e -  S4- -   4.1A1   C-   T_._   JA_-   0   T--:   ._-4-   T_:  -4- -:   4_  WI  - , TAW4 A
LI     I.L9c;   "A7;+  VwL   1,14:7  WczaJ LILL J  wt:;.L  A.'J  t i  6mL'.vWj  v.OUI.L ks9  -j11ju v wvs
and lentils are the principal crops. Because of the proximity to markets
tWhe dairy iLd-ustry and the production of fruits and vegetables is e4panding
rapidly.  The region comprises 200,000 hectares of cultivable land, of
WhILL  1,U 0 uecUJ'-'s a d.re irrigUale butU only  ,400W heta  c an1J Ure.tLyJ
be serviced by gravity irrigation from facilities in the San Juan del Rio
Dis>t.ricMT._



3(.       I'he harvested area of the San Juan del Rio Irrigation District
varies from year to year because of occasional flood damage or seasonal
shortages cf the water supply.  Crop yi.elds are low in general, but
fluctuate over a wide range. Low yields, where they occur, can be
attributed to an unreliable supply of water, inadequate land leveling
and the fact that fertilizer is used sparingly.
31.       Details of the cropping pattern for both Districts are given
in Annexes 3 and 4.
Marketing and Prices
32.       I:n the Region Lagunora District, aside frcm corn which is consumed
locally, cotton is the only crop of importance. After harvest seed
cotton is ginned at any one of several small local cooperative gins at a
cost of Ps 200 per ton.  Most of the fiber is 1 1/8 inch in length
and 92 ner cent is classifled as middling.   The princinal variety grown
is Delta Pine which. gives a yield of lint which varies from 35 to 38 per
cent- All nf the cottnn is mArketed bvy nrivat.e companies which sell
slightly more than one-half to textile mills in the country.   The remainder
is exore    to.~ Euiropen~v .es
33.       F'arm. prices for cotton have declined slightly during the las
few years. They are now quoted at Ps 5,870 per metric ton, equivalent
to 21    +  TT5R a poun-,r.  P  14;,,  o   SCpA -,4+rn, c -rnliinrl n+ Pc 9 ).O
per metric ton.
3h.       Products of the San Juan District consist mainly of grain and
-p 'ses w`ich -ar-e m,a,`ke'e' rir Mexico Cit.t ard Quert4ro  locI- -ate  at4
distances of 160 and 50 km respectivel.y.  Alfalfa is grown by dairies
which have their own processinIg pl.Jants for milk.  During the rainy
season diff'iculties are experienced in getting products to the main
highway because some of the secondary roads within the district lack
a hard surf'ace.
35.       I'he support program of CONASUPO, the government's agricultural
price support agency, nas maintained prices for grain crops and beans
at fairly stable level. The support price per metric ton for wheat is
Ps 940, corn 913, and for beans 1,700.. These prices are somewhat above
those prevailing on the world market.  Only a small portion of the products
is sold to CONASUP0, the remainder is marketed through commercial channels.
Fruits and vegetables are usually purchased in the field by buyers from
M.exico City who assume the cost of harvesting and packing.



IV. THE PROJECT
General
36.       The project is the improvement of water supplies and the rehabi-
Districts.  The principal work involves the construction of storage dams,
linig, exTgension and relocation oI canais;  construct1ion of water control
structures; /construction of new and improvement of- existing roads;  and
leveling of farm iana. in both Districts housing for ditch riders would
be built. The construction of such works should substantially expand
the area under irrigation, provide more reliable water supplies, and improve
conditions for sustained irrigation farming. In addition-a program of
improved operation and maintenance would be started and the necessary
equipment for such work would be provided.
Proiect Works
37.       In the RIr'i&.  L,c-unQrL District the m2in worlms i!ould comprise the
construction of Las Tortolas Dam on tlle Nazas River to regulate torrential
inflows below the existing Lazaro Cardenas Reservoir; the construction
of new canals and distribution system which involves the building of
1,000 km of' concrete-lined canals and 1,300 water control structures;
the improvement of transport facilities by the construction or rehabili-
tation of 5C0 km of roads; the construction of houses for ditch riders;
and land leveling of up to 85,000 hectares. The canal system to be
reconstructed would serve 72,000 hectares. In 1962/63 SRH has already
rebuilt the system for 13,000 hectares but land leveling remains to be
done on the entire area of the District. Wiith the completion of the
Project works the area irrigated by a satisfactory system of surface
irrigation would be increased from 52,,600 hectares to 85,000 hectares.
The area serviced by gravity irrigation would consist of 2 sections:
unit 1 along the banks of the Rio Nazas between the Lazaro Cardenas Dam
and the Las Tortolas Dam with 12,000 hectares and unit 2 on the main
Laegunera Pl ain with 73,000 bectares (Map 2). Details of the proienet
arc given :in L5nno 5.
38.      ]:n the San Juan del Rio District the principal works would be the
construcrtion of Miguel Hi dal go Dam on thf3 raracol River to store the flow
of that river; the construction of a 15 km feeder canal which would carry
inflows of +he San Ju2n River below the exnisting San Tnif nnq Dann to the
Miguel Hidalgo Reservoir; the remodeling of the existing distribution
system through the construction of 110 l   {mof new canals, and tha etconn-
ditioning of 40 km of existing canals; the construction of 300 canal
s+&c tur-s;  -1-e cons+-t- on of 1     -P -a--e-wa+er d-ain ti11hem
improvement and construction of 120 kmn of roads; the construction of
%A .dJ  ..L .~ V   A L _0Lu L A LJ'  _L~j   ~  _S.'   Ul. J VW ''   1~  ~  ~. 
irrigable 'Land. These works would make it possible to increase the
presen'l Ly Lrriga't1Uedl area fromL 5,140`0 hecta1rs 4to 10,000 htect ares (e t   3).
Details concerning thc projcct arc given in Anc, 6.



39.      YThe road systems proposed would supply adequate transportation
facilities throughout both irrigated areas. The roads would occupy mainly
the canal banks, others would lead across country; all of them would be
surfaced with compacted gravel.
40.       Land leveling is an integral part of both projects.  It would
be carriedi out where required over the irrigated areas totaling up to
85,000 hectares in the Regi6n Lagunera District and 10,000 hectares in
San Juan del Rio D)istrict.
41.       In both Districts houses for ditch-riders would be constructed
and for the San Juan District 16 k,n of surface water drains are proposed.
In neither District is subsoil drainage necessary since water tables are
expected -to remain low because of the) pumping from privately owned wells
within or adjacenlt to each District. In both projects the present
pumping operations, which are private enterprises, would be subject
to full regulationi by SRH but remain independent of the project (see
paras. 45 through 47). More details of the project works are given in
Annexes 5 and 6.
42.       Yachinerly and other plant for ih=roved operation and maintenance
t-yould be supplied under the project.  Details are given in Annexes 7 and 8.
Water Requirements and Supply
43.       For both projects, irrigation water requirements have been
ca lrcIi1 antedr oMn. the b asis of ann ass, med cron-g pattea-rn ,ni andadequte
depths of water are allowed, Sufficient allowances for losses in the
rivers anc7 cani.,s have been madee  On ti%  s basis the RegiAn LaTwra
District would require 747 million cubic meters per year at the farm
turnouts~ for      44-tic  -it 1 wo  --d 4e neUsr o re-'ease 80r'o  ui
meters from Las Tortolas Reservoir (See Annex 9), The San Juan District
wo 'd  eVLLJA e 6) I-LL.)JiIion cu bic meters at tLhldle fILa -, l L'urnoutC.s 'for wh. ViLc1h
it would be neces'sary to release 72.7 million cubic meters at the
reservoir  (A-- IlO)
\JULL1M_'.A.JJ
44.      'iufficiency of wCater supply has in each case been aralyzed by
a reservoir operation study using both existing and proposed reservoirs
in com,1bination. The st-udies are based upon reliable suveaELflow data for
a period of 21 years, 1944 through 1964, which include a critical period
of low S treamflow. For the San Juan District there are no deficiencie,
in supply over this period and a moreD detailed study might demonstrate
that in some years an area greater than iO,OOO hectares could be irriggate-.
In the Regi6n Lagumera District some shortages would be experienced in
two years out of Ž2; however, these shortages wfould be no more than
20 per cent of the long term mean, and therefore they are not considered
serious.  For both projects, water supplies are adequate for requirements.



rl.rju Iryr4-igati
u-LUE] ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  L
h5.       Eecause water from the canal system has nrever been adequate
to irrigate the entire cultivable area of the Regi6n Lagunera District, many
wells have been installed to pump groundwater for irrigation. In the
beginning the use of pumps proved to be economical because in the
Lagunera area, which was formerly a lake bed, the water table was close
to the surface. At one time nearly 3,000 pumps were operating. This
heavy drain on the underground supply of water caused a gradual lowering
of the water table and water is now fcund at an average depth of 60 meters
below the surface. Because of the continuing lowering of the water table,
water can no longer be obtained from the shallow wells and in many instances
the depth to water has exceeded the economic limit for pumping. As a
result, the number of wells functioning has declined to 2,150 and yet the
water table continues to drop at the rate of approximately one meter per year
46.       The total quantity of water pumped in 196)L is estimated at
about 900 million cubic meters, a quantity somewhat larger than the
gravity system provides. Operating wells are scattered throughout the
region, within and outside the Irrigation District. The groundwater is
believed to come from three principal sources:   (a) from the deep alluvial
material in the stream bed of the Nazas River;   (b) from the leakage of
water from the unlined canals;  and (c) from the "mining" of water as a
result of pumping a-t a higher rate than the recharge.  VJhile it is
impossible from the available data on groundwater conditions to determine
with a high degree of accuracy the contribution of water from the three
sources, it is estimated that they are of about equal magnitude, and each
accouints for anDrordLmatelv one-third of the total water extracted.
L 7.      It. can therefnrp bh nqqmed tha-t in any event one-third of the
existing production depending on wells will eventually cease because
mnmping excezeds the c-urrent recharge rate.  The linino nf canals under the
proposed project would further reduce the groundwater recharge so that up
to an addit:Lonal orir of the wells Iwyill havire to be abancinerd=  The
absence of adequate groundwater data makes it impracticable to determine
which wells wil I   affec+ted.  To er,11ec+. schni dtia -wouilld t+kp a niimber of
years. Recently SRH has been authorized by law to regulate pumping
operations amnd the drilling of additional wells has been prohibited.  The
possibility of integrating pump operations with the gravity system has been
cnside red.a Hlnwev¶r, nde,,rn.-b n,- +-1vc n  vrv...l¶nlffmf+  E    oTaTM 11
s,'.na,.,,.,,W  ' '.  At MJV9 U>A%SVXE WVJ, 1 $   SV5Vvw  WVW|V J0\z S  V _Lrrn; l-fL1 JtoArU  UnLr  %..JJA4  IJLSSJ; 3; '34.  '3  tsfA. rLL'3Q Vrmn me hJ .A3AlsD   A'3
system, the lack of sufficient data to determine precisely which wells
sho 'd betake  out- of se---e 4t;.e firnancia` burden- ofP --r-4-n wells
11i'JtAL1L  UJ-  UC1Lr1LJ  j u~S L  0 -  V.lq V  IAL,  .L~JOL  .LO.L  UUJ. 'AVLA  UjL  V L ALk =Q"1
and the political problems associated with taking action against particular
pump     or   aei-asn w.t-.- l.,  e .--...A QDU 4- ~--4A,  4;4-
pump operator  are resn     hc    av   asdSHt        conisider _lt
impracticable at this time to resolve the problem of over-pumping through
integration,. 3- prefers i,stead to apply reasonable regulations regarding
the quantity of water to be pumped by each operator and expects equilibrium
to be reached when in certain areas it becomes unprofitable to continue
pumping because of excessive depth of -the water table and when some of the
wells reach their economic age limit. This appears to be a reasonable
approach. To bring about an orderly solution to the subterranean water
problem assurances nave been obtained from the Government that through SRM
it will take the necessary steps to insofar as practicable bring under
control the excessive pumping of irrigation water in the Lagunera basin
andl that basic data will continue to be collected upon which future
regulation will be founded.



- 11 -
48.       The value of the recharge water which would no longer be avail.-
able from the wells as a result of lining the canals constitutes a dis-
economy, and has been taken into consideration in the economic evaluation
of the project as described in paras. 89 through 91.
Status of Engineering
4".       Investigations, plannlng and designs of the project have been
carried out by the Government forces under the direction of SRH.   This
organization has had considerable experience in the planning and design
of irrigation projects and its technical staff is well qualified. It has
in the past successfully constructed significantly greater projects and
has currently under construction a number of projects throughout Mexico.
At the Las Tortolas Dam site thorough geological investigations have been
conducted both by open pits and by diamond drilling methods. These
investigations disclose that the dam and reservoir w'ill be partially
located on limestone formations which contain some cavities, A Consulting
Geologist employed by the Bank, has examined the site and concluded that
the reservcir and dam can be made essentially water-tight: (1) with a
slight realignment of the axis of the dam; (2) if the limestone abutments
are treated by the construction of cut-offs, removal of talus material,
the filling of caves followed by drilling and testing procedures for water
tightness, and (3) if an irnpervious blanket in combination with a slurry
trench is placed over the pervious materials in the filled river gorge
and talus deposits for an appropriate distance upstream of the dam. There
should be no appreciable increase in cost because of these modifications.
Asurances have been obtained from the Government that the recomrnendations
made by the Consultant would be followed in the final design and
construction of the dam.   Sources of material for construction such as
sand, gravel, rock and earth materials have been proved to be readily
available near the construction sites. Hydrologic investigations have
been adequate and spillway designs and appropriate flood and reservoir
regulation studies have been completed. Canal locations have been based
upon field surveys and upon topographic maps adequate for layout planning.
Based upon past experience SRH is fully capable of performing the design
and construction of' the project.
Construction Cost Estimates
50.       IThe cost estimates for the various construction features of the
project are based u.pon preliminary designs prepared by SRH. Quantity
estimates f'or the dams are based upon designs which adequately take intc,
consideration the topographical and foundation conditions at each dam site.
Quantity estimates of the canal distribution system for the Regi6n Lagunera
District are based upon a representat-ive 10,000 hectare portion of the
project, for which detailed designs have been prepared, and projected for
the entire area. For the San Juan. District quantitv estimates of
the canal distribution system are based upon a preliminary layout for the
entire nroiect. To compute the costs of the work. unit orices were anplied
from a list; which SMpJ maintains for each class of worl in each region of'
MeYico and kepsn iiru to date on the hasis of hid nrices rc.crivpd on



- 12 -
currciit contracts, To the total estimated cost of the project have been
added adequate provisions for contin;,encies, engineering and supervision
and interest during construction.  The methods used by SRH in preparing
the cost estimates are satisfactory and the costs are reliable.
51.       Details of the cost estimates are given in Annexes 11 and 12,
and are suTmmarized below:
TotaL       Method of Financing
Costs      Local Funds   IBRD Loan
Region Lagunera District           720             513          207
SZa  Jua  .T                         98             68           30
tr l4- ,-1                                     A           o 7
TL 081 1J                                                  237
In US$ million equivalent           65.4          46.5         19.0
52.       During :L962 and 1963 the Tlahualilo Section comprising 13,200
hectares of the Regi6n Lagunera Dist,rict was rehabilitated by constructing
a newl main canal and distribution system and additional roads.  IIost of the
construct-ion in this area is completed and the area is now under cultiva-
tion. The planning and design of this section of irrigable area has been
the pattern for the future work proposed for the Regi6n Lagunera District.
Land leveLing for the Tlahualilo Section is still to be performed and is
included in the costs shown above for the project. In addition to the
above work excavation for approximately 0 km of the Sacramento canal has
been started and -is in various stages of completion. The cost of work
already done on the .,anals and distribution svstem amounting to Ps 93
million (US$ 7.4 raillion) would not be part of the project. Details of
costs for work already completed are shown in Annex 13.
Construction Schedule
53.       SRH has starte1d construction of preliminarv works for Las Tortolas
Dam,. In ,Annex 14, this is shown as the "preliminary" year. The dam would
be completed in the third year thereafter.   Construction for works in the
Laglnera irrigation zones would be started during the first year and be
comnlet,ed by the end of the fifth. 'Details of the construction schedule
are shown in Annex l4.
54.       In the San Juan del Rio District, the Miguel Hidalgo Dam would
take two years to construct, beginning :n the first anr fini-ching in the
third year. Works in the irrigation zone would require three years,
hc.cinnin  the first yeran" andr4 -ron-ihi e earlvy i;n the+.  frtvr.h ornyer  D+.eta `I
-_   - .-   Y -   - _  in    __   _____h J  - _ _
of the construction schedule are shown 'in Annex 15.
-Operation and Maintenance Cost Estimnates
55.       Operation and maintenance activities on both the Regi6n Lagunera
and L)cUI JuanL -s.tLD -4ct- have in rece. u ,t0t0. CJ yeaJr eJLr.JIILU-
ting the optimum returns from each of the irrigated areas and best function-
ing,± U1f U ,eaULiL.iL.±e.  Tlhe uII.aUisfb.LUU0ry C011U±L.V1n of Ulle wor±ks andu ,he
low0 budgets for maintenance are primarily responsible for this situation.
Wtlhl the re-abliaTat'lon of existing wMorkcs and new construction, both



- 1.3 -
operation and maintenance costs per hectare would be reduced so that,
..l t1hou gh ea^h, District is substan+tia1 y rncreased *n area, tha +ota
expenditures for these functions will be increased only moderately.
This c o.m,e s abiout A-by reason of 4the installation of a-4to,a- t C wat+er
control structures, which should appreciably decrease labor requirements,
and t±hirough the us eof cor,crete linsij L dUd±j) cIa, ls.LL; shLouL'IL d redulc-Ce i .4L - 1
tenance costs. Cost estimates for operation and maintenance of each
Vsr hLUkj [   bdVU u-enci .a±C1LULaLUULU All Udeta  andiU areo UOUJUdUFUU  tcLUiaUslU.
They are summarized in Annexes 16 an.d 17. Annual totals are as follows:
District     Annual Cost     Cost per ha     Cost per 1000 cu meters
ps million         pesos          of delivered water
pesos
Lagunera        10.6             125 1/                14V
San Juan        .1.6             160                   25 Y
1/  Basis on whic.h current water charges are being madeo
Financing
O6.       The proposed Bank loan would cover the cost of equipment, spare
parts and.materials which in the past generally have been imported into
Mexico, Estimates of required financial assistance have been made on
this basis. They include the costs of new machinery, depreciation of
machinery on hand, spare parts and certain material costs. As is normal
in civil works much of the construction equipment is in the hands of
contractors and SRH, or will soon be purchased by SRH. As Mexico is
rapidly developing its industrial ca.pabilities some of the machinery
and supplies yet to be purchased will be obtained from suppliers within
Mexico. Such purchases would be made under international bidding pro-
cedures and after giving Mexican suppliers preference allowances as
described in para 68. Loan funds would.be used to cover the costs of
such local purchases. The part of the loan which would be utilized
for payments on local contracts cannot be estimated as it would depend
on the outcome of international compietitive bidding. The equipment
required for operation and maintenance of the Districts is listed in
Annexes 7 and 8, and includes construction equipment, tools
and laboratory and testing equipment. The cost of operation and main-
tenance equipment is estimated to be the equivalent of US$ 510,000
which together with the other estimazted costs to be financed under
the loan would total US$ 19.0 million (see para 51) and this is the
amount of the proposed loan. This sum would also include equipment
and material costs of construction work carried out in the Region
Lagunera District from September 1965.



- i4 -
57.       The remainder of the cost totaling about Ps 581 million would
be met by budget allocations.
58.       The expenditure schedule, including disbursement of the Bank
loan would be approximately as follows:
Preliminaryl/ 1st    2nd  3rd   hth   5th   Total
(millions of pesos)
Local expenditures            9        119   150   115   93    95     581
Forei gn expenditures         3         54    59    50   35    36   '237
Total                   12        1 73  209   165 128    131     R18
Equivalent US$ millions      1.0       13.8  16.7  13.2 10.2  10.5    65.4
17    Before proposecd Bank loan.
Details of annual expenditures are givren in Annexes 18 and 19.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MPNAGEMVENT
General
59.       The project would be executed and operated by SRH. SRH is a
separate ministry elstablished in 1947, to develop and administer the
water resources of Mexico. The Secretary of SRH is a member of the
Cabinet. The Sub-secretary is an engineer and is the senior official
in charge of four technical departmenlts and of one administrative
department that are responsible for p:Lanning, constructing and operating
irrigation projects in Mexico.
60.       Operatiorns in the field are controlled through three types of
organizations:
a) Regional Development Commissions
b) Basin Planning Commissions. and
c') Irrig:ation Districts
Regional Develorment Commissions
6:.       The Regional DevP1onnment Comi ssions; of which there are four;
are semi-autonomous bodies with broad powers for the development of the
respenc-tive river ba.sins over which they exercise jurlisdiction.  The
Commission Chairman of each Regional I)evelopment Commission is the Secretary
ofE SR.H; ot;her wise the Commissionts activities are independent of SR H
as each cormiission has its own staff and functions as an independent
#ovei-"m.ns aec     wih frt   l1 end i     contro4l vr      oprtin
including the technical, economic and financial aspects of development in
41- bas4X n.



Basin Planning Commissions
62.       In addition there are three basin Planning Commissions, which have
as their objective the planning of the en]tire resources of the basin over
which they have control. These Commissions confine their activities to
the study and planning of the water and other economic resources of the
basin and nake recommendations to SRH for the orderly and best use of the
resources.
Irrigation Districts
63.       In the remainder and the greatest part of Mexico, irrigation
developments are controlled by SRH through irrigation districts.     The two
Districts included in the proposed project are administered through such
organizations. Throughout Mexico there are 128 such districts. However,
as a number of them are very small, they are consolidated for administrative
purposes into groups under one SRH marager. There are 58 such managers
who in turn report to 34 general managers who usually have jurisdiction
over an entire State. however if a State is very large, responsibility is
divided among more than one manager. General managers report directly to
the SRH offices in Mexico City. An exceDtion to this organizational pattern
is the case of three large projects5/ which are of sufficient size and scope
+o have the District mannger report r  recty t-c; SRTH-  Each Distric.t has
its own technical and administrative staff and is given a large measure
of responsibility for m, rnngnnson affalrs within +It general nn-inipq
of SRH. The District staff in each case is headed by experienced engineers
inri      4 - - +he poiton  of - Disric  V--ngr,-- Resldent ; -- Enine  and Oprations
- ~ V-"J'L VJ.LWJ1J V.LL ~JJQ tl'J L.J. U AJ.CLJOr,~-,i , ~L~LVQL1J V 4Jr,JLJ~~4. -&J~- -j
Engineer.  They supervise other qualified staff in the preparation of plans
-A spec4flfcato  LI nsUl Ufn, UcLUIJu    , superJis V cOns triiJ L W, UcLtJion  plajn
water distribution and direct the operation of district-owned equipment.
An f.L.L.ce Manager      iJ indcge Uo UUL)dIL'Lt,1LJULO fUor acUcVUJ LL1J.t , rate
collection, disbursements and other office services. The District funds
are conrurolled by u- OSRH butte financial operatlions are subject to the
approval of the Ministry of Finance. Accounts are audited by Government
6I4.       InI eacn Dtrict there is an Advisory Coiu-ttee, the Chairmax
being the District Manager of SRHI, the Secretary being the representative
of the uinistry of Agriculture, and the other members represent the Ejidal
Bank, the National Agricultural Bank, the private farmers, and the
ejiditarios.  The Aldvisory Committee ausitsts the Manager in establishing
the annual operating plan for the project.    After being advised by the
Manager of the amount of water to be expected during the coming irrigation
season, the Advisory Committee determines by mutual agreement the acreage
to receive water, the cropping pattern for the District, and the amount of
credit required.
17 Lagunera, Rio Mayo, Rio Acuna-Falcon



- i0 -
Construction
65.       SRH is capable of carrying out effectively its responsibilities
for prepar.Ig final designs and co.t'racti docer.ts, supervIisng the engrleer-
ing construction and managing the cornpleted projects.  The technical staff
is We''L qualiLfiUed andu experienced and adequa4ile Ulaboratories are m  n e
for studies in hycdraulics, soil mechanics, and testing materials. Inas.much
as ';Rrt' has successfully carried out other projects of substaintially greater
magnitude and importance, the proposed project should be well within its
capatb -Jilities 
66.       Contracts for the principal features of construction work and
for new equipment would be awarded on the basis of publicly advertised
international biddiing procedures, The major contracts for the dam con-
struction,, contracts for a percentage of the work on the canals and
distribution system as described hereinafter and the contracts for the
purchase of equipment for operation and maintenance of the irrigation
districts would be consummated on this basis. In order to make practicable
the participation by international contractors in the performance of such
work, assurances have been obtained from the Government that bids would
be called for work: lumped into contracts having a minimum value of 20
million pesos insofar as practicable. There are certain types of work
which can most effectively be perfonned through small contracts negotiated
witth loca-L contractors using regionaL prices established by SRH. Assurances
have been obtainecd from the Government that work to be awarded without
international bidding procedures wouLd be limited to 20 per cent of the
value of contracts for the entire project.
67.       SRH is now using a method of evaluating bids on construction
work for rehabilitation of irrigation works which generally results in
awarding the contract to other than -the low bidder. The method was
developed by SRH to eliminate unsatisfactory and unreasonably low bids
for construction work. SRH requires prequalification of bidders but this
apparently has not been enforced to sufficiently rigid standards to elimi-
nate unacceptably lowi bids. The successful bidder has therefore been
determine(d through a series of computations of averages of bids, by
comparison with the engineers estimate and the elimination of low and
higl bids in the process. The methodi is not realistic in its approach
and assuranoeshave been obtained from the Government that it will revise
its procedures and follow more generally accepted methods of bid evalua-
tion. This would include international bidding,effective prequalification
of bidders and acceptance of a low bidder unless just cause can be showVn
for rejecting a b-id based upon such factors as time of completion, technical
competence and experience of the biddere



- 17 -
68.       On previous loans made by the Bank for power and road projects in
Mexico, suppliers of materials and equipment manufactured in Mexico have
been given a preference of 10 to l nercent in evaluating bids.    Although
such practices have not been used in the evaluation of bids for supplies ano
materials for irri=gation nrolects- it ssems annronriate that such measures
should be adopted.   Accordingly, the Government and the Bank have agreed
that. in the evaluatinn nf hbidn involvring droesn.t.e and foreion supnlies, n
preference of 15 percent would be al:Lowed to suppliers of equipment and
materials produced in Mexico and that. the evaluation would be mando without
taking into account customs and other duties or imports.    In addition, to
nrl     IT rlany dela  ir, the+ mpor+ of suchl equpmen+, +he ros-rcrxenc hasalso
agreed that, if a non-Mexican supplier of equipment or materials proves to
be the lowest evaluate         , 4he -cortract -il  be p    +    arded +o
such bidder and permission, if necessary, will be given for importation of
such . e. L i.pmert  nd.d ma-.ter.La.L.
69.0      VU-d For the LV R JeUitrL-. 1J.L_1U UUict, a cor,IIIjI IpenLve p.dfl JoUr
technical services has been drawn up.    As elsewhere in 1Iexico, the plan is
based on i thecoupeva.ve effort. 01 different agenciesi -which share e,hie f
in agreed proportion and the program would be coordinated by the local
representative of the Secretariat oI Agriculture.    For extension activitties
in Lagunera, an annual budget of more than 3 million pesos has been approved.
The program would be financed by the Secretariat of Agriculture, SRH, tne
State Governments, the Ejidal and Agricultural Banks, by municipalities and
farm organizations.
70.       Under the program 15 extension men would be appointed who would
function mainly as specialists and supervisors for local agents and loan
supervisors of official banks. In addition, it is planned to set up a
productivity center which would serve for the demonstration of improved
farm practices.   Other extension activities planned are home economics,
youth clubs, and training courses for the lower grade extension officers.
As heretofore, the Federal Government would have responsibility for the
Experiment Station at Torreon.    The staff and facilities of this station,
which already renders creditable service, would be expanded.
71.       The succeBss of the extension service program would be dependent
on the recruitment and training of personnel.    In view of the size of
the irrigable area, it would appear advisable to increase the number of
extension agents from 15 to 20 and to start a training program for them
as soon as possible after work on the proposed project is started.
Assurances have been obtained from the Government that it would expand
the program to 20 agents and recruit and establish a training program in
1967 to enable the staff of 20 agents to be trained by the time the
project is complete-d.



72.       For the San Juan District the Government had plarmed a small
expansion of the extension service.  The pian would provide for an increase
in extension agents and as at present most of the field work in extension
would be carried out by the loan supervisors of the official banks. This
is inadequate despite the addition of technical personnel of the newly
established branch office of the Agropecuario at Queretaro, (see Annex 2,
page 2). In addition, the Government had no plans for demonstration farms
in the District. ro expand the program in accordance with the Bank!s v.iews
assurances have been obtained from the Government that at least three super-
visory extension agents would be employed in the District, that at least
one demonstration farm would be established in the District, that adequate
annual budgets for such iwork would be provided, and that such steps woould
bc takcn duuring 1967.
jLeuirements for Farm Credit
73.       Requirements for farm development credit are relatively small,
in both irrigation Districts. No credit is needed for land development,
since all of the additional land to be irrigated has already been under
cultivation at one time or other. Land leveling in the entire irrigated
area of the two Diistricts would be done by SRH as part of the project
and the corresponding cost would be included in the quota to be paid by
the beneficiaries. Other on-farm improvements to be carried out are
smal:l structures, most of which require only hand labor.
74.       About Pesos 2.3 million in medium or long term credit would
be needed to finance the establishment of orchards and vineyards in the
_an Juan District. Short term credit needs are estimated to be Ps 110
million for Lamunera and Ps 6 mTnilion for the San Juan District to finazmce
recurrent cash expenditures for materials and tractor services.
75.       Assurances have been obtained from the Government that from 1967
on adequante funs in +.the amounts anrd forv the  rnon   describhPed in parar 7)i
would be made avaiLable by the Government through the banks serving the
T)istriot5, The Sec-ret2ri2 de Reuirsos Virirh'nlon and the Secrptarin de.
Agricultura would advise the farmers and ejidatarios as to the purpose and
a     1 nabhilixtr of c-1Ch credijts.
AdditiOnal1 Soil's St-u-dies
764      IP- efectivey be            4-p deal w- i4t1, any futiiure- snlin-r
problems which may develop on the lands of the Region Lagunera District
a program,r o3 saol.in:-it   tsy  i n---a-a--.--  Fr, 4t-hi  -- Pse th-1- can
water and the water from approximately 30 wells must be sampled and tes',ed
IU'±ti±,ya  LIn ad.WULLt.L.JII, iLU iL rV9.ecessCay'LC ) to estVaLJishL so i- te LtJhle  .
approximately 60 representative areas of the District at which annual
reaA .Igs a:re t,akrlIen on Uat leastd thi iree 'leve'ls of thet so proJ.f 'UIe ss. e ssur-
ances have been ob-bained from the Government that such studies would be
stuar-eu and carrieui on bo the satisfac-tioni o  thle BanM, and -that anual
reports of the results of the studies would be submitted to the Bank.



- 19 -
later Charges
77.       At present, water charges in the two Districts do not cover
operation and maijntenance costs.  In Lalunera, the water charges for
operation and maintenance vary from 20 -to 139 pesos per hectare.  The
total amount collected is 4.44 million pesos equivalent to L!I5 per cent
of the present 0 & M budget of 9.18 miLlion pesos.   The remainder
(4.74 million pesos) is met by a federal subsidy. In San Juan del Rio,,
the water charge is on a volumetric basis, being 25 pesos per thousand
cubic meters delivered to the farm. These charges cover 750,000 pesos
or 55 per cent of the present 0 & M budget of 1.35 million pesos. A
federal subsidy of 604000 pesos is meeting the deficit. Over the country
as a whole, in 196h. 0 & M costs for 2e. million hectares were 193
miLLion pesos, of which 128 million (66 per cent) was met by the wriater
users, the remaining 65 million being subsidized.
78.       In conformance with recent Government policy. the Government
has assured the Dank that, following the completion of work in the Regi6n
Lagunera and San Juan riel Rio nitricts_ water users shall 0 & M costs
fully.  In the Region Lagunera District, the water rate would be not
less than 125 pesos per hectare so that, with 85tooo htret_rs irrigatend,
the District costs of 10.62 million pesos would be met. In San Juan
del Rio the water charges wolld be not less than 25 pesos per 1000
cubic meters and would be sufficient to cover 0 & M costs for the
10n-nn0 hect+"are  to- bej,riga q  (See p-araC 55 Cnd A,n.ee  6I andr 1 7).
Nei-ther project would contribute to the overhead costs of SRH in
709.      'Al CadU.tJwon to 1the above wauter tc1a;rge   fo  oe-tin  n
maintenance, the Government has agreed that the water users should
pay as m,uch as pract-iUcable towrd  arrtztono4h nvsre               -
c~ £Iw~1i ~ ~±~~ULI~U±eUUWd±U'U ULfLU± UL4L_L  U±L Uli -LAV 0U1I;11V -LIi
rehabilitation works. W-Jhile the benefits from the project to the
econor,Uiiby e.pand,g the           --LVgabeU area a---d JIlVaLg aicuitu.,
production in over-populated regions would justify the investment,
they vv .l _ bL lowe.L t,1L fLoUr prVe.vuiou   ,r-f--anced jJe  -n MexicoQ
The low incomes of farmers in the project areas, the small size of
thelr holdings and the n,eed to preserve V arml     Vrs' * e -e -wu
exc:Lude the possibility of recovering from the water users the full
OU o  t he projecA. ssurances bave been obtained from the GovernmerLu
that charges of 100 pesos per hectare per year would be made in each
Listurict,  Over a twenty-five year period witnout interest this would
cover approximateLy 30 per cent and 25 per cent, respectively, of the
estimated costs of work for the Region Lagunera and San Juan del Rio
Dis-tricts.
Future Land Use
80.       For the Region Lagunera District SRH proposes to change the
cropping pattern so as to meet the water requirements for 85,0o0  hectares
of irrigable land.  The area in cotton would be reduced by 4,00 hectares



- 20 -
while wheat, sorghum, alfalfa, and beans would occupy 40,000 hectares
or 47 per cent of the entire area (See Anlex 3).   This change in cropping
pattern would substitute for cotton, crops of lower water requirement
and make use of irrigation water at a time when the evapotranspiration
is relatively lcw.
81..      The choice of crops to be grown is based on the national plan
tc, assure that food requirements be met and that a close balance be
maintained between production and clemand.  It would also minimize the
danger inherent in the monoculture of cotton and would result in a better
distribution of labor.  Compliance with the cropping pattern can be
achieved by allotting irrigation water only to the crops approved in
th.e plarL and at the time specified (see para 64) and also by granting
credit only for these crops. Assurances have been obtained from the
Government that SRa through the Advisory Committee would control the
annual cropping pattern in the Regi.on Lagunera District in accordance
with the available water supplies, and that SRH would veto any agri-
cultural. plan for which sufficient water is not available.
82.       In San Juan the cropping pattern would remain essentially
unchanged except for an increase of 600 hectares in fruit trees and
grapes. These crops are considered as the best land use for the fairly
shallow soils and sloping land bririo hetween the mnin canal and the
highway leading from San Juan to Queretaro. The acreage in crops
depein^.g exclus-Aively on rainfall i.s ewyrected to remain linchalged.
(See Annex 4)
Benefits and Justification
83.       The project works would be carried out in both Districts by
SP  unde  a nat.oral prograr. -e.-I aL a mJ.ore e fLJ.e-.t utllization of
water resources in public irrigation districts.   In the Region Lagunera
z A str ct.LVLV% tle;C iriae  ae lOd be increased by 62- per cenvt, in
the San Juan by 83 per cent.  At the same time a uniform water supply
U   _U          "G.LCSSI .L VL, U0I0.I4..'.1L  J.LJA%jlJ.0  O4A.L  ~J  J4~L  VVWJ4.L."  LA- 4.
eliminated and there would be relief from the unemployment problem in
rural areas 
LJL4.       UI~t;S't:d i11 UlS l jJ1 VUUL;U-UI 1e Iul- d Lu  WUUre IsLul -L UfI
a dependable water supply sufficient to meet the consumnptive needs
of the c.rops to be grown.  land leVeling WOUld proMote greater effi-
ciency in irrigation of individual plots. The attainment of projected
yields would depend cn an increase in the use of fertilizer and on
the general improvement of farm practices. This would be obtained
tnrough tne proposed expansion of the extension service and making
credit available for the purchase of fertilizer and insecticides as
well as for contracting services of mechanized equipment.
85.       Projections of average yields at the end of a 10 year develop-
ment period are based on results obtained now on individual holdings and
on entire ejidos within the Districts. In no case are the assumed yields
higher than averages recorded in other selected irr_gation districts of



- 21 -
Mexico. High cotton yields in Lagunera can reasonably be expected because
of the favorable climatic conditions and the fact that the crop is grown
by the ejidatarios collectively in large blocks under close supervision of
the specialists of the Secretariat of Agriculture.
86.       In the economic analysis it was assumed that the level of
prices for farm products would remain unchanged.   However, the projected
price for cotton was slightly reduced from the present price of Ps 5.87
per kilo to Ps 5e.70 (21 US cents per 'Lb.). The price of Mexican cotton on
the world market maiy decline 15 per cent during the next five years.
If this should occur, the project would still be viable because the
future cropping pattern would include a smaller acreage of cotton than is
nlanted nou- As heretofore about one half of the cotton produced in
Lagunera would be absorbed by the domestic textile mills. The major
food nmiir.ts uo1ld hibe sold iinrlr the price sinnort nrogram of CONASUPO..
a government agency which is maintaining the level of prices somewhat
abover th-at prev,ra-ihng on +.hTn te 1 rld mT2rketg-+.  P-rices_ used t.o + 'n  1 oni ±nt.P
benefits from the project are farm prices which are in line with
correspondLg GIF wo-rlA mm-rIet p-ies.
87        Lr- V iw of ti_h steA_ - se .1n the deand fr fo    no
marketing problems are anticipated in disposing of the additional
fir, - C 4o- of 4e 4  Tw 4 D+st4cs  ALS te  is a 4risfing eandn for
green and dry alfalfa and for feed grains by the rapidly expanding
dair"y 1indMLustry.  LIn the ICLLJ S UCUn Juar,   LULsI. U a rd.UaLL s1hLf  n tLJ e
cropping pattern from grain crops to fruits and vegetables can be
exp,ected
'v '.      .Ln] e.nEaD[iUng wne UeneILb Crnat, WOUi1U reju_L luhi  1
proposed investments, the cost of hand labor has been excluded as a
cost item because work done by hand is carried out by members of the
farm family and there would be no shortage of family labor even with
the expanded area under cultivation. In fact, the rehabilitation of
the Lagunera District has as one of its objectives a reduction of
unemployment in rural areas.
Qe         The effect of the lining of canals on pumping operations
in the Lagunera Region has been discussed in paras. 45 through 48.
The resulting diseconomy must be taken into account in the economic
analysis. The value of that portion of underground water which will
no longer be available as a result of lining the canals must be deductell
from the net benefits of the project.
90.       In order to estimate the magnitude of the diseconomy involved,
it was assumed that the quantity of water available for pumping as a
result of leakage in the canals is 300 million cubic meters per year.
The monetary value of this quantity was calculated from the net return
that can be obtained from growing equal areas of cotton and alfalfa
under irrigation. This is about Ps 320 per 1,000 cubic meters.
The cost of pumping, counting only operation and minor repairs, is about
Ps 150, leaving a net profit of Ps 170 which has to be accounted for.
It was further assumed that the average economic life of tubewells is



30 years.  Since existing pumps were installed gradually during the last;
30 years, progressively a iarge number of wells would reach the stage
when they become obso'ete, until 30 years from now when the value of crops
produced by pumpinig, unless the pumps are replaced, would be zero.
91.       lhe combined effect of the water losses due to canal lining
and of the increasing number of obsolete pumps results in a net value
of diseconomies which begin in the second year of construction, rise
to Ps 43 million in the sixth year and decline thereafter to zero in
the thirtieth year.
92.       Details of the present and proposed cropping pattern for the
two projects and the corresponding value of future production at farm
prices are given in Annexes 3 and 4. In summary, the investment costs
and the estimated lbenefits at the end of the development period would be
as follows:
Lnr n i er, rr  San Juinn
Public investment costs:                               708.0         96.0D
Increase in annual gross value of
farm production                                       171.8         28.3
Less:  increase in annual cost of production    5l.4           9,3
inrerns  in anniiul 0 XR M costs          1             0,2
TAtn1                                            52.8          9.5
Net annrual- farm bennei+ a+ fu11 derlopmer+           110           1 A .
of canals and assuning a 10 year development period the internal return
on +th  *nvirest+men  :i+ -n +he- 5A0 Tr-  1 4e+t"if te+i      i pro e   would be
about 11 per cent for the Lagunera District, and about 16 per cent for
Sa n J T uaan .
714.      LLA theUU Uecoo,. L reuur, Lfrom tLhJe invesW-AmentI 4.n th Sjan 3uan D4.strict
would be highly satisfactory.   A lower return of the Lagunera District
would be ca-used uy the diseconomies resulting fromL the linLing of canals.
t..Onc±u.r  anu deuoIrImrJuab1dnu
95.       The projiaet is a logical step in the rehabilitation and expan;,ion
of existing Irrigation Districts in Mexico which yield a more rapid
economic return than construction of new works.   The two Districts are in
need of rehabilitation and their expansion would be important to the
agricultural economy and the full utilization of the water resources of
Mexico.



2,3 -
9o0       The Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos (SRHt' is an experienced
and compet,ent organization. It has soundly planned the proposed project
works.   It could also effectively design and construct the works in the
time proposed and operate them thereafter.   The cost estimates are
realistic.
97.       The project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$19 million
equivalent for a term of twenty years, including a grace period of six
years.
Anril 19. 1966



ANNEX 1
I-age 1L
rrtrTr  DL TTrV-  CO'V TThff
As a result of land reform which has been in progress for 40
years, about one-half of the agricultural iand belongs now to "ejidos",
which are communities that hold title to their land as a group; the
remainder is divicied among smaii and medium-sized farms.  The large
lancded estates have virtually disappeared.
The ejiclo system is essentially a type of land ownership which
prevailed in the pre-colonial days and individual members, the
"ejidatarios", are each given possession of a parcel of land, usually
for life by the e;jido council with the approval of the Department of
Agrarian Affairs.  Rights to the land may not be transferred nor can
the land be mortgaged or subdivided among the heirs.
Parcels are usually family size plots of about 6 hectares, but
since in many areas no more than one or two hectares of the holding is
under irrigation, the income of the ejidatario is little above the sub-
sistence :Level.  The small size of holdings has been a major problem,
especially in the Lagunera region, and this is one of the reasons why
expansion of the irrigation system has been proposed.  It must be
recognizecd, however, that the ejidatario of today is far better off than
he was when he worked as a peon on a large hacienda.
Whether or not the ejido system permits the most efficient use
of the land, the system has been accepted by most people of Mexico and is
likely to stay.   Certain modifications will probably be introduced to
make it more workable and the study group has been appointed to suggest
desirable changes.  It is significant that, except for the early period
of confusion, land reform has not reversed the upward trend of agricultural
productionr.
One of the major defects of the ejido s-ystem is the fact that
the size of parcels held by individual ejidatarios is frequently too snall
to constitute a viable economic unit.  The use of mechanical eouitment.
especially is made difficult.  To some extent this problem is being over-
come by collective! farming which is oracticed to a large extent in the
Lagunera area.  In fact, it is the only practical system under which
cotton can be grown efficiently by smiallholders.  Collective farming has
other advantages: extension workers and credit institutions can work
with a groun instead of with individutals. thus their work beeomes more
effective and overhead costs are redutced.  In regions like San Juan del
Rio; where diversified farming is nrqrtired, it would be more diffirtnlt
to introduce a system of collective farming.  At least a start in this
dirpct-.tin iq hbina marep hv orgraninz7ingp crpeit. qrnnintA.ip which will hp
jointly responsible for loans obtained from official credit institutions.
Whether or not the ejidatarios will be able to adopt modern
techniques of farnang as red1- as tAh ;   pd      fa .d



ANNEX 1
PageP 2
to predict.    Thei.r lower level of education is a serious disadvantage.
RnT.rnvPfer :hi.s ic~ nnf. rlntndp t.n t.hn m5oirln ucto.m Inn qnreh :nnA i+- iz n
problem which will have to be solved by Thproving the educational
fnr.litiiJ3 in +.n ejidro.z  It is nznhnni r.ore serious tn+ the
ejidatarios as a group have enjoyed special privileges, many of them
in the fonnm o%f' Qnhidiesi which tended to -rn- them tr--ds of the
Government.    Reccignizing the adverse effects, the Government is now
WJhil 1  "I -A ..n4n. has 1-1, au...ld4. abo.4 .    -.
tribution of land, it has not solved the problem of satisfying the need
of the imbalance betwen .Lad .LLaiI VU.. VJ.L-Lr esou re  anL rt  of  _paI V ±et
of the imbalance between land resourc-es and rate of population growth-.



ANN!X 2
Page 1
FARM CREDuLT
Credit to farmers in both project areas is provided mainly by
two official banks: the Ejidal Bank and the National Agricultural Bank.
The former grants credit exclusively to ejidatarios; the latter deals
mainly with independent farmers.    Other sources of credit are commercial
banks, merchants and cotton brokers.
The two official banks make loans in kind and in cash which
combined cover all production costs.    The loan usually includes an amount
in cash for living expenses based on the value of labor performed by the
ejidatario and his family.   The proportion of loans given in kind inc:Lude
seed, fertilizer and insecticides.    Payments for water rights, spray
service and crop insurance are made by the banks directly and charged
against the total of the loan which, including advances in cash, represents
about 70 per cent of the value of the crop to be harvested.    The usual rate
of interest is 1 per cent per month on the outstanding balance of the 'Loan.
Both official ban'ks grant medium and long term credits sparingly, largely
because recovery on these types of loans has been unsatisfactory.
Since ejidatarios cannot provide a mortgage guarantee, the
Ejidal Bank has only a lien on the crops to be grown.    However, credit
societies are now being organized with members assuming ioint responsibility
for the debt incurred.   In Lagunera most of the credit given by the Ejidal
Bank is already adiministered through local credit societies.
The recoverv rate on loans bv the E;idal Bank has been low.
Three years ago it dropped to 50 per cent in San Juan, but stands now at
87 ner cent.   Tn T_agunera the recovperv ratse on short term loans is nearly
90 per cent.   Deficiencies and irregularities in the administration of
loan onperations haive been largelv responsibh1  for the poor rercoverv raite in
the past.   With the reorganization of local agencies the situation has im-
proved during the nast two vears.    The npreAntage of eiidatarios who are
clients of the Ejidal Bank is about O per cent in San Juan and 70 per cent
in LaPq2nmeraq  Miunds for additiIona1 sho:rt term loans are qvqiilahle  but. a
large proportion of ejidatarios remain ineligible for loans because they
The, Tm+4rnn1 ANat a   , i1^+igrLc 1 ulur r e4l rdals m_nl-r riT4h 4n-e1nnrt+
fanners and loans are secured by mortgage guarantee;   the recovery rate on
these loans is close to 100 per cen.t.   The rs   ,-,'o c'.ts of the
National Agricultural Bank is small, they represent only about 5 per cent
of' the 4 ndAnar,A+ fa,,,,ers 4 Sa I.. u,-  -A 2f per ce4,  4 n T -f.n-.  Trhe
remainder of the credit is obtained from private sources.
An additional source of credit will become available with the
es tabl-s1u of th Ul UILe nUwly orgarIzdU BanCo AgropeCuario *. IhIS UbI' i,j
about to open a branch in Queretaro and an agency in San Juan del Rio ,



ANTNEX 2
Page 2
It is the policy of the Banco Agropecuario to assist in the organization
of credit, societies among the ejidatarios, thereby making them eligible
for short and long term credit.



REGI ON LA 'UNERA. IRRI: G-T ]:CNi DISITRICT
ESTIMATED INCREASE IN NET VA.LUE OF ANNUAL PRODUCTION FOLLOWING REHABILITATION
Area     Average   Price/    -ross Value of      Cost o) Production     Net Value of
planted    Yield     Ton       Production      per ha.         Total      Produiction
(hectares) (tons/    (pesos)   (pesos million)  (pesos)   (pesos million) (pesos million)
ha.)
Present - 5?,670 ha.
Cottonl              408,9*00    2,0      2,400        234.7        1, 88          91.9          1142.8
Corn                  2,300      1.4       780          2.5            490           1.1            1.4
Alfalfa (green)         600     72.0        100         4.3          1,400           018            3.5
Tomatoes                3100     6.5        850         1.7            9210          0.3            1.4
Others                  570                             1.4            c0,o          0,3            1,1
244.6                         94.4         150,2
With Rehabi:Litation - 85,000 ha.
Cottonl              45,000      2.8      2,400       302.4          2,220          99,9          202.5
ALfalfa (dry)         7,000     12.0        425         35.7         2,160          15.:L 20.6
Sorghum             .15,000      3,5        600        31.5            760          11. 17        :19.8
Beans                 5,0,00     2 sS    1,400         14.0            950           4. 8           903
Wheat                13,000      2.8        900         32.8         l,100          1.:3           :8,5
41.6.4                      -45 8           270.7 .,
Note Annex 3 and 4: Prices are average pricea- received by the farmer adcjust-ed
to bring them in line with CIF worl.d market prices.



SAN JUAN IRRIGATION DISTRICT
ESTIMAI'ED INCREASE IN NET VALUJE OF TNNUAL PROD,3CTION FOLLOW-IING REHABILITATION
Area planted  Average Yield  Price/Ton   Gross Value of        Cost of Production          Nett Value
Product,ion     per ha.       Total           of Production
(hectares)    (tons/ha.,)    (pesos)    (pesos thusandzs)  pesos)   (p       usads)    peso thou    ds
Present 5,,460 ha.
Lentils                            1,000           0.7         1,4.00           980           300            300                690i
'Wheat                             2,230           1.8           5'00         3,61.0           650         1,450              2,160
Corn                               2,000           1.3           800          2,080           390            780              1,300
Beans                                 30           1.2         1,600             60           390             10                50
Alfalfa (green)                      100          65.0           1.00           6,50         1,390           140                51C)
Fruit                                10(           6.5         1,700           1,110         3,780           380                73C)
8,450                       3,060              5,430)
'with Rehabilitabion - 10,000 ha.
Lentils                            1,500           1.0         1, 400          2,100           500           740              1,360
Wheat                              2,50(           3.0           5900          6,750         1,150         2,880              3,870
Corn                               1,80oo          3.0           80            4,320           790         I,420              2,900
Sorghum                            1,70(           3.5           600           34,570          780         1,330              2,240D
Beans                                200           1.8         1j600            580            950           190                39(                     |x
Alfalfa (green)                    1,00(           90.0           80           7,200         1,960         1,960              5,240
'lTomatoes ard 'Vegetables           600           8.o           80O           3,840           910           550              3,290
Fruit                                30()          8.0          1,700          4,080         5,500         1,650              2,430
Grapes                               40O            9.0         1,200          4,320         4,000         3.,60i)            2,720
36,760                      12,320             2*,4wd



ANNEX_j
Page 1.
REGTOY T1gJ0 E R. DTSTRICT  - THF PXI(STIITC SYSTW 1;D PROPOS& n 3 F- '4OR'S
Tne existing irrigation system whlich has evolved over the past
lOO years, consists of Lazaro Cardernas Reservoir on the Nazas River, an
area of 7',500 ha under irrigation in several zones along the river valley
(Unit 1) and 45,100 ha irrigated on the Lagunera Plain (Unit 2).
Lazaro Cardenas Dam, which was constructed during 1937-46, is
an earthfill dam with a maximum height of 86 meters and a capacity of
3,000 million cm. The dam and its installations are well maintained; a
minor leakage through faults in the abutments is being carefully watched
and is not increasing.
In Irrigation Unit No. 1, a total of 31 small canals divert
water from the river in three zones to serve 7,500 ha.   The canals were
dug by the farmers and are unlined.
In the main Unit No. 2 an extensive system of unlined canals
irrigate more than 45,000 ha scattered over a gross area of some 180,000
ha, Interspersed in this area are about 70,000 ha irrigated by somne
2,150 privately-o,wmed tubewells. The canal system was originally
constructed to divert as much as possible of uncontrolled floods in the
river, and consequently the canals have an excessive capacity, they are
mostly unlined, and almost half the water diverted is lost by seepage.
In 1962 and 1963 SRH initiated the modernization of Unit 2 by
the construction of concrete lined canals and laterals and modern water
control structures to serve 13,000 ha in the Santa Rosa and Tlahualilo
Zones.  These workcs are well designed, and soundly constructed; they are
operating satisfactorily and when land :levelling has been completed they
wil:L be a suitable pattern for the modernization of the remainder of the
area.
The ProDosed New Works
The nroiect will increase the aren under gravitv irrigation from
52,600 ha (of which 13,000 has been modernized) to 85,000 ha all modernized.
The 60,000 ha now irrignted hy nipmnp will conti=nue to h  nnperated nriv:.tP1v
and would not become a part of the project. The engineering works
comnrising the pronec-t are the frnIIwi ng:
TLas Tortonlas nam
1,000 klts concrete lined canals
/ 500 kms road construction or improvement
100 houses lnditch riders
85,000 ha Land levelling



ANNEX g
The site of Las Tortolas Dam is a canyon some 60 km above the
hlead of  thie  distuributo   sy.te   No. 4.Thriebdaths
II~d.  01  AJe  ±~ L±.LUUJ.U1  ~  UIII  .k.  UrlLU  i'JU.  1.*  J.L1U  A.LVU4  WU"  Ca, L  VLI.L~
point is about 300 meters wide with a. depth of coarse alluvium in excess
of 125) Mteters, the depth VI WMe deepest boteho'IL.LU.         des
consist of two thick strata of cavernous limestone overlaid by a 65 meter
1thick bed of' relatvely impervious ca.lcareo-us shales, lHimestWnes and
calcareous marls.   The dip of the strata is about 450 upstream and the
river intersects the formation approximately at right angles.   On both
sides of the river are talus deposits, particularly on the left where
the slope is flatter.
The proposed dam consists of a rolled earth fill core with
shoulders of permeable fill and rip rap.   The maximum height of the dan
would be 34 meters, the crest length 500 meters and the dam would contain
400,000 cubic meters of rolled fill and 320 000 cubic meters of rock fill.
Because of the deph of the river bed and the thickness of the talus at
the sides, it is not possible to found the dam wholly on the impermeable
shale strata.   On the left side the dam would be founded upon a bed of
cavernous]imestone, and on the right upon limestone and shale.   A
vertical cutoff is impracticable, and. seepage control would be achieved
by the construction of an impermeable rock fill blanket extending 300
meters along the bed of the river and on the talus slopes on the sides,
connected to the core material 3f the dam.   The blanket would contain
460,000 cm.. of material.  It is expected that grouting of the limestone
would be necessary.   Two tunnels 11 meters in diameter and each about
400 meters in length in the right abutment would carry flood discharges
and normal. irrigation releases from the reservoir.  The spillway into
the tunnels would be controlled by four radial gates in two pairs, each
gate 7 meters wide and 15 meters deep; irrigation releases could also *be
controlled. by two vertical gates l.4 x 1.8 meters situated between the
pairs of spillway gates.
Distribution Network
In the service areas, it is! intended to abandan the existing,
cbsolete distribution systemand to construct completely new systems
modeled after those constructed in the Tlahualilo Zone.   All canals would
be lined with unreinforced concrete to standard sections which have been
developed by SRH and wihich have proved satisfactory on other projects.
The total length of new canals would be approximately 1,000 kms. made u:p
as follows:
Unit No. 1 Laterals and Sublaterals        6L hms.
Unit No. 2 Sacramento Main Land            91 kms.
Lzateral' aLud SUblatLedal               U8L4 klil,s.
TotaI     1 ,OO hn.
S '.. - tfla. a9 -,J ,  , -



ANNEX 5
Page  3
Land Levelling
It is proposed that the whole service area of 85,000 ha, where
required, would be reshaped and leveled to achieve a high degree of
irrigation efficiency on the farm.



ANNMEX 6
Page 1
SAN .TTA14N nTq"T?TlT:  TW I1T 1RYT;TTTr- S'Y'5YSM ATM\r n PrioPnrsin D' N1TU  RKS
The e-'* s rtirng irrigation wrorks consist of4 f +.th  Sann TIldfonso
Reservoir on Prieto River, a tributary of the San Juan River; Lomo de
Ildefonso, and a nain canal 45 km long from which fourteen laterals serve
5,4.()0) ha of 1 and. TrT- 1-.- +the project area ,  v ri  ponds  ich supplement
the storage in San Ildefonso Reservoir.
San Ildefonso Dam, situated 20 km southeast of the city of San
Ju;C del Rio0 is a roc',.=f=l-L- d,>, faced 't  rein.-orced concrete slab,s ,a-nd
has a maximum height above stream bed of 120 meters and a crest length
of 170 meters.  T.he river outlet is a 42t pipe throech a 4.6 meter tunnel
in the left abutment which was used f'or diversion during construction.
.,,-.e   1   * A .  4+-,,-+eA  +  4-b,- +. -4-,4-  -A  +h,-  A-, M "A n .nci4  c  f' as n
*s 110      .1- I 1S4 S1.Vl0UGVG ¶~. 1.V l V *X 4.11gI .. 1.11 WeA1 0,1114 as CV..
ogee weir and an apron; flood waters then flow over native rock to the
caUnyon beo te VWIl dAii. TLIU %dAlAL, Vhi I was cnsteJIAr  between 1937 *nd
1942 is generally in a sound condition,
Lomo de Toro diversion (dam, which was constructed in 1943, is
a.I..cd  UVC: .Lo-fL.L.. IusorZy1LL-Y weir whi' ose crest i Lfive .meters above Cbed e1 vel
and is 70 meters in length.  The left bank head regulator to the project
'iiain caiial Is integral with the weir and has one 1.o5 x ).0U IueUer raiULal
gate. The structure is in need of minor repairs which are being under-
taken with brdinary maintenance funda.
The project main canal was also constructed in 1i,43, is 45 km in
length and has a capacity at its head of 10 cm per sec. It is unlined
but in the first 20 km, wdhere it is excavated in tuff, seepage losses
are no more than 5 to 6 percent; below km 20, however, where it is
constructed in more permeable material, losses exceed 15 percent.
The sixteen laterals which take off from the right bank of the
main canal are also unlined. Their head regulators, and also the farm
turnouts, are uncalibrated and cLischarges are determined by frequent
current meter observations.  The distribution system is generally well
maintained.
The nine ponds in the area, whose total capacity is 9 million
cubic meters, are f'illed by streams issuing from the high ground locatecl
to the northeast of the project.   The ponds are shallow and formed by
earthen levees,
The 5,40C) ha of land presently irrigated are in scattered
blocks extending over a total area of some 10,000 ha.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
The' Proosed New Works
The proposed project would supply adequate additional water
to extend the area of irrigation from 5,400 to 10,000 ha, all served
by a modernized distribution system.   The proposed new lworks necessary
for this accomplishment are the following:
Miguel Hidalgo Dam
A FePepr C(nAl from the San Jiinn River tn the Mipiipl Hidcalgo
Reservoir (length 15 km.)
110 ir- rX no,,j rnnl
40 km. of reconditioning existing canals
qnn ret^nnl *ti,+l
16 km. of surface drains
120 km, of ro_ad s1-facing
8 houses for ditchriders
10,0 nn   of_n 1 4oeln  llevll; nx
SVn  V   I OC.  V1 J   4.C4L  4.'  v b':-.. ' 4-
.4iue'lXidalpo Dam -Wrll1 'be cor,structed -where 4thIe Gali]ndo
River leaves the high ground to the southeast of the project area.    The
reservo'i r f1ormed 1- 4the da  w-" flood  hepsnt m.ai -canal --4 -  between
.t  ~   'JL   ±U.L ~   IJ   WUI-  UAdIll  V-L-L.L  .L LUUUV4"   J Wilt:-,  IdAII 11  ItL  tU W V~L
km 14 and km 20.  The dam would have a crest length of 2,200 meters and
a m""=-ll"m heig,ht of 26 meters above streambed.  It would consist of a
rolled earth-fill core whose slopes would be covered with rip rap. On
Uthe Wlft U U oflm 01 U rit iver, a _LIVy .J oJJ.'llLCU±t permeabl   c lo d, -WI da
thickness of up to 15 meters overlies impermeable tuff.   A concrete cut-
off would bUe constructed through the conglomierate to key intoU the t-uff.,
On the right bank, the tuff is immediately beneath the superficial soil
and only a shallo"w c-utoff would be n-cessary.
The outlet works on the leFt bank, which would supply the
remodeled main canal at km 20 would have a capacity of 5 cm per sec. and
consist of' a 1.5 meter diameter reinforced concrete pipe through the
embankment controlled at the inlet by a vertical lifting gate in a re-
inforced concrete tower connected to the crest of the dam by a walkway.
The spillwray on the right bank would consist of a side weir 150 meters in
length discharging into a concrete chute of 550 meters length terminating
in a stilMing basin.  The spillway would be designed to pass 475 cm per'
second with a head. of 1.3 meters over the weir crest.
The Feeder Canal into Miguel Hidalgo Reservoir from the existing
San Jose diversion dam on the San JuEn River would be 15 km in length,
of which the i'lrst 2.6 km would be lined with masonry.  The remaining
12.4 km, would be excavated mainly in impermeable tuff and would be un-
lined. The capacity of the canal is provisionally 10 cm. per sec., but
further operation studies may demonstrate that a slightly different
capacity is necessary (see Appendix 10).



ANNEX 6
Page 3
IWorks i=n the ServiGe Arp acnnsist. f the r?nPplacement of 1/ km
of the present main canal between hn 19.5 (the outlet from Mliguel
Hidnalgn tPeSrvir) tn km 339 hbyr a innoretp-linned cnnal annrd t.he re-
conditioning (mainly by silt clearanace and making up of banks) of the
remaining reaches, km0O to 14 and kn 33.2 to 45.  A cheklsrtructure
will be constructed at each of the L7 lateral turnouts. All laterals
sub-laterals would be unlined. A check structure would be placed at
echn~l farm tljrnout;  Far.m +,1v'ynouts wol  be o f the~ ?1\T ller ,,-tt  and,-  each~
gate would supply an average area of 50 ha with a maximum of 169 ha arnd
a "inn s1nn of7 ha  Eah laera  an   s-ateral would hav   a fur=mXeter
wide road on its bank, surfaced witlh gravel.  The surface drains pro-
posed woalld consist of th e            U, uiif e Seco RiOtVer UIU1-4 to prevent
floods from inundating the farm lands.  Land levelling is proposed for
VIt VwL oLc2 area as pd..  t.)J. Witf t .epUjet-U.



AMTEX 7
REGIONT LAGIJNEILAU DISTRICT
MAD1TTEWANCE EQUIPTOi,T
(OCsts if]n LU[1UU6IUZ)
Unit Price            Cost
TYPE                          No.     (pesos)     (pesos)   tequivalent
dollars)
Field Plant
Motor grader 115 H.P.             4      266          1,06l4       85.2
Front loaders 40-50 H.P. with
rear excavator                  4      230            920        73.5
Excavators                        2      300            600        48.o
Rubber tyred tractor              1       90             90         7.2
Crawler tractor, 120 H.P.
turbo-charged with torque
coniverto                       1      1450           450        36.o
Compacting roller, rubber
tyred                           1       40             40         3.2
Greasing equipment for
motnting on 2.5 ton truck       3       25             75         6.o
Road oiler                        1      :L60           160        12.8
Centrifuga:L self-priming
pumps, 1"                       3       15             45         3.6
Concrete mi:xers                  3       15.6           47         3.8
Mobile welding outfit, 300 amps   1        40            40         3.2
Tankers, plmps, heavy transport
and miscellaneous               -        -          1,215        97.2
Total Field Plant                       4,746        379.7
WJorkshop Equipment
Compressor 315 cu. ft.           1       163            163        13.0
rTelding outfit. 300 amps        1        19             19         1.5
Greasing outfit                  1          7             7         o.6
Grinding wheel. electric         1         8              8         o.6
Centrifuge for diesel            1        22             22         1.8
Fuel storag:e tank 30,000 litres 1        35             35         2.8
I. vJ uaJ  ,J4 v  lt* LJ-.v
equioment                 254           254         20.3
GRA1D TOTAL                        5,000        hoc
lIUote:* .iAVoe uricIU -nld   c    of spar-e parts.



ANMEX b
SAN JUAN DISTRICT
MAINTENANCE EQUIPIENT
(costs in t;housands)
No.   Unit Price           Cost
TYPE                                   (pesos)     (pes&os   (equivalent
dollars)
Field Plant
Dragline, 3/h cu.yd.             1        426          426        34
MIotor grader 120 H.P.           1       275           275        22
Tractor (D-a)                    2       230           46o        37
Tools                                                   89         7
Total, Field Plant                              1,250        100
Survey and Laboratory Equipment
Theodolites, Levels, Tapes                              30         2.4
Irrigation and Dra:inage
Laboratory Equipment                                 ho          3.2
Concrete Testing Laboratory
Equipment                                             55         h. 4
Total, Survey and
Laboratory Equipment                               125        10
Surnmary
Field Planlt                                         1,250       100
Survey and Laboratory Lquipment                        125        10
(,rand Total                                     1,35        110
Note:  Above prices include cost of spare parts.



ANNEX 9
RP.rfTOC\T TAGCIVEPA DISTRICT - hYAPER SIJPPLY AND DEMAND
The o1nne ofwatr_ fo  te D`lstrict is the Nazas Ri;ver. On,
the basis of reliable streamflow records over the 36 year period from
r~~~,     -  on/_   4_.; L,                   -   n _   -_   .._ -   'I  n I  r  -4 1 -1 4 .
dl7r 7 Ui 0U6,X i.7014  U1: av e;r ,l  LUdr  1 .1 .W 01 I1-t: -£V L-  E DZ . L 415 1 ll
cm.  The 3,000 mi:Llion cm. capacity Lazaro Cardenas Reservoir on the
upper river has a firm yield of «CO r l:Lion cm. anu{i'lly.  The proposedL
Las TortoLas Reservoir, with 300 million cm. capacity, would regulate
thL'e torreintial LI. .1ows iLrUo tle 25 )0 1ji1 2reach of4 th,iie river uelow .Lazaro
Cardenas ard an integrated operation study for the period 1944 through
196+4 demnonstrates that the firm yield oI the two reservoirs operated inl
combination wll be 890 million cm. annually with shortages in two years
only, of 23 a- d 4; percent respectively.  The period of the operation
study was a critical one, when inflows into the system averaged S0
percent of the mean for the years 1929 through i964.
Demand
;hne proposed cropping pattern, area of each crop, irrigation
period, annual nuniber of irrigations, annual depth of water at farm
turnout (ascertained as suitable by comparison with comparable areas),
net farm wiater recuirements and allowance for transmission losses are
given in the follc,wing table:
IRRIGATION DEMANDS
Crop      Area    Irrigation    lqo. of     Annual Depth   Net Farm
(Ha.)     Period    Irrigations  measured at   Requirement
per year    Farm Turnout    (million)
(cm.)           cm.
COTTON    45,000   Mar-Sept         6           100            450
ALTATT-A   7,000    all year        " I/       -I   2/         -11
SORGHUM   15,000   Feb-May          3            58             88
DMI A Tj CZr  Ann1  V_L.  A-     n                           '- '-
L4EWIIYN   ,) , 000  1 eb-A-Upr     3            43) 
UHEAT     13,000   Nov-Mar          4            55             71
rlrM A T  6L  fVlf                                             r7 4
J.  J1Jt.L   0 0\J) 0                                          (4
Transmission losses  1      143
TCOTAL WATER REQUIREMENTS   890
J/ 18 in two years
ai Average of two years
3j  Below the Las Tortolas Dam there is considerable side flow into the
river, compensating evaporation and leakage losses. The net trans-
mission losses are estimated at 4 percent in the river and 12 percent
in the canal system.   It -ill be seen that gross annual water demand on
Las Tortolas Dam of 890 million cm. for the cropping program proposed
equals the supply.



i]iL riX LU
Page   1
S;AN JUAN DISTRICT - W1.ATER SUPPLY AND DEMAND
The 5,400 ha presently irrigated in the project area are
supplied by a diversion from the San Juan River, on whose tributary,
the Prieto River, is the San Ildefonso Reservoir with a capacity of 53
million cm, equal to the average annual inflow above the reservoiro
Between San Ildefonso and Lomo de Toro, the diversion dam for the project,
the 1,268 sq.km. watershed contributes an average annual flow of 49
million cm. but little of this is available for irrigation since most of
the flow occurs in the months of July through October when irrigation is
not necessary.
Under the oroiect. an additional reservoir. MKiupl HidAlgo.
with a capacity of 45 million cm. will be built at the junction of the
Galindo and "H" 'RivPrs. where they join to form thp Piver Garacol  who3
combined average annual discharge is 39 million cm.  Inflows to Miguel
Hidalo Reservoir from its own watershed will be supplemented by divertbing
water from the San Juan River, through a diversion canal of approximately
10 em. ner sect i..     ty  tefnding f-rnom t<he ayihtiinq 'Sn Jose r slorrinn
dam to the reservoir.
Streamf:Low data for both reservoirs extends over the 21 year
per"iod~ 0 194'-6'. End Ais considredreiabLe
aftl & n h-k~  *IJ.  4;he  .a  a -trec
S~~0~  P  wj.LL _JJ   u  d4 ~-d.:  U1ill±; tZ Cd± e  LJi.:j1;  VV1L%J.;11  d.t:'   UL U_adL±_Y
filled from other sources and have a total effective volume of 8.7 million
Cri,,
TILe LannLal irrigation UeTiailus o  thne system are 7(.27 miliion cm.
for a total irrigated area of 10,000 ha with the cropping pattern and farm
water requlrUmenL1  shown in the followoing table:
c AT\T .TTTART - TAT.T7 rP T PPTT_TT  nrwtTn
Crop       Area    Irrigatior;   Annual Depth at     Net Farm
(Ha.)    Period 1J     Farm Turnout     Requirement
(cm)         (million cm)
LENTLSJ-i     1,500   Nov-Dec              34              5.2
MAIZE         1,800   Apr-June              51             9.2
INTHEA T      2,500   Dec-Apr              56             14;.0
BEANS           200   Mar-June              51             1.0
SOFGH U1      1,700   Apr-June              51             8.8
GRAPES          400   Dec-June             114             4.6
Fit-UIITS       300   Nov-May              120             3.6
ALFALFA       1,000   Nov-June             137            13.7
VEGETABLES      400   Dec-Feb              32              1.3
TOMATOES        200   Mar-June              54             1.1
TOTAL.       10,00(                                       62.5
Transmission T osse  2/    I0 .2
TOTAL WATER REQUIRE11ENTS AT RESERVOIRS                   72.7
./ NIo irr-igation July - October because of rain
2   14 percent of total, in both rivers and canals



ANNEX 10
Pag 2
OI tniS 72.7 million cm. demand, 0.7 million is supplied by
the nine ponds for the early winter season irrigation. This leaves
64 million cm which must be supplied. by the large reservoirs. An
operation study over the period 1944.-64, with San Ildefonso releasing
annually 30 million cm. for 4,500 ha. west of the CaracoL River and
Miguel Hidalgo releasing 34 million cm for 5,500 ha east of that stream
demonstrates that these requirements can be met throughout the period
without deficiency.  SRH intends to make additional studies which may
show that additional areas could be irrigated in most years, however
these are not taken into account in the present project.



Aj,E 11
REGION LIGUNERI. P-1Oj EC'1'
ESTMATE OF COSTS
TotaI        Sources of Financing
Costs       Local Funds   IBRD Loean
Work Item                        (.m, I 1 lion  (rn-l lion   (Tnm I lionn
pesos)         pesos)      dollars)
Las Tortolas Dam
Diversion                                 9              6            0.2
Tunnels                                  32              20           1.0
Spillways and Outlet,s                   18              8            0.8
Enbankmoent                              28             19            0.7
Upstrermn Blaiket                        15             10            0.4
Access Roads, Camps, Right of Way etc.   11               9           0.2
Sub-Total                          113             72            3.3
Trrivation Z7one
Tined Canals                             275            225           )1.0
Canal Structures                          27             24           0.2
RPboads                                  36              26           o.8
Houses for Ditch Riders                    4              4
and Levelinf                             75             19            )Io
Sub-Total                          417             298           9.5
Total, Dam and Irrigation Zone           530            370          12.8
Total, Construction, Engineering
and Machinerv                         601             h36          13.2
Contingency @ 17.5%o approximately        107              77           2.4
Overall TotaL, including Contingency    708             513          15.6
Interest during construction V           12                           1.0
GIRAD TOTAL                        720            513           16.6
1/ On dam only



AMNEX 12
SAM! JUAiN DEL RIO PROJECT
ESTIMATE OF COSTS
T olaL        Sources of lnancing
Costs        Local Funds    IBRD Loan
TVvrISn .Lem,                 (li   n       (ilion         L.lli
pesos)          pesos)       dollars)
MigLel Hidalgo Dam
Embankment and cut-off                 32.2            21.5           .86
Spillway and Outlet                     4.2              2.7          .12
Reservoir Right of 'lay, relocation
of road, transmission lines, etc.     5.0             h.7          .02
Feede:r Canal from San Jose Dam         4.0             3.4           .05
Sub-Total                       5.             32.3         1.05
Irrigation Zone
New C.--- s                            I1.              9.,           .20
Canal Structures                        2.2             2.0          .02
T)n  rt;;oe    l;rc-n &^l                                 1.          no
Drains                                  1.5             0.9          .05
Houses for Ditch Riders                 0.2             0.2
T~AT Lev-ellng                            .7            1.7      .     L
Sub.-Total                     25.7            16.7         0.72
Total, Dam and Irrigation Zone         71.1            49.0         1.77
"19LiM-e.Li6  QU VUI.L.LWJAI± W LC-*-/Q  V.'           U.7
Machinelrv F'or Mainten2.nce              1.1                          0.11
Toi U  Csr      ion, sGrUL; L.LUI  gie,rng
and Machinery                        81.4            57.9         1.88
Contingency @ 17.5% approximately        ]4.6            10.2         0.35
Overal.l Tota.l, including Contingency  96.0           68.1          2.23
Tn+.nY,-c!+. rl7viner rconsr+.ciAo+.;n 1/  o r)                     n-9
(IDA'"T) TPrVMAT              C)9 A. Ig ,
1/ On dam only



ANNE. 13
REGION LAGUNPak PROJECT
COST OF REHABILITATION WORKS
UNDERTAKEN 1962-3
I4illion Pesos
Santa Rosa   Tlahualilo Zone
(13,200 ha): Lined canals,
str,ctures and roads                          85
Sac:ramento Canal: Preliminarv
earthwork for 40 kmns between
KI  3 and Km 53                                8
Total previous investment                93



MIEXICO: L-A(GUNERA   PFROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULIE
F                                       ~~YE AiRl
WORK ITE M        J ____          __ _        YEAR_
PRELIIMINkRY  IFIRST-  SECOND   THIRD    FOURTH     FIF'TH
LAS TORTOLAS DAM                 LUU'UP
CANAL,S AND STR UCT URES           I
IROADS
IHOUSES                  |                                         2   MIME
ILAND LEVELLING          |                     W    7
(R) I BRD -2770
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 I 



MEXICO: SAN JUAN DE L RIO
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE_
YE.AR R
WOF?K !TEI!        -I                           __      _ __
F IiRST    SECONCD      THIRD      FOUR-TH
NE V CANALS AND STRUCTUURES        E=        MM
RECONDITIONING CANALS                                         =      1          , ,
DRAINS                                          imummmm\
ROADS                                          i           Ij
HOUSESd
A A,IM  I CE ir I I| &It'XI 
(R) I BRI)- 2769 
LMINL/  LCVLLLII'V  -______  _______  ____  _ .__  ___ _H  



ANNEX 16
REGION LAGIJEA PROJECT
OPERAT;ION AND I4AINTrENAINCE AFTER REHABILITATION
Pesos .      Total annual       Per cent
per ha.          cost           of total
million pesos
1e Administrat-ion and
^\/reslagement   15n8         1.3L             12.6
and Delivery             49.5            h.21            39.6
3. Maintenance                48.7            4.14            39.0
4., Irr:igation and
Dl'rai-nage FdLUtsion-VI
Service                   6.3            0X54             5.1
50, ReseDrve                   4.7            0.39             3.7
2/
TOTAL      .              2.                                    _
1/ On 85,000 ha.
2/ Present 0 & M costs are 9.18 million pesos.



ANNEX 1.7
SAN JUAN PROJECT
OPERATION AND MAIINTENANCE AFTER REHABILITATION
Pesos per      Total Annual      Per cent
thousand          cost           of total
cu.m. 1/     thousand pesos
1. Administration and
Management                    3.15           197            12.6
2. Water' Distribution
and Delivery                  2.67           167            10.7
3. Maintenance                   16.28          1.018            65.1
h. Irrigation Drainage
Extension Service            2C.19           137             8.7
5.  Reserve                        0.71            45              2.9
cvv AT                        25:.nn        -I   4 2/       ino r
1/ For 62,500 thousand cubic meters farm delivery.
2/ Present 0 & M costs are 1,350 thousand pesos.



RFGLON LALGUNERA - ANNUAL EMENDITURE5
(in nillionn)
PRELIMIINARY            FIRST                SECOND               THIRD                 FOURTH               FIFTH                 TOTAL
Ye a-           U.3        1         U.S.                 U.S.                  U.S.                 US.                   U.S. 9               U.S.
Pas.    $     Tot.    Pas.    $     Tcot.  Pas.     $    To-L.  Flea.    $     Tot .  Pea.    $     Tot.   Palo.   $      Tot.   Pes.    $     Pes.
Co natruction,                                2,
Machinery,28                                                                                                                                    170
Engineering     9     0.     1,3    101 3L         1U4   .1     3.4i    160     99    2.9    136     91    2.7     125   _       2_     130          15.6   70
andt Super-
Yiusion
Interest                                                                     I111
dluring     39              O.~2                  1.4.0                                      6.c0                   0                    0                    11.8
--I                                                         ---L                          IiL.                 Li13
1/ Totals are as peoso..
2/ All disbursements for machLnery assumed to be in first year l
3/ At 5.5% for dam only.



SAN jijAIN - ANN LJA.L EarXN;IJURir
(in mi:Llions)
FiRS'r                SECOND                THIRD                 F'OURTH               TOT$AL
Year                   U.S.       1          U.S.                  u_.                    U.S.                  U.S.   Tot.
Pes.    $      Tot.   Pes.    $      Tot.   Pes.     $     Tot.   Pes.     $     Tot.    Pes.    $
Construction,                                                                 t
Machinery,          18.3      0.681  26.8   31.6   C).98  4     1  0      .',   22.5    2.1   0.06     2.9   68.1    2.,23   96.C;
SuperViE;ion
interesit
during        2/                     0.3                   1.2                   0.5                                          2.0
Construction -
TOTAL                               27.1                  45_O                  23.0                   2.9                   98.(o
1/  Totals are pesos eauivalents.
2/  At 5.,5% for daLm only.



COLORADO                      U    N   I   T     E  DT S           TAT
CIVOAD0*     C
SAN RUENAVENTURA(                             _
-hih l  h  9 CIUDAD DEL/C/AS
.* X   . t  RIO YAO?U/
0-SAN 6 A R-L                                DOOVMART/4'O
-  RIO MAYO
IZ A GUNVERA 
/A'O FUERrE
8  \   - Q  ow/o f U t terbe  (2)                      t@BAJO RIO
SAN JtUAN
(   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  -                        -\ tt jO   ...Q # <7/
*RIO GUL IA C-AN                             BAJO ortu 5ffAvuv
CEHRO PRIETO Q
Gulf of
1y)  ,  Mexico
x\IOTFE/cATL (D O
'  FR/ C) iFampioC
MEXICAN IRRIIGATION
REHABILITATION PROGRAM
IRRIGATION DISTRICTS                        GUADALAJARA       4mR/O LERMA S0AN/ JAN
is       STAlSE I (Le.. 275-ME)             CIDVAGA cReCHAPALAO  0                 7-UCLA
\   ZAMORAO  00                   ACTOPAIIN\
30      STASE II (Loan 33i-ME)                               MOREL/A and       EXeICO                       ru
OUEREAIDARC        S C
(g   STAGE III                                                                          0               >,
*D                             \VAL SEOQU/L LO
IT-)     Prooosed later stanes
L 05       20C  300   aRC 50.Ieu              PACFIC   OCc-AN
*ECEN1BER 15  IDTEHUAlrEPl  j
DECEMIBER 19/6S                                                                                           IBRD-1613 R



MEXICAN IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROGRAM
STAGE I                                         XI
IRRIGATION DISTRICT No. 17
LAGUNERA AREA
P-j e-te * caa 1
Dis.rict area
0  5 10  ~~20  so  40    SO1                                                        11
_  IOE E Ri.was                                                           r
edro
N'VCAZAR0 CAORDENAS DAM                            I
X  X  I          _N ,   l   '
Rodm                       -     NcOzos
SEPTEMBER 1965                                                                                                                 IBRD-1619



MEXICAN IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROGRAM
STAGE III
IRRIGATION Di,STRICT No.23                             (
SAN JUAN DEL RIO
0  1  2  3  4  5        O                      /  1 S
KILOME TERS                         L
>      >          1 -\\-7 SAN  IIL[)EFONSO DAM                    \
N
.1..~~                                                           MI- - ,.4   >Th
t X            g\K\Kg  District a,rca         t  ,f~~~~~~~~~~Fl DA
SAN JOSE DADA
LOMO DE TORCD DAM'1
- - j'ain  canal s
Projected feeder canal
1000R0 District area
--Railways
Main roads
SEPTE14BER 1S65                                                                                                         13RD-1611



