Documpnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17666-BA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ItOSNIA AND HEIRZEGOVINA
EMERCENCY FARM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TRUST FUND 024031.BA
May 15, 1998
This documen't has a r'stricte" distrlibition and may be used by recipients only in the
perform4nce of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withput
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 3, 1998)
Currency Unit        Konvertible Marka
I1KM    =    US$0.55
US$1    =    KMI.81
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(not applicable, new currency introduced in 1998)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Al  -  Artificial Insemination
BiH   -  Bosnia and Herzegovina     -
CY   -  Calendar Year
EFRP  -  Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
ERP  -  Emergency Recovery Project
EC, EU   -  European Commission, European Union
FAO   -  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FBiH   -  Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FH   -  Fann Holding
FY   -  Fiscal'Year
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
GTZ  -  Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HM   -  Household Member
IDA   -  International Development Association
IFAD: -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
MAWF  -  Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry, FBiH
MEI  -  Ministry of Energy and Industry (former Republic of BiH)
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance, FBiH
NGO   -  Non-Government Organization
PA   -  Procurement Agent
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit of MAWF
PTO   -  Power Take-Off
RIV  -  Regional Implemenation Unit
SFD   -  Saudi Fund for Development
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditure
TA   -  Technical Assistance
TFBH   -  Trust Fund. for Bosnia and Herzegovina
UNHCR  -  United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
WFP  -  World Food Programme
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Christiaan Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver, ECSRE
Sector Leader: Joseph Goldberg, ECSRE
Responsible Team: Gottfried Ablasser (FCSRE) and Miclhael Koch (ECSPF, Res. Mission BiH)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY FARM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TRUST FUND 024031-BA
Contents
Preface .....................................................................                                                    iii
Evaluation Summary ......................................................................                                        iv
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment                             ........................................................1
Part II. Statistical Tables ......................................................................                               12
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ..............................................................................            13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ..............................................................................         15
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ..............................................................................                 15
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ............ 16
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................ 16
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ..................................................................... 17
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ..............................................................................       17
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ..............................................................................                   17
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ..............................................................................               18
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ..............................................................................        18
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ..............................................................................         20
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ....................................... 20
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ......................................                                            21
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ......................................                                                21
Appendixes:
A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
C. Map IBRD 28156
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Banlc authorization.



- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY FARM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TRUST FUND 024031-BA
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Emergency Farm Reconstruction
Project in Bosnia and Herzegovina, for which trust fund 024031 in the amount of US$20 million
equivalent from the Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina (TFBH) was approved on IDA terms on
March 28, 1996 and made effective on April 16, 1996.
The trust fund, originally scheduled to close on June 30, 1998, was fully disbursed ahead of
schedule, with the last disbursement having taken place on April 17, 1998. Cofinancing for the project
was provided by the European Union, IFAD, Germany, The Netherlands, Qatar and the Saudi Fund for
Development.
The ICR was prepared by Gottfried Ablasser, Rural Development and Environment Unit, and
Michael Koch, Private and Financial Sectors Development Unit/ Resident Mission Bosnia and
Herzegovina, both Europe and Central Asia Region. The ICR was reviewed by Joseph Goldberg, Sector
Leader, Rural Development and Environment Unit, Europe and Central Asia Region, and cleared by
Christiaan Poortman, Country Director, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in November
1997. The ICR is based on the findings of an ICR mission which visited Bosnia and Herzegovina in
March 1998 and on information obtained from the project files. The borrower contributed to preparation
of the ICR by furnishing its own assessment of project performance. A copy of the Aide-Memoire of the
ICR mission is attached as Appendix A. The draft ICR was sent to the borrower and cofinanciers for
review on April 15, 1998, and comments received have been incorporated.



- iv -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY FARM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TRUST FUND 024031-BA
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
I .    The 1992-95 war in Bosnia and Herzegovina caused heavy loss of lives, destruction of property
and economic disruption. Agriculture was among the sectors most affected. War damage assessments
involving over 19,000 farm households revealed that the loss of livestock was in the range of 70-80% and
that of tractors about 80%. At the end of hostilities, a reconstruction program was conceived, of which
the Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project was a part.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the project were to jump-start agricultural production, improve food security,
and create employment and income for the war-affected rural population, including displaced persons.
The project was aimed primarily at the private farm sector, with priority given to full-time farmers, and
was to have a fast, direct impact on the ground. The project included four components: (i) import of farm
mechanization equipment; (ii) import and domestic transfer of livestock; (iii) rebuilding and
strengthening of animal health services; and (iv) implementation support for the project. These objectives
were appropriate. With the war-related massive loss of employment opportunities and dislocation of
people, agriculture bec ame an important source of survival after the war. Food production and supply
were precariously low and a minimum of food security could be maintained only with large external
support. Activities on the farms were severely constrained by the decimated livestock population and
lack of machinery and equipment.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The elapsed time between project identification and Board approval was only five months, and
from approval to completion less than two years. The project cost of US$41.5 million was about 18%
below appraisal estimates because of cofinancing shortfalls. All loan and grant funds were fully
disbursed before or by the respective closing dates. The project comprised three investment components
and support for project management. The design was simple and appropriate, allowing the speedy
implementation aimed for. One draw-back was that it could not accommodate some accompanying
measures, which would have made the project more effective, but also more complex and costly.
4.    The project was managed effectively through a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in Sarajevo
and four Regional Implementation Units (RIUs). The cost of project management (US$2.0 million) was
financed from IFAD and Dutch grant sources. Adequate resources were made available for training and
TA, especially in procurement, project management and accounting. With the experience gained, the PIU
established itself as an implementing partner for numerous donors after the completion of this project.



- v -
5.     Thefarm mechanization component (US$27.3 million) comprised a total of 3,983 motor-
cultivator sets, including trailers, ploughs and rotary cultivators; 454 two-axle tractor sets; and 14
combine harvesters, 940 mowers, 253 sprayers and 695 miscellaneous implements. The machinery was
distributed to farmers on credit by the PIU in cooperation with local authorities and dealerships. The
livestock import component (US$10.1 million) included 6,187 pregnant heifers, 5,000 sheep and 1,372
goats. Heifer imports involved four different breeds with very low rates of mortality (4.4%) and abortion
(1.1%). Sheep imports involved hardy breeds from Eastern Europe. The goat import component,
reduced after appraisal, encountered difficulties due to high mortality and later high rates of abortion and
low productivity. The heifers and goats were distributed on a credit basis, while sheep - financed by the
government budget - were given as a grant. The animal health services component (US$2.1 million) was
implemented with German assistance by GTZ. Investments benefited 40 veterinary stations, A.I. centers
and veterinary laboratories. Since completion of this component in 1997, veterinary and artificial
insemination services have resumed normal operation.
6.     The mechanization component is generating significant benefits. Nearly four-fifths of the
recipients of machinery expressed satisfaction with it, although optimal utilization patterns have not yet
been established. Average working time and area served by tractors indicated less than full utilization in
1997 and the predominant use has been for transport, most of which off-farm. Utilization rates and
profitability of machinery are expected to increase over time as the owners are gaining more experience.
With this pattern of machinery usage observed in 1997, beneficiaries' financial rates of return have been
estimated at 20-24% for tractors and 16% for combine harvesters. These returns are sustainable and
more than sufficient to cover debt service payments.
7.    A principle source of project benefits has been cow milk production, averaging about 11
liters/day, or about 2,700 liters per cow per year in 1997. Almost 95% of imported heifers produced
calves, of which about 85% were slaughtered and therefore not available for rebuilding the herd.
Difficulties have been encountered with getting the cows in-calf again after the first calving, largely due
to inadequate feeding and the harsh environmental conditions. These difficulties are partly a legacy of
the past, when small-scale farming was seriously neglected. Animal feed production is particularly
backwards in terms of quality and productivity, resulting in often severe nutrition deficiencies in animals.
These difficulties notwithstanding, there is substantial capacity among the owners of cows to service their
debt resulting from participation in the project, as the financial rate of return with the currently favorable
producer prices is estimated at 51% (17% if proceeds from the sale of milk are reduced by one-third).
Benefits from the cattle are likely to be sustainable in most parts of the country for the overwhelming
majority of beneficiaries, but at relatively low performance levels.
8.    The goat component largely failed. The imported animals were relatively expensive and suffered
high mortality and abortion rates resulting from diseases and difficulties in adapting to local conditions.
Recipients of goats have been unable or unwilling to service their debts. The impact on the overall
viability of the project is insignificant, however, as this component accounted for only about 2.3 % of
total project cost.
9.     The project is facing considerable problems stemming from a poor loan recovery record. Credit
in DM was extended to 8,547 beneficiaries at 2% interest per year for a period of five years for livestock
and ten years for machinery as a cost recovery measure. Farmers had almost no previous experience with
formal credit and the participating bank, acting as a collection agent, was not involved in selecting the
borrowers and is not carrying the lending risk. To date, only interest payments have come due and
collection rates have risen from about 20% in June of 1997 to 52% in March 1998. The principal reason



- vi -
for lagging payments is thought to be lack of discipline. Substantial action has been taken in an effort to
raise loan recovery rates to a target of 50% by end-March and 75% by end-June 1998. Discouraging as
the results are so far, this is a learning experience that already has generated side-benefits: following the
Bank's example, other donors have been providing loans to farmers for livestock and machinery rather
than grants, as had been the practice initially by most donors and NGOs active in this area.
10.   An number of other factors also are worth noting. One is that among the beneficiaries selected
for the project by the municipalities, there were some individuals who had little or no experience with
cattle or machinery or lacked the necessary resources for keeping animals. The viability of cattle in such
situations is doubtful and it would have been better to exclude such participants from the project, as
foreseen under the eligibility criteria. Another issue concerns the type and specifications of machinery
and equipment procured under the project. In view of the urgency to restart agricultural production after
the war, there was no time to fully establish farmers' preferences, beyond a limited survey at appraisal,
and some items were ordered that subsequently were not well accepted by a small minority of farmers.
Both of these issues reflect inherent risks in emergency operations that can be alleviated to some extent in
the present project through resale of the assets.
11.    Overall, this emergency project achieved its objectives. A formal economic analysis was not
undertaken at appraisal. The project was sought to be implemented in a cost-effective way and that
objective has been achieved. It has already generated direct benefits in the form of more effective use of
farm labor and increased incomes and on-farm consumption. Estimated project-related production in
1997 amounted to about 55,000 tons of farm produce and 17 million liters of milk. Benefits have been
relatively widespread, reaching about 11,500 rural households at an average cost per household of about
US$3,600. Implementation also achieved some institutional development results: animal health services
have been improved, a sustainable project management and implementation capacity has been created in
the PIU, and the project helped launch the private farm machinery service sector.
Bank and Borrower Performance
12.   The Bank responded promptly to the emergency situation in agriculture with the formulation and
approval of this project. After the Resident Mission was established around the time of project start-up,
Bank staff located at the Mission took full responsibility for supervision and acted flexibly, pragmatically
and responsively to cllient needs. The highly beneficial results were most evident in procurement and
disbursement matters, but clearly extended to all aspects of providing guidance, resolving issues and
handling donor relations. The innovative nature of the Bank's approach consisted of the delegation of
clearances to a competent team of local and expatriate Bank staff in the Resident Mission that was able to
deal with arising matters directly or quickly engage outside expertise as needed. The performance of the
Bank is rated as satisfactory overall and highly satisfactory in supervision.
13.   A high degree of borrower ownership of the project contributed to its success. Staff and facilities
were made available as required and issues related to import procedures and taxation were adequately
resolved. PIU staff had sufficient access to concerned government officials, and autonomy to act. The
borrower and agencies in the country devoted much effort to the tasks within their competence, including
in dealing with farmers, the local distribution of livestock, improvement of animal health and artificial
insemination services, and organizing machinery services. Project benefits could have been increased,
however, by giving greater emphasis to farming qualifications in the selection of beneficiaries and
making more extension advice available to the many farmers needing it. The performance with credit
likely would have been better with more timely processing of credit agreements, stricter enforcement of
payment schedules by the agent bank and stronger encouragement by local public officials. Overall,



- vii -
because of the actions taken in support of rapid completion of the project, the borrower's performance is
rated as satisfactory.
Assessment of Outcome
14.   All components of the project were implemented ahead of schedule and project assets began to
be used productively within a comparatively short time-span after project launch. Benefits are likely to
increase in 1998 and beyond from the animal health and the farm machinery components. The
established project management capacity also is expected to have a positive national impact in the future.
For livestock, immediate benefits were large on account of the calves and milk produced shortly after
importation of the heifers. But sustainability depends on several critical factors, which pose some risks.
The most likely outcome is that cattle and sheep production will improve, but below the biological
potential at relatively low productivity levels. The outlook for goats is less favorable. The recovery of
project investments in livestock and machinery through the credit mechanism is expected to be partially
achieved. With this performance, the outcome of the project is assessed as satisfactory.
Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
15.   The project was implemented predominantly in the private sector and future operation of project
assets and activities will be guided by market forces largely beyond the control of government agencies.
Maintenance and use of machinery and equipment are expected to improve as those farmers previously
unfamiliar with modern machinery are gaining experience or sell it to others, and the machinery service
sector is developing. The difficulties with cow fertility, nutrition and husbandry will be further
investigated and are expected to be addressed increasingly through evolving public and private extension
activities, a developing private animal feed industry and the veterinary and A.I. services. Efforts are
underway to utilize a greater portion of female calves for breeding purposes. Credit recovery is being
actively pursued in cooperation between UPI Bank, the PIU and government officials. Reminders are
being sent to all delinquent debtors and a media campaign is underway to increase understanding of the
consequences of non-payment which include possible exclusion from future donor projects implemented
by the PIU. Involvement of another bank as collection agent also is a possibility. In order to take
advantage of the expertise in the PIU in the management of new projects, the unit's operation has been
extended beyond the close of this project.
16.   The key lessons learned can be summarized as follows: (a) The design of an emergency
reconstruction project should be simple. (b) Provision should be made for engaging technical assistance
as needed from preparation through implementation. (c) Participants in livestock operations should be
selected only on the basis of their ability or potential to care for the animals. Non-qualified persons
should be given humanitarian or economic assistance not involving livestock. (d) Even under pressures
of an emergency, it is preferable to carefully canvass the beneficiaries concerning their specific needs and
preferences and procure goods and services that match these as closely as possible. (e) Where required
accompanying measures, such as extension advice, inputs, operating credit or marketing assistance,
cannot be included, efforts should be made to have such measures provided by the borrower or included
in supplementary operations. (f) Cost recovery is feasible and desirable even in an emergency project. If
credit is extended, financial institutions handling the credit transactions should participate in the selection
of beneficiaries and formulation of the lending arrangements. If full recovery is deemed not feasible and
giving part of the assistance as a grant is decided, this should be done at the outset of the program. (g)
Delegation of project supervision to a Bank team located in a field office is highly desirable.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY FARM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TRUST FUND 024031-BA
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.1    The 1992-95 war in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) caused heavy loss of lives, destruction of
property and economic disruption. Agriculture was among the sectors most affected. War damage
assessments involving over 19,000 households revealed that the loss of livestock was in the range of 70-
80% and that of tractors about 80%. At the end of hostilities, a reconstruction program was conceived, of
which the Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project was a part.
1.2   The objectives of the project were to jump-start agricultural production, improve food security,
and create employment and income for the war-affected rural population, including displaced persons.
The project was aimed primarily at the private farm sector, with priority given to full-time farmers, and
was to have a fast, direct impact on the ground. The project was designed to assist in the recovery from
war damage on the territory of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBiH), one of the two entities
that constitute post-war BiH.
1.3    The project included four components: (i) import of farm mechanization equipment; (ii) import
and domestic transfer of livestock; (iii) rebuilding and strengthening of animal health services; and (iv)
implementation support for the project. It was designed as a multi-donor effort, with the Bank's share
initially accounting for about 40% of the estimated cost; the financing gap to be filled by yet-to-be-
identified donors at the time of appraisal amounted to 30%. Since BiH was not yet a member of the
Bank, a special trust fund had been created for the country from which financing for this project was
made available on IDA equivalent terms.
1.4   The objectives, and approach to achieving these, were appropriate. Although pre-war agriculture
accounted for only about 15% of the country's GDP, about half of all households were located in rural
areas. With the war-related massive loss of employment opportunities and dislocation of people,
agriculture became an important source of survival for many. Food production and supply were
precariously low. In early 1996, survey results showed that the rural households sampled derived only
about one-third of household food from farm production; 27% came from humanitarian assistance.
Nationally, a minimum of food security could only be maintained with large external support. Activities
on the farms were severely constrained by the decimated livestock population and lack of machinery and
equipment. Gainful employment and cash income were desperately needed on the characteristically very
small farms, and by the displaced persons who were establishing new sources of livelihood. The country
clearly was in an emergency situation, which called for quick-yielding assistance. Initiation of this relief
effort, even before the war ended, and the parameters established for the project in terms of content,
design and timing were entirely appropriate and commendable.



- 2 -
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
2.1    The project's objectives are so intertwined that their achievement is best analyzed in combination
on the basis of implementation performance and impact.
2.2    Timing. The elapsed time between project identification and Board approval was only five
months. The trust fund agreement became effective and the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was
established in April 1996, i.e., immediately after the war. Concurrently, the IFAD loan (see below)
became effective and joint implementation commenced immediately. Implementation progressed
speedily and was completed in late 1997, several months ahead of schedule. The objective of a quick
response was thus fully achieved.
2.3    Cost and Financing. The project was designed in modular form that could be adjusted
according to available financing resources, with the appraisal target set at US$50.4 million. While all
four components were implemented, total project financing fell short of expectations and eventually
amounted to US$41.5 million (82 percent of target), reducing the scope of the mechanization and
livestock components by US$4-5 million each. Financing was shared as follows (US dollars): World
Bank, 20.0 million; IFAD, 7.4 million; European Union, 6.3 million; The Netherlands, 2.2 million;
Germany, 2.1 million; FBiH Government, 1.5 million; Qatar, 1.0 million; and Saudi Fund for
Development, 1.0 million. Part of IFAD's contribution (US$ 1.1 million) and cofinancing by the EU, The
Netherlands, Germany and Qatar were made available as grants. l All credit and grant funds were fully
disbursed by or before the respective closing dates. With this performance, 83% of the original funds
mobilization target was reached.
2.4    Design. The project comprised three investment components and support for project
management. The investment components consisted largely of imports of livestock, farm machinery,
equipment and veterinary supplies, with a minor portion of expenditures relating to local processing and
distribution of imported goods, and repair of veterinary stations. The design focused on two key areas in
the sector, i.e., livestock and mechanization, where investments were expected to generate substantial
economic multiplier effects. It was simple and appropriate, allowing the speedy implementation aimed
for. One draw-back was that it could not accommodate accompanying measures, such as inputs,
operating credit, farmer training, technical advice, marketing assistance, etc., which would have made the
project more effective, but also more complex and costly. Because of the urgency, it also was considered
necessary to import large numbers of animals and amounts of machinery all at once, in contrast to the
more gradual phasing allowed for such operations under more normal circumstances.
2.5    Management. The project was managed through a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in
Sarajevo and four Regional Implementation Units (RIUs) in Bihac, Mostar, Tuzla and Zenica. The latter
were disbanded in July 1997 after completion of their tasks. The cost of project management (US$2.0
million), including salaries, office and transport equipment and operating costs, technical assistance,
training, studies and monitoring and evaluation was financed from IFAD and Dutch grant sources.
Technical assistance was used to a much lesser extent than expected at appraisal. 2 The PIU/RIUs played
a central role in procurement, logistics planning, animal quarantine operations, and the distribution of
livestock and machinery to farmers. Comprehensive project monitoring and impact assessment was very
A review of the experience with the participation of seven external donors, operating under different procedures, is included in
the borrower's contribution to the ICR, Appendix B.
2In their own assessment of project performance, PIU officials report mixed results with the consultants engaged to provide
technical assistance under the project. See Appendix B.



effectively carried out with assistance from FAO/CP. Overall, management was satisfactory and
contributed significantly to the success of the project.
2.6   Investments. Experience with the three components has been predominantly favorable and is
summarized below.
*  Farm mechanization (US$27.3 million) was successfully supported under the project, concentrating
largely on tractors and related implements. The completed 1996/97 importation program included a
total of 3,983 motor-cultivator sets (IDA 2,543, EU 1,300, Qatar 140) including trailers, ploughs and
rotary cultivators; 454 two-axle tractor sets (IDA 424, Qatar 30); and 14 combine harvesters, 940
mowers, 253 sprayers and 695 miscellaneous implements (IDA). The machinery was distributed to
farmers on credit by the PIU in cooperation with local authorities and dealerships. Practically all
machinery was operational by year-end 1997.
*  Livestock imports (US$10.1 million) included 6,187 pregnant heifers (IFAD 3,944, Netherlands 946,
Saudi Fund for Development 797, FBiH Government 500), 5,000 sheep (FBiH Government) and
1,372 goats (IFAD). Heifer imports involved four different breeds (Simmental, Brown Swiss, Gray
Tyrol and Black and White) and were accomplished under very difficult post-war conditions with
very low rates of mortality (4.4%) and abortion (1.1 %). Sheep imports involved hardy breeds from
Eastern Europe, financed with FBiH Government funds after the bid prices under IFAD procurement
were deemed to be too high and the procurement was canceled, freeing funds for additional cattle
imports. The goat import component, which had been drastically reduced after appraisal,
encountered serious difficulties. Of the two breeds imported (Saanen and Alpine), about 17.5% were
not distributed to final beneficiaries as the animals had either died (3.5%) or been rejected and
returned to the supplier because they did not meet technical specifications (14%). The heifers and
goats were distrilbuted on a credit basis, while the sheep were given as a grant.
*  Animal health services (US$2.1 million) have been improved with German assistance, implemented
by GTZ. The investment packages for 40 veterinary stations included: animal health equipment
(diagnostic equipment, veterinary field equipment, surgical instruments and material, injection
equipment and miscellaneous items and furnishings) and consumable animal health inputs (vaccines
and antiserum, drugs for improved cow fertility and post-partum disturbances, and artificial
insemination (A.I.) inputs). The component also included assistance to A.I. centers (truck with
mounted liquid nitrogen tank, ground storage and equipment, ultra sound diagnostic sets, and bull
semen) and veterinary laboratories (laboratory equipment, reagents and consumables).
Implementation was delayed until several months after arrival in the country of the imported animals,
but since completion of this component in 1997, veterinary and artificial insemination services have
resumed normal operation. Some questions on the use of fertility drugs related to lack of experience
with such drugs by local staff, and the distribution of supplies among the participating stations, were
raised during implementation but have since been resolved. Farmers have to pay for veterinary
services, but not for A.I. services.
2.7   Impact. A formal economic analysis of this emergency project was not undertaken at appraisal.
The project was sought to be implemented in a cost-effective way and that objective has been achieved.
Direct benefits have been derived from the increased farm production for on-farm consumption, from the
increased farm incomes generated through saleable surpluses, and from enabling farm family members to
utilize their labor more effectively. Other benefits include improvements in animal health services and
attendant income increases of veterinary staff, promotion of private machinery repair services, increased



-4 -
supplies of raw materials for the agro-processing industry, and ultimately increased local supplies of food
for non-farm consumers.
2.8    The mechanization component overall is generating significant benefits. Nearly four-fifths of the
recipients of machinery expressed satisfaction with it one year after purchase. Some reservations have
been expressed regarding single-axle tractors, missing PTO features for trailers, various implements, and
the insufficient supply of mowers. Minor difficulties also have been observed in the quality of repair
services and availability of spare parts in the emerging private services sector. From an economic point
of view, optimal utilization patterns have not yet been established for tractors. Survey results revealed
that, in 1997, working time per unit averaged only 149 hours for single-axle tractors and 683 hours for
two-axle tractors per year. There has been little sharing of single-axle tractors on a custom-service basis,
although such practice is expected to become more wide-spread in the future. Tractors are particularly
popular for use as transportation, mainly off-farm: in 1997, off-farm usage averaged 44% of total
working hours for single-axle tractors and 90% for two-axle tractors. Consequently, the average area
cultivated per piece of equipment was only 1.2 ha for single-axle tractors and 4.8 ha for two-axle tractors.
With this pattern of machinery usage in 1997, beneficiaries' financial rates of return have been estimated
at 20-24% for tractors and 16% for combine harvesters. These returns are more than sufficient to cover
debt service payments.
2.9    A principle source of project benefits has been incremental cow milk production, averaging
about 11 liters/day, or about 2,700 liters per cow per year as a herd average for all imports in 1997.
Almost 95% of imported heifers produced calves, of which about 85% were slaughtered, producing cash
incomes for farmers but, unfortunately, severely limiting prospects for herd re-generation in the near
future. Medium-term benefits are being reduced by difficulties in getting the cows in-calf again after the
first calving, largely due to inadequate feeding and the harsh environmental conditions. Almost a year
after importation (fall 1997), about one-third of the cows were still not successfully inseminated; for the
other two-thirds of the herd, it took an average of 160 days between the first calving and successful
insemination. Some improved breeding success had been reported by early 1998. But unless pregnancy
occurs, cows are at risk of being slaughtered, reducing the rate of herd build-up with genetically superior
stock. These difficulties notwithstanding, there is substantial capacity among the owners of cows to
service their debt resulting from participation in the project, as the financial rate of return with the
currently favorable producer prices is estimated at 51 %; if proceeds from the sale of milk were reduced
by one-third, the FRR would still be 17% (Table 9).
2.10   The goat component largely failed. The imported animals were relatively expensive at DM600-
850 per head and suffered a high mortality rate among nannies and kids and a high abortion rate (34%).
The surviving nannies produced on average only 0.6 kids each. Many of the goats were diagnosed with
pneumonia, internal parasites, Q fever and other diseases, but the causes of illness and poor performance
are still under investigation. Although the situation has turned around and results have been improving
since late-1997, concerned farmers have been unable or unwilling to service their debt resulting from the
purchase of the goats. The impact on the overall viability of the project is insignificant, however, as this
component's investments of about US$0.96 million accounted for only about 2.3 % of total project cost.
2.11   Although details on performance of imported sheep are not available, the general impression is
that the animals adapted well to Bosnian conditions and are performing according to farmers'
expectations, and that this component is sustainable. Since the animals were provided as a grant financed
by the FBiH budget, the recipients are deriving substantial benefits from the project.



- 5 -
2.12   The favorable impact of the project is to a large extent due to project assets having been used
productively from the first year of acquisition. It is estimated that project-related production in 1997
amounted to about 55,000 tons of grains, potatoes, vegetables and fodder and 17 million liters of milk.
Farm employment related to this production was about 40,000 person months. The value of the project is
further enhanced by the fact that the benefits could be spread over about 11,500 rural households and that
the average cost per household of about US$3,600 is directly recoverable in part, enabling second-round
investments to additional beneficiaries in the future. Implementation also achieved some institutional
development results: animal health services have been improved, the project management and
implementation capacity created in the PIU will benefit the country beyond this project, and the project
helped launch the private farm machinery service sector. These results warrant the conclusion that the-
project's objectives to increase farm production, food security, farm incomes and employment have been
fully achieved.
C. Major Factors Affecting The Project
3.1    The project was implemented largely as perceived at appraisal, although the scope was somewhat
reduced as all envisaged donor finance could not be mobilized in time, but the timing of implementation
was faster than anticipated. It was strongly supported by the FBiH Government, which created favorable
conditions for its implementation.
3.2    A major factor in the successful implementation was effective project management. The PIU and
RIUs represented a suitable structure that was flexibly staffed. Adequate resources were made available
for staff training and TA, especially in procurement and project management and accounting, enabling
management to cope with difficult implementation situations. For example, when a procurement issue
concerning purchase of farm machinery arose, this was resolved according to agreed policies despite the
pressures to move ahead quickly for the 1996 planting season, and the machinery was still delivered on
time. Another example was the successful organization of the delicate logistics of importing, through old
confrontation lines in fractured inter-entity's administrative boundaries, a large number of cattle that
could have been easily stranded for days without feed and water at the borders or at an obscure corner of
the country far from the distribution and quarantine centers. With this experience, the PIU has
established itself as an implementing partner for numerous donors after the completion of this project.
For example, IFAD has been highly satisfied with the unit's performance and decided to carry out its
follow-on project in a similar manner. The EU has recently decided to make the PIU its implementing
partner for future agricultural projects in FBiH.
3.3    Another decisive factor in the exemplary implementation performance has been the approach
taken by the Bank. Under this approach, complete responsibility for this project, and others, had been
delegated to the Resident Mission in Sarajevo, which was best placed to respond to the project's needs on
a day-to-day basis.
3.4    Several factors have dampened the performance of the project. One of these relates to the
characteristics of the beneficiaries. Farmer beneficiaries were intended to be selected according to a set
of 11 criteria meant to give priority to individuals offering good prospects for developing viable farms as
well as 3 overriding criteria, screening for persons affected most adversely by the war. With some
exceptions, most of the beneficiaries were selected by the municipalities in conformity with these criteria,
and the majority of them are qualified farmers. However, the selection process also admitted project
participants on account of their suffering during the war (e.g., 62% were returning refugees or displaced
persons), some of whom were less familiar with modern farming practices or were short on land or
buildings, although the selection criteria meant to exclude such individuals. Such beneficiaries seem to



-6 -
be encountering a disproportionate share of problems with the livestock and machinery they received.
Animals are a very fragile asset and it is inappropriate for such assets to be acquired by persons who
cannot make proper use of them. War-affected persons not qualified to take care of livestock, especially
cattle, preferably should have been given other assistance. In future, beneficiary selection should give
more emphasis to creating viable farms and be undertaken in closer cooperation between local and
national authorities, as well as by the participating local bank.
3.5    The livestock component also has been affected by adverse sector conditions generally. Firstly,
the policy in the former Yugoslavia did not promote small-scale farming, for which no extension service
or formal credit mechanisms existed--and still do not exist in BiH. This policy has led to an overaged
farming population, as the young have migrated away, and to a serious stagnation in applied farming
technology on the small farms. The majority of these farms operate at subsistence level with low
productivity. In future, effective extension advice and intensive follow-up measures should be directed at
farmers, especially younger ones and those engaging in livestock production and taking loans from a
bank. The second factor is the shortage and low quality of animal feed available on the farms. Yields are
low, conservation is poor and purchases of feed supplements are not common. There clearly exists a
serious nutrition deficit, especially for protein, during the greater part of the year. Winter feeding is a
particular problem, which is aggravated if calving occurs in late fall or during winter, when a cow's
greatest nutrition demands coincide with the lowest seasonal availability of feed. This was the case
during the 1996/97 winter, when the median calving time of the high-bred, imported heifers was in early
January. This likely has been the main origin of the fertility problem observed since then.
3.6    The experience with this project also reflects compromises. For example, there was a trade-off in
favor of speed of implementation against greater recognition of farmer preferences for livestock and
machinery. Procurement was done in packages reflecting primarily the views of technical experts, based
on sample field visits, and did not always meet entirely the desires and preferences of the farmers. The
procurement procedures of the donors also did not allow the acquisition of an equipment mix that would
satisfy all participants. Nevertheless, survey results show that a great majority of farmers, 78 percent, are
satisfied with their equipment. But the others, about a thousand individuals, expressed some
dissatisfaction with the type of equipment they purchased. Satisfaction with the type of cattle received
was very high.
3.7    A major factor in project performance has been the circumstances surrounding the credit
operation involving cattle, goats and machinery. Credit in DM was extended to 8,547 beneficiaries on the
following terms: 2% interest per year for a period of five years (1 year grace) for livestock and ten years
(2 years grace) for machinery. It must be noted, however, that this was not a formal credit projectper se.
Rather, the credit mechanism was chosen as a cost recovery measure, with the alternative being to
provide emergency assistance on a grant basis as was the practice of NGOs active in this area at the time
the project was started up. This effort was a difficult undertaking as there had been virtually no prior
experience with small-farm credit in the country and farmers' attitudes toward debt servicing were
untested. These attitudes, partly conditioned by confused signals from local politicians, turned out to be
less than forthcoming. Moreover, farmers' creditworthiness was not the overriding criterion for
participation in the project, and the current agent bank, UPI, was not involved in the completion of the
credit agreements and is not carrying the lending risk.



- 7 -
Evolution of Farm Loan Repayment Performance (In DM)
F          1          1   F            
Items                 6/28/97    8/16/971   9/14I97    11'15/971  1219/971  12B3197    1/31/98.   3/31/98
Loan outstanding    51,925,772 55,662,6321 55,662,632  58,239,311  57,489,031 58,437,085 58,145,589 58,514,340
... Principal       43,521,165 46,648,0171 46,648,017  48,944,714 48,153,286 48,971,532 48,697,932 48,999,959
... Interest         8,404,607  9,014,6151 9,014,615t 9,294,597  9,335,745  9,465,551  9,447,657   9,514,382
Payments due          402,414    481,166    481,166    869,786    920,870   921,863    976,672    994,056
Payments collected     86,174    146,020    146,020    245,835    273,500   336,612   424,990    512,562
Collection Rate  [       21%        30%        30%1       28%1       30%       37%        44%/o      52%
3.8     The above factors explain the poor debt servicing performance under the project, with collection
rates, as of end-March 1998, reaching 52% as shown above. Collection rates have been better for loans
for livestock (61%) than for mechanization (50%). 3 No principal payments have come due yet.
Substantial action has been taken in cooperation between UPI Bank, the PIU and local authorities to raise
loan recovery rates to an agreed target of 50% by end-March and 75% by end-June 1998. The
implications of this poor performance are mitigated somewhat by the fact that it is occurring in a post-war
emergency reconstruction context in which economic and institutional conditions still are far from
normal. Also, it is encouraging to note that, following the Bank's example, the relevant donors have been
providing loans rather than grants to farmers for livestock and machinery, including in cases where the
assistance is offered as a grant to the government.
D. Project Sustainability
4.1     The sustainability of this project depends foremost on the stability and economic development of
the sector and the country as a whole. Under favorable conditions, utilization rates and profitability of
machinery and equipment could be expected to improve as the owners gain experience and engage more
actively in profitable custom hire work. Dealers would expand product lines and continue stocking spare
parts. But if business volume does not warrant it, machinery services could stagnate. As the machinery
provided under the project consists of a large number of small units that are relatively uncomplicated to
handle and repair, and can be traded if no longer required, and since there is a dire need for draft power
on and off the farms, there is little risk that it will not be put to gainful use.
4.2     The livestock sector is in need of improvements in feeding, housing, extension advice and
marketing and the pace of development will depend on the degree these improvements take place.
Further planned imports of improved breeds will contribute to restocking and upgrading of the national
herd, but also create renewed pressures on grazing lands and on local markets for livestock products.
Currently, milk prices provide adequate incentives to dairy farmers in most areas. The animal health
services have been upgraded and are likely to perform satisfactorily with the current respective
public/private sector roles. Overall, the cattle herd reconstruction and increased milk production
supported under the project appear sustainable. But the endemic problems of poor feeding and husbandry
cannot be addressed adequately in the very near term to prevent a relatively low-level performance. In
the poorer parts of the country and for a number of beneficiaries at risk, sustainability is uncertain.
4.3     The biggest uncertainty relates to the repayment of credit extended under the project. It is
unlikely that high recovery levels will be achieved. This will adversely affect the amount of loanable
3 Information concerning differentiation in collection rates according to regional and ethnic criteria is presented in greater detail
in the borrower's contribution to the ICR, Appendix B.



- 8 -
funds available for recycling and could set an unfavorable precedent in agricultural lending. Since the
functioning of the credit system without doubt affects agricultural operations, the poor performance in
this area, together with the difficulties generally still existing in the sector, render the prospects for
sustainability of the project overall somewhat uncertain.
E. Bank Performance
5.1    Near the end of the war, the Bank responded promptly with an assessment of damage sustained in
rural areas and the formulation of an assistance program. It proceeded expeditiously with the
identification of an emergency reconstruction project in agriculture, along with similar projects in other
sectors. Preparation and appraisal were accomplished simultaneously over a period of about three
months. Concurrently, the Bank successfully assisted the FBiH authorities in mobilizing cofinancing
with other donors.
5.2    After the Resident Mission was established around the time of project start-up, Bank staff located
at the Mission took full responsibility for supervision and acted flexibly, pragmatically and responsively
to meet client needs. The highly beneficial results were most evident in procurement matters, but clearly
extended to all aspects of providing guidance, resolving issues and handling donor relations. A
procurement issue arising early on, involving a dispute over bid security, was resolved quickly and
caused only a relatively minor delay. Workshops organized by the Mission helped clarify issues and
deepen understanding between the Bank and FBiH authorities. An ongoing comprehensive monitoring
and evaluation program is being undertaken with the assistance of FAO/CP, and preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report was arranged well ahead of the Closing Date. Resident Mission staff
also cooperated with IFAD in 1997 in the development of a follow-on livestock project and will continue
to be involved in that project's implementation.
5.3    The innovative nature of the Bank's approach consisted of the delegation of clearances to the
Resident Mission. This minimized turn-around and response times. It hinged on a competent team of
local and expatriate Bank staff that was able to deal with arising matters directly or quickly engage
outside expertise as needed. Taking also into account the borrower's favorable assessment, the
performance of the Bank is rated as satisfactory overall and highly satisfactory in supervision.
F. Borrower Performance
6.1    A high degree of borrower ownership of this project contributed to its success. Strong
government commitment resulted in the early appointment of PIU staff of high caliber who worked with
Bank staff during appraisal and negotiations. Facilities were made available as required and issues
related to import procedures and taxation were adequately resolved. Procurement by the PIU was
generally carried out in accordance with applicable guidelines, and the quality of the PIU's accounting
and financing systems was satisfactory. PIU staff had sufficient access to concerned government
officials, and autonomy to act. However, in particular at project start-up, the PIU encountered significant
difficulty to communicate and interact with a number of regions of FBiH located in the Southern and
Western parts of BiH. These issues reflect the political reality of FBiH and could not be entirely resolved
until project completion, as evidenced by the very low credit collection rates from these FBiH areas.
6.2    While the support given to livestock farmers in the animal health area and with A.I. has been
adequate, a greater effort is needed in giving advice on modem production practices and technology. The
delays by the borrower in setting up an agricultural extension service - partly caused by a lack of donor
funding - are reducing potential benefits derived from the project.



-9-
6.3    The municipalities completed the tasks under their competence. They were instrumental in
distributing livestock and machinery to the farmers. Beneficiary selection handled by them was broadly
consistent with pre-set criteria, but some deviations occurred, and stricter adherence to farmers'
qualification criteria would have been desirable. Also, a more timely processing of the farmer credit
agreements would have facilitated more orderly follow-up action by UPI Bank.
6.4    Although FBiH Government officials generally supported enforcement of farmers' credit
agreements, more forcefulness initially, and stronger encouragement on the part of local officials likely
could have improved repayment performance. UPI Bank set up adequate accounts for the project's credit
operation and has been cooperating with government officials and the PIU in the effort to increase
payment rates by farmers. Some apparent initial hesitancy in enforcing payment schedules on the part of
UPI Bank in the summer and fall of 1997 may have encouraged some farmers to be lax in meeting their
payment obligations.
6.5    Overall, the borrower's actions facilitated the rapid completion of the project. On this basis, and
because of the continued priority given to agriculture, the borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory.
G. Assessment Of Outcome
7.1    All components of the project have been implemented ahead of schedule. Project assets began to
be used productively within a short time-span after project launch, e.g., significant benefits were achieved
already in 1997, consistent with project objectives. Benefits are likely to increase in 1998 and beyond
from the animal health and the farm machinery components and are sustainable in the longer term. The
established project management capacity also is expected to have a positive national impact in the future.
For livestock, immediate benefits were large on account of the calves and milk produced shortly after
import. But sustainability depends on several critical factors, which pose some risks. The most likely
outcome is that cattle and sheep production will improve, but below the biological potential at relatively
low productivity levells. The outlook for goats is less favorable. The recovery of project investments in
livestock and machinery through the credit mechanism is expected to be partially achieved. With this
performance, and from the perspective of meeting emergency requirements and in comparison with the
often unfavorable experience with emergency projects in other countries, the outcome of this project is
assessed as satisfactory.
H. Future Operation
8.1    The project was implemented predominantly in the private sector and future operation of project
assets and activities will be guided by market forces largely beyond the control of government agencies.
8.2    Maintenance and use of machinery and equipment are expected to improve as those farmers
previously unfamiliar with modern machinery are gaining experience and the machinery service sector is
developing. Advisory activities will be focused especially on mechanization issues in support of this
process. Some farmers, who received machinery they consider not fully meeting their needs are expected
to sell it and in so doing improve the match between supply and demand of the existing machinery stock.
8.3    The difficulties with animal fertility, nutrition and husbandry will be further investigated and are
expected to be addressed increasingly through evolving public and private extension activities and a
developing private animal feed industry. These efforts will be supplemented by activities of the animal
health services, aiming at diagnosing disease problems, particularly with goats, and providing needed
drugs, vaccines and treatment. Indications are that veterinary services are being successfully
commercialized. Efforts will be made to provide adequate budgetary allocations to veterinary



- 10-
laboratories and A.I. centers from domestic and external sources. A.I. services will be instrumental in
normalizing reproduction rates in cattle. An effort is planned through the Federation Ministry of
Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry to stimulate a market for breeding calves to avoid
excessive slaughtering of female calves. Problems in the marketing of livestock and livestock products
will be addressed through private-sector solutions. Staff training will be emphasized at all levels.
8.4   In order to avail itself of the project expertise in the PIU, the Federation Ministry of Agriculture,
Water Management and Forestry has decided to extend the operation of the unit beyond the close of this
project. Funding already is assured under the second IFAD project and new EU projects, and the unit
will likely be involved in other projects as well. For the remainder of 1998, it also is committed to
complete the monitoring and evaluation program for this project with resources from the IFAD grant.
8.5    The issue of farm credit is accorded high priority and the authorities are cooperating with UPI
Bank to improve loan recovery. Reminders are being sent to all delinquent debtors and a media
campaign is underway to increase understanding of the consequences of non-payment. Municipalities
with a particularly poor credit repayment record will be excluded from future donor projects implemented
by the PIU until repayment rates improve. Under current arrangements, UPI Bank and the PIU share
equally the interest (i.e., 1% p.a. each) on livestock and machinery credit. Credit principal repayments
will flow to the Federation Ministry of Finance, and IFAD, EU and other grant principal repayments will
go to the Federation Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry for re-investment in the
sector. In case the performance of UPI Bank is not satisfactory in collecting credit repayments, the
possibility is under consideration to sell the entire portfolio at an appropriate discount to one or several
local banks.
T. Key Lessons Learned
9.1    The lessons learned from this project, applicable to emergency lending operations, can be
summarized as follows:
-  The design of an emergency reconstruction project should be simple and such that implementation
can be accomplished quickly and benefits generated without an undue gestation period, as was the
case with this project.
*  Provision should be made for engaging technical assistance as needed from preparation through the
first year of implementation.
*  Participants in livestock operations should be selected only on the basis of their ability or potential to
care for the animals in terms of applicants' experience and physical means for providing proper
housing and feeding. Non-qualified persons should be given humanitarian or economic assistance
not involving livestock, especially cattle.
*  Even under pressures of an emergency, it is preferable to carefully canvass the beneficiaries
concerning their specific needs and preferences and procure goods and services that match these as
closely as possible.
*  Where required accompanying measures, such as extension advice, inputs, operating credit or
marketing assistance, cannot be included, which is often the case with emergency projects, efforts
should be made as soon as possible to have such measures provided by the borrower or included in
supplementary operations financed by the Bank or other agencies.



- I I -
*  Financial results with this project demonstrate that cost recovery in the provision of productive assets
is feasible and desirable even in an emergency project. However, great care is needed if credit is
extended for this purpose. Preferably, financial institutions handling the credit transactions should
participate in the selection of beneficiaries and formulation of the lending arrangements. These
arrangements should clarify responsibilities in case of non-performance of the assets (e.g., death of
an animilal) and make provision for speedy repossession of the assets in case of default in servicing
the debt. If full recovery is deemed not feasible and giving part of the assistance as a grant is
decided, this should be done at the outset of the program.
*  Delegation of project supervision to a Bank team located in a field office is highly desirable for
ensuring timely client service during project start-up, clearance of bidding documents, processing of
disbursement requests, and adjustment of the project to rapidly changing political and security
circumnstances.






- 13 -
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
T able 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Tfable 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
T able 13:  Bank Resources: Missions






- 15 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achie' 'ement of Objectives       Substantial        Partial        Negliible        Not applicable
Macro Policies                       E               E                 E                  0
Sector Policies                                      E                 E3
Financial Objectives                 El               0                E                 E
Institutional Development                            El                E                 El
Physical Objectives                  0                0                El                E
Poverty Reduction.                    0              El                E                 E
Gender Issues                        i                                 [J
Other Social Objectives              El              E                 El
Environmnental Objectives            E               E                 El
Public Sector Management             E               E                 El
Private Sector Development           0               E                 EEl
Other (Emergency Relief,              0
Refugee Support, Food Security)                      El               El                 EL
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                    Unlikely                   Uncertain
(V)                       (/)                         (1)
Higl
C. Bank Performance                  satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
(1)                      (1)                        (1)
Identification                       E                                                    El
Preparation Assistance               E                         0                          E
Appraisal                            E                         0                          E
Supervision                           o                       E                           E
(continuea)



- 16 -
Hihy
D. Borrower Performance               satisfactory              Satisfactory                 Deficient
epation                                                        0 
Implanentation                       ci
Covenmt Compliance                                             RI
Highly 
E  Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory    Satisfac         U                  u
(0        )                       (v)                (v 0)



- 17 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title           Purpose             CY of              Status
approval
Preceding cperalions
I.Pre-Indepandence:      Rehabilitation/construction   1982    Six agroprocessing plants
Bosnia-Herzegovina       of agroprocessing plants              and 720 ha of irrigation
AgricultunJ Development   and irrigation facilities.           completed in 1988.
Project                                                        Subbonowers encuntered
financial difficulties.
2. Post-Independence: No
preceding Bank operation
Following operations
1. IFAD follow-up Small   Importation of additional    1997    Effective Februay 1998;
Farm Reownstruction and    cattle, sheep, goats and pigs.       implementation start-up
DevelopmeAat Project                                           March 1998.
(executed by the World
Bank as Cooperating Inst.)
2. Reconstruction        Importation of farm        1997       Not yet effeceive.
Assistance Project       machinery and livestock
(Republika Srpska)
3. Wood Supply and Forest  Rehabilitation of harvesting  Planned  Negotiations completed.
Management Prject        capacity; support for      May 1998
(roposed)                forstry management.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned           Date aMU
lAtest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)         10/95                  1095
Preparation                                        11/95                  11/95
Appraisal                                          01/96                  01/96
Negotiations                                       02/96                  02/96
Board Prsentation                                  03/96                  03/96
Signing                                            03196                 04/96
Effeceiveness                                      04/96                  04/96
Project Completion                                 12/97                  12/97
Loan Closing                                       06/98          06/98 (fully disbured by
04/98)



- 18 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY96    FY97      FY98
Appraisal estimate           4.10    19.00      20.00
Actual                          0    19.36      20.00
Actual as % of estimate         0      102        100
Date of final disbursement                     4/17/98
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                    Actual
1. Two-axle tractors (No.)                       750                        454
2. Single-axle tractors (No.)                  3,700                       3,983
3. Mowers (No.)                                  200                        940
4. Sprayers (No.)                                800                        253
5. Combine harvesters (No.)                      20                          14
6. Mechanization TA (m/m)                        18                      6.0 + 6.0*
7. Import of heifers (head)                    5,000                       6,187
8. Import of goats (head)                      3,000                       1,372
9. Import of Sheep (head)                      3,000                       5,000
10. Livestock TA (ni/rn)                         18                         8.5
11. Equip veterinary stations (No.)              40                         40
12. Repair veterinary stations (No.)             40                         40
13. Veterinary TA (m/im)                         9                           2
14. Computer sets (No.)                          1 5                        20
15. Project implementation TA (m/rn)             60                      6.0 + 6.0*
16. Studies (No.)                                2                           3
* Financed outside the project with bilateral trust fund resources.



- 19 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                  Actual *
1. Cultivate land not cultivated
during the war (ha)                          35,000                     12,000
2. Increase grains production (tfyear)         120,000                    23,000
3. Increase potato production (t/year)         20,000                     12,000
4. Other vegetables and fodder (t/year)     Not estimated                 20,000
5. Increase milk production (liters/year)    20 million                 17 million
6. Farm employment (animal care plus
use of tractors--person months/year)         60,000                    40,000
* Estimates relate to 1997, the first year of production under the project.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                   Purpose as defined at    Status      Impact of study
appraisaVredefined
1. Initial farm survey  To determine war damage  Completed  Used as a basis for allocation
and beneficiary eligibility             of livestock and machinery
2. Goats study       To determine causes of poor   Ongoing    Expected to be useful as a
performance of imported                 guide for treatment and further
goats                                  imports
3. Impact assessment  To evaluate project outputs    Ongoing    Will assist in drawing lessons
and assess impact on                    for emergency operations and
beneficiaries                          in making recommendations
for future operation
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Item                              Local  Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total
costs   costs                 costs    costs
1. Farm Mechanization                                  32.2          1.4    25.9      27.3
2. Livestock Production                                14.4          1.0     9.1      10.1
3. Animal Health Services                               2.2          0.2      1.9      2.1
4. Project Implementation Support                       1.6          1.6     0.4       2.0
Total                                 n/a    n/a       50.4          4.2    37.3      41.5



- 20 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                  (US$ million)
Item                               Local  Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total
costs   costs                  costs    costs
1. World Bank                                           20.0          1.8    18.2      20.0
2. European Commission                                   5.2          0.4      5.9       6.3
3. IFAD                                                  7.3          0.7      6.7       7.4
4. German Government                                     2.2          0.2      1.9       2.1
5. Dutch Government                                      0.9          0.7      1.5       2.2
6. Qatar                                                   -          0.1      0.9       1.0
7. Saudi Fund                                              -          0.1      0.9       1.0
8. FBiH Government                                         -          0.2      1.3       1.5
9. Others                                               14.8            -        -        -
Total                                  n/a    n/a       50.4          4.2    37.3      41.5
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
A formal economic analysis of this emergency project was not undertaken at appraisal. The project was
sought to be implemented in a cost-effective way and that objective has been achieved. Direct benefits
have been derived from the increased farm production for on-farm consumption, from the increased farm
incomes generated through saleable surpluses, and from enabling farm family members to utilize their
labor more effectively. Other benefits include improvements in animal health services and attendant
income increases of veterinary staff, promotion of private machinery repair services, increased supplies
of raw materials for the agroprocessing industry, and ultimately increased local supplies of food for non-
farm consumers.
The mechanization component overall is generating significant benefits. Nearly four-fifths of the
recipients of machinery expressed satisfaction with it one year after purchase. Farmers were particularly
pleased with the largest type of single-axle tractors (8-10 kW) and the smallest type of two-axle tractors
(18-36 kW). Combine harvesters are performing very satisfactorily. From an economic point of view,
optimal utilization patterns have not yet been established for tractors. Survey results revealed that, in
1997, working time per unit averaged only 149 hours for single-axle tractors and 683 hours for two-axle
tractors. Although utilization rates likely would have been about 20% greater had the equipment been
available for the full year, the benefits generated still would have been below the economic potential.
There has been little sharing of single-axle tractors on a custom-service basis, although such practice is
expected to become more wide-spread in the future.
Tractors are particularly popular for use as transportation, mainly off-farm: in 1997, off-farm usage
averaged 44% of total working hours for single-axle tractors and 90% for two-axle tractors.
Consequently, the average area cultivated per piece of equipment was only 1.2 ha for single-axle tractors
and 4.8 ha for two-axle tractors. Initial results indicate that, compared with appraisal expectations,
farmers are cultivating more vegetables and fodder and less grains and potatoes and in this way are able
to generate more value-added. While the pattern towards substantial off-farm utilization diminishes the
development impact in agriculture, it is acceptable from an economic point of view, as it most likely



- 21 -
represents the most economic use of machinery investments under the circumstances and maximizes
financial returns to the owners. Moreover, increased cash generation can be expected to enhance the
owners' abi!ity to service their mechanization debts. With the pattern of machinery usage in 1997,
beneficiaries have been estimated to enjoy attractive financial returns per unit, as shown below: I
Financial Results of the Mechanization Component
Single axle tractor   Double axle tractor   Combine harvester
Financial Rate of Return                   24%                20%                16%
Net Present Value (at 10%) (DM)            5,053             12,336             30,349
A principle source of project benefits has been incremental cow milk production. Inspite of the very
deficient animal feed base in most parts of the country, average milk production per lactating cow in 1997
has been estimated at about 11 liters/day, or about 2,700 liters per cow per year as a herd average for all
imports. Almost 95% of imported heifers produced calves. About 85% of the first-born calves were
slaughtered, producing cash incomes for farmers but, unfortunately, limiting prospects for herd re-
generation in the near future. Another economic cost derives from the difficulties in getting the cows in-
calf again after the first calving. Almost a year after importation (fall 1997), about one-third of the cows
were still not successfully inseminated, although that proportion continued to decline in the following
months. For the other two-thirds of the herd, where a repeat pregnancy occurred, it took an average of
160 days between the first calving and successful insemination, averaging 2.7 inseminations per animal.
Unless pregnancy occurs, cows are at risk of being slaughtered as milk production is drying up, reducing
the rate of herd build-up with genetically superior stock. These difficulties notwithstanding, there is
substantial capacity among the owners of cows to service their debt resulting from participation in the
project, as their financial rate of return with 1997 average milk yields and producer prices (DM0.82/liter)
has been estimated at 51%; if proceeds from the sale of milk were reduced by one-third, the FRR would
still be 17%.
The goats component was less successful. The relatively expensive animals suffered a mortality rate of
about 30% and breeding success with the survivors has been relatively modest to-date. This experience
has resulted in the concerned farmers being unable or unwilling to service their debt resulting from the
purchase of the goats. The impact on the overall viability of the project is insignificant, however, as this
component's investments of about US$0.96 million accounted for only slightly over two percent of total
project cost.
Although details on performance of imported sheep are not available, the general impression is that the
animals adapted well to Bosnian conditions and are performing according to farmers' expectations, and
that this component is sustainable. Since the animals were provided as a grant to the poorest of
households, financed from the government budget, the recipients are deriving substantial benefits.
In conclusion, given the emergency nature of the project, considerable weight must be given to the very
rapid productive use of project investments and the resulting early flow of benefits. It is a remarkable
achievement to substantially implement a US$41 million investment project within a year of its
conception and to have the project in operation with relatively minor start-up problems the following
year, in particular given the immediate post-war environment of BiH. The value of the project is further
enhanced by the fact that the benefits could be spread over about 11,500 rural households and that the
average cost per household of about US$3,600 is directly recoverable in part, enabling second-round
investments to additional beneficiaries in the future.
Rate of return estimates for machinery and cows are taken from FAO/CP and PIU: Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project, 1997 Impact Assessment Report, March 1998.



- 22 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant          Comments
Agreement  Section     Type    Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date       Date
Trust      3.02 (a)      3        C                            The Borrower to supply the Farm
Mechanized Equipment to Eligible
Farmers under Supply and Credit
Agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and Eligible
Farmer.
4.01 (a)      I        C                            The Borrower to maintain records
and accounts.
4.01 (b)      I        C                            The Borrower to have records and
accounts, including the Special
Account, for each fiscal year
audited.
Schedule      5       C       06/30/96              The Borrower to establish and
4, 1                                                maintain a Project Implementation
Unit within MOF.
Schedule      5        C      07/31/96              The Borrower to establish and
4, 2                                                maintain Regional Implementation
Units under the PIU.
Schedule      5        C                            The Borrower, for the purpose of
4,3                                                 supplying the Farm Mechanized
Equipment under the project, to
select farmers in accordance with
agreed priority and eligibility
criteria.
Covenant types:                                                                        Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                            8. = Indigenous people                 C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                10. = Project implementation not covered    CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds         by categories 1-9                   NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                        11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  or other resource allocation
agency                                       12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                       regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                   13. = Other
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.



- 23 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                    Revised                       Actual
Stage of project cycle   Weeks   US$'000         Weeks           US$'000       Weeks         US$'000
Preparation to appraisal            -        -         27.4            119.2          28.4         184.5
Appraisal                           -        -          1.7              5.4           1.0           2.4
Negotiations through Board
approval                            -        -         13.4             61.3           6.2          13.8
Supervision                      59.0    190.8         71.3            225.5         100.1         408.4
Completion                                              5.5             28.4           5.5          28.4
Total                    59.0   190.8         119.3            440.5         141.2         637.5
(Bank Budget)                                                                      (81.0)      (309.8)
(Consultant Trust Funds)                                                           (60.2)      (327.7)
Note:   Of the actual supervision inputs, 60.2 staff weeks or US$264,600 were for Trust Fund-financed experts advising the
PIU on project implementation; consequently, actual net Bank inputs for supervision were significantly less than the revised
budget plan figures.
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Ratingl 2eso
Stage of project cycle    Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.    Developmt     Types of
Year   Persons  Field                       status       objectives  Problems'
Through appraisal and      01/96      3       30         F, A, I
Board approval
Supervision I              06/96      2       10          F, T             S             S
Supervision II              10/96     2       20          F, T             S             S
Supervision III            03/97      2        8          F, T             S             S
Supervision IV             08/97      2        8          F, T             S             S           F
Supervision V               12/97     2        6          F, T             S             S         F, M
Completion                 03/98      2       20          F, A             S             S         F, M
Total                         15      102
1 - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
F=Financial Economist                HS=Highly Satisfactory              F=Financial
T=Project Assistant                    S=Satisfactory                   M=Managerial.
A=Agricultural Economist              U=Unsatisfactory



I



- 25 -
Appendix A
Page 1 of 6
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY FARM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TRUST FUND 024031-BA
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A WVorld Bank mission, comprising Michael Koch, ECSPF/RM Bosnia and Herzegovina, and
Gottfried Ab.lasser, ECSRE, worked in Bosnia and Herzegovina from March 23 to April 3, 1998 on the
preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Emergency Farm Reconstruction
Project. The objective of the mission was to review project progress and to collect data for the evaluation
of achievements and shortcomings of the project, including an assessment of the sustainability of project
benefits. The principal contact of the mission was with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, foremost its director, Prof. Zahid Causevic, and project secretary,
Dipl. Ing. Muhamed Serbo. Wrap-up discussions were held at a meeting chaired by Prof. Ante Milanovic.
Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry, and attended by Ministry and PIU
officials. During the course of the mission, the Plan of Operations for the future of the Project was
discussed (copy attached). This aide-memoire summarizes the views of the mission and the borrower on
the various elements of the project.
2.    The original World Bank trust fund amount of US$20 million and the IFAD credit of SDR 4.35
million, for which the Bank was the executing agency, were nearly fully disbursed at the time of the
mission, ahead of the respective Closing Dates. The IFAD grant of SDR 0.70 million was 83% disbursed
and is expected to be fully disbursed by the Closing Date of December 31, 1998. Project implementation
of the Bank- and IFAI)-financed components and the components financed by the European Union,
Germany, The Netherlands, Qatar, the Saudi Fund for Development and the BH Government in most
cases has been completed and only minor residual activities are at the final stages of completion. The
project cost of US$41.5 million is about 18% below appraisal estimates due to a shortfall of cofinancing
from other donors that was expected to be identified after appraisal but could not be fully mobilized.
New donor commitments, including from IFAD, have however been received recently. A brief summary
of individual project components is set out below.
3. Farm Mechanization was successfully supported under the project, concentrating largely on tractors
and related implements. A total of 3,983 motor-cultivator and 454 tow-axle tractor sets (inc!uding
trailers, ploughs, rotary cultivators), 14 combine harvesters, 940 mowers, 253 sprayers and 695
miscellaneous implements were imported in 1996 and 1997. The machinery was distributed to
farmers by the PIIJ in cooperation with local authorities. Delivery was made on a credit basis under
lending terms customary for farm machinery purchases. Practically all machinery was operational by
year-end 1997 and farmers expressed a high degree of satisfaction with its performance. Some
reservations have been expressed regarding single-axle tractors, missing PTO features for trailers,
various implements, and the insufficient supply of mowers. Minor difficulties also have been
observed in the quality of repair services and availability of spare parts in the emerging private
services sector.



-26 -                               Appendix A
Page 2 of 6
4. Livestock imports included 6,187 pregnant heifers, 5,000 sheep and 1,372 goats. Heifer imports
involved four different breeds and were accomplished with very low mortality and abortion rates and
under very difficult post-war conditions. However, more then 80% of the first calves were sold,
reportedly primarily for slaughtering, and farmers had difficulty getting the cows in-calf a second
time. Within about a year after arriving in the country, about a third of the cows had not conceived
again and some of these are in danger of being slaughtered if the problem remains as milk production
is drying up and farmers cannot afford to keep unproductive animals. This prospective high culling
rate of cows and calves could diminish the chances of rebuilding of the herd and, hence, the
sustainability of the project. Sheep imports were undertaken with BH Government funds after IFAD
procurement was canceled because of the high bid prices for the animals. Imports involved hardy
breeds, but experience with the sheep, which had been distributed on a grant basis, is not well
documented. The goat import component, which had been reduced in scope after appraisal, was less
successful. Of the two breeds selected, a number of animals had to be rejected as unsuitable. Those
that were accepted eventually suffered a high mortality rate among nannies and kids due to diseases
(pneumonia and Q fever) of uncertain origin. Farmers also complained about the high purchase price
of the goats and are now unable or unwilling to service their debts resulting from the purchase.
5. Animal Health Services have been improved with German assistance, implemented by GTZ. The
investment packages for 40 veterinary stations included: animal health equipment (diagnostic
equipment, veterinary field equipment, surgical instruments and material, injeztion equipment and
miscellaneous items and furnishings) and consumable animal health inputs (vaccines and antiserum,
drugs for improved cow fertility and post-partum disturbances, and artificial insemination (A.I.)
inputs). The component also included assistance to A.I. centers (truck with mounted liquid nitrogen
tank, ground storage and equipment, ultra sound diagnostic sets, and bull semen) and veterinary
laboratories (laboratory equipment, reagents and consumables). While health services are available
to the entire livestock population within range of the selected veterinary stations, priority was
intended to be given in this component to the animals imported under the project. However,
implementation was delayed so that most of the animals arrived in the country months before the
health services could be upgraded. Since completion of this component in 1997, veterinary and
artificial insemination services have resumed normal operation. Some questions were raised during
implementation on the use of fertility drugs related to lack of experience with such drugs by local
staff, and the distribution of supplies among the participating stations. Farmers have to pay for
veterinary services, but not for A.l. services.
6. Project Implementation Support was delivered through the PIU and four Regional Implementation
Units (RIUs), the latter having completed their assignments and been disbanded. This component,
originally funded from IFAD and Dutch sources, included office and transport equipment and
operating costs, TA, training, studies and monitoring and evaluation. The PIU/RIUs played a central
role in procurement, logistics planning, animal quarantine operations, and the distribution of livestock
and machinery to farmers. They performed satisfactorily and contributed significantly to the success
of the project. The PIU has established itself as an implementing partner for numerous donors after
the completion of this project.
Implementation and Major Factors Affecting the Project
7.     The project was implemented largely as perceived at appraisal, although the scope was somewhat
reduced as sufficient donor finance could not be mobilized in time, but the timing was faster than
anticipated.



- 27 -
Appendix A
Page 3 of 6
8.    The perceived need to commence post-war reconstruction with assistance under an emergency
project determined project design, which had to be simple and facilitate quick implementation. By
focusing essentially only on importation of machinery and livestock, the project met these conditions. It
also provided for veterinary care of the animals and, indirectly, contributed to the re-establishment of
local farm machinery dealers and services. However, it could not accommodate some of the other
accompanying measures, which would normally be considered pre-requisites for success of a
development project, e.g., provision of inputs, operating credit, farmer training, technical advice,
marketing assistance, etc. Under normal circumstances, the large volumes of imports also would be
phased more gradually in consonance with local absorptive capacity. Preliminary indications are that
missing accompanying measures is a major factor in the issues related to sub-optimal livestock
productivity and machinery utilization. Action should be taken to assure that assets created by the project
perform up to their potential, foremost by establishing an extension system for small-scale farms.
9.     Farmner beneficiaries were intended to be selected according to a set of criteria, which combined
elements of efficiency (adequate assets and experience) as well as equity (degree of war damage
suffered). Most of the beneficiaries selected by the municipalities conformed to these criteria, and the
majority of them are qualified farmers. However, the selection process also admitted project participants
on account of their suffering during the war who were less familiar with modem fanning practices or
were short on land or buildings. Such individuals seem to be encountering a disproportionate share of
problems with livestock and machinery and in some instances would have been better off receiving other
assistance, i.e., especially not involving cattle.
10.   Another factor affecting the project was a trade-off in favor of speed of implementation against
greater recognition of farmer preferences for livestock and machinery. Procurement was done in
packages reflecting primarily the views of technical experts, based on sample field visits, and did not
always meet the desires and preferences of the farmers. The procurement procedures of the donors also
did not allow the acquisition of an equipment mix that would satisfy all participants. Nevertheless,
survey results show that a great majority of farmners, 78 percent, are satisfied with their equipment. But
the others, about a thousand individuals, expressed some dissatisfaction with the type of equipment they
purchased. Satisfaction with the type of cattle received was very high.
11.   A major factor in project performance has been the circumstances surrounding the credit
operation involving cattle, goats and machinery. First of all, this was not a formal credit projectper se.
Rather, the credit mechanism was chosen as a cost recovery measure, with the alternative being to
provide emergency assistance on a grant basis as was the practice of NGOs active in this area at the time
the project was started up. This effort was a difficult undertaking as there had been virtually no prior
experience with small-farm credit in the country and farmers' attitudes toward debt servicing were
untested. These attitudes, partly conditioned by confused signals from local politicians, turned out to be
less than forthcoming. Moreover, farmers' creditworthiness was not the overriding criterion for
participation in the project, and the current agent bank, UPI, was not involved in the completion of the
credit agreements and is not carrying the lending risk. These factors explain the initially very poor debt
servicing performance under the project: recovery of interest payments due initially was around 20%,
although it had risen to about 52% of amounts due by March 1998; no principal payments have come due
yet. Substantial action has been taken in cooperation between UPI Bank, the PIU and local authorities to
raise loan recovery rates to 50% by end-March and 75% by end-June 1998. The implications of this poor
performance are mitigated somewhat by the fact that it is occurring in a post-war emergency
reconstruction context in which economic and institutional conditions still are far from normal. Also, it is
encouraging to note that, following the Bank's example, the relevant donors have been providing loans
rather than grants to farmers for livestock and machinery, including in cases where the assistance is



- 28 -                            Appendix A
Page 4 of 6
offered as a grant to the government.
12.   A decisive factor in the exemplary physical implementation and disbursement of Bank/IFAD
funds has been the approach taken by the Bank. Under this approach, complete responsibility for this
project, and others, had been delegated to the Resident Mission in Sarajevo, which acted flexibly,
pragmatically and responsively to client needs. The beneficial results were most evident in procurement
matters, but clearly extended to all aspects of providing guidance, resolving issues and handling donor
relations. IFAD has been highly satisfied with this approach and decided to carry out its follow-on
project in a similar manner.
Project Sustainability
13.   Activities undertaken under the project are generally sustainable, provided appropriate follow-up
action is taken. In the livestock sector, highest priority must be given to addressing the existing
deficiencies in feeding and husbandry. Broad success in revolving external loan and grant capital
through the credit mechanism via local banks is uncertain in light of the current disappointing experience
with subloan recovery. No serious problems impeding sustainability are envisaged with the project's
mechanization and animal health components.
Overall Project Rating
14.   Physical implementation of the main project components was highly satisfactory. Investment
returns to the great majority of farmers also are estimated to be very satisfactory. However, taking into
account some critical compromises that could not be avoided in project design and implementation, the
problems with the goat subcomponent, sustainability issues in the cattle subcomponent, and the
unfavorable experience to date with farm credit, the overall outcome of the project has been rated as
satisfactory.
Attachment - Plan of Project Operations
Sarajevo, April 3, 1998



- 29 -                              Appendix A
Page 5 of 6
Attachment to Appendix A
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY FARM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TRUST FUND 024031
Plan of Project Operation After June 30, 1998
A. Project Objectives
1.    The project aimed to jump-start agricultural production, improve domestic food security and
create employment and income for the war-affected rural population of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
including returning displaced persons.
B. Achievements to Date
2.    All components were essentially completed by the end of 1997, several months ahead of
schedule. No sustainability issues have arisen with the sheep subcomponent. Operational problems with
the cattle subcomponent relate to feeding and husbandry deficiencies, low reproduction rates, and a high
culling rate of female calves. The small goats subcomponent initially suffered a high mortality rate of
nannies and kids due to disease, feeding and husbandry deficiencies and, likely, poor adaptability of the
imported breeds to local conditions, although results began to improve somewhat later. Aside from the
lack of experience with machinery on the part of some farmers, no major operational issues are expected
in the farm mechanization area. Animal health services continue to improve and initial concerns about
distribution and usage of drugs and medicines have been largely resolved. The PIU managed to form and
train a competent project team.
C. Implementation Plan
3.    As the project was implemented predominantly in the private sector, future operation of project
assets and activities will be guided by market forces largely beyond the control of government agencies.
4.    Mechanization. Maintenance and use of machinery and equipment--in some cases already at a
satisfactory level--are expected to improve as those farmers previously unfamiliar with modern
machinery are gaining experience and the machinery service sector is developing. Advisory activities
will be focused especially on mechanization issues in support of this process. Some farners, who
received machinery they consider not fully meeting their needs are expected to sell it and in so doing
improve the match between supply and demand of existing machinery stock.
5.    Livestock. The difficulties with animal fertility, nutrition and husbandry will be investigated and
are expected to be addressed increasingly through evolving public and private extension activities and a
developing private animal feed industry. These efforts will be supplemented by activities of the animal
health services, aiming at diagnosing disease problems, particularly with goats, and providing needed
drugs, vaccines and treatment. The A.I. services will be instrumental in normalizing reproduction rates in
cattle. The PIU is planning to stimulate a market for breeding calves to avoid excessive slaughtering of
female calves by initially facilitating the creation of a pool of up to 1,500 calves for onward selling as
breeding stock to farmers. The currently relatively modest problems in the marketing of livestock and



- 30 -                             Appendix A
Page 6 of 6
livestock products will be addressed through private-sector solutions, e.g., promotion of
cooperative/association business structures and small and medium-scale processing and service
enterprises. The experience gained with this project will be helpful in implementing a second, large
livestock import program under the newly-approved IFAD follow-on project.
6.     Animal Health Services. The project refrained from providing subsidized veterinary services in
order not to undercut the development of private practitioners. Indications are that veterinary services are
being successfully commercialized. There is some concern about future budgetary allocations to public
institutions such as veterinary laboratories and A.I. centers. In the medium tern, this issue will be sought
to be addressed partially through appeals for further external assistance. Staff training will be
emphasized at all levels.
7.     The PIU. In order to avail itself of the project expertise in the PIU, the Ministry of Agriculture,
Water Management and Forestry decided to extend the operation of the unit beyond the close of this
project. Funding already is assured under the second IFAD project and new EU projects, and the unit
will likely be involved in other projects as well. For the remainder of 1998, it also is committed to
complete the monitoring and evaluation program for this project with resources from the IFAD grant.
These arrangements are expected to be beneficial also for furthering understanding of and resolving the
outstanding issues with the livestock component referred to above.
8.    Farm Credit. The authorities are keen to improve loan recovery and are cooperating with UPI
Bank in this respect. Reminders are being sent to all delinquent debtors and a media campaign is
underway to increase understanding of the consequences of non-payment. Municipalities with a
particularly poor credit repayment record will be excluded from future donor projects implemented by the
PIU until repayment rates improve. Incentives for collection are considered adequate by the government,
although this may not be the case with the current agent bank: UPI Bank and the PIU share equally the
interest (i.e., 1% p.a. each) on livestock and machinery credit. Credit principal repayments will flow to
the Federation Ministry of Finance, and IFAD, EU and other grant principal repayments will go to the
Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry for re-investment in the sector. In case the
perfornance of UPI Bank is not satisfactory in collecting credit repayments, the possibility is under
consideration to sell the entire portfolio at an appropriate discount to a local bank, but it is not yet clear
whether this is a viable alternative. It is expected that a portion of the outstanding subloans will have to
be written off.



- 31 -                        Appendix B
Page I of 26
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY FARM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TRUST FUND 024031-BA
APPENDIX B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Prepared by
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry
Project Implementation Unit
in February 1998



- 32 -                        Appendix B
Page 2 of 26
INTRODUCTION
The war had a devastating impact on Bosnia's economy and, in particular, its agriculture
sector, with direct damage in agriculture is estimated at about USD 4.5 billion. When a first
possibility to end the war appeared in 1995, contacts were made with international funding
organizations. Many NGOs were assisting the people of BiH during the war, however that
assistance was limited and targeted mainly towards survival, i.e. providing food aid, medicines
etc. In this respect the UNHCR played a main role.
First contact with international funding institutions was made in second half of 1995.
This is when a proposal was made to assist in the agricultural reconstruction in BiH by
representatives of the World Bank and the Ministry of Industry and Energy under which
competence agriculture fell at that time. On 1 February 1996, the new Federal Ministry of
Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry (MAWN1F) was established. In April 1996, an
agricultural Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was established, consisting of six staff members:
director, two assistants to director, secretary, interpreter and driver. Four regional agricultural
implementation units (RIUs) were also established in Bihac, Mostar, Tuzla and Zenica. When
project implementation activities reached the culmination, in early 1997, RIUs and PIU counted
35 employees, and in November 1997 when the work was reduced there were again six persons
involved in implementation (after termination of RIUs in July 1997).
The IDA Development Credit Agreement of the Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
(EFRP) for purchase of farm machinery was signed on 1 April 1996 with the World Bank, and a
Loan and Grant Agreement with IFAD was also signed in April 1996. In January 1997 an
agreement amounting one MUSD was signed with Saudi Fund for Development, in June 1997
Qatar granted one MUSD; in 1996 the Government of Federation of BiH allocated from its
budget two million DEM for purchase of livestock. A Memorandum of Understanding was
signed with the Government of the Netherlands under which the funds were provided for
purchase of livestock (943 heifers) and farm machinery. This program was implemented during
1997, and the farm machinery component was substituted with dairy equipment. The EU
provided parallel financing for the purchase of farm machinery, to be distributed by the PIU. The
Gennan Govermment contracted GTZ to implement a donation of MUSD 2.2 for veterinary
service reconstruction and stimulation of private veterinary practice.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Farm machinery component
Objective of this component under EFRP is to provide private farmners, who were left
without their instruments of labor, with farm machinery such as motor-cultivators, small and
medium two-axle tractors, spare parts for new machines, tractor implements and combine
harvesters. Machinery that the farmers used to own were destroyed by the war to the great
extent, and machinery that is still in a function is old-fashioned and there is no possibility to
supply spare parts. Farmers were left without financial resources to purchase new farm
machinery. Total funds planned to be spent for purchase of farn machinery were in amount of
MUSD 31.4. Machinery was given to the farmers on a credit basis. Total quantity of farm
machinery planned to be purchased out of the WB's funds was as follows:



- 33 -
Appendix B
Page 3 of 26
* 850 motor-cultivators 5-7 kW
* 920 motor-cultivators 7-9 kW
* 483 motor-cultivators 8-10 kW
* 244 two-axle tractors 18-26 kW
' 180 two-axle tractors 26-36 kW
* 14 combine harvesters
Due to savings and exchange differences the number of motor-cultivators 8-10 kW was
increased by 290 units, resulting in a total of 773 units of 8-10 kW motor-cultivators. The EU
donated 1,300 motor-cultivators, and for the funds provided by Qatar, a further 140 motor-
cultivators, 29 two-axle tractors and one bulldozer were purchased. Each machine was delivered
with a certain number of implements. Each set consisted of the following implements: trailer,
plough and rotary cultivators. In addition, some 940 mowers, 253 sprayer and 695 miscellaneous
implernients (for two-axle tractors) were also purchased.
Livestock componeut
In order to rehabilitate milk and meat production, the procurement of cattle (pregnant
heifers), breeding sheep and goats for private farners was planned to be done out of IFAD's
funds under EFRP. Original procurement plan for cattle was in value of MUSD 8.8, or 5,000
pregnant heifers. Proposed breeds were Simmental, Brown Swiss, Black and White and Gray
Tyrol at an average price of USD 1,760 fco final beneficiary. Livestock was supposed to provide
livelihood to the people retuming to their holdings. The proposed number of goats (Alpinen and
Sannen) under the project was 3,000 heads in value of MUSD 0.99 at the average price of USD
330 per head. For 10 breeding female there was one male. These animals were intended for
farners with smaller land area. The proposed number of sheep was 3,000 heads in value of
MUSD 2,1 at the average price of USD 700 per head.
These above amounts were reduced to a total value of MUSD 6.3 under the IFAD credit
for livestock procurement. This resulted in procurement of 2,000 heifers (contracted number was
1,970 head), 1,680 sheep and 2,664 goats. Later on, the sheep procurement was canceled (too
high price) and an extra 1,520 heifers and 2,200 goats were contracted. After the health problems
with sheep appeared, the procurement of goats was also partly canceled (1,372 goats were
imported) and the balance was used to purchase 422 heifers. For funds from exchange gains, an
additional 82 heifers (67 + 15) were purchased in 1997. The following livestock was purchased
out of IFAD's funds.
* Pregnant heifers:        3,944 head
* Breeding goats:          1,372 head
797 heifers were purchased from the funds of the Saudi Fund, 500 heifers from the funds
of Government of Federation of BiH, and 946 heifers from the Government of the Netherlands
donation. Therefore, a total of 6,187 heifers were purchased. 5,000 sheep were purchased from
the budget of the Federation Government. The price of animals that each final beneficiary has to
repay does not include any duty and tax charges because all above imports are duty and tax free.



- 34 -
Appendix B
Page 4 of 26
Animal health protection
In order to rehabilitate animal health protection rapidly, particularly in the areas affected
by war, it was planned to invest in purchase of equipment, vaccines, drugs and semen for
artificial insemination and in reconstruction of 40 veterinary stations. Funds for veterinary
stations reconstruction were supposed to be grant funds, and others the credit funds. Total
amount of these funds equaled MUSD 2.2. This was implemented by GTZ without direct
involvement of the PIU.
Project implementation budget
The Project envisaged funding of all foreign and local costs: purchase of vehicles in
amount cf MUSD 0.49, TA, training and studies in amount of MUSD 0.9, salaries for local staff
and other local costs in arnount of MUSD 0.16, or a joint total of MUSD 1.56. These costs were
envisaged for the first year during which the project implementation was expected.
Funding sources
Above costs were expected to be covered from different sources. The funds were
provided from the following sources.
Item      D o n o r s                Purpose                   Amount in
_________________ ________________ MUSD
1.       World Bank - credit        Purchase of farm machinery    20.0
2.       IFAD - credit               Purchase of livestock          6.3
3.       IFAD - grant                Project Implementation         1.1
4.        European Union - grant     Purchase of farm machinery     6.3
5.        Saudi Fund for Devel. - credit Purchase of livestock      1.0
6.        Government of FBiH - grant  Purchase of livestock         1.5
7.        Qatar - grant              Purchase of farm machinery     1.0
8.        Dutch Govenment - grant    Project Implementation        0.9
9.        Dutch Government - grant    Purchase of livestock         1.3
T_ Total:                                             38.8
Credits were approved by IFAD and the WB at IDA terrns. Credit terms of the Saudi
Fund for Development funds are 25 years of repayment of which 8 years is grace period with
interest of 2% towards the Federation of BiH. Other donors provided grant funds. The
proportion between credit and grant funds is as follows:
* grant funds              11.5 MNSD    29.6%
* credit funds             27.3 MUSD    70.4%
The timeline to implement these funds was as follows:
* 1996                     25.3 MUSD    65.2%
* 1997                     12.7 MUSD    32.7%
T o t a I amount disbursed:    38.0 MUSD   97.9%
Transferred to 1998         0.8 MUSD     2.1%
Total:                     38.8MUSD   100.0%



- 35 -
Appendix B
Page 5 of 26
Financial and economic aspects
From an economic point of view, this Project aims at putting back in function abandoned
farn facilities and land in areas where conditions for return of refugees and exiles exist after the
war. Demobilized solcliers and the unemployed people are a special target group. Thus the Project
would contribute to employment creation and generate income. All funds would be given to
farmers on a credit basis in order for these funds (donor grants and credits) to be repaid into a
revolving fund from vvhich new credits would be approved to those farmers who are not covered
by this Project.
Credits for livestock were given to final beneficiaries with a five year maturity period
including one year of grace period (1+4), while credits for farm machinery were given for ten
years vith two years of grace (2+8). The annual credit interest rate is 2%. Guarantee that the
credit kviil be repaid to those donors providing credits is given by BiH. Farmers themselves
provide guarantees that they will repay the credit in the form of promissory notes signed by three
solvent guarantors and certified by their respective municipality.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization of implementation
A central Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was constituted in Sarajevo, and additional
four Regional Implementation Units (RIUs) were constituted in Bihac, Mostar, Tuzla and Zenica.
Each RIU was covering two Federation cantons while the PIU was acting as a RIU for the
Sarajevo and Gorazde cantons in addition to the functions it had as a central unit. Besides the
director, each RIU employed two assistants to the director (one for livestock and one for farm
machinery), a secretary and a driver. The composition of personnel was mixed according to
national structure (Bosniacs and Croats). Depending on the scope of work there were also part-
time experts. All above units were reporting to the MAWMF.
During the first year of implementation of EFRP, assistance in procurement procedures
such as production of bidding documents, bids evaluation, selection of suppliers, contracting etc.
as well as in financial transactions was provided by foreign experts (one for farn machinery,
three for livestock, and one for financial operations). A contact with municipal extension
services was maintained through RIUs. These services played a main role in selecting the final
beneficiary-farmers.
Criteria for final beneficiaries selection
In selection of final beneficiaries (priorities), preference was given to the farmer who:
* are located in the former zone of war activities
* have suffered over 50% of damage on equipment/livestock compared to prewar
situation
* are refugees or returnees who have conditions for return and would like or have
returned to their holdings
Besides above priorities the following eligibility criteria had to be met as well:



- 36 -
Appendix B
Page 6 of 26
* Farmer has to be land owners or to be entitled to use the land
* Farmer has to express desire to get back and live on his/her holding
* Farmer must have appropriate income to repay the loan
* Farmer must provide a guarantee that the credit received will be repaid
* Farmer has to own a minimum of 10 hectares of land for a two-axle tractor, or to
commit him/herself that services will be provided to neighbors
* Farmer must have appropriate storage and maintaining services for a new tractor
* Farmer must have appropriate shelter and feed for new livestock
* Farmer must be able to use/buy some implements and spare parts for tractor
* Farmer must be able to use veterinary and artificial insemination services
* Farmer must be able to market his/her products or services
Final beneficiaries selection
Selection of final beneficiaries was carried out under methodology developed by the
Faculty of Agriculture of Sarajevo in early May, 1996. A questionnaire that was to be filled by
each interested farmer (agricultural producer) was designed. Surveyors - agricultural officers in
municipalities - have been visiting the areas affected by war and surveying the possible final
beneficiaries who expressed their interest in getting these credits. The questionnaires consist of
two parts. One part is a list of available assets before and after the war. Based on these data the
extent of war damage was deternined. Another part is a statement of the potential final
beneficiary showing his/her interest to use in-kind credit: type, quantity and amount of credit.
Completed questionnaires were submitted to the PIU where the records were kept. On
the basis of such data collected, the PIU produced lists of eligible final beneficiaries and
submitted them back to municipalities which made the final selection decision. In all cases there
was more demand than supply. The surveys lasted until 20 July 1997 and by this date 17,500
farmers were registered. On that basis a list of final beneficiaries was produced according to
which distribution and fanner selection were carried out. Later on a number of farmers was
added on the list, so the final number for this report is 19,13 1 farmers.
Procurement procedures
In procurement of goods the World Bank procedures were entirely applied including
additional Instruction given on 4 January 1996 by the Advisory Committee for BiH (page 29,
item 94 of the Technical Annex for the Project).
ICB - Procurement procedure for amounts exceeding MUSD 5;
LIB - for amounts between MUSD 2 and MUSD 5;
IS - for amounts between USD 200,000 and MUSD 2;
NS - for amounts up to USD 200,000.
For consulting services amounting up to USD 100,000 provided by a firm and up to USD 50,000
provided by individuals an approval must be obtained from the World Bank.
In May 1996 an international advertisement was published in "Business Development"
magazine for suppliers interested, and on 22 April 1996 a procurement notice was published in
the local newspaper "Oslobodjenje" for domestic suppliers. First public bid opening was
scheduled to take place on 22 May 1996 for procurement of farm machinery, and on 11 June for
livestock. At the bidding for farm machinery, from a list of 62 registered suppliers (46 foreign



- 37 -
Appendix B
Page 7 of 26
and 16 ;ocal) to whom the bidding documents had been sent, 15 or 24% submitted their bids. Six
bids were received subsequently, and 5 were incomplete. For procurement of livestock of 58
registered suppliers, 18 (14 foreign and 4 local) submitted their bids. For animal health
protection 7 suppliers were registered (6 foreign and I local), who were subsequently informed
that thes_ activities were handed over for implementation by GTZ.
Disbursement
For carrying out the financial transactions, payments at four levels were anticipated:
* direct payment from the Credit account at World Bank or IFAD
* payment from the Special account,
* - payment by Letter of Credit (one case) and
* payment from accounts in local banks.
A special account for disbursement of WB funds was opened in ING bank in Vienna, and
a local account was opened in Central Bank of Sarajevo. For IFAD's funds a special account
was not opened, payments were made directly and a local account in SAB Bank of Sarajevo was
used. The European Union carried out all payment activities for its donations, without PIU
involvement. Funds of the Saudi Fund for Development were spent in a way that all payments
were made before the funds were actually received, and afterwards reimbursement of these funds
was requested. In this case the PIU had to pay an interest rate (total cost of about DEM 50,000)
for the funds borrowed which the Saudi Fund for Development did not reimburse.  Funds
of Qatar were remitted by check which was cashed through the National Bank of BiH. Funds
were made available immediately and the payments were made through UPI Bank DD Sarajevo.
War damage assessment and compliance with criteria
To obtain necessary information on war damage in the area with intensive war activities
in the Federation of BiH and to identify farm holdings which meet eligibility conditions for
livestock and farrn machinery in terms of war damage and availability of facilities, a
comprehensive survey was carried out. Basis of the survey are all relevant data on size and
structure of farm holding, its condition before the war, and damage arisen due to war activities
according to the previously worked out methodology. The survey was carried out by agricultural
officers in municipalities. There was a total of 84 surveyors in 79 municipalities. On average,
each surveyor visited 228 farning holdings, or the average number per municipality was 242
holdings. At the beginning, farmers responded with reluctance without believing that this credit
would materialize. When distribution commenced, a larger number applied so that even
nowadays, a year and half after the inception of the project, interested individuals still apply.
Based on the survey carried out at 19,131 farning households the following results are
established.
1. Livestockc
Item   Descrilption                 Cattle    Sheep         Goats   Total
1.    Number of head in 1991         27,779      145,748     11,038    184,565
2.    Heads destroyed                 19,257     115,645      8,818    143,720



- 38 -
Appendix B
Page 8 of 26
3.    % of destruction                    69.3        79.3       80.0       77.9
4.    Number of head requested        19,145      45,038       6,781     70,964
5.    Damage on FH up to 50%           3,231       1,019        361       4,611
6.    Damage on FH 50-100%             6,179       1,036        252       7,467
7.     r otal number of FH damaged     9,410       2,055        613      12,078
8.    % of eligible FH (farming
households)                       66          50          41         62
At the surveyed farming households it was established that during the war the cattle was
destroyed with 69.3%, sheep with 79.3% and goats with 80%. Demand for cattle was at the level
of damage, for sheep demand was 39% of damage, and for goats it was 50% of damage.
Households requesting cattle meet criteria with 66%, sheep with 50%, and goats with 41%.
2. Farm machinery
Item  ' Description                   Motor-    Two-axle   Combines   T o t a I
i                              cultivators   tractors
1.    Number of units in 1991          N/A        4,982        N/A
2.    Units destroyed                             3,783
3.    %of destruction             X_X    ___         79.9
4.   l Number of units requested       9,552      6,286        116       15,954
5.    Damage onFHupto50%               5,159      3,117         35        8,311
6.    Damage on FH 50-100%             1,202      1,885          8        3,095
7.    Total number of FH damaged       6,361      5 ,002:       43       11,406
8.    % of eligible FH (fanning
I __I households)                        19          38          19         27
From the above table it can be concluded that at the surveyed farming holdings the farm
machinery (two-axle tractors) was destroyed with 79.9%. Demand for farm machinery was
expressed even by the households which had no machinery in their possession before the war:
3,191 FH applied for motor-cultivators (33.4% of total demand for motor-cultivators), 1,284 FH
applied for two-axle tractors (20.4% of total demands for two-axle tractors). 19% of farming
households meet the conditions for motor-cultivators, 38% for two-axle tractors, and 19% for
combines. Based on damage extent criteria (damage over 50%), 27% households requesting
machinery are eligible.
Farming households surveyed possess the following land areas:
Item   D e s c r i p t i o n  Total area in ha    Percentage (%)
1.    Total arable land              32,621             49.5
2.    Orchards                       3,930                6.0
3.    Meadows                        17,946              27.2
4.    Pastures                        8,758              13.3
5.    Forests                        2,629                4.0
6.    T o t a l:                    65,884              100.0
Average (13,131 FII)              3.44



- 39 -
Appendix B
Page 9 of 26
The above data show that the farming households surveyed are typical representatives of
average FH in BiH because they own 3.44 ha of farming area on average. According to
statistical data, FH owned approximately 3.5 ha of land area before the war. A high percentage
of meadows and pastures - natural pastures (40.5%) is also a characteristic of BiH's agriculture.
Bidding documents
Bidding documents were prepared on the basis of credit purpose and the needs
established. All procurements were divided into two parts; procurement of livestock and
procurement of farm machinery. Within these two groups a further division into packages was
done. Livestock was split according to the type of animals: pregnant heifers, breeding sheep and
breeding goats. The following breeds of each type of animals were requested; Simmental, Brown
Swiss, Gray Tyrol and Black & White for pregnant heifers, Saanen and Alpinen for breeding
goats and Wuertemberg (Merinolandschaft) for breeding sheep.
Farm machinery was split into one-axle tractors, two-axle tractors and combines. For
one-axle tractors the following packages were made according to the engine power; 5-7 kW, 7-9
kW and 8-10 kW. For two-axle tractors the following packages were made; 18-26 kW and 27-36
kW (2WD) and 27-37 kW (4WD). There were two packages for combines made according to
the cutting width and one package for miscellaneous implements for existing farm machinery.
Following the public advertising of procurement for above goods the information on
interested suppliers was collected. Bidding documents were sent to all interested suppliers free of
charge. During preparation of their offers the suppliers were contacting the PIU to ask for
clarifications. The period between receipt of the bidding documents and the bid opening was
determined to last four weeks.
Bidding and bid evaluation
Bid opening was done in public in the presence of suppliers' and donors' representatives.
Evaluation was done by a bid evaluation committee, and after getting an approval from the World
Bank on the bid evaluation the contracting was carried out. During the process of bidding
documents production, supplier selection and bid evaluation, technical assistance was provided
by foreign experts who worked in PIU. All bids had to be accompanied by a bid security of 2%.
The first biddirg for farm machinery was not entirely successful because, at the point of
bid opening, the supplier chosen for the first six packages provided a bid security in the form of
fax. This bidder was selected because under the World Bank procedures it is allowed to use a
copy provided that original document is submitted within 48 hours. This explanation was
excepted and no objection was received fromr. the World Bank Resident Mission in Sarajevo.
Following complaint of one participant in the bidding addressed to the World Bank in
Washington, no objection was withdrawn and the bidding process had to be repeated. Given that
the contract with originally chosen supplier was not signed thic change had no serious
consequence. Proposal was made to accept the bids of the second lowest bidders. In one
package a difference in price between the first and second lowest evaluated bidders was very
large. This was not acceptable and the bidding process was repeated. When the bids were
collected for a second time a saving amounting to about one million DEM resulted. For above



- 40 -
Appendix B
Page 10 of 26
reasons the implementation of farm machinery component was delayed for about two months and
was therefore moved into 1997.
Regarding bidding for livestock there were also some changes. According to appraisal of
the MAWMLF the offers obtained for sheep were too high (up to DEM 900/ head which means
that one heifer could be bought for two sheep) and they would not be accepted by the final
beneficiaries at that price. This was the reason to cancel the procurement of sheep entirely under
the IFAD Loan. IFAD funds intended for purchase of sheep were used to purchase additional
heifers. During delivery of goats, a number of health problems appeared (blindness, pneumonia
and ectima) which also resulted in canceling the second round of delivery, and the balance was
used to purchase further heifers.
Contracts with suppliers and contracting terms
For all contracts the prices were quoted CIP quarantine station or machinery warehouse
in BiH so that the PIU had to take further care of distribution of goods once they had reached a
place of destination.  When contracting, suppliers were requested to provide two bank
guarantees: Performance Security (10% of contract value), and Advance Payment Security (also
10% of contract value). All suppliers accepted to provide these guarantees and only in one case a
Letter of Credit was opened. In no case was there a deviation from the price offered in bid.
Delivery schedules were an integral part of the contract and were mainly followed in all cases.
Under the farm machinery component, 8 basic contracts and two annexes to the contract
on purchase of farm machinery for WB's funds were concluded. Total number of contracts on
storage and distribution of farm machinery was 12.    Under the livestock component, 11 basic
contracts on purchase of livestock and 27 contracts on quarantining, transportation and veterinary
examinations were concluded using IFAD's funds. Due to exchange gains and due to certain
savings made during implementation, there was a surplus of funds that was used for procurement
of an extra 290 motor-cultivators of 8-10 kW engine power, and 85 heifers, using International
Shopping (IS).
Animal selection
Animal selection was generally carried out by Bosnian experts within the exporting
country. When imported numbers were small, selection was carried out by the supplier. The
animal selection committee consisted of 12 experts: three from the PIU, three from the Veterinary
Faculty of Sarajevo, two from a cow farrn, and four from the field veterinary stations. Under the
Program of the Government of the Netherlands, although the number of animals was significant
(946 head), selection was carried out by an intermediary organization from the Netherlands.
Quarantining of animals
Under legislation of FBiH the livestock had to spend 30 days in quarantine stations prior
to distribution to final beneficiaries. Within this period appropriate veterinary examinations
would be carried out and, once it is proved that the animals have been found healthy, the
quarantine would be released and the livestock would be distributed to the final beneficiaries.
This is an activity over which the donors argued the most. During 1997, upon intervention of the



- 41 -
Appendix B
Page 11 of 26
Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry, a quarantine period was
reduced from 30 to 16 days (the shortest acceptable period).
A very important fact was that the larger state farms were emptied during the war and it
was therefore possible to place all animals intended to be purchased in two rounds on these
farms. State farmns were damaged so that a certain amount to repair them was allocated out of
grant funds (DEMI 40,000). During preparation of implementation all potential farms were
visited and veterinary services were requested to give their opinion on possibility to quarantine
the livestock in these facilities. Finally, six quarantine stations were selected for heifers and two
for goats.
During the quarantine period, of the total number of pregnant heifers received 1.0% died,
1.1% aborted, 0.6% were culled for other reasons so that a total of 2.7% was rejected. In the
quarantine station, after having recorded diseases which are not of a quarantine character, 12.7%
of animals were treated and cured and afterwards distributed to the final beneficiaries. The most
frequent disease that the cows were treated from was leptospirosis. These data differ from
quarantine to quarantine. Death rate was between 0 and 1.9%, abortions between 0 and 3.0%,
total culled animals between 1.4 and 4.4%, and treatments between 2.2 and 18.7%. Situation is
similar when this is observed from the aspect of breeds because death rate was between 0.3 (Grey
Tyrol) and 2.0% (Brown Swiss), abortions between 0 (Grey Tyrol) and 1.4% (Simmental), total
culled animals between 1.4 (Grey Tyrol) and 2.9% (Brown Swiss and Simmental) and treatments
in quarantine between 2.2 (Grey Tyrol) and 15.1% (Simmental). A summary table is attached.
The biggest disappointment under this project was the procurement of imported goats.
Although a selection was carried out by local representatives, hidden defects and incorrectness of
supplier were expressed during transportation to the quarantine station. The supplier did not meet
technical specifications in view of animal weight since lighter animals than agreed were sent.
Also, due to wind drafts during the transportation process, a hidden conjunctivitis caused eye
inflammation and blindness problems. Some goats became blind entirely, some partly. Ectima
was also recorded in the quarantine. Due to above problems the animals were examined and
Minutes were produced, and out of total of 1,635 goats that arrived only 1,351 heads were
accepted. In a case with goats there was uncontrolled breeding so they were pregnant which was
not requirement under the tender. Problems with goats did not end after the quarantine, as
explained further below.
During the quarantine period veterinary examinations were done. Blood samples were
taken from each animal and were subjected to testing according to standards governed by BiH
law. The largest part of examinations was done by the Institute of the Veterinary Faculty of
Sarajevo, and some examinations were done by Veterinary Institutes in Mostar and Tuzla.
Farm machinery storage
Farm machinery storage was contracted with six warehouses in the country. Equipment
delivered was partly unassembled because of better use of transport. Final assembly and pre-
delivery servicing were carried out in warehouses-servicing centers. Costs of assembly and
servicing were covered by the supplier while the costs of storage and transportation to the final
beneficiaries were covered from the WB's credit funds. Provision of servicing within and after
the warranty period is obligation of the supplier.



-42 -
Appendix B
Page 12 of 26
Education of farmers
In order to prepare the farmers to accept animals as well as machinery it was necessary to
carry out training of farmers. As a large number of farrners was covered by the Project (about
9,000) proper training would have taken a lot of time and financial resources so it was decided to
provide education by producing written instructions to farmers. For that purpose a group of 10
local experts was hired which produced a booklet on "Instruction on acceptance of livestock and
farm machinery". The booklet gives the most important information to owners of heifers, cows
and goats and gives information on how to handle the farm machinery in order to keep them in
working order as long as possible. Instruction gives necessary guidelines on feed production,
nutrition, housing, reproduction, health protection, identification, follow up of production, proper
use of fartn machinery and credit conditions. Each beneficiary-farmer was given this instruction
besides the loan documentation. Education of farmers was expected to be followed up upon
recommendation of cantonal services, in the form of one-day seminars and through direct
contacts with farmers. Thus, certain conditions were created for building up the commercial
farms that will be inaugurated as a follow up of the previous subsistence program.
Physical distribution to final beneficiaries
Physical distribution of livestock from the quarantine stations to the final beneficiaries
was carried out by special livestock trucks. Based on the bidding process the lowest evaluated
transporting agent was chosen. Due to war activities many specialized livestock trucks were
destroyed; therefore, participants in the bidding offered rather modest capacities and equipment.
A maximum of 100 heifers a day could be transported by the selected transporting agent. PIU
staff was not able to be physically present at many places, so distribution from the quarantine
took some more time than expected and therefore the quarantine costs were higher than budgeted.
As locations of the quarantine stations and distribution schedule did not match in all cases,
sometimes animals had to be transported over a longer distances (up to 500 km). There was no
single case of abortion during transportation, while a small number of abortions appeared
following the transportation (about 50 cases). These damages were covered by transport
insurance (within seven days after transportation). There were some political and security
problems during cattle transportation due to passing through the territory of the other entity and
zones of responsibility that resulted, in several cases, in mistreatment of truck drivers and
livestock. In once case, from a convoy of 5 trucks one truck (the last one) was held up for more
than 24 hours, livestock was off-loaded and again loaded. After this mistreatment all 12 heifers
from that truck aborted.
In distribution of heifers an intention was to get closer to the final beneficiaries as much
as possible. In these efforts, difficult in-country communications caused certain difflculties.
Sometimes the final beneficiaries were not prepared since they were coming to take over the
animals with inadequate equipment or the animals were taken over by weak persons. All above
mentioned contributed to complications during animal distribution.
Insurance of livestock and farm machinery
A contract for insurance was entered into with the most competitive company (3.05% of
the value of animal and 0.44-0.62% of the value of farm machinery). Insurance of livestock in



- 43 -
Appendix B
Page 13 of 26
transportation was not included in the transport costs, it was contracted separately while the
insurance of machinery in transportation was included in the transport costs. Each final
beneficiary of either livestock or farm machinery was obliged to insure the goods received at
his/her own expense until the farin credit has been repaid. Near 50% of final beneficiaries had
not fulfilled this provision laid down in the Credit Agreement. 3,060 farmers beneficiaries paid
insurance for heifers which was 49.5% of total heifers distributed. No farmer paid insurance for
goats due to the excessive price paid for them and high insurance premia. Farm machinery was
insured by 80% of final beneficiaries. In case of damage or loss the insurance is not paid to the
final beneficiary, but directly on the account of UPI Bank that is in charge for credit repayment
collection from the farner-beneficiaries. Based on documentation evidencing that a damage has
been paid by the Insurance company, the PIU releases the farmer of the repayment obligation and
returns the promissory note (the guarantee that the credit will be repaid) to the farner.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
Suitability of the project's objectives
The project set the following objectives:
1. Emergency agricultural production reconstruction and putting in operation the farmning
facilities in the areas where the conditions for return of refugees exist
2. Improvement of national food security and reduction of dependence on humanitarian aid
3. Employment generation
4. Provision of income in rural households
5. Providing the agricultural producers with necessary farm machinery and livestock
6. Rehabilitation of veterinary services for health protection of imported animals
Based on surveys carried out under the project monitoring system, the following
responses on the project's objectives were given.
1. 64% of farmers who received the livestock gave a positive answer to question "Has the
project contributed to the recovery of farn".
2. Compared to 1996, the dependence on humanitarian aid has been reduced from 27% to 16%
in 1997, and within the same period self-produced food has been increased from 33 to 51%.
3. As this is al subsistence program helping people to survive, considerable changes in
employment could not be expected so that proportion between employed and unemployed
people has not been changed a lot and it can be concluded that the project designed in this
way could not meet this objective.
4. Over 50% of farmers surveyed answered that income earned from the livestock received was
enough for credit repayment, 39% answered it was not and 7% did not know the answer.
5. If total demand expressed by 19,131 farming holdings is compared to actual inputs
distributed it can be established that demands for heifers were met with 39%, sheep with
13%, goats 23%, motor-cultivators with 59%, two-axle tractors with 9% and combines with
33%.
6. In 71% of cases the project livestock needed veterinary attention. In 81% of cases the
farmers surveyed answered that the veterinary services were available. Among those farmers
who did not use veterinary services, about 5% answered they did not know about them. 72%



- 44 -
Appendix B
Page 14 of 26
of farmers surveyed answered they have been satisfied with the veterinary services, and 45%
reported that they had some problems with veterinary services.
7. About 20% of farmers who received farm machinery answered they used the services
provided by machinery service center, while the majority did not. Farmers who were using
these services have not been fully satisfied since there was a manufacturing default on one
type of tractor which was later on rectified in the field. Some farrners were complaining
about a long waiting period to get spare parts. A number of service centers did not accept
spare part under credit terms proposed by World Bank so that terms had to be changed. The
fact that service centers are the concem of suppliers reduces the influence of the PIU on
settlement of this matter since it depends on the relationship of the supplier with the
machinery-service centers.
Adequacy of the project design and components
In determining the project components and designing the goods procured the experts
from the Faculty of Agriculture and the Veterinary Faculty have been involved in accordance
with their fields of specialty. Their work has been compiled by a foreign exert. On the basis of
this work the Project was implemented in the way it was designed. Now that implementation is
over it can be concluded that satisfactory results have not been achieved in all project details and
that some details would require certain changes.
Under the livestock component the situation was satisfactory during acceptance of cattle
because 89% of farmers reported they were satisfied with the breed, 4% did not state anything
and only 7% were not satisfied with the breed. 82% were satisfied with the quality. The situation
has changed in 1997 because 10% of farmers were less satisfied with the breed, and 12% with the
quality. The reasons for such changes in farners' opinion probably should not be searched in the
breed and quality but in management conditions. This is confirmed by the fact that 81% of
fodder is self-produced and 41% of concentrate is provided somewhere else. 34% of farmers do
not provide the concentrate, and 40% have no funds to buy concentrate.
With the goats a situation is dissatisfactory because of 184 goats covered by project
monitoring, 108 or 59% gave birth, 60 kids (or 56%) survived which means that each third goat
received delivered one kid. Two main problems appeared after the goats have been released
from the quarantine stations (problems during quarantine have been explained above): abortions
and deaths of kids and occurrence of Q-fever. Abortions and deaths were the result of the
following circumstances: change of environment, transportation, adaptation under new
conditions, nutrition, veterinary treatments, etc. Regarding Q-fever there were two possibilities
for its occurrence. One possibility was that Q-fever has been introduced with the goats imported
and anther one was that the goats imported were infected by local goats. Officially, Q-fever in
BiH has not been recorded, but there is the possibility that domestic goats were hidden carriers
who infected imported goats. Another possibility is that omissions were made during veterinary
examinations and that Q-fever was imported. In the first case, the risk is on farmers' burden, and
in the second the risk is on the burden of the institution that carried out the examinations.
To address this problem the situation is being investigated in the field by competent
experts after which the final decision on how to liquidate damage will be made. There is also a
proposal to carry out laboratory testing in order to establish the real facts, i.e. to carry out
examinations on a number of domestic goats that had not been in the contacts with imported



- 45 -
Appendix B
Page 15 of 26
ones, and to carry out examinations on imported goats who were and who were not infected with
Q-fever as well as examinations on the goats who have been in the contact with imported goats.
On the basis of these examination it might be possible to get the right answers on the status of
this disease. Finally, there is a general conclusion that there is no experience in the work with
goats in BiH as for more than 50 years it was prohibited to keep goats, and therefore they have
almost disappeared in these areas. However, there are many reasons to increase this population
which means that this case should not discourage us but direct us how to approach this problem
in a proper way. T his issue should be investigated in more detail within the framework of the
planned in-depth survey.
In determining the project components and designing the type of farm machinery, the
situation is satisfactory in general since many very good solutions have been found, but there are
also some minor omnissions which are rather the result of an attempt to standardize the imnported
equipment than due to inexperience. Objections were given because mainly single-axle motor-
cultivators were decided to be procured, with only a small number of two-axle tractors.
However, this was a result of farmners' habit to use tractors not only for soil cultivation but also
for other purposes, especially for transportation for which motor-cultivators cannot be used as
well as two-axle tractors. Experts had taken into consideration that many fanning machines were
destroyed and that more machines could be purchased for the same amount of funds when
purchasing smaller machinery, also when considering that the average private farm holding is
very small and that the purchase of two-axle tractors and their use would be non-economic for
most small farms. That is why a preference was given to motor-cultivators. With motor-
cultivators, the largest demand was for PTO trailers and mowers. However a technical solution
excludes each other, so that the farmers who receive PTO trailer cannot use the mowers. This
PTO trailer is very suitable for the sloped fields of Bosnia, while there is also a large demand for
mowers as more than 50% of the area is under grass.
With two-axle tractors, some objections are related to the plough and the trailer of the
"Zetor" brand. The trailer is suitable for sloped fields while the plough is too heavy for these
fields and there is a danger of turning over. The plough is suitable for flat land, but the trailer is
rather small for these areas. In a case of further procurements of this type of tractor a solution
would be to withdraLw these ploughs from the sloped fields and give them to farmers in the plains,
and to purchase lighter ploughs for these areas. The conclusion drawn from above is that, while
the procurement of farm machinery was already split into 8 packages each of which contained 4-
5 different combinations of tractors and implements, a more detailed division into further sub-sets
should be made in order to meet the farmers' needs more efficiently.
Overall quality and speed of project implementation
Title of the Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project speaks itself of the urgency for the
implementation of this project, especially in light of the project's objectives. All appraisals, not
only internal but also external, put emphasis on an observed satisfactory and even record speed of
Project implementation. This is particularly related to the livestock component for which IFAD
has given its verbal praises. Some minor deviations in reducing some deadlines (sending the
expressions of interest and submission of bid) pernitted by the World Bank's representatives
contributed to this speed. The implementation period for farm machinery component was
somewhat extended due to initial procedural problems during procurement (quality bid security
of the selected bidder).



- 46 -
Appendix B
Page 16 of 26
All livestock have been distributed to final beneficiaries between 22 August, when the
first lot of livestock has been received, and 1 November 1996 when the last lot of animals has
been distributed. Thanks to the favorable weather conditions during November and December
1996 a part of the program of the Government of FBiH (500 heifers) and Saudi Fund for
Development Program (797 heifers) has been implemented during the 1996/1997 winter season.
However a speed of implementation had some reflection on preparation of
documentation (contracts, promissory notes etc.) as it was not possible physically to perform both
activities with the same number of staff members. This was also due to the inexperience of RIU
staff in such activities. Some bureaucratic-technical issues influenced the postponement of
documentation production. Due to disturbed political relations in FBiH a previous form of
promissory note of ex-Yugoslavia could not be used and a new form had to be designed. As
state-level symbols of Bosnia have not been agreed, it was not possible to print a new standard
promissory note form. Consultations were made with the Federal Ministry of Justice and a so-
called Single Promissory Note was created. This promissory note is used as a guarantee which is
signed by the debtor and three solvent guarantors, and the credibility of signatures on the
promissory note is verified by the municipal authorities. Finding the solution for this problem
had taken some extra time, so production of documentation was delayed at the very beginning of
the project. As implementation was progressing, production of documentation was at times
delayed because a lot of time had to be spent to complete the documentation in the regions
through meetings with every project farner. In this respect the RIUs in Zenica, Bihac and
Mostar experienced the largest delays.  Preparation of other necessary credit contract
documentation (contract formns, statistical data, credit repayment schedules, etc.) under the
difficult post-war circumstances required also some time.
At the time when RIUs were to be established, the RIU in Mostar was not yet operational
due to disagreement between Bosniacs and Croats about the Federation territory to be covered by
this PIU. It appears that, at the beginning, areas with Croat majority have delayed the Project,
and only when the first consignments of livestock and farm machinery started arriving did the
farmers from these areas get involved. In many cases this was without an agreement by the local
authorities which afterwards expressed their dissatisfaction with the distribution not accepting
determined priorities and criteria. Under such political pressure, in some cases the agreed
priorities and farmer criteria had to be deviated from.
Besides all difficulties, it has to be concluded that the speed of project implementation
was completely satisfactory thanks to the experience of staff that was involved in
implementation, because all projects were completed much before it was planned while some
objections may be given on the quality which represents the lessons that may be relevant for
implementation activities of this kind of or similar projects in the future. Within the period of
project implementation a standard form for all documents has been created and a certain
organizational experience has been gained which would considerably facilitate the
implementation of similar projects in the future.



- 47 -
Appendix B
Page 17 of 26
Experience gained implementing the project
A local team for implementation of the EFRP, which originally consisted of the livestock
and farm machinery experts and agro-econon;ist, has beerr formed immediately after Sarajevo has
been reintegrated into the Federation of BiH, following the signing of the Dayton peace accords.
People from this team are very experienced in the work tLwy have, been in charge for prior to their
new appointment, such as agricultural education at the faculty, work at livestock farns, work in
farming cooperatives, planning and execution of investment projects in agriculture an food
industry, etc. However, they were not much experienced in project implementation under WB's
methodology. Nevertheless, this kind of experience has been gained quickly because of their
previous background, but also thanks to foreign experts who were at the disposal of the PIU.
A point is that similar projects have never been implemented in BiH and that there have
been no appropriate personnel in BiH to work under WB's procedures. Seminars held by the WB
during preparation of project implementation, available documentation and experience gained in
the course of implementation together with technical experience that the local experts had, have
generated a number of local experts who could reliably manage this kind of and similar projects
in the future. Much more experience has been. gained in procedures, financial operations,
management, etc. than in technical and technological knowledge. PIU staff have been most
satisfied with expatriate procurement and management experts, but less so with technical-
technological foreign experts. The reason for this latter opinion is that some foreign experts
come without the needed geographical background from the area, and have experience from
different agricultural production conditions (Africa and similar). In contrast, procurement and
project management procedures are adaptable regardless of geographical conditions.
In the course of implementation, the experience gained may be divided as follows.
1. Technical-technological;
2. Organizational; and
3. Administrative-procedural.
1. Regarding technical-technological experience, special emphasis should be put on experience
in the livestock field such as selection of animals in relation to conditions under which they are
introduced, problem  in transportation of animals, quarantining, adaptation under new
circumstances, various stresses, farmers' behavior towards livestock received, insemination
problems, veterinary service's attitude, production performance, etc.
2. Original organization (PIU and 4 RIUs) and relationship with municipalities have not always
provided the best possible outcome. It resulted from the fact that in one canton the technical
operations were carried out for another canton whereas that canton had lost some influence on
activities which were being carried out.  In consequence of above a certain change in
organizational structure has been made in 1997, so instead of RIUs each canton has been
provided with a coordinator through whom all activities in municipalities that he/she is in charge
of are being carried out. At that point some conclusions were made in view of fees for hired local
experts. RIUs had full-time employed experts who received full monthly salary every month
regardless of scope of work. When activities were about to end and mistakes were to be
corrected without compensation, the experts stopped with fulfilling of their obligations. This is
why the practice to have full-time employed people was terminated and a performance-based
work was introduced. Experts are contracted for a particular work and fees are paid upon



-48 -
Appendix B
Page 18 of 26
completion of the work. This solution is shown as much more efficient in the performance of
work. There is no firm proof but there is a doubt that some local experts were dragging out the
job in order to prolong their salary. In any event, the collaborators concerned were replaced.
3. The most experience has been gained in administrative-procedural activities. As these are
precisely determined procedures they had to be followed and carried out entirely. Having no
previous experience, these procedure have been adopted by the PIU to the satisfaction of the
government and the donors involved. It should be noted that different donors may have similar
or different procedures so that almost every donation has been implemented in a different way.
IFAD and WB as partner organizations were the closest, while other donors have determined
their proc,edures according to their own regulations. In a case of WB and IFAD the assistance of
foreign -xperts was necessary in this field.
One of the livestock experts who was to be the livestock team leader (he was a
consultant) and on whose perforrnance the PIU has certain reservations, stated in his report a
series of technical objections to the work by the PIU. Planners of future projects used his
recommendations so that some disagreements about future projects' concepts appeared, and it
took a long time to accept the recommended changes. It was therefore learnt that reports
produced by foreign experts depend on the extent of satisfaction when they finish their
assignments, in other words their reports require careful review. Certainly, this does not mean
that everything has been done perfectly by the local experts. However, the expert's report is
focused on experience in the work of local services and it shows how much valuable experience
has been gained under the post-war circumstances.
Relationship among PIU and donors
The description of the EFRP shows that there was a number of donors supporting the
reconstruction of BiH, and agriculture of FBiH respectively. A largest part was taken by the WB,
IFAD, EU, Government of The Netherlands, followed by the Saudi Fund for Development and
Qatar. Above it is stated that each donor in a certain way had a different procedure for use of
funds. All of themn wanted the funds to be used for a specific purpose which was obeyed in all
cases.
The biggest individual assistance, and not only in financial terms, has been provided by
the WB that has its Resident Mission in Sarajevo on the basis of which there was a possibility to
make verbal contacts with them and to get clarifications whenever necessary. Besides Mr. Rory
O'Sullivan, the WB Resident Mission Director, the biggest assistance and cooperation have been
provided by Mr. Michael Koch and Ms. Vesna Francic. Their attentiveness has particularly been
noticed when approval on certain documents had to be obtained which made a contribution to the
speed of project implementation. Besides personal involvement of people working in the WB
Resident Mission, emphasis should be put also on the various workshops and meetings held by
the WB's representatives who clarified many issues arising during implementation. There have
also been very correct and successful contacts with the WB officers in charge for financial
operations in Washington, DC. For all above and some other not mentioned reasons, the
collaboration with the WB may be considered as very successful.
The WB as a cooperating institution has also been performing financial operations for
IFAD. In all contacts made through the WB, the relationship was as similar as in direct contact



- 49 -                        Appendix B
Page 19 of 26
for WB's funds with exception that in several cases the approvals were obtained with some delay
due to waiting for approval from Rome (IFAD). Direct contacts with IFAD have been made
through periodical missions that visited Sarajevo several times to discuss important issues
(drafting an agreement, drafting a technical annex for project, monitoring during project
implementation, visits to institutions taking part in project etc.). Monitoring and evaluation of
impacts of the IFAD-financed project were entrusted to the FAO Mission that visited Sarajevo
three times and that very successful contacts have been made with. With the IFAD missions we
especially emphasize the good collaboration with Messrs. Pedersen and Sorensen. In all contacts
there were some disagreements in opinion which have always been overcome to the satisfaction
of both parties.
Contacts with EU has not been at the same level of the contacts with WB and IFAD. In
this case there were two issues:
* participation of PIU in selection of equipment by the EU because MAWMF was striving, as
much as possible, to standardize imported farm equipment for known reasons. Also, the EU
representatives did not agree to bear import expenses (importer and forwarder); and
* physical distribution of machinery from destination warehouse to the final beneficiaries. The
EU project has been irnplemented and 1,300 motor-cultivators have been delivered to the final
beneficiaries. Currently, the debt in that respect amounts to DM 142,000 related to charges by
local transporting agents.
In late 1997, serious discussions were made with the EU representatives and an official
visit to Brussels was paid by the Minister of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry where
a new relationship was agreed on the principles of PHARE Programme. EU has accepted to
finance PIU's operation starting from 1 December 1997 and has offered funds intended for
agricultural development of Bosnia which have not yet been spent in 1996, 1997 and 1998 to be
implemented in 1998 through the PCU (previously PIU). Memorandums of understanding have
been signed for these issues. In December 1997, project implementation covering 5,000 sheep
for refugees and displaced people of FBiH commenced. Financing obligations by the EU under
this project will be fulfilled upon completion of the project.
Within the World Bank's first post-war project in BiH, the Emergency Recovery Project,
the Dutch Government had allocated grant funds for project implementation of which MUSD 0.9
was intended for agriculture, and subsequently this amount was reduced to MUSD 0.7 for
implementation by the government. This amount has been disbursed through that project's
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in Sarajevo. Direct payments have been made through the
PCU, and for smaller expenses and payments a local account was opened in SAB Bank of
Sarajevo.
In 1997, the Dutch Government awarded a tender offer for impementing the so-called
"Private Sector Facility" to the firm "Gemco" which was charged with responsibility to impement
the project of "1,000 cows". In this cooperation the activities have been divided between Gemco
and PIU. The procurement procedure to the point that the animals reached the quarantine has
been carried out by Gemco, and quarantining and physical distribution to the final beneficiaries
have been done under the PIU's supervision. In selection of final beneficiaries both Gemco and
the PIU participated. PIU's expenses were covered by this Project. Cooperation with the
Embassy of The Netherlands has been very successful. Besides assistance in implementation,



- 50 -                        Appendix B
Page 20 of 26
foreign experts have been providing training for all farmer-beneficiaries. Good cooperation has
also been achieved under the program of dairy equipment which is expected to be distributed in
1998.
The Saudi Fund for Development (SFD) has not fully been involved in the cattle
procurement procedure although it has its own procedures. It was insisted that the livestock
should have been distributed to the final beneficiaries as soon as possible, with a written approval
and guarantee of the Ministry of Finance of BiH that the funds would be provided. This Project
has been implemented in late 1996 within a short period. Subsequently it turned out that the
procedures similar to WB's procedures should have been followed and that approvals should
have been requested. Since SFD's representatives convinced themselves that a right procedure
had been carried out it was accepted to reimburse the funds subsequently. There have been no
outstanding issues in the contacts with SFD with exception of some minor expenses that have not
been accepted such as expenses for animals selection, interest rate on the funds borrowed, etc.
Qatar's funds have been remitted by check and became effective immediately upon the
cashing of the check. These funds have been spent on purchase of farm machinery according to
WB's procedures and currently the last lot of procured equipment is being delivered following
which a drafting of final report on disbursement will take place.
The relationship between GTZ and the PIU has led to some issues. The PIU initiated the
implementation activities of funds for health protection of imported animals like for the other two
components. Prior to submission of bidding documents to interested bidders, a decision was
made to implement this component through GTZ, using German government grant funds donated
for this purpose. There were two issues in the relationship with GTZ. First, whether the amount
of granted funds was equal to MUSD 2.2 or MDEM 2.2, and a second one was the payment of
expenses for physical distribution of imports that was supposed to be carried out by the PIU.
GTZ planned implementation of this project component such that GTZ procures the equipment,
drugs etc. and delivers them to the warehouse, and that PIU takes over further responsibilities and
expenses from there on. As PIU had no other than earmarked funds, it was not able to bear these
expenses and therefore did not accept this responsibility. Although there was considerable
pressure from different sides on the PIU, this activity could not be carried out through the PIU
due to lack of funding. The only assistance the PIU could provide were advisory services which
do not involve any costs.
From the above it can generally be concluded that, from the point that it has been
established until the end of 1997, the PIU's work has been very complex and connected to a
series of problems and issues that had to be addressed promptly and efficiently.
Misunderstandings between donors and the PIU, if any, were the result of PIU staff's desire to
implement the project in the best possible way according to their professional knowledge.
Donors' representatives, in order to meet procedural requirements, have been requesting the PIU
to obey all their instructions.  Generally, relationship with donors has been developing
satisfactorily and to the mutual satisfaction. Relationships have been improving more and more
and now there are only a few issues that the parties disagree upon. Donors as well have acquired
a stabile relationship with the PIU.
PROJECT IMPACT MONITORING AND EVALUATION



- 51 -                          Appendix B
Page 21 of 26
Monitoring and evaluation of the project impact compared to the project's objectives is
carried out by instruction of an FAO mission that paid the visits to project personnel three times
for 2-4 weeks each. During the first visit of the FAO mission a physiognomy and size of the
project were presented, field visits were carried out, and a monitoring concept with detailed
questionnaires was vvorked out. Questionnaires consist of a number of questions split into
several groups such as data about farmers, farms, technical performance of livestock and farm
machinery, availability of services and markets, cash situation, credit repayments and others.
Project monitoring was supposed to last over a three year period, from 1997 till 1999.
1996 presented the basic year for the project monitoring. As the closing date for the project is in
late June 1998 (WB credit) and late December 1998 (IFAD loan and grant), it was decided to
conclude monitoring by 31st of March 1998 to be financed under the project, unless funding of
monitoring during the following period through end-1999 could be raised. Therefore, monitoring
for the following two years is not definitely canceled, and donor funding sources are still being
searched for. Farmers who received the livestock under the project have been interviewed twice
in 1997, in spring and autumn, while farmers who received farn  machinery have been
interviewed once so far, in autumn 1997. For the following two years (1998 and 1999) the
intention is to carry out only autumn surveys.
To assess the achievements of the project it was planned to carry out two types of
surveys: general statistical and in-depth surveys. Statistical surveys involved data collection from
10% of motor-cultivator and livestock recipients, 20% of two-axle tractor and goats recipients,
and 100% of combine harvester recipients. A total of 882 fanners (419 livestock and 463
mechanization recipients) were covered by the statistical surveys. All farners were selected
randomly.
In spring 1998 an in-depth survey will commence. This survey has been formulated with
the FAO Mission, and before it is undertaken the experts for livestock, mechanization and agro-
economy would work out the details. The total number of farmers to be covered by the in-depth
survey will be 10% of farmers already involved in the statistical survey, which results in a total of
90 farmers. Selection of farmers will aim in getting the detailed answers to the questions arising
during implementation.
Data about farmers
The surveys cover all cantons, but not each municipality as the municipalities that
received insignificant number of credits are not included according to the criteria.  All ten
Federation cantons cover 109 municipalities. From aspect of nationality, in 83.9% of cases the
farmers are Bosniacs, 15.6% are Croats and 1.7% are others. Depending on the type of credit the
interviewed farmers are split into five groups: farmers who received heifers, goats, one-axle
tractors (motor-cultivators), two-axle tractors, and combine harvesters. During selection of
farmers to be interviewed it is taken into account that all farmers are represented according to
breed of heifers and goats received, and according to type of equipment and sets (set of machine
with implements), respectively.



- 52 -
Appendix B
Page 22 of 26
From aspect of residency status the farmers are divided into five categories: resident,
returnee, refugee, displaced person, and other. According to survey the residency status of
farmers is the following.
Item    Type of credit  Percentage
1.     Resident             37.3
2.     Returnee             43.8
3.     Refugee              18.5
4.     Displaced per.        0.9
5      Others               0.3
T___Total:          100.0
Structure of residency status of interviewed farmers from the aspect of nationality is the
following.
Item   Residency status        Croats     Bosniacs     Average
I .   -Resident                 43          31          33
2.    Returnee                  44          41          42
3.    Refugee                    9          26          24
4.    Displaced person           3.5         0.9          1
The agreed criteria to give the credits to the returnees and refugees who are willing to get
back on their holding have been met with 67% in case of Bosniacs and 53% in a case of Croats.
The structure of residency status of farmers by cantons is also different, as follows.
Canton                      Returnees    Refugees     Resident   Displaced p.
Bosansko-podrinjski            31           17           52           0
(Gorazde)
Herzegovacko-neretvanski       46           27           27           0
Posavski                        0            0          100           0
Sarajevski                     83            8            6           3
Srednjebosanski                37           53           10           0
Tuzlansko-podrinjski           22           11          67            0
Unsko-sanski                   50           15          35            0
Zapadno-bosanski               29           14           14          43
Zapadno-hercegovacki            0            0          100           0
Zenicko-dobojski               27           43          20            0
Average                        42           24          33            1
As the funds are intended for returnees and refugees who are willing to return to their
holdings, this criteria is met with approximately 66%, and remaining 33% are people who had not
left their farns. Observing by cantons, the situation is different. Criteria are met the most in
Sarajevo canton (91%), followed by Una-Sana canton (65%). Criteria are the least met in
Posavina and West-Herzegovina cantos where no credit was given to refugees and returnees. In



- 53 -
Appendix B
Page 23 of 26
the Bosniacs majority areas the lowest percentage of involvement of returnees and refugees is
noticed in Tuzla-Podrinje canton (33%).
Data about farms
Farning holdings (FH) interviewed in 1997 had a total of 3,903 household members.
This number is 1% larger than in 1996. Among household members (HM) the highest percentage
are those who are unemployed (42%), then of those living only from agriculture (37%). 19% of
HM are part-time involved in agriculture while 16 % of HM draw income from off-farm work.
These data indicate that only 16% of HM have income from off-farm work while all others
depend on agriculture as their only source of income. The average number of HM per farn is
4.6. Each household approximately has two HM full-time involved in agriculture and one HM
part-time involved in agriculture. 0.8 HM earn income from off-farm work, and almost each
household has approximately two (1.8) HM unemployed. If a structure of HM is observed from
the aspect of nationality, there are no major deviations, as follows below.
Household members               Croats    Bosniacs    Average
Average number of HM             4.5        5.3         4.6
Full-time involved in agriculture  2.0      2.3         2.0
Part-time involved in agriculture  1.0      1.1         1.0
HM with income from off-farm    0.8         0.9         0.8
work
Interviewed farmer approximately have 2.9 ha of agricultural land of which 39% is land
area which is not used for agriculture. Compared to 1996 the utilized areas are increased by 4%.
If the areas available are analyzed in more detail according to residency status, type of
beneficiary, nationallity and cantons, there are some differences. On average the largest land
plots in agriculture are used by displaced persons (4.3 ha), followed by residents (2.3 ha) and
refugees (1.9 ha).
Farmers who received heifers approximately use 2.4 ha of land in agriculture, those who
received goats 1.2 ha, motor-cultivators 2.6 ha, two-axle tractors 8.6 ha and combines 5.6 ha.
Croats on average have larger land areas (4.6 ha) than Bosniacs (3.7 ha). Land areas used in
agriculture by Croats are 2.9 ha and by Bosniacs 2.3 ha. Largest areas used in agriculture are in
West-Bosnia and Una-Sana cantons (2.8 ha), Herzegovina-Neretva (2.8 ha), Gorazde (2.7) and
the smallest in West Herzegovina canton (0.6).
Below are shown interesting data on the agricultural areas used in agriculture by farners
who received heifers in 1997 (spring) by cantons.



- 54 -                          Appendix B
Page 24 of 26
Canton                    No. of FH   Total ha  Average ha   Min. ha    Max. ha
Bosansko-podrinjski          14         349        2.5        0.3        8.2
(Gorazde)
Herzegovacko-neretvanski     34       1,069        3.1        0.2       12.0
Posavski                      4         103        2.6         1.0       5.0
Sarajevski                   39       1,019        2.6        0.4       12.0
Srednjebosanski              24         452        1.9        0.1        6.2
Tuzlansko-podrinjski         43         890        2.1        0.2        6.0
Unsko-sanski                 25         697        2.8        0.2       10.0
Zapadno-bosanski              4          90        2.3        0.0        5.0
Zapadno-hercegovacki          4          23        0.6        0.3        1.0
Zenicko-dobojski             41         868        2.1        0.0        8.0
Average                    232        5,560        2.4        0         12.0
When considering the criterion that each farmer should have had at least 1 ha of
agricultural land for one heifer, it is noticed that only in one case this criteria has been fully met
(Posavina canton) and in all other cantons this criteria has not been met completely. In West-
Bosnia and Zenica-Doboj cantons it was concluded that the animals were given to the farmers
having no land at all which should be verified in the field.
The number of livestock owned by interviewed farmers recipients in 1996 and 1997 is
shown in the table below.
Type of livestock   In 1996    In 1997     97/96
lCatrtle     _    L 490    l 614   l7125 7
l_Sheep           l   845   l___886          105
|  Goats _            238    _ 297           125
IPig              Lx 125        1___7_       110
The above data show that the number of livestock of all types has increased; cattle by
25%, pigs 10%, and sheep 5%. If the number of livestock is observed from the aspect of
nationality, the situation in 1996 was the following.
headlFH
Type of livestock    Croats    Bosniacs   Average
Cattle                 1.2        1.3       1.3
Sheep                 2.0        3.0        2.2
Goats                 0.4         1.9       0.6
Pigs                  2.1        0.0        0.3
Before this period the farmers who received heifers owned 469 cattle, or on average just
over one cow, while the farmers who received goats owned on average 5 goats. Households
interviewed in spring 1997 (387 FH) owned a total of 43 one-axle tractors, 27 two-axle tractors,
one combine and 132 various implements in 1996. On average there were nearly two implements
on one tractor (if a total number of tractors is considered). In 1997 these numbers had changed:



- 55 -                         Appendix B
Page 25 of 26
the number of one-axle tractors was increased to 65 units, two-axle tractors to 33 units and
implements to 169 units. The average number of implements per tractor was reduced.
Collection of credit repayments
According to UPI Bank's records total credit commitments of farmers, according to the
documentation received, equal DM 58,145,588.30 of which DM 48,697,932 is principal and DM
9,447,656 is interest. Commitments for farm machinery equal DM 46,495,678.30 (37,763,155 +
8,732,523.70). Commitments for livestock equal DM 11,649,910. According to the same
records, 8,547 contracts (3,672 for farm machinery and 4,875 for livestock) have been registered,
and according to the PIU's records about 50 contracts for additional procurements are still not
submitted to UPI Bank as of January 1998.
According to UPI Bank's records, on 31St of December 1997, DM 596,839.36 was
received on the UPI Bank's account which is 61% compared to amounts payable (DM 976,671).
Out of this figure DM 316,120.31 (WB 221,474.53 + EU 94,645.78) is for farm machinery, and
DM 266,403 for Jivestock. Included in the funds for livestock is an amount of DM 157,442
which was paid by insurance company for lost cattle. On the basis of interest the amount of DM
439,431.36 was received which is 45% of amounts payable. The balance is related to the funds
received from insurance company. The average percentage of farmers beneficiaries who have
met their commitments is 39% or 34% for farn machinery (WB 28% and EU 48%) and 43% for
livestock.
If collections are observed from the aspect of value, then the payments for farm
machinery were collected in 44%, and for livestock 76% (reduced for amount paid by insurance
company). Larger valuable indicators for farm machinery are the result of payment of interests
by the farmers whose credits are of significant size after they received the reminder letters, and
for the livestock they are result of larger amounts received from individual farmers.
If collection is observed by cantons, then it can be established that the best percentage of
collection on average is in Tuzla-Podrinje canton (68%), than in Bosansko-podrinjski canton
(64%), Una-Sana canton (63%), Sarajevo canton (57%) etc. The worst situation is in West
Bosnia and Posavina cantons where the collection rate equals 6%, followed by West Herzegovina
canton with 7%. ;[f collection is observed from the ethnic aspect, Bosniacs have met their
commitments with '18%, and Croats with 8%. UPI Bank is sending several payment reminders to
all delinquent farmers, and the results are becoming visible (until 31st January 1998, 3,147
reminders were sent).
Summarizing the credit repayment collection status, we cannot be satisfied with the total
payments collected, although the situation is improving and the collection rate is rising. There
are several causes for the low collection rates to date:
1. habits from before - lack of credit discipline;
2. incomes of farmers are low so that setting aside even minimal amounts presents a difficulty;
3. rumors among the people that the credits will be written off by the state;
4. part of commitments which are included but have not yet become due;
5. in Croats areas the Payment Operations Institution (ZPP) cannot receive the payments from
farmers;



- 56 -                         Appendix B
Page 26 of 26
6. delay in credit documentation submission to UPI Bank (particularly from the Zenica-Doboj
and Central Bosnia cantons);
7. expectations that the credit payments can be made by using the funds (military back-pay)
from military foreign currency savings books;
8. political climate in municipalities suggesting not to repay the credits.
Regarding debt enforcement, UPI Bank has the following possibilities available:
1. to send reminder letters to final beneficiaries requesting them to make their payment up to a
specified deadline;
2. if the payment has not been made, to warn the credit guarantors that the debtor has not made
the payment, under threat that the payment has to be made by them by a set deadline;
3. debt enforcement through the court by confiscating property, auction sale etc.
PIU has been considering, together with World Bank and UPI Bank representatives, this
collection situation and has agreed on measures that hmve been taken. As a first step, about 400
reminder letters were sent to delinquent debtors. As a result, 120 debtors reacted and met their
commitments. Payments after sending these reminders keep coming in. Furthermore, in order to
create a favorable climate in municipalities for timely credit repayments (which can be concluded
from the collection data), a program to increase collection rates has been developed. Major
elements of this program are as follows:
1. provide all canton governors with the reports on the repayments status in their cantons;
provide the heads of municipalities with the specific debt status in their municipalities and
request political action to be taken for creating an awareness that these debts must be paid on
time and in full;
2. inform municipalities whose farrners do not meet their commitments that new credits will not
be provided to them if the credit repayment rates are not satisfactory;
3. make a notice, and announce this on TV, in which debtors will be informed that if they don't
repay the credit they will, besides exposition to unpleasantness, unable their relatives, friends
and neighbors in their municipality to receive further livestock and machinery credits from
new donor funds secured by the PIU;
4. start informing the public on credit collection status through newspapers in order to create
pressure on debtors and guarantors.
We believe that these actions would deprive many debtors of the unpleasantness of a
court dispute, and that many guarantors would be interested to know how their debtors repay the
credit. Finally, we must count with a number of debtors who will have to be prosecuted in court.



IBRD 28156
To ZagrebZ               Zgreb                         18,            ToOie
TO Zogreb                 To Zagreb         C  R O  A  T I A               ;    To Vinkovci
To Osijek         -f4
g \To Glino=<tweY<
Beseniki Now                           /         N..)erctIkk) -  /                                         . To Belgrade
3CRlOAI el'e-                                                                Drvoe-.,  q0      ;        'ZvdviioNA .3k   
Bi?a Basanst                          Ba          ic     T    niovo                                    rBc        B ekvic f  %,,
12              KakanDoj                                                                                                      '/"As'v
Zador . Xf oer    1 VsBe g    r, 4
benik                                                                     B. ien T,no
Posanskin                                  sa  t-kaconnica                                           M rn
flrC
aviclovit      Bnri ZOvrkM                                 c3
CROATIA                                                                                                           8 '. -                             0
- -a-1 Vaku                      Vie             0Kakarn             Ov    (SRI/OTE           NERO
Drvor=e                                       'ko  Zeo  5
ra~~~~~~~~~~~~~%v                                                               * Blgad
Jezeroo ~         ~           uboxrl> rc                          Deig Un0o  h  ordBn  h
Bosonsko~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Grahovotrccptno suchar
Doni Va6f  vi         OKokoni         ""C 06v~o   Ztcc Vsregreioo&         ''Ue
i         boundaries.
FEDERATION-CONTROLLEDAREAS                                     (FEDERA   REPUBLICv.tO)e
  SELECTED lTiES                            420-            * (SERvN>~BIA/M  ONTENEGRO)
eTHESWSOFBRKQWIbLEDEEMiiE                          )                KI LOME TER
BYARBITR,;710NWt7HINONEYEDAR.avoi                                           Desig Ucitt'  ofl The WorldEt    Bnk.0 Th
Zodar                                             r                                                                       U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~enain,clr, eoie iened
16e_i1  o Dr                                   o                                                             Gora  (/ 2id=          -   --IRE
JPd o           mop dolnot imply,ienctheope r ofT
BOSNIA   AND   HER Z EGO V I N A                                                 gort; World Reels Droop, eny isdgmentea
PA oedgoriec.
4.3-                                                                                              YUG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZEH"    O SLAND/ IKAI
SERB-CONROLLED AEAS                                        (SEREI/ONEEGO
RIVERS                                                            HUNGARY /              N~~~~~~~~~~~ILMEER
42'         0    SELECTED CITIES                                                     -  ,-. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Duroni  esg'  ~i o The Wd B-.Th
ri-,clr,domt--
BOSNIA    AND    HERZEGOVINA                                                              the leg.1~~~~~~~' rfouteo -y f <rioytor-
DAYTON AGREEMENT LINES                                                        2i01 ~~- u-n0.RE50E
16'               17'                                      18'           io'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_, x   1>-  CZC<l-   OLAND/  UKRAN
z    GERMANY   ,qpK REPJUL,199



