RESTRICTED
e-,-, i'Z                             +                                 1 tReport No.  P-664
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF T HE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
GUYANA
FOR THE
EDUCATION PROJECT
January 16, 1969



INTERNATIONAL BANTK FOR REWCCQNSTRUCTI0N AND DEVEICJFTENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVEILPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TBE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND LOAN TO GUYANA
FOR THE EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit and loan, each in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to US$2.9 million to Guyana, to assist in the financing of an
education project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In late 1966, the Bank, after reviewing Guyana's 1966-1972
Development Program, recoamended not only an increase in investment ex-
penditure on education, but also a new strategy for developing Guyana's
human resources, whereby public investment would be substantially reduced
in primary education, and would instead be concentrated on establishing a
multilateral pattern of secondary school education, on teacher training
and higher education.   At the Government's request, a UNESCO/Bank reconnais-
sance mission visited Guyana to outline the scope of an education project
adapted to the above-mentioned approach.   A follow-up UNESCO mission in
March-April 1968 helped to prepare an education proposal, which was sub-
mitted by the Government for the Association/Bank's consideration in May 1968.
The proposal was appraised in July-August 1968.
3.        Negotiations for the proposed credit and loan, totaling $5.8
million, were held from December 30, 1968 to January 3, 1969.   The Govern-
ment of Guyana representatives at these negotiations were headed by Mr. James
Douglas, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education.
4.        This would be the Bank's second and Association's first lending
operation to independent Guyana.   The Bank made a loan in 1961, to the former
colony of British Guiana, with the guarantee of the United Kingdom.   The
following is a summary statement of Bank lending as of December 31, 1968:



-2-
Loan     Year     Borrower                      Purpose     Amount  (US$ Million)
Bank    Undisbursed
285-BG   1961  British Guiana                Agricultural
Credit          1.2          -
559-GUA  1968  Guyana                       Sea Defenses      5.0         5.0
Total (less cancellations)                     5.9
Of which has been repaid
to Bank and Others                             .8
Total now outstanding                          5
Amount sold                   .8
Of which has been repaid    .7                 .1
Total now held by Bank                          5
Total undisbursed                                         5.0
5.        No other projects are in an advanced stage of review.  The
Government is however discussing further pro'acts 1z. agricultire aaid
transport.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED DEVELOPjqENT CREDIT AND LOAN
6.        Borrower:                   Guyana
Purpose:                    To assist in financing the construction
and equipment of one teacher training
college and seven multilateral schools;
a study of materials and construction
methods for schools; fellowships abroad;
and a project implementation unit.
Amount:                     A development credit in various currencies
equivalent to US$2.9 million, and a loan
in various currencies equivalent to
US$2.9 million.



-3-
Amortization:            A - Development Credit:  In 50 years,
including a 10-year period of grace.
through semi-annual installments of
1/2 of 1% from June 15, 1979 through
December 15, 1988, and of 1-1/2% from
June 15, 1989 through December 15, 2018.
B - Loan: In 30 years, including a
10-year period of grace, through semi-
annual installments beginning June 15,
1979 and ending December 1, 1998.
Interest Rate (Loan):    6-1/2% per annum.
Service Charge
(De6velopment Credit):    3/4 of 1% per annum.
Commitment Charge
fLoan :                  3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of An Education Project
In Guyana" (PE-1) on the proposed project is attached.
8.        The proposed project is the first part of Guyanats long-term
education development program for improving the quality, efficiency and
output of school teachers and for introducing a multilateral system of
secondary education. Unlike the prevailing grammar-type schools, multi-
lateral secondary schools, after providing students with a common base
of general studies, screen them according to ability and aptitude for further
schooling in distinct curriculum streams such as science, technology, agri-
culture, humanities and commerce, thus producing thE versatile school
leavers needed by a developing economy.
9.        The project consists of:
(a) construction and equipment of one primary teacher
training college (and related boarding facilities),
with total enrollment of about 660 students;
(b) construction and equipment of five new multilateral
secondary schools and conversion of two existing schools
to the multilateral type (and related boarding and
staff housing facilities, with combined total enroll-
ment of about 5700 students;



-h -
(c) consultant services for an analytical study of the
economics of the use of building materials and
techniques for school buildings in Guyana, designs,
and supervision of construction;
(d) provision of 15 man-years of fellowships; and
(e) establishment of a project implementation unit.
10.       In Guyana, the responsibility for all educational matters rests
with the Ministry of Education.  To ensure an efficient implementation
of the project and co-ordinate other matters relating to Guyana's long-
term educational program, of which the project is an essential part, a
Project Implementation Unit is to be established within the Ministry. A
Director in charge of the Unit, acceptable to the Association and the Bank,
has already been appointed, and will be entrusted with powers and responsi-
bilities agreed to with the Association and the Bank. He will be assisted
by a project architect, procurement, educational and other necessary
specialists. The effectiveness of the development credit and the loan
will be conditional on the appointment of Consultants, acceptable to the
Association and the Bank, to prepare the site surveys, college and school
designs and the aforementioned analytical study, as well as to supervise
construction.
11.       Total project costs, including contingencies and interest and
other charges on the loan during construction, are estimated at about
US$10 million. The proposed development credit and loan would cover the
estimated foreign exchange component of the project, with the minor ex-
ception noted in the following paragraph.
12.       Contracts for civil works, instructional equipment, books and
furniture would be let on the basis of international competitive bidding.
Bids would be invited in packages of a size likely to encourage inter-
national bidding. There is a local furniture industry which appears to
offer prospects for development on an economically viable basis, and at
the request of the Government, it is proposed that the Association and the
Bank be prepared to include somne local procurement, with local suppliers
being allot-ed a preference of up to 15 percent in lieu of existing import
duties. The total value of furniture to be procured is about US$3h0,000,
and local furniture has an estimated foreign exchange component of about
50 percent. Hence the proposed development credit and loan might cover a
nominal amount of local costs), vhich could not exceed sorae USjT170,000.



13.       Disbursements for civil works, fellowships and the project imple-
mentation unit would be on the basis of agreed percentages representing the
estimated foreign exchange component and those for instructional equipment,
books and consultants' fees, on that of full foreign exchange costs.   Dis-
bursements for furniture would be against the actual foreign exchange cost
of imported goods, or if local suppliers win the orders, for the ex-factory
price of the goods.
14.       Guyana has a high literacy rate (estimated at 83 percent in 1960)
and an adequate number of primary schools.   However, the physical facilities
for secondary education are not only insufficient, but the academic curricu-
lum is unsuited for the needs of a developing economy.   With the upgrading
of teacher training and the changeover at a secondary level to a multilateral
pattern, it is anticipated that students provided with both academic and pre-
vocational backgrounds could either enter work-life at a semi-skilled level,
or after further specialization serve as skilled workers or technicians for
industry, agriculture, administration, commerce, health services, etc., or
as professionals after appropriate university training, to meet Guyana's
future manpower needs in these varied fields.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Guyana and the
Association, the draft Loan Agreement between Guyana and the Bank, the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section t(iii) of the Bank's Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
16.       The draft Development Credit and Loan Agreements conform sub-
stantially to the pattern of agreements for education projects.   I would
call your attention to the following features:
(i) Both Agreements have identical provisions with respect
to the allocation of the proceeds of the total fi-
nancing to be provided by the Association and the Bank
for the Project (Schedule 1 to both Agreements).
(ii)  Except for that portion of the Loan which Till finance
a part of the interest and other charges on the Loan,
the proceeds of the Loan will not be disbursed until
the amount of the Development Credit has been fully
withdrawn or committed (Section 2.03 (b) (iii) of the
Loan Agreement and above-mentioned Schedule 1).



-6-
PA2IT V - THE ECONOI4Y
17.       The report of the Bank's economic mission entitled "An Appraisal
of the Development Program of Guyana", No. IH-169b, which evaluated Guyana's
1966-1972 Development Program, was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 3, 1967 (R-67-56). It highlighted the need to substantially in-
crease public savings in order to meet the requirements of the proposed
public investment program, to improve fiscal management and control of
credit, and to curb consumption and corresponding import demand, thus
alleviating tuhe pressure on the balance of payments. In view of the
countryls generally scarce resource endowmert, the low levels of per
capita income and foreign exchange reserves, and its limited capacity at
this stage of development to generate sizeable domestic resources, the
report pointed out the need for Guyana to seek external finance on a soft
blend basis.  With the establishment of the Burnham coalition Government
in 1966, Guyrana entered a new phase of development marked by the restora-
tion of political order and more orderly economic growth. In elections
last month, Mr. Burnham's party, the People's National Congress, received
increased popular support and now has a substantial majority in the legis-
lature.
18.       In the atmosphere of political stability, the economy has demon-
strated a high degree of vitality in recent years. Economic growth in real
terms has averaged about 4.5 percent during 1966-67. Because of less favor-
able weather conditions, preliminary estimates indicate a somewhat lower
growth rate in 1968. Overall price increases have been limited to an annual
rate of less than 3 percent. Because of the relatively high population
growth, (a little less than 3 percent per annum), real per capita income
has been rising very modestly and is currently estimated at US)240.  Spurred
by sizeable private investments in the bauxite mining sector as well as by
a substantial increase in public investments, gross investment reached the
very high level of 30 percent of GDP in 1967 (compared with less than 20
percent prior to 1966).  The public sector accounted for over one-third of
the total. The large investments by bauxite mining companies were sub-
stantially completed in 1967; however, public investment has reportedly
continued to increase.
19.       Marked improvement has occurred since 1966 in public finances.
As a result of new tax measures, and improvements in tax administration,
current revenues rose by an average annual rate of about 10 percent during
1966-1968 and now are equal to about one-fourth of GDP. At the same time.
current expenditure increases were successfully restrained to between 3 and
4 percent annually.  As a result of these efforts, budgetary savings rose
from a negative position in 1965 to G$5.3 million (net of debt amortizations)
in 1967. The 1968 results are expected to be similar to those for 1967.
The resulting larger public savings amounted to about 17 percent of the
public sector investments in 1967. While continuing efforts, especially
in reducing the heavy subsidies to some public entities, will be needed to
increase the proportion of the public investment program financed from
domestic sources, the progress in recent years in this direction has been
encouraging.



-7-
20.       Recent balance of payments performance has been on the whole quite
satisfactory. Following a period of overall deficits, sizeable surpluses
were registered during the past two years. As a result, Guyana did not
need to draw under the Stand-by Agreement with the I1MF. This favorable
turn is largely attributable to extraordinarily hligh private capital inflows
connected with recent investments in the bauxite mining sector, and to rising
public capital inflows. More significant from the standpoint of improving
the basic structure of the balance of payments has been the commendable
export performance (with exports rising at an average of about 9 percent
annually since 1965) and the successful containment of consumer goods imports.
In view of the recently increased capacities in the bauxite mining sector and
further investments being envisaged to raise sugar and rice production, the
outlook for further export growth appears favorable. Guyana's general com-
petitive position has also been enhanced by the devaluation in line with
sterling in November 1967. These prospects, together with the expected
further increase in public capital inflows, should largely compensate for
the now reduced capital inflows by the bauxite companies, and keep the
balance of payments viable.
21.       Because of the very favorable terms of external aid in recent years,
the service requirements on Guyanats public external debt are relatively low -
between h and 5 percent of current foreign exchange earnings. However, total
(internal and external) public debt charges currently absorb as much as 16
percent of current revenues. In the circumstances, and in view of its heavy
reliance on external aid for implementing the public investment program and
its limited capacity to service external debt, Guyana has properly been seek-
ing a substantial portion of its external aid needs on concessional terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREMIENT
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit and loan would
comply with the respective Articles of Agreement of the Association and the
Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATIOU
23.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resolutions:
"RESOLUTION NO. IDA
Approval of Development Credit to Guyana in
an amount equivalent to US$2,900,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to Guyana
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million nine hundred
thousand United States dollars (US$2,900,000), to mature on and prior to



-8-
December 15, 2018, to bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of
one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms and con-
ditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions
set forth in the form of Development Credit Agreement (Education Project)
between Guyana and the Association, which has been presented to this meeting."
"RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Guyana in an amount equivalent
to US$2,900,000.
RESOLVE:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Guyana in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to two million nine hundhred thousand United States
dollars (US$2,900,000), to mature on and prior to December 15, 1998, to bear
interest at the rate of six and one-half percent (6-1/2%) per annum, and to
be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in ac-
cordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement
(Education Project) between Guyana and the Bank, which has been presented to
this meeting."
Attachments                                Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
January 16, 1969



