Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: AB123
Project Name                BRAZIL-Bahia Education Project (APL) - Second Phase
Region                     Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                     Primary education (80%); Secondary education (20%)
Theme                       Education for all (P); Education for the knowledge economy (P)
Project                    P070827
Borrower(s)                GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF BAHIA
Implementing Agency(ies)    SECRETARY OF EDUCATION
Salvador, Bahia
Address: Avenida 5, 550, 3° andar - CAB
Contact Person: Ananci Bispo Paim
Tel: 71 370-1180   Fax 71 371-5650      Email. secretario@sec.ba.gov.br
Environment Category       B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared          June 12, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date        January 15, 2003
Bank Approval Date         June 27, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Located in the Northeast, one of Brazil's least developed regions, Bahia is home to an estimated four
million people living below the poverty line, more than any other Brazilian state. Enrollment rates at
both the primary and secondary levels in Bahia remain lower than the countrywide average, and only four
percent of the adult population in Bahia has completed secondary school, creating a serious lack of
human capital for the economic development of the state as a whole. The Government of Bahia is
committed to raising educational quality and outcomes within the new realities of Brazilian education
legislation and finance. The Government of Bahia developed an ambitious education program ("Educar
para Vencer") with the objective of providing all Bahians with access to quality basic education.
2. Objectives
The project is the second phase of the Bahia Education Adjustable Program Loan (APL), which seeks to
assist the Government of Bahia in its effort to improve the educational system and respond to the
demands and needs of the Bahian population. The program complements numerous Government actions
and focuses on improving fundamental and secondary school quality, increasing access to secondary
schools, and improving system management. The first phase of the 4 5-year (APL) was US$116 million
extended over 2.5 years, while the second phase is expected to disburse US$100 million over 3 years.
Most activities to be financed by the second phase are a natural continuation of those to be financed in
Project I. The development objectives of the Bahia Education Project are to: (a) improve fundamental
and secondary school outcomes, as measured by improvements in dropout and promotion rates and
student perfonnance on standardized tests; and (b) increase access to secondary school, as measured by
an increase in secondary enrollments.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has had the opportunity of developing a well-informed and close familiarity with the key
education issues in Brazil. More importantly, over the last few years it has built up a fluent dialogue with
the leading education authorities and institutions of Brazil. The Bank has been able to play the role of
"honest broker" and "critical friend" in policy dialogue, and provide the continuity and infonned
cooperation necessary to support the implementation of both development projects and policy reform.



2
PID
The Bank's information base is particularly strong with regard to educational issues in the Northeast.
Bank-initiated studies and reports that have focused on the Northeast, and especially Bahia as an area of
great educational need. Bank education and poverty sector work have facilitated the identification of
poverty and regional imbalance issues, which have in turn contributed to the Bahia Education Program's
strategic choices. Experience working with Bahia through federal projects such as Northeast Basic
Education HI and FUNDESCOLA 1 has given the Bank a solid basis for project design.
Although World Bank-financed projects in Brazil differ from one another tremendously, all have
generated innovation Lessons learned from these innovations have contributed to the policy dialogue
with Bahia, and the preparation of the proposed program. The Bank's ability to bring experience it
gathers from basic education projects in other countries in the region, particularly with regard to the
school development process, would also provide a tremendous benefit to the Borrower. The analysis and
inclusion of international reform experiences and best practice from such countries would further enrich
the development of the Bahia Education Program. The Bank has the ability to serve as a conduit to
current innovation and research results emerging from other national and state systems around the world.
4. Description
Through Project 1, the Government of Bahia- (a) provided minimum operation standards to schools in
poor municipalities; (b) designed and tested establishment of School Improvement Plans (PDE) in
primary schools, secondary schools, and regional offices; (c) initiated the provision of secondary school
places through reorganization of the system and some initial construction of classrooms and schools; and
(d) designed and implemented interventions to enhance system management (i.e. system-wide assessment
of students; selection, training, and certification of school leaders).
Through Project 2, the Government of Bahia will: (a) expand the implementation of PDEs in schools; (b)
expand the provision of secondary school places; and (c) consolidate the student assessment and
leadership certification systems initiated in Project l. The following table summarizes the activities
completed under Project I and those to be implemented under Project 2
Component 1: [mproving School Quality. It seeks to improve school quality by providing inputs to
bring state and municipal primary schools closer to meeting minimum operational standards, and increase
school autonomy for state and municipal primary and secondary schools by means of the school
development process. Subcomponents: I I Assuring minimum operational standards for schools; 1.2
Supporting the implementation of School Development Plans (PDE); 1 3 Financing School Timprovement
Projects (PME), 1.4 Implementing Accelerated Classes; 1.5 Expanding Gestar; and, 1.6 Improving
Indigenous Education.
Component 2: Expanding Access. Its objective is to assist Bahia in meeting the growing demand for
secondary education. As overall demand for enrollments within Bahia begins to shift from primary to
secondary, an ever increasing number of poor students will gain access to secondary education. As the
wealthy in Brazil have always had access to secondary education, the increase in enrollment rates and
improvement in completion rates is increasing equity of opportLnity. Subcomponent: 2.1 Planning and
providing additional school places.
Component 3: Strengthening Educational Management. Its objective is to provide increasingly
autonomous schools with the institutional environment they need to make timely, relevant and infonned
decisions to improve student outcomes. This framework includes a more transparent qualification system
for school managers, a strengthening of regionally-based school support services, and centrally
adminiistered evaluation system which infonns political leaders, managers, teachers and parents
throughout the public system whether academic standards are being achieved. Institutional strengthening



3
PID
for project coordination and implementation are also included.  Subcomponents: 3.1 Strengthening
Educational Assessment, 3.2 Institutional strengthening of Educational Management; 3.3 Financing
project management; and, 3.4 Project monitoring and impact evaluation
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($40.00)
IBRD ($60.00)
Total Project Cost: $100.00
6. Implementation
The implementation arrangements that are in place for Phase 1 will continue into Phase 2. The Bahia
Education Program is expected to be implemented over a 5 year period, from April 2001 (Project I
effectiveness) through July 2006 (Project 2 closing). Project I is expected to close in June 2003, while
Project 2 will likely become effective in July 2003.
The SEC Bahia is the principal executing agency for the program. SEC's main responsibilities
include: (a) financial oversight of the program; (b) coordination with line departments, regional
offices and external agencies responsible for program activities; (c) coordination with municipal
governments participating in the program; and (d) overall monitoring and evaluation activities to
ensure program quality and effectiveness.  Overall responsibility for program implementation
will continue to rest with COPE.
7. Sustainability
The Bahia Education Program is an integral part of a larger education investment plan designed by the
state government. Program objectives support government policies and are the product of the
consultation process. Political coimnitment to the Program at the state level, therefore, is high.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Following the lessons learned from the design and implementation process of the Northeast Basic
Education Projects, prior Bank experience in Brazil, sector work, and other international experience, the
Bahia Education Program incorporates those aspects that were successful in achieving their intended
objectives, avoiding those aspects that, upon evaluation, were deemed incomplete or unattainable More
specifically, the project reflects the following lessons: (i) School Autonomy; (n) Minimum Operational
Standards; (iii) Accelerated Classes for grades 5-8; (iv) Night Schools; and, (v) Student assessment.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : The second phase of the Program will include the construction of 104 classrooms,
whlich is not expected to cause significant negative environmental impacts. The methodology for
screening of small infrastructure projects to ensure proper siting and design, followed by proper
construction practices, operation and supervision will ensure compliance with OP 4.01. The construction
manual has taken into account chance find protocols to comply with OPN 11.03 and has been posted on
the website of the implementing agency. Residents near the schools will be consulted during the
screening and construction phases of the schools.
The project intents to build one school (with at least 6 classrooms) in the reservation area pertainilg to
the Tupinamba de Olivenca group. In addition the project will provide appropriate and specialized
teaching and learming materials for 38 indigenous schools. The project also plans to provide equipment
and furmiture for 38 indigenous classrooms. A consultative process managed by the Secretary of



4
PID
Education together with local representatives was held in which the indigenous group expressed their
desire for official classroom and schools in their community.
10. List of factual technical documents:
1.     Exame Nacional do Ensino Medio: 1998. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais
- INEP, Brasilia, 1998.
2.     Avaliac,o de Concluintes do Ensino Medio: 1997. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1998.
3.     Ensino M6dio e Educa,co Profissional no Estado da Bahia: Diagnostico Elementos Estrategicos:
Convenio entre a Secretaria de Educacao do  Estado da Bahta e Instituto Miguel Calmon. Altiplanos
Planejamento Engenharia e Consultoria Ltda.
4.     Financiamento da educa,co b6sica: Um estudo de receitas e gastos das redes de ensino da Bahia:
1998. Universidade Federal da Bahia:    Faculdade de Educac,o/Programa de Pos-Gradua,ao em
Educacao, Centro de Estudos Interdisciplinares para o Setor Publico - ISP.
5.     Determina,co de Custos Educacionais: Uma Analise Panoramica do Estado da Arte: 1998.
Robert E. Verhine, Universidade Federal da Bahia
6.     Diretrizes Curriculares Nacionais Para o Ensino M6dio: 1998. Conselheira Guiomar Namo de
Mello: Ministerio da Educacao e do Desporto - Conselho Nacional de Educa,co.
7.     Redirecionamento do Ensino Medio e Profissional do Estado do Bahia -Diretrizes-: 1996-1998.
Governo do Estado da Bahia, Secretaria da  Educacao - SEC, Departamento de Ensino - DEE.
8.     Projeto da Educa,ao do Estado da Bahia Ensino Medio -Estudos Preliminares- Linha de A,ao
IA: Acoes Preparat6rias: 1: Julho 1998.        Secretaria da Educacao - SEC, Supermtendencia
de Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento de Desenvolvimnento Educacional -
DESEN.
9      Projeto da Educacao do Estado da Bahia Ensino M6dio -Estudos Preliminares- Linha de Acao
IA. Ac,oes Preparat6rias- 2, 2, IV, V: Julho 1998.  Secretaria da Educa,co - SEC, Superintendencia
de Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento de Desenvolvimento Educacional -
DESEN.
10.    Projeto da Educa,ao do Estado da Bahia Ensino M6dio -Estudos Preliininares- Ltnha de Acao
IA A,oes Preparat6rias: Vfli. Julho 1998.  Secretaria da Educacao - SEC, Superintendencia de
Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento de Desenvolvimento Educacional - DESEN.
11.    Projeto da Educacao do Estado da Bahia Ensino M6dio -Estudos Prehminares- Linha de Apao
IA: Acoes Preparat6rias: VI: Julho 1998.       Secretaria da Educa,io - SEC, Superintendrncia
de Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento de Desenvolvimento Educacional -
DESEN.
12.    Projeto da Educa,ao do Estado da Bahia Ensino Medio -Estudos Preliminares- Linla de Acao
113 Acoes Preparat6rias: XIH e XIV Julho 1998  Secretaria da Educac,ao - SEC, Superintend&ncia
de Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento de Desenvolvimento Educacional -
DESEN.
13.    Projeto da Educa,ao do Estado da Bahia Ensino Medio -Estudos Preliminares- Linha de Acao 2:
Ac,oes Preparat6rias: IV: Julho 1998.    Secretaria da Educac,o - SEC, Superintendencia de
Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento de Desenvolvimento Educacional - DESEN.
14.    Projeto da Educa,co do Estado da Bahia Ensino M6dio -Estudo- Linlia de A,ao: Componente 1
Setembro 1998. Secretaria da Educac,o -  SEC, Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento
Educacional - SUD, Departamento de Desenvolvimento Educacional - DESEN.
15.    Brazil: A Call to Action: Combating School failure in the Northeast of Brazil. 1997. Ministry of
Education/Northeast Basic Education Project - The World Bank - UNICEF.
16.    Piano Nacional de Educac,o Brasilia, 1998
17.    Evoluc,o da Educac,o Basica no Brasil: 1991-1997. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas



5
PID
Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
18.    Fundo de Manutencao e Desenvolvimento do Ensino Fundamental e de Valorizacao do
Magist6rio: guia para sua operacionalizaq5o. Ministerio da Educacao e do Desporto -MEC, Fundo
Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educacao FNDE, Sao Paulo 1997.
19.    Carta Lei Darcy Ribeiro no. 9 394, de 1996: emendas a constituicao nos. 11 e 14, de 1996 e Lei
9.424, de 1996, Diretrizes e Bases da Educacao Nacional. Gabinete do Senador Darcy Ribeiro, Brasilia,
1997.
20.    Sistematica de Financiamento do Ensino Fundamental. Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da
Educacao, FNDE, Minist6rio da Educacao e do Desporto -MEC, Brasilia, 1997
21     Dinheiro na Escola: procedimentos operacionais. Ministerio da Educacao e do Desporto - MEC,
Brasilia. 1997.
22.    Manual de Orientacao para Constituiqco de Unidades Executoras. MEC - Secretaria de Educacao
Fundamental, Brasilia, 1997.
23.    Sistema Nacional de Avaliaiao da Educacao Basica, SAEB/95: resultados estaduais. Instituto
Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
24.    Ditos sobre a Evasao Escolar: estudos de casos no estado da Bahia. Paulo Roberto Holanda
Gurgel Ministeno da Educacao e do Desporto - MEC, Projeto de Educacao Basica para o Nordeste,
Brasilia, 1997.
25     Educacao, Escola e Comunidade. estudo piloto no estado da Bahia Adelia Luiza Portela and Eni
Santana Barretto Bastos. Minist&rio da   Educacao e do Desporto - MEC, Projeto de EducacAo
BAsica para o Nordeste, Brasilia, 1997.
26.    Chamada A Acao. combatendo o fracasso escolar no Nordeste. Projeto Nordeste, Banco Mundial,
UNICEF, Brasilia 1997.
27.    Liq6es e Praticas 1-13. Varias Autores, Projeto Nordeste, Banco Mundial, UNICEF, Brasilia
1997.
28.    Guia de Consulta, Programa de Apoto aos Secretarios Municipais de EducacAo (PRASEM).
Projeto Nordeste, Banco Mundial, UNICEF,       Brasilia 1997.
29.    Lessons from New American Schools' Scale-Up Phase, Susan R. Bodilly, Rand Corporation,
1998
30.    Design-Based Assistance as a Cornerstone of a School Improvement Strategy, Thomas K.
Glennan, Jr., New Amencan Schools. 1997.
31.    How to Create Incentives for Design-Based Schools, Paul T Hill, New American Schools, 1997.
32.    How to Engage Educators, Parents, and the Community in Design-Based School Change, NAS,
1997
33.    Blueprints for School Success. A Guide to New American Schools Designs, Educational
Research Service, 1998
34     Creatmg World Class Schools: A Progress Report on the Memphis City Schools, Memphis City
Schools, 1997.
35    Indigenous Education Development Plan. Bahia State Secretariat of Education, 2002.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Alberto Rodriguez
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone (202) 458 7821
Fax: (202) 522 1201



6
PID
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone. (202) 458-5454
Fax.   (202) 522-1500
Web http.// www.worldbank org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Cleared with: Mana Madalena dos Santos, Sector Leader, LCSHD; Joachim von Amsberg, Acting
Director, LCC5C



