ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorld Free of Poverty  3
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/07/2003                               25445
Section I - Basic Information                                   February 7, 2003
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BRAZIL                                  Project ID: P070827
Project: Bahia Integrated Development: Education Sector Task Team Leader: Alberto Rodriguez
Project (APL) - Phase 11
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 15, 2003    IBRD Amount ($m): 60.00
Bank Approval. April 22, 2003                    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSHE                             Sector. Primary education (80%); Secondary
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  education (20%)
Status: Lending                                  Theme: Education for all (P), Education for the
knowledge economy (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project is the second phase of the Bahia Education Adjustable Program Loan (APL), which seeks to
assist the Government of Bahia in its effort to improve the educational system and respond to the
demands and needs of the Bahian population. The program complements numerous Government actions
and focuses on improving fundamental and secondary school quality, increasing access to secondary
schools, and improving system management. The first phase of the 4.5-year (APL) was US$116 million
extended over 2.5 years, while the second phase is expected to disburse US$100 million over 2 years.
Most activities to be financed by the second phase are a natural continuation of those to be financed in
Project 1. The development objectives of the Bahia Education Project are to: (a) improve fundamental
and secondary school outcomes, as measured by improvements in dropout and promotion rates and
student performance on standardized tests; and (b) increase access to secondary school, as measured by
an increase in secondary enrollments. This phase will include the construction of 104 classrooms.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Through Project 1, the Government of Bahia: (a) provided minimum operation standards to schools in
poor municipalities; (b) designed and tested establishment of School Improvement Plans (PDE) in
primary schools, secondary schools, and regional offices; (c) initiated the provision of secondary school
places through reorganization of the system and some initial construction of classrooms and schools, and
(d) designed and implemented interventions to enhance system management (i.e. system-wide assessment
of students; selection, training, and certification of school leaders).
Through Project 2, the Govemment of Bahia will: (a) expand the implementation of PDEs in schools; (b)



2
ISDS
expand the provision of secondary school places; and (c) consolidate the student assessment and
leadership certification systems initiated in Project 1. The following table summarizes the activities
completed under Project I and those to be implemented under Project 2.
Components:
Component 1: Improving School Quality.It seeks to improve school quality by providing inputs to
bring state and municipal primary schools closer to meeting minimum operational standards, and increase
school autonomy for state and municipal primary and secondary schools by means of the school
development process. Subcomponents: 1.1 Assuring minimum operational standards for schools; 1.2
Supporting the implementation of School Development Plans (PDE); 1.3 Financing School Improvement
Projects (PME); 1.4 Implementing Accelerated Classes; 1.5 Expanding Gestar; and, 1.6 Improving
Indigenous Education.
Component 2: Expanding Access. Its objective is to assist Bahia in meeting the growing demand for
secondary education. As overall demand for enrollments within Bahia begins to shift from primary to
secondary, an ever increasing number of poor students will gain access to secondary education. As the
wealthy in Brazil have always had access to secondary education, the increase in enrollment rates and
improvement in completion rates is increasing equity of opportunity. Subcomponent. 2.1 Planning and
providing additional school places.
Component 3: Strengthening Educational Managementts objective is to provide increasingly
autonomous schools with the institutional environment they need to make timely, relevant and informed
decisions to improve student outcomes. This framework includes a more transparent qualification system
for school managers, a strengthening of regionally-based school support services, and centrally
administered evaluation system which informs political leaders, managers, teachers and parents
throughout the public system whether academic standards are being achieved. Institutional strengthening
for project coordination and implementation are also included.  Subcomponents: 3.1 Strengthening
Educational Assessment; 3.2 Institutional strengthening of Educational Management; 3.3 Financing
project management; and, 3.4 Project monitoring and impact evaluation
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Construction, rehabilitation, and expansion of secondary schools will be conducted throughout the state
of Bahia, on sites already selected through the micro-planning activities financed in the first phase of the
APL. Rehabilitation and expansion offundamental cycle schools will be conducted on existing school
sites
In addition, the project intents to build one school (with at least 6 classrooms) in the reservation area
pertaining to the Tupinamba de Oliven,a group (indigenous peoples), which has a population of roughly
1,700 individuals.
B. Chleck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments. This project is not expected to cause significant negative environmental impacts. It is important
to note that in 1999, the first phase of the APL was categorized as C, consistent with the trend at that time to
categorize all education projects as C. No changes in project activity scope have occurred to cause the



3
ISDS
project to be upgraded to a B, however recent advice from the LCR Quality Assurance Team indicates all
projects with new construction (no matter how minor) should be categorized as B.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    * Yes C No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                            C Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               C Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                0 Yes O No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       C' Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 C Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         O Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                C01 Yes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Environmental Impact As a result of school construction, minor environmental impacts are expected,
therefore OP 4.01 is triggered. Proper site screening will ensure that most other policies are not
triggered, such as resettlement. The construction manual has taken into account chance find protocols to
comply with OPN 11.03.
Indigenous People: For the issue of indigenous peoples, this project intents to build one school (with at
least 6 classrooms) in the reservation area pertaining to the Tupinamba de Oliven9a group. In addition the
project will provide appropriate and specialized teaching and learning materials for 38 indigenous
schools. The project also plans to provide equipment and furniture for 38 indigenous classrooms.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
This project will have no such impacts.
11 D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Alternatives in siting and design are addressed in the environmental screening and management,
described in the section below.
1I D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues



4
ISDS
In order to deal with any possible negative environmental impacts, the Government has proposed a
simple yet comprehensive environmental analysis method. The methodology follows international best
practice for small infrastructure projects, of applying checklists and matrices to ensure proper siting and
design, followed by proper construction practices, operation and supervision. The process is described
below
Sitin2
Proper siting is critical to avoid both unnecessary environmental impacts and unnecessary escalation in
project costs due to mid-stream design changes. A screening checklist has been prepared which
enumerates critical questions about possible sites, such as:
- is it in or near a natural park
- are there critical natural habitats
- is the area prone to flooding
- will the project affect any streams, rivers, springs
- are there people living nearby who might be affected
- is the area prone to natural disasters
- is there site access
- is there electricity at the site
- will the project cause impacts on surface water quality
- etc.
The school sites have already been identified through the microplanning exercise undertaken during
Phase I of the project. During Phase 11, the screening criteria will be applied to each site prior to
approval.
Identification of Mitigation Measures
The screening checklist is used to identify possible environmental impacts in each phase of the project
(design, construction and operation). Based on this, a matrix is produced where each impact is described,
mitigation measures are identified, and responsibilities, costs and monitoring indicators are assigned.
Mitigation measures could include recommendations for: i) siting within the chosen plot (i.e. away from
any streams, wetlands, roads); ii) design such as increasing sanitary facilities; iii) specific construction
practices not already included in the construction manual; and, iv) operational issues such as proper
solid waste management from the school. These mitigation measures are then included in the relevant
bidding documents, where applicable, or in operational manuals for the schools; for instance, measures in
the design to avoid contamination of nearby water bodies through proper sanitation, inclusion in the
contractor's bidding documents of measures to prevent stream contamination during construction, and
operational guidelines for the school for proper solid waste management.
Design Specifications
The schools which will be constructed have design specifications that include restrictions of material use
(no lead paint, no asbestos, etc.) and promotion of environmentally-friendly technologies (such as
wastewater recycling, use of natural ventilation and light to lower energy needs). Specific
recommendations for designs, both to mitigate any negative impacts and to take advantage of any
opportunities to enhance positive impacts, will be identified during the environmental screening.
Construction Manual
A construction manual has been produced describing good construction practices, including provisions
for: erosion control, pollution control, solid waste management, protection of cultural property,
restoration of roads, restriction of borrow pits and dumps, maintaining access and services, public
information, etc. The manual includes occupational health guidelines and first aid instructions.



5
ISDS
Adherence to the manual will be referenced in all bidding documents for works, whether for new
construction, expansion or rehabilitation.
Monitoring program
The implementing agency will follow up the environmental supervision and address activities required to
achieve the goals of the construction implementation plan.
Indi2enous Development Plan
The State Secretariat of Bahia has developed a detailed plan for improving the provision of educational
services to the indigenous population of Bahia. This indigenous Education Development Plan includes
three main sections: 1) Background/Context of Indigenous Population in Bahia, 2) Consultative Process
Description and 3) Plan for Attending to Indigenous Population (both within and outside the scope of the
Bahia Project.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Environmental Impact: The construction manual has been posted on the website of the implementing
agency. Residents near the schools will be consulted during the screening and construction phases of the
schools.
Indigenous People: A consultative process managed by the Secretary of Education together with local
representatives was held in which the indigenous group expressed their desire for official classroom and
schools in their community. This process is described in further detail in the Indigenous Development
Plan developed by SEC and found in the project files.
E. Safeguards Classiflcation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
] S3 - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              10/1/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          10/11/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           10/7/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework.                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable



6
ISDS
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              12/3/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          1/3/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           1/3/2003
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by      Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:            Alberto Rodriguez                           01/27/03
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                 Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                        01/28/03
Sector Manager/Director:     Marito H. Garcia                            01/27/03
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
.SEAR-4       JDWSiWO _W        iW5W 5S            EHOWCAiIO 



