Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7186-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Bahia Education Project 
–
Second Phase) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT  
 
and 
 
STATE OF BAHIA 
 
Dated December 15, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7186-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 2003, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF BAHIA 
(the Borrower). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated April 
24, 2000, describing a program designed to improve the Borrower's educational system 
(the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such 
program; 
(B)  
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through two loans over a period of approximately six years to 
be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program; 
 
(C)  
by an agreement dated February 12, 2001 between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the First Loan Agreement), the Bank granted to the Borrower a loan in a principal 
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-nine million six hundred thousand 
Dollars ($69,600,000) (the First Loan) to assist in financing of the first phase of the 
Program (the First Phase Project); 
 
(D) 
the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 
2
to this Agreement (the Project), which Project forms part of the second and last phase 
of the Program, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(E) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the payment
 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan); 
 
(F) 
the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated May 6, 2003
 
and 
supplemented by a letter dated June 10, 2003, describing a program designed to achieve 
an integrated development of the Borrower’s economic
 
and
 
social sectors (the Integrated 
Development Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of 
such program; and 
Page  3
-
2
-
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower in support of the second phase of the Program, upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 (a) 
“COPE” 
means 
 
Coordenação de Projetos Educacionais
,
the Borrower's 
agency for Coordination of Educational Projects established within SEC; 
 (b) 
“DIREC” means 
Diretorias Regionais de Educação
,
any of the 
Borrower's Regional Educational Directorates under SEC's jurisdiction; 
 (c) 
“Eligible  Municipality” means any of the municipalities listed in the 
PIP; 
 
(d) 
“FMR” or Financial Management Report means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
Fundamental Education” means the education provided in Brazil from 
grades 1 through 8 
(ensino fundamental
), as described in Articles 21 and 32 of the 
Guarantor's Law No. 9394, dated December 20, 1996; 
 
(f) 
“Indigenous Peoples Development Plan” means the Borrower’s plan for 
benefiting indigenous peoples under the Project as set forth in the document furnished by 
SEC to the Bank on November 21, 2002; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(g) 
“Minimum Operational Standards” means the minimum standards 
established by the Borrower for the operation of classrooms in Fundamental Education 
schools, as set forth in the PIP; 
 
(h) 
“Minimum Operational Standards Guidelines” means the guidelines for 
the implementation of minimal operational standards in public schools, issued by SEC 
and dated January 22, 2003, as such guidelines may be amended from time to time with 
the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(i) 
“PDD” means any of the DIREC’s
 
regional education development 
plans, as provided in the PIP, to complement activities developed under PDEs; 
 
(j) 
“PDE” means any of the plans for the improvement of a Fundamental 
Education school or a Secondary Education school, as the case may be, prepared by a 
School Subproject Implementing Entity as provided in the PIP; 
 
(k) 
“PDE Guidelines” means the guidelines for the implementation of PDEs 
in public schools, issued by SEC and dated January 22, 2003, as such guidelines may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(l) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the PIP; 
 
(m) 
“PIP” means the Project implementation plan, sent by the Borrower to 
the Bank on June 28, 2000, as revised on January 22, 2003, which contains, 
inter alia
,
the 
detailed procedures for the execution of the Project, including procurement and financial 
management requirements, screening requirements for environmental impact in the 
construction of schools, a construction manual with requirements for all construction 
under the Project, the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, performance indicators to 
measure the progress of the Project and the achievement of its objectives, and the 
procedures and other requirements for the carrying out of School Subprojects, and the 
models of School Performance Agreements, as such plan may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(n) 
“School Grant” means any of the transfers of funds referred to in Section 
3.01 (c) (i) of this Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“School Performance Agreement” means any of the arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(p) 
“School Subproject” means any of the rehabilitation works to be carried 
out under Part A.1 of the Project, or any of the school improvement projects to be carried 
out under Part A.3 of the Project; 
 
(q) 
“School Subproject Implementing Entity” means any state or municipal 
school with financial autonomy (a school which has a 
caixa escolar
), which carries out a 
School Subproject; 
 (r) 
“SEC” 
means 
Se
cretaria da Educação
,
the Borrower's Secretariat of 
Education;  
(s) 
“Secondary Education” means the education provided in Brazil from 
grades 9 through 11 (
ensino médio
), as described in Articles 21 and 35 of the Guarantor's 
Law No. 9394, dated December 20, 1996; 
 (t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of  
this Agreement; and 
 (u) 
“SUCAB” 
means 
Superintendência de Construções Administrativas da 
Bahia,
 the Borrower’s civil works agency. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to sixty million 
Dollars ($60,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  (a)
 
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and 
any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms 
Page  6
-
5
-
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section
 
2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
 
portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
 
Guidelines.  
 (c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10. The Borrower’s Secretary of Education and any person or persons 
whom he or she shall designate in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through SEC, with the assistance of SUCAB in respect of Parts A.6 and B of the 
Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, educational, and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the PIP, the Performance 
Indicators, and the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(c) 
For purposes of the carrying out of any School Subproject, the Borrower 
shall enter into arrangements with a School Subproject Implementing Entity (the School 
Performance Agreement), substantially in accordance with the model set forth in the PIP, 
providing, inter alia, for: (i) the terms and conditions of the transfer of funds (the School 
Grant) from the Borrower to such School Subproject Implementing Entity for the 
financing of the School Subproject; and (ii) the obligation of the School Subproject 
Implementing Entity to carry out the School Subproject in accordance with the provisions 
of the PIP and the PDE Guidelines or the Minimum Operational Standards Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain COPE, throughout Project 
implementation, with responsibility for the management, monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project and assisted, for purposes of the Project, by technical and professional staff, 
including a Project manager, a financial expert and three procurement experts, with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, through SEC, during the execution of the 
Project: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis and in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project (including the School Subprojects) and the achievement of its 
objectives; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30 and December 31 of each 
year, commencing June 30, 2004, a progress report on the execution of the Project during 
the six-month period immediately preceding the date of each such report, said report to 
be of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request and to include the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section; and 
 
(c) 
review, jointly with the Bank, not later than July 31 and January 31 of 
each year, commencing July 31, 2004, the progress of the Project in the context of the 
Integrated Development Program
,
and the attainment of the Project objectives on the 
basis of the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and shall, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
Page  9
-
8
-
achievement of its objectives, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
reports, and the Bank's views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall, through SEC: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain in SEC a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
 (b) 
The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B)  an 
opinion 
on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and  
Page  10
-
9
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records  and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:  
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;  
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;  
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and  
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  11
-
10
-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Loan has been validly registered 
with the Central Bank of Brazil. 
 
Section 5.02. The date March 15, 2004, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the Secretary 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaria da Fazenda 
 
Av. Luís Viana Filho, 260 - Centro Administrativo da Bahia 
 
2a. Avenida, 260 
 
41520-300 Salvador, Bahia 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-71) 370-8802 
 
With copies to: 
 
Secretaria da Educação 
 
Av. Luís Viana Filho – Centro Administrativo da Bahia 
 
5a. Avenida, 550 
 
 
 
41746-900 Salvador, Bahia 
 
Brazil 
        
 
Facsimile: (55-71) 371-5650 
 
Secretaria do Planejamento, Ciência e Tecnologia 
 
Av. Luís Viana Filho, 250 - Centro 
 
Administrativo da Bahia 
 
2a. Avenida, 250 
 
41746-900 Salvador, Bahia 
 
Brazil 
 Facsimile: 
(55-71) 
370-3945 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5 andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 225-4022 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Salvador, State of Bahia, Brazil, as of  the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Vinod Thomas 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF BAHIA 
 
By /s/ Paulo Ganem Souto 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
(Expressed in 
% of Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)  Works (except those under 
2,900,000 
70% 
 
Categories (4), (5) and (6) below) 
 
 
 
(2)  Goods (except those under 
23,100,000 
70% 
 
Categories (4), (5) and (6) 
 below) 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
8,600,000 
70% 
 (except 
those 
under 
 
Category (4) below) 
 
(4)  School Grants 
14,300,000 
70% of the cost 
 
of
goods, works, 
 
consultants’ services 
 
and training financed 
 
by
the respective 
 
School Grant 
 
(5)  Training (except those 
400,000 
70% 
 
under Category (4) above) 
 
(6) Incremental operational 
2,700,000 
70% 
 costs 
 
 
(7)  Front-end fee 
600,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
(Expressed in 
% of Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(8)  Premia for Interest 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
Rate Collars 
 
this Agreement 
 
(9) Unallocated 
7,400,000
TOTAL 60,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term "incremental operational costs" means reasonable costs incurred 
(which would not have been incurred absent the Project) in the daily implementation, 
management, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, such as costs of office supplies, 
communication services, maintenance of facilities and equipment, and staff  per diem and 
transportation; and 
 (b) 
the term “training” means expenditures (other than consultants’ services) 
incurred in connection with the provision of training under Parts A, C and D of the 
Project, including the reasonable travel cost and per diem of the trainees. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: 
 
(a) 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, 
in an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000, may be made on account of payments 
made for expenditures incurred within one year prior to the date of this Agreement, but 
not before December 31, 2002; 
 
(b) 
any expenditures for goods, works and services also financed by the First 
Loan, until the proceeds of the First Loan have been fully disbursed or committed; and 
 
(c) 
any expenditures under Parts C.2 and C.4 of the Project. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures under: 
Page  16
-
15
-
(a) 
incremental operational costs, training and School Grants; 
 
(b) 
contracts for goods costing less than $250,000 equivalent (except the 
first two contracts); 
 
(c) 
contracts for works (except the first two contracts to be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 (a) (ii) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement); 
 
(d) 
consulting firms' contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent; and 
 
(e) 
individual consultants' contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the quality of Fundamental and 
Secondary Education services and to increase the access of students to Secondary 
Education schools, in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
School Quality Improvement
1. 
Carrying out of a survey of the infrastructure and educational assets of the 
Borrower’s Fundamental Education schools located in the Eligible Municipalities and 
upgrading of such schools, as necessary, to attain Minimum Operational Standards, 
including the provision of materials and equipment, and the carrying out of minor 
maintenance works (financed by School Grants) in order to bring such schools up to the 
Minimum Operational Standards. 
2. 
Carrying out of PDEs in Fundamental Education schools which are located in the 
Eligible Municipalities and which enroll more than 200 students, and in all public 
Secondary Education schools in the territory of the Borrower, including the provision of 
technical assistance for: (a) training of selected school staff in the preparation of the 
PDEs; (b) mobilization of school personnel and the broader school community for the 
support of the PDEs; and (c) evaluation and monitoring of the implementation of the 
PDEs. 
3. 
Provision of grants to School Subproject Implementing Entities for the financing 
of school improvement projects set forth in the corresponding PDEs, and consisting of 
acquisition of goods, carrying out of minor construction works, and provision of technical 
assistance. 
4. 
Implementation of a program to strengthen the academic performance of over-
age students and reduce age-grade distortions in Fundamental Education, through 
accelerated classes for over-age students, including the provision of technical assistance 
in teacher training and curriculum design. 
5. 
Implementation of a curriculum and in-service training program for teachers, in 
particular in mathematics and Portuguese. 
Page  18
-
17
-
6. 
Construction of one school with at least six classrooms in the lands of the 
Tupinamba de Olivença
 indigenous people, and the establishment of Minimum 
Operational Standards in additional 38 classrooms of community schools of indigenous 
peoples, including the provision of teaching and learning materials to students and 
teachers in all such classrooms, the provision of computers in seven of such schools and 
training of teachers and school staff. 
Part B
:
Expanding Access to Secondary Education
Construction of about 104 new classrooms for Secondary Education in 
underserved areas of the 
Borrower’s territory. 
Part C
:
Education Management Strengthening
1. 
Implementation of a student achievement assessment program for the Borrower's 
Fundamental Education schools. 
2. 
Consolidation of a certification system for school principals and other specialized 
staff through, 
inter alia
,
training of such staff. 
3. 
Monitoring of the implementation of PDDs and provision of technical assistance 
to DIRECs for achieving the goals set forth in their respective PDDs. 
4. 
Implementation of a program designed to strengthen the management autonomy 
of Secondary Education schools. 
5
Consolidation, at the school level, of the Borrower's information system for the 
management of the Borrower's education sector. 
Part D
:
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance and
 
training, of the 
Borrower’s capacity to develop integrated policies and to manage and monitor the 
Project. 
2. 
Carrying out of studies to evaluate the impact of the Project. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %
)
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning November 15, 2008 through May 15, 2018 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal
 
in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Page  20
-
19
-
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. 
 
(c) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
(i) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount of $3,500,000 equivalent, 
may; and 
(ii) works 
shall, 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
In the procurement of goods and works under this Part C.1, bidding 
documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be used. Without limitation to any 
other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following shall apply to 
the procurement of goods and works to be undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1: 
(i) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be 
based on price and, whenever appropriate, to also take into 
account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of 
the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, 
and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in 
the invitation to bid; 
(ii) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be 
advertised for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of 
wide circulation in Brazil; 
(iii) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(
consórcios
)
of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in 
advance by the Bank in each case; 
(iv) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of 
acceptance of bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the 
contract prices; and 
(v) 
there shall not be, without the Bank's prior approval, issuance of 
any change order under a contract which would increase or 
Page  23
-
22
-
decrease by more than 15% the quantity of works or goods (and 
related  services), as the case may be, without any change in the 
unit prices or other terms and conditions of such contract. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $3,000,000 equivalent (in the case of goods not included in School 
Subprojects), may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or 
national shopping procedures, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, including as a form of such shopping, the 
bidding 
(pregão)
 procurement system 
set forth in the Guarantor’s Law No. 10.520 of July 
17, 2002. 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract under the 
School Subprojects or to be procured in the case of re-bidding of lots initially procured 
through national competitive bidding procedures under Part C.1 hereof, may be procured 
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts in any 12-month 
period during the execution of the Project, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
during such period shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  
Procurement of all goods and works during such period shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  24
-
23
-
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost $250,000 
equivalent or more; and (b) the first two contracts for works procured under Part C.1 (a) 
(ii) of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultan
ts’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services for the Project, estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  25
-
24
-
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Single Source Selection
Services for school surveys and
 
impact evaluation studies under Parts A.1 and 
D.2 of the Project which are estimated to cost less than $970,000 equivalent in the 
aggregate may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines and not exceeding in the aggregate 
$10,500,000 equivalent shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every twelve months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
Page  26
-
25
-
only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $6,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  28
-
27
-
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
Page  29
-
28
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
