                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000692




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-71860)

                                     ON AN

                         ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 60.0 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                                STATE OF BAHIA

                WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE

                              REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                      FOR A

                          BAHIA EDUCATION PROJECT

                 IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE OF THE

                         BAHIA EDUCATION PROGRAM


                                December 19, 2007




Human Development Management Unit
Country Management Unit for Brazil
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective November 16, 2007)

                 Currency Unit = Brazilian Real
                      R$ 1.00 = US$ 0,5727
                      US$ 1.00 = R$ 1,746

                        FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 ­ December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL          Adaptable Program Loan
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
COPE         Coordenação de Projetos Especiais
DIREC        Diretoria Regional de Educação
DO           Development Objective
FUNDEB       Fundo de Manutenção e Desenvolvimento da Educação Básica
             e de Valorização dos Profissionais da Educação
FUNDEF       Fundo de Manutenção e Desenvolvimento do Ensino
             Fundamental e de Valorização do Magistério
FY           Fiscal Year (Ano Fiscal)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GEP          Sistema de Gerenciamento de Projeto
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
INEP         National Institute for Study and Research
IPP          Indigenous Peoples Plan
IRR          Internal Rate of Return
LCSFM        Latin America and Caribbean Financial Management Sector
LCSHE        Latin America and Caribbean Education Sector
LCSPT        Latin America and Caribbean Procurement Team Sector
LCSSO        Latin America and Caribbean Social Sector
LOAFC        Disbursement, Loan Client & Financial Services Division
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MEC          Ministry of Education
MOS          Minimum Operational Standards
NAE          Núcleo de Atendimento Educacional
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
NPV          Net Present Value
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PDE          School Development Plan
PDO          Project Development Objectives
PEB          Projeto de Educação da Bahia
PME          School Improvement Plan

PMU                 Project Management Unit
PPA                 Pluri-Annual Plan
SAEB                Sistema de Avaliação da Educação Básica
SEC                 Secretariat of Education and Culture
SUCAB               Superintendência de Construções Administrativas da Bahia
UFBA                Federal University of Bahia




         Vice President: Pamela Cox
       Country Director: John Briscoe
        Sector Manager: Eduardo Velez Bustillo
    Project Team Leader: Alberto Rodriguez
      ICR Team Leader: Daniela Pena de Lima

                                                BRAZIL
                            Second Bahia Education Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 23
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 23
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 26
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 28
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 29
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 30
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 31
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 33
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 34
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 38
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 39
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 49
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 50
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Bahia Education
Country:                Brazil                Project Name:         Project (APL) - Second
                                                                    Phase
Project ID:             P070827               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-71860
ICR Date:               12/20/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:             THE STATE OF
                                                                    BAHIA
Original Total
                        USD 60.0M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 60.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Secretary of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/15/2003    Effectiveness:       01/23/2004         01/23/2004
Appraisal:             01/15/2003    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/30/2003    Mid-term Review:     05/02/2005         09/09/2005
                                     Closing:             12/31/2006         06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  High
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators            (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Primary education                                               80                50
Secondary education                                             20                50


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for all                                              Primary         Primary
Education for the knowledge economy                            Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                        David de Ferranti
Country Director:         John Briscoe                      Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager:           Eduardo Velez Bustillo            Ana-Maria Arriagada
Project Team Leader:      Alberto Rodriguez                 Alberto Rodriguez
ICR Team Leader:          Daniela Pena De Lima
ICR Primary Author:       Katherine H. Hovde
                          Daniela Pena De Lima



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Improve fundamental and secondary school outcomes, as measured by improvements in
dropout and promotion rates and student performance on standardized tests; and to
increase access to secondary school, as measured by an increase in secondary
enrollments.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                              ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                               approval         Target        Completion or
                                              documents)        Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Reduce secondary and fundamental cycle drop out rates by 6 and 3 percentage
                points respectively.

                                          For secondary:                   For secondary:
Value           For secondary: 21.6%                                       20.9%
quantitative or For fundamental: 16.4%    15.6%                            For fundamental:
Qualitative)    (1999 data)               For fundamental:
                                          13.4%                            15.9%

Date achieved 06/30/1999                  12/31/2006                       06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Impact study projection for 2006
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Increase promotion rates of fundamental cycle students by 15 percentage points
Value
quantitative or 69.4%                     84.4%                            64.6%
Qualitative)    (1999 data)

Date achieved 06/30/1999                  12/31/2006                       06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Impact study projection for 2006
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Increase promotion rates in secondary education by 11 percentage points
Value
quantitative or 70.4%                     81.4%                            66.7%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/1999                  12/31/2006                       06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Impact study projection for 2006
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Increase net secondary enrollments by 14 percentage points
Value
quantitative or 15.3%                     29.3%                            30.2%
Qualitative)    (2000 data)

Date achieved 06/30/2000                  12/31/2006                       06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Impact study projection for 2006
achievement)

Indicator 5 :   Increase average performance of secondary and fundamental cycle students in
                Portuguese and Math by 5%
Value           Math 4th grade: 168.67    Math 4th grade:                  Secondary students,
quantitative or Portuguese 4th grade:     177.10                           Port.: -2%;
Qualitative)    157.2                     Portuguese 4th                   Secondary students,



                                               iii

               Math 8th grade: 240.35     grade: 165.5                      Math: -.3%;
               (1999 SAEB data)           Math 8th grade:                   Fundamental
               Portuguese 8th grade:      252.37                            students, 4th grade,
               229.2                      Portuguese 8th                    Port.: -8.2%;
               Math 11th grade: 267.6     grade: 237.1                      Fundamental
               Portuguese 11th grade:     Math 11th grade:                  students, 4th grade,
               255                        280.4                             Math: -7.7%;
                                          Portuguese 11th                   Fundamental
                                          grade: 268.32                     students, 8th grade,
                                                                            Port.: -.6%;
                                                                            Fundamental
                                                                            students, 8th grade,
                                                                            Math: -3.6%
Date achieved 06/30/1999                  12/31/2006                        06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       SEC estimates from SAEB 1999-2005 (adjusted)
achievement)

Indicator 6 :  Increase promotion rates of fundamental cycle students residing in the 100
               poorest municipalities by 10 percentage points
Value
quantitative or68.87%                     78.87%                            64.3%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/1999                  12/31/2006                        06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Impact study Projection for 2006
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                       Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised      Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Number of school places created for secondary education students
Value
(quantitative  0                          104                               130
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000                  12/31/2006                        06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Education professional staff under the certification process
Value
(quantitative  0                          20,000                            31,383
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000                  12/31/2006                        06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Results include re-certification of 2.173 school principals
achievement)


                                                iv

Indicator 3 :  Accelerated classes implemented
Value
(quantitative  0                         18,000                             22,231
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000                 12/31/2006                         06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Schools receiving financing for their School Development Plans

Value                                    secondary schools:                 secondary schools:

(quantitative  0                         600;                               767;

or Qualitative)                          fundamental                        fundamental
                                         schools: 2,500                     schools: 2,560
Date achieved 06/30/2000                 06/30/2007                         06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 5 :  Percentage of state schools in municipalities of Educar para vencer where
               Student Assessment Program has been implemented
Value
(quantitative  0                         100%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000                 12/31/2006                         06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Minimum operation standards in classrooms
Value
(quantitative  0                          2.100                             7.188
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000                 12/31/2006                         06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :  PME transfers completed in secondary and fundamental schools
Value
(quantitative  0                         secondary: 638                     secondary: 767

or Qualitative)                          fundamental: 493                   fundamental: 460

Date achieved 06/30/2000                 12/31/2006                         06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :  Teachers trained by GESTAR methodoly
Value
(quantitative  0                          6,000                             6,040
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000                 12/31/2006                         06/30/2007
Comments



                                              v

(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 9 :  Indigenous education improved by means of classrooms constructed, with
               minimum operational standards, and schools with better educational materials
                                       classrooms                        classrooms

Value                                  constructed: 6;                   constructed: 6;

(quantitative  0                       classrooms with                   classrooms with

or Qualitative)                        MOS: 38; schools                  MOS: 58; schools
                                       with educational                  with educational
                                       materials: 38                     materials: 46
Date achieved 06/30/2000               12/31/2006                        06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                              Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived             DO                         IP               Disbursements
                                                                          (USD millions)
  1     08/20/2003         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     10/02/2003         Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory                  0.00
  3     01/30/2004         Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory                  0.60
  4     06/04/2004         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    10.11
  5     08/23/2004         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    13.11
  6     02/28/2005         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    24.30
  7     12/05/2005         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    38.89
  8     05/31/2006         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    54.39
  9     10/02/2006         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    57.58
  10    05/03/2007         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    58.23



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                            vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Bahia Education Project II was the second of a five year, two-phase Adaptable
Program Loan (APL) designed to help the Government of the state of Bahia improve
educational outcomes at both the fundamental1 and secondary school levels, as well as
improve access to secondary schooling. The first of the two loans was approved on
December 20, 2000 and closed on June 30, 2003 having met or exceeded the triggers for
the second loan.2 The Bahia Education II Project was approved on June 10, 2003.

The Bahia Education I and II Projects were almost identical in design, with the second
Project expanding upon activities begun in the first. Both emphasized improving school
outcomes and student achievement levels in one of the poorest and most populous states
in Brazil. Located in the Northeast of Brazil, Bahia was home to an estimated 4 million
people living below the poverty line at the time the Project was developed.3 Enrollment
at both the fundamental and secondary levels in Bahia was lower than the countrywide
average, and only four percent of the adult population in Bahia had completed secondary
school. The quality of education in Bahia was poor, with achievement levels well below
the national average, particularly at the fundamental level.4 Age-grade distortion was
also extraordinarily high, with over 62 percent of students enrolled in the fundamental
cycle older than the ideal for the grade.5 This high percentage of age-grade distortion
was attributable to a combination of late-entry of children to school and high rates of
repetition of grades.

Changes in federal education funding formulas as well as legal clarification of the roles
of the federal, states, and municipal governments in the provision of education helped
move the importance of education investment and management to the forefront
countrywide by the late 1990s.6 Enrollment in the fundamental cycle of education in
Bahia increased more than 50 percent between 1996 and 1998, while the transfer of
responsibilities for the provision of education for grades 1-4 to municipalities also
increased, such that by 1998, municipalities were responsible for more than 60 percent of



1The Brazilian "fundamental" cycle incorporates grades 1-8.

2See World Bank Report #27018 ­ Implementation Report on the first phase of the Bahia Education Project.


3See PAD for Second Bahia Education Project, Annex 11, p.73.


4See Project impact study: Consórcio Bahia Maior, Avaliação de Impactos do P.E.B. Relatório Final. São Paulo, November 2006,
p.27.


5As of 2002. See Consórcio Bahia Maior, "Avaliação do Impacto do Projeto de Regularização de Fluxo nas Taxas de Distorção
Idade-Serie," Sao Paulo, November 2006, p. 55.


6A new National Education Law clarifying these responsibilities was issued in 1996. A new federal funding formula (FUNDEF) was
defined in 1996 and began implementation in 1998.




                                                                1

public fundamental cycle students.7 By 1999, the incoming state administration in Bahia
had made the improvement of education and rationalization of investment a priority
(through the Educar para Vencer program), as well as launching a statewide program
aimed at improving public services and conditions in the 100 poorest municipalities (Faz
Cidadão!). Both the Bahia Education I and II Projects were designed to support these
efforts.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objectives of the Bahia Education Program (supported by both the
Bahia Education I and II Projects) were to: (a) improve fundamental and secondary
school outcomes, as measured by improvements in dropout and promotion rates and
student performance on standardized tests; and (b) increase access to secondary school,
as measured by an increase in secondary enrollments.                                      The Program performance
indicators,8 to be achieved by June 2006 were to:

     · Reduce secondary and fundamental cycle drop-out rates by 6 and 3 percentage
           points, respectively;
     · Increase promotion rates of fundamental cycle students by 15 percentage points;
     · Increase promotion rates of secondary cycle students by 11 percentage points;
     · Increase net secondary enrollment rates by 14 percentage points;
     · Increase average performance of secondary and fundamental cycle students in
           Portuguese and Math by 5 percent;
     · Increase promotion rates of fundamental cycle students residing in the 100
           poorest municipalities by 10 percentage points.

The Project shared the Program's PDO as well as the above outcome indicators.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There were no revisions to Program development objectives or key indicators made
during the course of the Project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The principal beneficiaries of the Program were: (a) fundamental cycle students in both
state and municipal schools within poor municipalities, who were either in or entering
school between 2000 and 2006 in Bahia (419,428 students); (b) students in grades 1-8 in
state schools who had a history of repetition, and who benefited from accelerated classes



7O Projeto de Educação da Bahia: Um Estudo de Caso. Xavier, Antonio and Verhine, Robert. World Bank commissioned study.
March 2004, p. 6.


8Note that these indicators are for the entire program, encompassing both Bahia Education I and II, and the period from 2000-2006.
Impact indicators were not specified in the PAD for Bahia Education I, and triggers for the next phase were largely based on output
indicators and disbursement performance.



                                                                2

(over 1 million students); and (c) students in or entering state secondary schools from
2000 to 2006 in Bahia (approximately 1,259,416 students). Included in these numbers
but worth noting separately are an estimated 5,860 students from indigenous communities
benefiting from the indigenous education sub-component of the Project.

1.5 Original Components

Project-supported activities were divided into three components: (a) improving school
quality; (b) expanding access; and (c) strengthening educational management. Activities
by component are briefly summarized below:

(a) Improving School Quality

(i) Assuring minimum operational standards for schools: This activity focused on
ensuring adequate physical conditions in both state and municipal fundamental cycle
schools in the 100 poorest municipalities.                             The subcomponent encompassed both
provision of funds for small repairs, as well as equipment and furniture.

(ii) Supporting the implementation of school development plans (PDE):                                              This sub-
component supported Secretariat of Education and Culture (SEC) teams in working with
school staff and the school community to design, implement, and monitor individual
school improvement plans.

(iii) Financing school improvement projects (PME): This sub-component encompassed
evaluation and financing of small school improvement projects emerging from approved
school development plans.

(iv)    Implementing            accelerated         classes:           This      sub-component           supported            the
implementation of accelerated, or "catch-up" classes for overage children in grades 1-8.
Classes were to be held in regular schools, but were to have their own specialized training,
didactic material, and curriculum.

(v) Expanding Gestar program: Gestar was a curriculum and in-service teacher training
program developed by the Fundescola program 9 and aligned with recently issued
National Curriculum Parameters, and provided practical, usable materials geared to
improving the teaching of Mathematics and Portuguese.

(vi) Improving indigenous education: This sub-component included improving access
through additional classrooms, ensuring minimum operating standards for schools, and
the distribution of teaching and learning materials to schools serving Bahia's indigenous
communities.




9Fundescola is a federally sponsored program focused improving educational outcomes in poor states and municipalities of the North,
Northeast and Center-West. It has been supported by a series of World Bank Loans.




                                                                3

(b) Expanding Access

Planning and providing additional school places:                                       This component supported the
construction of additional secondary school classrooms in underserved areas, identified
and prioritized after a complete mapping of school demand and reorganization of existing
school places.

(c) Strengthening Educational Management

(i) Strengthening educational assessment:                                     This sub-component supported the
development of a statewide assessment system following the national SAEB model, but
allowing for school-level analysis. The system was to cover all urban schools within the
state system with 4th and 8th grades, and was offered for voluntary participation to
municipal schools.                The first phase Project (Bahia Education I) financed system
development and initial applications of the exams; this Project was to finance future
applications. Also included as part of this sub-component was the development of a
continuous assessment program for primary teachers (grades 1-4) to use with their classes.

(ii) Institutional strengthening of educational management: This sub-component included
the development and monitoring of regional-office supervision plans, certification
programs for school principals, literacy teachers, and other specialists, the piloting of
non-salary funds transfers to schools demonstrating sufficient management capacity,10
and support for the delivery and implementation of federally developed school-level
software management systems to state schools.

(iii) Financing Project management: The Project financed a Project management unit
(PMU) within the SEC.

(iv) Project monitoring and impact evaluation.                                     This subcomponent financed the
establishment of a project monitoring system, including data collection at schools, as well
as the project impact evaluation studies.

1.6 Revised Components

Components were not revised during the course of the Project, but an activity not initially
contemplated was added. At the request of the Borrower, the Loan Agreement was
amended on August 19, 2004 to include financial support for school busing under the
expanding access component, as well as to adjust reimbursement percentages to ease
difficulties with counterpart funding.




10This pilot was included as part of the Project, although the transfer of funds was to be done entirely from counterpart funds.




                                                                    4

1.7 Other significant changes

There were no other significant changes in Project design, implementation arrangements,
or funding allocations. The Project was granted a six-month extension to the original
closing date to permit the completion of several civil works. The standard four-month
grace period was granted in order to conclude loan disbursements.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Background Analysis: The Bahia I and II projects drew on a long history of World Bank
lending in and sector work on education in Brazil, much of which benefited from the
input and talent of Brazilian social scientists and policy makers.11 The projects were also
notable in including a cost-benefit analysis, something that few education projects did at
the time. The Project focus on the poorest municipalities within Bahia, on the importance
of bringing down age-grade distortion, on the quality of education, as well as on the need
to expand secondary schooling can all be traced to the extensive and high-quality
background analysis done in this sector.

It is the ICR team's view that the Project's background analysis was solid, with two
exceptions. The first of these has to do with the identification of risks. Although risks
were generally correctly identified and drew on the existing background analysis, the
potential impact of these problems or issues was at times understated. For example, the
preparation team rated as "moderate" the risk of: (a) school principals effectively
assuming the role of instructional leader and manager of their schools; (b) parents
committing to sending their children to school and fostering their engagement; and (c)
strengthened social policies that help ensure children stay in school. Project design
included elements intended to mitigate these risks; however, in retrospect, the ratings of
all these risks probably should have been "substantial" or even "high," in recognition that
many of these represent enormous challenges that are difficult for a single project to
address.

Second, an important distinction between the Bahia Education I and II Projects is that the
second Project (the subject of this ICR) included specific outcome indicators for the
whole of the program (the period covered by both Projects), while the first Project did not
specify these.            While the inclusion and monitoring of these impact targets is
commendable, the choice of indicators was risky and it also appears likely that some
were overestimated at appraisal. For example, a more conservative view of the impact of
the secondary expansion supported under the Project might have cautioned that an
increase of both achievement and promotion rates at the secondary level was unlikely to



11For example, the 1997 World Bank financed study: Brazil: A Call to Action: Combating School Failure in the Northeast of Brazil.
1997. Ministry of Education/Northeast Basic Education Project ­ The World Bank-UNICEF. Also Brazil: Secondary Education:
Time to Move Forward. World Bank, 2000.




                                                             5

occur in the short term. In fairness to the Bahia II Project preparation team, however, it
should be noted that it is notoriously hard to estimate the impact of a single project on
global education indicators that are also affected by factors external to project
investments, some of which are themselves difficult if not impossible to predict.
Changes in education also often have long lag times, longer than the typical World Bank-
financed project.

Project Design: As earlier noted, the Project was largely a continuation of activities
begun under the Bahia Education I Project. That Project was judged successful from an
implementation standpoint. The ICR completed in December 2003 rated the outcome as
highly satisfactory, Bank and Borrower performance both as highly satisfactory, the
institutional development impact as substantial, and the sustainability as likely.12Among
the positive lessons learned cited in the ICR were the experience to date with processes
designed to improve school autonomy (the PDE and PME processes), success with both
the institution of micro-planning and the establishment of minimum operational standards,
positive effects of the certification of school principals, the need to continue to address
low academic achievement levels and continued strong demand for secondary schooling.

Both Projects reflected lessons learned from other education programs within and beyond
Brazil. For example, the school development plan (PDE) and school improvement plan
(PME) were included based on other experiences in Chile, Uruguay and Brazil (under
Fundescola APL) supporting increased school autonomy as a means to improve
educational management and ultimately quality. The use of a minimum operational
standards framework to ensure equitable distribution of school infrastructure resources
stemmed from positive experience with a similar approach in the Fundescola Projects, as
did the use of microplanning to assess the need for additional classrooms and schools.
Bank studies of educational challenges in Brazil's Northeast guided the Project's strategy
to address age-grade distortion through accelerated classes for students; this type of class
had also been developed and successfully implemented by state and municipal
governments in other areas of Brazil. Finally, the implementation of a state-wide school-
level continuous assessment system was based on the successful implementation and
expansion of Brazil's national SAEB testing system, as well as efforts by other state
governments within Brazil.

Overall, the ICR team considers the Project design to be satisfactory. Two areas stand
out as possible oversights in the project design process. The first of these was the
decision to rely solely on the PDE/PME processes and on training principals for
instructional leadership at the secondary level, without addressing the skills and attitudes
of secondary teachers directly.13 The second was the decision to address the issue of SEC
institutional capacity and institutionalization of project activities during implementation



12Note that the ICR ratings system has since been changed, and this ICR follows the new ratings and format.


13The "Gestar" program, which had been developed and tested under the Fundescola program, was directed to teachers of grades 1-8
(fundamental cycle of education).




                                                                6

of the Project, rather than requiring a detailed plan up front. To require such a plan under
an APL when it had not initially been specified, however, would have been controversial
(please see further discussion below).

Government Commitment: Although the turnover of SEC leadership emerged as an issue
during implementation of the Project (see below), Government commitment to the
Project at the time of preparation and appraisal was high. As earlier noted, both the
Bahia I and II projects were designed to support wider Government initiatives and
programs, and the experience with the Bahia Education I Project during implementation
had been highly satisfactory. In the ICR team's view, Government commitment at the
time of appraisal was solid.

2.2 Implementation

Overall, Project implementation went remarkably smoothly, despite a number of
challenges. The majority of Project output objectives were achieved or exceed (see
Annex B) in a timely manner, with one six-month extension of the closing date of the
Loan Agreement in order to permit the completion of several civil works. Project
challenges included natural disaster, political turnover, budget freezes, exchange rate
fluctuations, and Project institutionalization with the SEC. A final aspect of Project
implementation that is relevant to Project outcomes is the fact that certain activities
supporting the Educar para Vencer Government program were rolled out gradually to
both state and municipal schools. Although the Project was designed to be state-wide,
not all schools or municipalities benefited from it over the same period of time. This fact
raises further questions about the usefulness of using state-wide education indicators for
measuring project impact (see further discussion in Section 6, below).

    (a) Natural Disaster: The building housing the SEC and the PMU suffered a major
        fire in late 2003, destroying Project offices, equipment and records. On the
        request of the SEC, the Bank helped restore normal SEC operations by financing
        the purchase of replacement computer equipment through Project funds.

    (b) Political turnover: Although there was political continuity at the level of the State
        Government, the position of Secretary of Education and Culture turned over six
        times during the course of the two Projects. While commitment to the Program
        was quite strong through the end of the first phase, SEC commitment at the
        highest level did not appear to be as consistent through the second phase.
        Concern about SEC commitment to the Project was reflected in the aide-
        memoires for the Project from late 2004 onwards. In September 2005, a Bank
        supervision mission approved a TOR for a general coordinator for the Educar
        para Vencer program, with the hope that this would help with Project
        institutionalization and raise the internal profile for Project activities; however,
        this position was never advertised or filled.

    (c) Budget crises: Some cuts to the education budget were imposed in late 2003, and
        counterpart funding continued to be particularly tight through 2004. In response,
        the SEC and the World Bank prepared an amendment to the Loan Agreement that


                                              7

          would permit more flexible use of counterpart funding through a reduction of
          counterpart funding percentages. This amendment to the Loan Agreement went
          into effect in August 2004. Bank supervision staff also met several times with
          state planning and finance agencies to discuss slow downs in transfers of funds
          for the Project, which helped to minimize this issue.

    (d) Exchange rate fluctuations: A strong drop in the value of the dollar against the
          real in 2005 also affected Project resources. In September 2005, Bank and
          Borrower mutually agreed to drop financing for student bussing a year after it was
          added,14 to put the small funds transfers to schools for non-salary expenditures on
          hold, and also to informally consider some of the PME funds as "contingency"
          funds, concentrating transfers in a smaller number of schools.

    (e) Institutionalization: This issue received early and persistent attention over the life
          of the Project, but progress was slow. Early in Project implementation, the SEC
          committed to preparing a step by step plan for diminishing the number of outside
          consultants and increasingly institutionalizing Project activities within existing
          SEC teams. This plan was finally completed in early 2005. As of September
          2005, the Bank supervision team sat down with each SEC leadership area to
          discuss the institutionalization plan, with specific advances and needs spelled out
          in the aide-memoire. In August of 2006, the Bank team again sat down with SEC
          leadership to discuss this issue. Institutionalization was also complicated by
          political turnover, as there was a change in state government in late 2006 and
          many SEC line staff familiar with the Project departed. Per the plan, several
          ongoing Project activities were to be taken over and decentralized to newly
          created, regionally-based, education service centers (Núcleos de Atendimento
          Educacional (NAE)), the first 12 of which were established in 2006. With the
          change in state government, however, the idea of the NAEs was abandoned.

Component specific challenges/actions:

    (a) Quality:          The combined effects of budgetary restrictions and exchange rate
          fluctuations hit Project activities aimed at promoting school planning (the PDE
          process) and financing of school-based projects (the PME process) particularly
          hard.       The implementation pace of these subcomponents, as well as the
          establishment of accelerated classes, slowed at points during the Project, although
          focused efforts by the Bank, the PMU, and the SEC were successful in bringing
          these activities back on track in terms of output indicators. The coordination of
          activities designed to improve quality also shifted over the course of the Project.
          While in the first Bahia Education Project quality investments were delivered to
          schools in a package, this tightly coordinated approach was largely abandoned in
          the second, for lack of support from top SEC officials.




14See discussion regarding the access component, below.




                                                         8

     (b) Access: There were some difficulties in working with state agency responsible
          for school construction (SUCAB), including delays in procurement, unanticipated
          cost changes, and construction delays. Several interagency meetings were held
          with Bank and SEC Project staff in efforts to address these problems. Despite the
          inclusion of school bussing as an eligible expense under the Project, this activity
          also encountered difficulties. As a minimum condition for financing bus contracts,
          the Bank required competitive contracting between two or more companies, and
          also required those companies to carry insurance. Most of the bus contracts did
          not meet these requirements, and the Project financed very little in this area. By
          mutual agreement, Project funds allocated toward bussing were re-assigned to
          other areas when counterpart funding became tight and exchange rate fluctuations
          began to affect Project funds.

     (c) Management: Several rounds of student testing occurred under the aegis of the
          Federal University of Bahia (UFBA) in the first phase of the Project and early in
          the second phase, but this arrangement fell apart in late 2004, due primarily to the
          anticipated cost of the renewed contract. The procurement process for hiring
          another evaluation agency was delayed, and in fact never completed during the
          rest of the Project tenure.15 State testing efforts did continue, however, through
          the contracting of individual consultants in 2005; there were no tests given in
          2006.16 The lower-than expected expenditures on component 3 (see Annex 1) are
          primarily due to the lack of spending on testing in 2006, plus the decision to halt
          the pilot transfer of non-salary expenditures to schools when counterpart funding
          became tight.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Project had a very strong monitoring and evaluation focus, covering three main
areas:       a) ongoing monitoring by the SEC/PMU; b) specific studies and interim
evaluation meant to inform and guide Project implementation; and c) a thorough Project
impact evaluation that included a beneficiary assessment along with quantitative
measures of impact. With regard to the first of these, the SEC designed a system for
regular monitoring of Project actions, including site visits to random samples of schools.
Bank staff gave feedback on this strategy in June 2004, and the system was in place and
in use by August 2004. Specific tools were developed for gathering a range of Project-
related information on the schools sampled, and a strong software package was put into
place to organize Project financial, contracting, and school status information. This
system was used for Project monitoring throughout the Project.



15The first process did not receive a "no objection" from the Bank because it included too few firms; the second had insufficient
responses and the one responsive firm quoted a cost that was considered unfeasible.


16AM of May 2004 mentions decline in spending on ongoing assessment, and request by Borrower to reprogram to other categories.
This request was denied at that time, with Bank responding that "extra" money in this area would need to be cancelled. Consultants
managed to complete the summative learning assessment tests and part of the formative testing in 2005; there was no testing done in
2006.




                                                                 9

Several studies were also commissioned during the course of the Project and intended to
guide Project implementation. These included a detailed study of the accelerated classes
program by a senior World Bank specialist in education, and a case study of the Bahia
Education Project with a particular focus on issues of implementation capacity and
institutional learning.17

As part of the Project, the SEC also committed to contracting two major evaluation
studies: (a) an impact evaluation of the accelerated classes program; and (b) an impact
evaluation for the Project as a whole.                        These evaluations were contracted with a
consortium of research universities, and field research took place in 2001 and 2005.
Interim results were discussed with the Bank and Borrower in 2004; final results were
presented in November 2006. The methodologies used in these studies appear sound,
although like many studies they suffer from limitations of secondary data sources in a
number of instances (see discussion on indicators). Both these studies are also notable in
that in addition to working with quantitative data, both include considerable beneficiary
assessment information drawn from both surveys and structured interviews conducted in
a large sample of schools.

Monitoring and evaluation ratings were upgraded to "highly satisfactory" as of mid-2006
in recognition of both the Project's monitoring system and quality/scope of evaluation
efforts representing "best practice" in investment Projects.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Overall safeguard compliance was rated as "satisfactory" throughout the Project. Two
safeguard policies were triggered ­ Environmental Assessment, and Indigenous Peoples.
It is important to note that the first phase of the APL was categorized as "C" for
environmental classification. No substantial changes were done in Project scope in the
second phase, but the LCR Quality Assurance Team indicated that all projects with new
construction, even minor, should be categorized as "B". A Social Assessment was carried
out and an Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) prepared. The indigenous-related activities and
targets were complied with and in some cases surpassed.

Project controls and procedures were reviewed yearly18 by Bank procurement and/or
auditing specialists, as well as by the task manager and the independent auditor. Bank
specialists requested minor adjustments to SEC filing systems, but in general found
controls and procedures to be satisfactory. A procurement review in March 2006 noted
that recommendations of prior procurement reviews had been implemented.




17The study of Accelerated Classes was conducted by Robin Horn in 2004. The case study was: O Projeto de Educação da Bahia: Um
Estudo de Caso. Xavier, Antonio and Verhine, Robert. World Bank commissioned study. March 2004.


18(Jan. 2004, Dec. 2005, August 2006, May 2007).




                                                            10

Auditing was done by the Bahia Tribunal de Contas, which has been certified by the
World Bank. There were no issues with the 2004 audit (auditor issued an unqualified
report).      While both the 2005 and 2006 audits were qualified, the issues raised were
formally reviewed by Bank financial and supervision staff and found to be minor. In
both cases, Bank staff formally made a number of recommendations, the SEC formally
responded to the auditors regarding the issues raised, and took steps to implement the
recommendations made.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Bank concern about the institutionalization and sustainability of Project activities was
manifested from early in the Project (see also institutionalization section, above). The
concern was well-founded, as a great number of activities pertaining to the quality and
management components relied heavily on outside firms or individuals for their
implementation. Discussions between the Bank and the Government took place with
regard to a possible request for an additional loan of about US$20 million to give
continuance to Project activities and institutionalization efforts; however, with the change
in Government in 2007 this proposal was not forthcoming.

As of this writing, budget lines for continuing with a number of Project activities are
included in the current SEC multi-year plan for 2008-2011 (Plano Plurianual ­ PPA).
These include activities aimed at strengthening management and school autonomy,
accelerated classes, physical investments in schools to bring them up to minimum
standards, the Gestar program, and external evaluation. The inclusion of these programs
in the PPA is encouraging, although it is not a guarantee that they will be funded or
implemented.19

Some critical ideas and positive practices instituted under the Project do seem to have
taken hold. For example, the use of a minimum standard to prioritize school needs is an
accepted practice. Certification of principals was a widely-accepted idea as shown
through the beneficiary study, and, in fact has become a criteria for selection in what is
nonetheless still a fairly political process. The financial management system developed
under the Project is now being used SEC-wide. The Gestar program, which depended
more heavily on SEC line staff and teachers themselves also seems likely to continue.
The impact study done under the Project showed a large majority of schools as having
completed a PDE process, some several times. Whether the experience with the PDE and
PME processes will be sufficient to generate political pressure to continue with them
remains to be seen, but it is worth noting that a study done of these same processes under
the Fundescola II Project found that their popularity had led to adoption by state and
municipal secretariats of education outside of the Project target area.20 One of the



19The funding request for 2008 for these activities is approximately R$38 million, while the request for 2009-2011 is for
approximately R$112.8 million. The 2008 request is roughly in line with Project spending in the past (see Appendix D of Borrower
ICR).


20See World Bank report # 36452-BR ­ Implementation Completion Report for Fundescola II, p. 10.




                                                             11

challenges for the SEC in the future will be to maintain the flow of funds to schools that
was put in place by the Project through the school grants.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Project objectives continue to be relevant to the prevailing educational conditions in
Bahia today as well as to the current Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Brazil,
and even to global priorities. The Project strove to improve educational quality and
outcomes at both the fundamental and secondary level, as well as to expand access to
secondary education. Bahia's education indicators continue below Brazil-wide averages
in most respects, and improvements in school outcomes in grades 1-8 are still needed to
ensure the Millennium Development Goals of universal completion of primary education,
as well as ensure that more students have adequate achievement levels to go on to
secondary education.      Although the numbers of children advancing to secondary
education increased substantially during the Project period, more needs to be done to
ensure access particularly for the poorest students, as well as improve the quality of the
education they receive. Access to a quality secondary education remains a bottleneck in
the ability of graduating fundamental level students to improve their educational and
economic status, as well as in the very limited pool of educated workers on which the
Bahian economy can draw.

With regard to project design and implementation, a number of activities stand out as
highly relevant. Among these are the systematic use of project monitoring and evaluation,
the inclusion of both formative and summative educational assessment as a tool for SEC
policy makers, school principals, and teachers. The Project impact study found that
schools participating in formative assessment activities were more likely to be classed
among the higher achieving schools. The success of accelerated classes in reducing age-
grade distortion also remains relevant:      although age grade distortion decreased, it
remains quite high (45.6 percent of students in the fundamental cycle). Continued
support and improvement of the accelerated classes program would support both CAS
and state government efficiency goals: instead of spending on the extra years of
education repeating students would have to take to graduate, accelerated classes could
catch these students up to their peers in less time, and thus generating a direct cost
savings as well as the economic benefits of having them complete more years of
schooling. The Project's push to decentralize at least some funds and management
decisions to the school level also supports efficiency goals: while economies of scale can
be achieved in aggregating some purchases, in other instances schools can more
efficiently define and spend funds to meet their varying needs.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The Bahia Education Projects I and II present a quandary for project evaluators. Both
Projects had solid design and implementation records, with the majority of output
objectives achieved or exceeded. Yet Project performance as measured by the outcome
indicators defined in the PAD is disappointing. At the same time, impact studies point to


                                            12

some important and positive Project effects that were not explicitly defined as
development objectives, such as a substantial decrease in age-grade distortion and the
positive effects on achievement of Project investments in formative assessment and
principal certification. To make matters more complicated, problems with secondary
data sources make it difficult to report some results with confidence.

In this section, we will address indicator trends, and suggest some factors (both internal
and external to the Project) that might help explain the results. We begin by discussing
the system efficiency objectives, and then turn to the learning achievement objectives.

System efficiency objectives as defined in PAD
Bahia Education Program (2000-2006)
Objective            Base year       Target       Actual         Change in      Difference: Impact      Change in      Difference:
                     (1999           2006         (SEC           percentage     Actual to   study       percentage     Projected
                     except for                   2005 data)     points,        Target      Projection  points,        to Target
                     net                                         base year                  for 2006    base year
                     secondary                                   to 2005 *                              to 2006
                     enrollment,                                                                        (estimated)
                     2000)




Reduce
secondary drop       21.6%           15.6%        20.9%          -0.7           -5.3        20.9%       -0.7           -5.3
out rates by 6
percentage points
Reduce
fundamental          16.4%           13.4%        14.9%          -1.5           -1.5        15.9%       -0.5           -2.5
cycle drop out
rates by 3
percentage points
Increase
fundamental
promotion rates      69.4%           84.4%        66.1%          -3.3           -18.3       64.6%       -4.8           -19.8
by 15 percentage
points
Increase
secondary            70.4%           81.4%        68.9%          -1.5           -12.5       66.7%       -3.7           -14.7
promotion rates
by 11 percentage
points
Increase net
secondary            15.3%           29.3%        27.1%          11.8           -2.2        30.2%       14.9           +.9
enrollment rates
by 14 percentage
points
Increase
promotion rates
of students in 100   68.87%          78.87%       64.50%         -4.37          -14.37      64.3%       -4.57         -14.57
poorest
municipalities by
10 percentage
points
*Note: The percentages in this column correspond to those reported in the Borrower ICR in Table 3 and are based on 2005 data--the
percentages in the last column are calculated using the impact study Projection for 2006.




                                                                  13

Efficiency Objectives

Objective: Reduce secondary and fundamental cycle drop-out rates by 6 and 3
percentage points, respectively

The Project missed its targets for lowering drop out rates in both the fundamental and
secondary cycles, although the indicators at least show movement in the right direction:
drop-out fell, but not by as much as expected. For the fundamental cycle, drop out
declined .5 percentage points from 1999 to 2006, using the 2006 projections from the
impact study. One contributing factor to the small decline in dropout may have been the
economic crisis that hit Brazil in 2000: both Bahia and Brazil at large experienced a
jump in drop out rates in the fundamental cycle from 1999 to 2000, but the jump was far
more substantial in the case of Bahia (from 16.4% in 1999 to 21.1% in 2000).21 It would
make sense that in Bahia, a poor state, families disproportionately hit by the economic
crisis would have been more likely to pull children out of school to help with income
earning activities. After 2000, drop out rates for both Bahia and Brazil continued a
downward trend ­ the decline in fundamental cycle drop-out from 2000-2006 (Projected)
in Bahia was actually 6.6 percentage points -- above the PAD target.

In the case of secondary drop-out rates, neither Bahia nor Brazil experienced a notable
jump in drop-out rates from 1999 to 2000, probably because the percentage of children
from poor families who even make it to secondary has historically been low. Whereas
secondary drop-out rates for Brazil show a fairly even downward trend from 1999-2006,
secondary drop-out rates for Bahia show a slight downward trend from 1999 to 2001,
with rates then climbing slightly and flattening out from 2001 to 2006.22 Overall,
secondary dropout fell by only .7 percentage points from 1999 to 2006, using the impact
study Projections. Why the lack of movement? It is worth remembering that there was
in fact a substantial expansion in secondary enrollment from 2000-2006, in part
supported by the Project: more children and more children from poorer families were
entering secondary school than ever before.                           One possible explanation of the lack of
movement in secondary drop-out rates is that the population entering secondary changed:
these students probably would not have gone to secondary in the past, they already had a
higher education profile than their parents, and the familial and personal opportunity cost
for them to attend secondary was considerably higher than for the higher income
secondary student of old.                  Another factor may have been the Government and the
Project's inability to satisfy the needs for school transport: while both secondary school
places and enrollment increased during the period, many students still had to travel
considerable distances, perhaps contributing to drop-out.




21See impact study, Avaliação de Impactos do P.E.B. Relatório Final, p. 24.


22Please see impact study, Consórcio Bahia Maior, Avaliação de Impactos do P.E.B ­ Relatório Final. São Paulo, November 2006, p.
25.




                                                              14

Objective:            Increase promotion rates of fundamental cycle students by 15
percentage points

The Project not only missed its target with regard to this indicator, the trend was in the
opposite direction from that expected. Using the 2006 impact study estimate, promotion
rates fell by 4.8 percentage points.23 Comparing Bahia to Brazil during the same time
period, Brazil experienced a gradual climb in fundamental cycle promotion rates from
1999 to 2006 while the same rates in Bahia were nearly flat, with a slight downward
trend.24 Why? Two possible related explanations are offered. First, as noted in the PAD,
there is a strong "culture of repetition" in Bahia. For both teachers and parents, a "good"
teacher with high standards is one who fails a high percentage of students. Despite
efforts to counter this perspective as part of the principal certification and Gestar teacher
training programs supported under the Project, long-held beliefs such as this change very
slowly. A second possible explanation is that, with regard to this indicator, the Project is
a victim of its own success in other areas, namely securing at least a modest decrease in
drop-out through Project quality investments and in age-grade distortion through the
accelerated classes program. The impact study does in fact offer some support for this
view ­ in the sample of study schools, the impact study found that while drop-out had
decreased, repetition had increased (more kids who were struggling and might have
dropped out were staying in school, but they were not being promoted). The study also
found that although the accelerated classes had generated an important decrease in age-
grade distortion, the integration of children who had "caught up" with their peers through
the accelerated classes into regular classes was not smooth, and that teachers were not
convinced that learning gains from the accelerated classes were sufficient.                                                These
perspectives too could have contributed to lower promotion rates. In setting the goal for
increasing promotion so high, the Project may have aimed at bringing promotion rates for
the fundamental cycle in Bahia more in line with those in the rest of Brazil (Bahia
promotion rates for this level run between 7.2 and 18.8 points higher than Brazil for the
period, with an increasing gap).                           25    In retrospect, this target was undoubtedly
overestimated.

Objective: Increase promotion rates of secondary cycle students by 11 percentage
points

As with promotion rates for the fundamental cycle, the Project not only missed this target
but the trend was in the opposite direction. Using the 2006 impact study projection,



23Note: The 64.6% estimate for fundamental cycle promotion rates in 2006 appears on page 17 of the impact study. (Consórcio Bahia
Maior, Avaliação de Impactos do P.E.B ­ Relatório Final.. São Paulo, November 2006). However, on page 20 of the same study,
the 2006 Projection appears as 62.1%. Annex B of the ICR, on the other hand, presents different numbers for both 1999 and 2005
than those cited either in the impact study or in Table 3 of the Borrower ICR. Although the conclusion that promotion rates fell does
not appear affected by these data differences, it is not clear why they exist.


24Here too there is a discrepancy between the impact study on page 20 and Annex B of the Borrower ICR in terms of points on the
graphics presented, but the trends are similar.


25See Consórcio Bahia Maior, Avaliação de Impactos do P.E.B. p. 20.




                                                                    15

promotion rates for secondary students fell by 3.7 percentage points. Here too, part of the
explanation may be found in changes that the Project helped to bring about. As noted in
the discussion of drop-out rates, with the expansion of secondary school places and the
increase in secondary enrollment, more students from lower economic strata were
entering secondary school than ever before. Secondary school teachers are traditionally
more rigid and are generally unaccustomed to working with children coming from lower
socio-economic backgrounds and perhaps also with lower skills. It would make sense
that they would react by failing more of them. Interestingly, almost all groups surveyed
under the 2005 beneficiary assessment part of the impact study held the belief that the
quality of both fundamental and secondary education had declined in recent years, and
this belief was strongest among teachers. At the same time, this hypothesis points to a
failure on the part of the SEC and the Project in "preparing the way" for this anticipated
influx of secondary students, in terms of more intensive work with secondary teachers.
But, as mentioned above, changing long held beliefs and practices in education is
extremely difficult, and takes considerable time. It is worth noting that during the same
time period (1999-2006), secondary promotion rates for Brazil were also almost
completely flat, and that there is not as big a gap between Bahia's and Brazil's rates at the
secondary level as there is for the fundamental cycle.26 Here too, the ICR team judges
the target to have been unrealistic.

Objective: Increase net secondary enrollment rates by 14 percentage points

With regard to this objective, the Project either came very close to the target if one uses
2005 data, or surpassed it, if one uses the 2006 projection. The trend, at any rate, is
clearly upward, and the provision of new secondary school places through the system
reorganization and new school construction supported under the Project was a
contributing factor.

Objective: Increase promotion rates of fundamental cycle students residing in the
100 poorest municipalities by 10 percentage points

As with the promotion goals generally, the Project not only missed this target, but the
trend was in the opposite direction than anticipated. Using the 2006 impact study
projection, promotion rates in the 100 poorest municipalities fell by 4.57 percentage
points.       Possible explanations include those discussed under the issue of trends in
fundamental cycle promotion more generally. However, it is disheartening to find a
negative trend in those municipalities where additional investments in minimum
operational standards were made, even taking into account that such investments and
interventions were diminished during implementation when compared to the original
estimates. In comparing promotion rates in the 100 poorest municipalities and those of
Bahia generally, it is worth noting that although both declined, they did not parallel each



26See Consórcio Bahia Maior, Avaliação de Impactos do P.E.B. p. 21. Note that there is a considerable difference between the data
presented in the impact study and that presented on trends in secondary promotion in Annex B of the Borrower ICR. It is not clear
why this discrepancy exists. Furthermore, the starting data point for 1999 in the graphic in Annex B does not correspond with the
percentage presented in Table 3 of the Borrower's ICR.




                                                                16

other. From 1999-2000, the decline in rates in the 100 poorest municipalities fell less
than Bahia at large, and were in fact several points above the rest of the state. These
municipalities maintained rates above the rest of the state until 2004, when the rates
converge, with no statistical difference. This shift gives some additional weight to World
Bank and Project management concerns that the commitment and attention to the Bahia
Education II Project, the Educar para Vencer program, and the Faz Cidadão! Program
diminished from 2003 onwards.27

Learning Achievement Objectives

Objective: Increase average performance of secondary and fundamental cycle
students in Portuguese and Math by 5 percent

The reporting on learning achievement data for the Project is subject to a number of
caveats. The impact study examined achievement data from two sources: national testing
(SAEB) data for the State of Bahia and achievement data from the state tests developed
under the Project, given yearly through 2005 for grades 4 and 8, and only in 2004 and
2005 for secondary students.28 In 2003, there was a change in the scale used to interpret
SAEB data, making straightforward comparisons between pre and post 2003 data
impossible. Some accommodations were made in the impact study to account for this
scale change. In early 2007 (after the conclusion of the impact study), the Instituto
Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais (INEP), agency responsible for SAEB,
issued a technical note with additional clarifications on how best to accommodate the
scale change in making comparisons. The SEC used this note in reporting end of Project
achievement data in the Borrower's ICR, and had the assistance of the head researcher
involved in the impact study in putting these results together. The ICR team therefore
considers these SEC estimates to be the most current and reliable. With a couple of
exceptions, trends in the Bahian state level tests as reported in the impact study generally
mirrored those from the adjusted national test results for Bahia.

With regard to achievement at the secondary level, in Portuguese, achievement levels
dipped between 1999 and 2001, then climbed between 2001 and 2003, then dropped
again between 2003 and 2005. In Math, achievement levels were fairly stable, increasing
slightly between 1999 and 2001, and falling again slightly from 2001 to 2005. Possible
explanations include: a) changes in the SAEB test scale, despite continuing technical
efforts to improve comparability across years; b) the influx of newly enrolling students in
secondary (big increases in enrollment are often accompanied by short-term drops in
achievement); and c) a possible fall-off of effectiveness of SEC and Project investments
in the 2003 to 2005 time frame, due perhaps to changes in sequencing or coordination,
that are not captured in mere output targets.



27See Consórcio Bahia Maior, Avaliação de Impactos do P.E.B. p. 22.


28According to the Impact study, 2005 achievement results were also limited to a sample administered in conjunction with other
impact study fieldwork. According to SEC/PMU staff, 2005 achievement tests were given state wide.




                                                             17

Achievement Trends: Bahia 1999-2005
Objective                                             Percent change ­ Impact Study, from Percent change ­ SEC
                                                      SAEB 1999-2005                      estimates from SAEB 1999-
                                                                                          2005 (adjusted)**
Increase performance of secondary school students in
Portuguese by 5%                                                     9.8%                              -2%
Increase performance of secondary school students in
Math by 5%                                                           -.9%                              -.3%
Increase performance of fundamental cycle students
in grades 4th grade in Portuguese by 5%                              -13%                             -8.2%
Increase performance of fundamental cycle students
in grades 4th grade in Math by 5%                                    -11%                             -7.7%
Increase performance of fundamental cycle students
in 8th grade in Portuguese by 5%                                     -1.5%                             -.6%
Increase performance of fundamental cycle students
in 8th grade in Math by 5%                                           3.1%                             -3.6%


With regard to achievement levels for the fundamental cycle, scores in both Portuguese
and Math for 4th grade dropped steeply between 1999 and 2001, and then began to rise
from 2001 to 2003, before dropping again in 2005. Scores for 8th grade Portuguese and
Math exhibit a similar pattern, although the overall drop in both subjects was less than for
the 4th grade students. Given the drop in scores across virtually all levels and subjects
from 1999 to 2001, one is tempted to wonder: a) whether data comparability may again
be an issue here; and or b) whether the economic crisis of 2000 might not have had an
effect on achievement levels as well as dropout. Even students who stayed in school may
have had to take on jobs on the side, while teachers may have done the same limiting
preparation and possibly class time. The impact study in fact found that the percentage of
students working while studying increased over the study period (2001-2005) as did
teacher absenteeism.29 Brazil-wide scores (with the exception of 8th grade Portuguese)
also show a drop from 1999 to 2001.30 The downturn from 2003 to 2005 may again be
attributable in part to data issues, and/or to a fall-off in Project effectiveness from 2003
onwards.

To judge from the available data, the bottom line appears to be that the Project missed the
majority, if not all, its student learning achievement targets, and that the result for the
majority of indicators was opposite the expected direction: learning achievement levels
fell, overall, rather than rose. On the other hand, the impact study established the
effectiveness of a number of Project interventions and investments on improving
achievement levels (please see the discussion of other impact, below). Project effects,
however, do not appear sufficient to counter the influence of other factors, and in some
cases may have been at cross purposes.




29See Consórcio Bahia Maior, Avaliação de Impactos do P.E.B. p. 68.


30See Borrower ICR Appendix B.




                                                             18

3.3 Efficiency

The PAD for the Bahia Education II Project was unusual in the education sector, in that a
detailed attempt was made to calculate the potential economic and financial costs and
benefits of the Project.31 There were two main thrusts to this analysis:                                              first, an
examination of the costs and benefits of expanding secondary education; second, an
estimate of the cost savings and economic gains to be had from lowering repetition rates
and thus improving the efficiency of the education system. A best, middle, and worst-
case scenario was presented with regard to improving student flows. The worst-case
scenario was that the Project would lead to an improvement of one percentage point over
the historical trend of the fundamental cycle promotion rate. Even in this worst scenario,
the PAD calculated the internal rate of return (IRR) to be 21.25 percent, significantly
greater than the Bank's standard discount rate of 10-12 percent.

As discussed in the previous section, promotion rates did not, in fact, rise as expected:
instead they declined by several percentage points.                              While this fact in isolation would
seem to call the efficiency of the Project into question, the Project did, in fact, have an
important impact on education system efficiency through helping to decrease age-grade
distortion through the accelerated classes program. The Project impact study found that
age-grade distortion in the fundamental cycle in Bahia exhibited a substantial decline
from 2002 to 2006; moreover, the decline was greater in schools with accelerated classes.
Overall, the reduction of overage students in the system over the period 2002-2006 was
equivalent to 1,098,800 students, or 51 percent of those overage in 2002.32

Bahia: Age-Grade Distortion 2002-2006 (Percent of Fundamental Cycle Enrollment)
Year             Schools with Accelerated                    Schools Without Accelerated            Total Bahia - %
                 Classes - % distortion                      Classes % distortion                   distortion
2002                               70.9                                      59.2                                62.7
2006                               50.4                                      44.4                                45.6



Bahia: Age-Grade Distortion 2002-2006 (Numbers of Overage Students)
Year             Schools with Accelerated                    Schools Without Accelerated            Total Bahia
                 Classes                                     Classes
   2002                         714,100                                  1,439,600                           2,153,800
   2006                         276,100                                   779,300                            1,055,000
 % Change                        61.3%                                     45.9%                                51%


Based on these findings, the impact study did a simple estimate of the cost savings
accruing to the education system from the reduction of age-grade distortion, plus the
economic gains associated with these students finishing the fundamental cycle of
education.33 The study estimated that the cost savings would total R$ 961.5 million at


31See PAD ­ World Bank Report #26118-BR, Annex 4.


32Most of the detailed analysis of the accelerated classes program is found in Avaliação do Impacto do Projeto de Regularização de
Fluxo nas Taxas de Distorção Idade-Serie. Consórcio Bahia Maior, São Paulo, November 2006.




                                                                 19

2002 prices, while the total gains (both cost savings and long term economic gains) from
the reduction of age-grade distortion would be R$2.9 billion. While these estimates do
not constitute a full-blown cost-benefit analysis, they point to important economic and
efficiency gains.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Following ICR guidelines, the ICR team is compelled to rate the Project as moderately
unsatisfactory. This rating is given because the Project failed to achieve the majority of
the impact indicators defined in the PAD. Nonetheless, the ICR team notes that the
Project objectives and design continue to be relevant, Project impact studies show some
important effects on both achievement (see discussion below) and efficiency, and the
Project achieved or exceeded almost all its output targets in a timely manner.

As stated before, this project included outcome indicators for the whole of the program. It
is possible to argue that this was risky and that some indicators were overestimated at
appraisal. In addition, there is a lot of discussion in terms of attribution in the education
sector, and this Project presents an excellent example of the risks of attributing the
movement or lack of movement in global indicators to project effects. Global indicators
in education are often difficult to estimate and influenced by a range of indicators outside
of project control, project effects on these indicators often take a long time to emerge,
and in some instances the data sources for these indicators are either unreliable or
experience time lags in collection. These attribution risks are discussed more broadly
under Section 6 below ­ Implementation, Impact and Indicators. Had the PAD not tied
evaluation to the performance of global indicators, the Project likely would have been
rated as highly satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

In additional to reporting on Project impact indicators, the impact study also used the
state-level achievement data developed under the Project to examine a range of factors
influencing learning levels. Researchers classified schools into three groups based on
achievement (low, middle and high), and then examined relationships between
achievement levels and a range of school characteristics. Non-Project-specific findings
included:

    · There was an inverse relationship between number of students per class and
          achievement in Portuguese and Math ­ smaller classes were more likely to
          correspond with higher achievement;
    · Those schools where principals reported improvements in teachers and supplies
          over the 2001 to 2005 time period were also among the higher achievers;



33Note that the estimate assumes students "caught up" to grade level will go on to finish the fundamental cycle.




                                                                20

     · Those schools where principals gave a high assessment of the teachers, parents,
          and students were likely to have high achievement;
     · Those schools where the principal cited the role of the teacher as having an
          important influence on repetition were classed among the high achievers;
     · Those schools where there appeared to be very active management were classed
          among the high achievers;
     · Schools that had a computer lab were classed among the high achievers for Math.

In terms of Project-identifiable interventions34, the study also found that:

     · The use of regular formative assessment tests had a positive effect on
          achievement levels;
     · Having a certified principal in the school also had a positive effect on
          achievement;
     · Having a literacy specialist in the school had a positive effect on achievement;
     · For 8th grade Portuguese, a higher investment in PME, higher per-capita
          investment in accelerated classes, and the number of students enrolled in
          accelerated classes had a positive effect.

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

While any poverty impact is limited by the lower-than-expected impact of the Project
overall, we note that both the expansion of secondary education and the reduction of age-
grade distortion is likely to have a substantial poverty impact over the long term, as more
students from lower economic strata complete more years of education and improve their
income earning potential.

Also worth noting are the positive findings from an internal review35 of the indigenous
education sub-component, both in terms of the expansion of access to education for this
population, as well as the cultural appropriateness of the education materials provided.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

While the Government strategy of contracting out implementation expertise is no doubt
responsible for at least part of the Project's implementation success in terms of achieving
the majority of its output indicators, the lack of a longer term institutional development
strategy has put the continuation of several Project activities at risk. There is also little
evidence of a change in core educational management practices on the part of the SEC,
its regional offices, or municipal secretariats of education.




34While some of the factors cited in the non-Project specific effects could have been influenced by the Project (for example, the
provision of supplies), it is not possible to isolate Project effects.


35Bank supervision mission in August 2006, with specialists in the area of social development and indigenous affairs.




                                                                      21

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Please see discussions above and below.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The impact assessment included structured interviews with principals, teachers, school
councils, parents and students in the 400 school sample.          Researchers conducted
interviews in both 2002 and 2005, although the same individuals were not necessarily
interviewed both times. Key findings included the following:

    · Among the groups surveyed, there was a perception that there had been a decline
       in the quality of both fundamental and secondary education over the time period;
       among these groups, the most negative were teachers;
    · All respondents reported improvement in the availability of school places.
       However, many noted that some schools were nonetheless overcrowded;
    · There was a notable improvement in principal qualifications. More than 95
       percent in 2005 had specific qualifications in education. Certification programs
       were viewed positively by both principals, teachers, and parents, and participation
       in these programs had increased;
    · Education professionals indicated that political affiliations still bore considerable
       weight in the appointment of school principals. Over the 2002-2005 time period,
       there was an increase in the rate of turnover of school principals and pedagogic
       coordinators, as well as a substantial increase in teacher leaves and absences
       (almost double), which may have affected student and parent perceptions of
       quality as well as student achievement results.
    · Among students interviewed, most had more schooling than their parents, and
       nearly 75 percent expressed the intention of completing college, which was an
       increase from 2005;
    · In schools surveyed for the beneficiary study, drop-out decreased, while repetition
       increased. The proportion of students working while attending school also
       increased from 2002 to 2005, while the proportion of those who studied with
       siblings or parents at home decreased.
    · Most schools had put together a PDE (84 percent) sometime from 2001 to 2005 ­
       30 percent had done one, 23 percent had done 2, and 24 percent had done 3, 13
       percent had done 4 and 9 percent had done 5. However, only 38 percent said the
       PDE had been totally implemented, while 43 percent said it had been
       implemented partially.      After "various reasons" (49.2 percent) for non-
       implementation, the most common reason was lack of funds ­ 39.7 percent,
       followed by a lack of guidance from the SEC 23.8 percent.             There was an
       increase in schools participating in assessment testing, but this reached only 48
       percent in 2005;
    · Principals generally rated the accelerated classes program well ­ 7.5 out of a
       maximum of 10, with a standard deviation of 1.3, indicating considerable
       consensus among principals. They generally gave higher satisfaction marks to the



                                           22

           appropriate of materials, but lower satisfaction regarding the voluntary
           participation of teachers, the reinsertion of students back into regular classes, the
           overall improvements in learning levels, and the ability of teachers to deal with
           over-age students. Respondents felt that students did not spend sufficient time in
           accelerated classes to cover the content, and in some cases did not feel like the
           content was sufficiently flexible to accommodate different school characteristics.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

The assessment of risk to development outcome is rated as high. This rating is given
primarily because the primary impact indicators fell so short, and because improvements
in education system management practices in many cases did not seem to take hold
within the SEC. While students in Bahia have benefited and will benefit from better
access to secondary education and decreased age-grade distortion, the quality of
education remains a serious concern. Quality improvements are unlikely without better
management practices that focus additional attention on instruction, student motivation,
and traditional beliefs regarding what constitutes a "good" teacher.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as satisfactory.                                        The Bahia
Education II Project built on the experience of the similarly designed phase I Project,
which had an excellent implementation record and incorporated "best-practice" activities
and programs pioneered in Brazil and elsewhere. The Project preparation team also took
the unusual (for an education Project) and commendable step of estimating the Project's
economic and financial impact. The processing of the follow-on Project was done in a
timely manner, allowing Project activities to continue without major interruption.36
While it could be argued that the time and effort involved with processing a second loan
could have been avoided through the use of a traditional investment loan, rather than an
APL format, the APL had two important advantages: first, it allowed for lowered
exposure for both the World Bank and the Federative Republic of Brazil with a new
Borrower in this sector, and second, it allowed the State of Bahia to initially lower its
own debt risk.              The commitment to monitoring and assessing impact through the
inclusion of outcome indicators in the Project is also commendable, although as
discussed above, in some cases risks were probably under-assessed and targets may have



36There was a 7- month delay between board approval and effectiveness, due largely to delays in federal government approval, but
retroactive financing ensured the continuity of Project activities.




                                                                   23

been overly optimistic for the relatively short implementation time frame (six years
considering both phases).

One design issue that perhaps received insufficient attention during preparation was that
of the institutional sustainability of Project activities. The ICR for the first phase of the
Bahia program noted little change or improved institutional capacity in the quality of
plans put together by SEC regional offices, and also noted the reliance on outsourcing of
Project activities as a weakness.37 The plan was to work on institutionalization of
continuing activities during phase II of the Project. In point of fact, however, how this
was to happen was left fairly loose, and delays on the part of the SEC in coming up with
a viable plan during implementation of phase II put the sustainability of Project activities
at risk. Given that all the pre-established targets for approval of the second phase Project
had been met, however, it is understandable that the project preparation team opted not to
impose additional conditions at the time.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance with regard to the quality of supervision is rated as satisfactory. Bank
supervision of the Project was done on a regular basis (at least twice yearly) with
procurement, financial, and technical specialists brought in to help with ongoing
supervision and monitoring of the Project.38 The annual Project implementation plans
were systematically revised in order to accommodate necessary and agreed changes along
the Project's implementation cycle. The Bank team was proactive in helping to resolve
problems (such as the processing of the Loan Agreement amendment addressing school
transport and counterpart issues), and prompt in addressing issues such as the qualified
audits.       Important implementation issues such as the institutionalization of Project
activities with the SEC and the continuation of state-level assessment efforts were
flagged early, and were clearly brought to the attention of both Bank management and
top officials in the SEC on numerous occasions.

Given that both the Project management unit and the Bank supervision team were
monitoring impact as well as output indicators, a logical question is why it did not
become evident earlier that these indicators were not trending as expected, prompting a
revisiting of both objectives and possibly Project design. An interim report from the
impact study in 2004, in fact, appeared to indicate that the Project was generally on track.
Supervision reports noted in early 2005 that some indicators did not seem to be trending
as expected, but also noted that the most recent data for some of these was 2002. Bank
sector management raised questions about indicator trends in late 2005, but the decision



37See pages 7-9 of Bahia Education ICR for phase I.


38Note that in addition to procurement and financial specialists mentioned earlier, the Bank in 1994 also conducted a detailed analysis
of the preliminary results of the accelerated classes program, which was shared with the Borrower. In 2006, the Bank supervision
team also included specialists on indigenous education, who conducted a thorough review of the indigenous education component.




                                                                 24

was made not to downgrade development objective (DO) ratings from "satisfactory,"
based on positive results in enrollment, declines in age-grade distortion, and interim
results on achievement trends that turned out to be more positive than those in the final
impact evaluation. The difficulties of data lags and uncertainties not withstanding, in
retrospect, some additional questioning might have been devoted during the
implementation period to the issue of why the Project did not appear to be achieving the
expected impact, and what if anything could/should be done about it.                             While this
questioning may have occurred between Bank and Borrower informally, it does not
appear highlighted in the written Project documentation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Bank performance rating for this Project is satisfactory. In general, the ICR
team is of the opinion that the Bank Project team did a good job in both Project
preparation and supervision. The Project as designed drew upon high quality existing
sector work and background information developed during project preparation, as well as
the positive implementation experience of the similarly designed first phase. The Project
preparation team may have overestimated the development targets in some instances, and
took a risk in choosing movement in global indicators as the basis for project evaluation.
Nonetheless, the attempt to more rigorously assess Project impact is commendable. The
supervision team took pains to track and report on these indicators as well as other
project impact information as it became available.                           Unfortunately, given data lags,
information about indicator trends was not always available in time or conclusive enough
to warrant the re-design of the project activities. Information derived from the project
monitoring system, on the other hand, was used consistently to guide and improve project
implementation.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the Government of the State of Bahia did a good job of implementing the Project,
despite difficulties with exchange rate fluctuations and budget crises. As demonstrated in
Appendix D of the Borrower ICR39, combined yearly state and municipal expenditures on
education held fairly steady from 2003-2005. In the perspective of the Bank team, the
strong focus on education reform as a political priority that characterized the first Bahia
Education Project was not as consistent throughout the second phase.




39The Borrower ICR and its appendixes are available in the Project's files.




                                                               25

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The PMU within the SEC deserves considerable credit for keeping Project activities
moving forward in the face of multiple challenges. Despite some of the questions raised
in the audit reports, overall fiscal and contract management was repeatedly judged to be
adequate by Bank financial and procurement specialists, and the Project monitoring
system developed by the PMU was cited as an example of "best practice." Nonetheless,
as noted above in the discussion of Bank supervision, some additional questioning of
impact indicators might have been warranted.

The SEC is to be commended for putting together an excellent Project management team,
as well as ensuring the achievement of the majority of Project output indicators. The
SEC performance rating is negatively affected by the inability over the course of the
Project to establish an ongoing institutional arrangement for continuing with state
assessment efforts, and by the slow progress in institutionalizing within the SEC several
other Project activities and practices.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Borrower Performance rating is satisfactory. Overall the Borrower did a
good job at ensuring the on-time completion of the majority of Project activities and
achievement of Project output indicators. Although insufficient attention was given to
early indications that the Project would miss its impact targets, as mentioned above,
information about indicator trends was not always available in time or conclusive enough
to warrant the re-design of the project activities. Information derived from the project
monitoring system, on the other hand, was used consistently to guide and improve project
implementation.

6. Lessons Learned

    · Strong monitoring and evaluation. The earlier discussion regarding whether
       the Project met impact and efficiency targets would have been largely impossible
       without the existence of strong Project monitoring and evaluation.         Project
       monitoring encompassed three main foci: an ongoing Project monitoring system
       developed by the PMU which can be considered a "best practice" model for other
       Projects (see also discussion of monitoring and evaluation, above); specially
       commissioned studies on particular components or issues in order to guide
       implementation; and a comprehensive set of impact studies which provided a
       wealth of both quantitative and beneficiary assessment information to help guide
       future policy decisions.




                                             26

· Implementation, Impact, and Indicators.            This Project presents a very
  interesting example of the difficulties of tying implementation, impact, and
  indicators. Despite a very strong implementation record, the project failed to
  achieve the majority of outcome indicators as defined in the PAD, although the
  impact study showed progress on a number of other indicators. There are several
  lessons from this result: (a) first, outcome indicators are often extremely difficult
 to estimate. In the case of education, both the data on and actual effects of
  investments and policies also can take considerable time to emerge ­ often longer
  than the Project implementation period (note that the latest hard data for the PAD
  indicators in this project is 2005, while the project ended in 2007). To the extent
  that projects assume responsibility for outcome, the Bank is likely to see more
  "disconnects" between implementation and outcome results which do not
  necessarily mean that the project design was faulty; (b) second, the selection of
  outcome indicators may carry with it a number of attribution problems. For
  example, global indicators such as dropout are affected by many issues outside
  the influence of a single project (economic crisis being one).     The use of state-
  wide indicators also masks the fact that elements of the Project were implemented
  gradually, and that, in a large country such as Brazil with a tiered education
  system (both state and municipalities are involved), project investments in fact
  take place in schools starting from very different baselines with different policy
  environments; (c) finally, while trends in global indicators are usually not costly
  to track, there is a significant cost involved in obtaining more specific, project-
  based evaluation. This Project in fact did produce this kind of information
  through the impact study in addition to summarizing information on global
  indicators ­ the global indicators, however, were those tied to Project evaluation
  in the PAD and ICR. If global indicators are used for evaluation, both Project
  developers and evaluators need to be aware of attribution problems and might do
  better to look at trends, rather than trying to predict, or holding Projects
  accountable for, specific numbers.

· Educational assessment.          The inclusion of state-sponsored educational
  assessment under the Project not only contributed to a more robust evaluation; the
  impact assessment also found that schools engaged in the formative assessment
  developed under the Project were more likely to classed as high achievers. While
  regular assessment is a critical tool for schools and teachers, Project experience
  also points to the difficult choice as to how to obtain the very specialized
  expertise involved in developing this kind of testing system. While developing
  this capacity inside the SEC may not be practical, contracting out may be
  politically or economically difficult as well. Establishing a long term relationship
  with a government or quasi-government entity (such as INEP) may be another
  avenue to explore.

· Balance hiring of external implementation agencies and consultants with
  building Borrower's institutional capacity. This is by no means a new lesson
  for Bank-financed Projects, which points to how difficult this balance can be to
  achieve.    In the case of the Bahia Education Program, the use of outside



                                        27

        implementation agencies for many Project activities clearly, as well as a PMU,
        contributed to the timely achievement of Project outputs; on the other hand, the
        lack of institutionalization of many Project activities and practices has meant that
        many of the detailed lessons of Project implementation have been lost to the
        Borrower.

    · Accelerated classes. Given Bahia's staggering rates of age-grade distortion, the
        inclusion of accelerated classes in the Project could not have been more relevant.
        As demonstrated in the impact studies, these classes also made a significant
        contribution towards improvement in this regard. With age-grade distortion in the
        fundamental cycle now estimated as standing at 45.6 percent, there is still a great
        deal of room for improvement.        Continuing with accelerated classes deserves
        serious consideration.

    · Certification of principals and other education specialists. The impact study
        found that having a certified principal in a school was positively correlated with
        higher achievement. The idea of certification was also positively received by all
        groups interviewed as part of the beneficiary study.            Providing ongoing
        certification opportunities for new principals and other education specialists may
        be an effective way to improve education quality.

    · Addressing the needs of marginalized populations. As the Borrower ICR also
        points out, the inclusion of the indigenous education sub-component in the Project
        was a learning opportunity for both the SEC and the Bank. The results of this
        component are considered very positive, both for the indigenous communities
        involved, as well as in the perceptions of local officials of improvements in
        relationships between these communities and local government.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower's main body report is included as Annex 7 of this document. The full
report, including the appendixes, is available in the project's files.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                             28

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)         Appraisal

1. IMPROVING SCHOOL
QUALITY1.1 ASSURING
MINIMUM OPERATIONAL
STANDARDS FOR                            59.80              71.00            59.8%
SCHOOLS1.2 SUPPORTING
THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
SCHOOL DEVELO
2. EXPANDING ACCESS2.1
PLANNING AND PROVIDING
ADDITIONAL SECONDARY                      5.20              11.63            5.2%

SCHOOL PLACES
3. STRENGTHENING
EDUCATIONAL
MANAGEMENT3.1
STRENGTHENING
EDUCATIONAL                              26.00              16.77             26%
ASSESSMENT3.2
INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING OF
EDUCATIONA L MANAG
            Total Baseline Cost          91.00               99.40            91%

CONTINGENCIES                             8.40                0.00           8.4%
             Total Project Costs         99.40               99.40           99.4%
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.60                0.60           0.6%
     Total Financing Required           100.00             100.00            100%




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
Borrower                                          40.00        40.00        40%
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                   60.00        60.00        60%




                                            29

       Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                                  VALUES
         OUTPUT INDICATORS                    PAD     END OF
                                                     PROJECT                COMMENTS
1.1   Minimum     operation    standards   in                 A strategy put in place by the SEC allowed
classrooms                                    2.100    7.188  expanding this action, which benefited 933
                                                              state schools.
1.2 a) PDE developed in secondary schools      600     767
b) PDE developed in fundamental cycle
schools                                       2500     2.560
1.3 a) PME transfer completed in secondary     638     767    This action benefited 133 secondary schools
schools                                                       financed    by    PME    exclusively    with
b) PME transfer completed in fundamental       493     460    counterpart funds.
cycle schools
1.4 a) Accelerated classes implemented in      417     402    The municipalities' participation in the
417 municipalities                                            Educar Para Vencer program was not
                                                              mandatory.
b) Accelerated classes implemented            18.000  22.231
1.5 a) Municipalities benefited from the       65      291    This   action   allowed  the   training    of
GESTAR implementation                                         fundamental and secondary school teachers.
b) Teachers trained by the GESTAR
methodology.                                  6.000    6.040
1.6 Indigenous education improved by                          An additional resource installment, during
means of:                                                     the Project implementation, was allocated to
a) Classrooms constructed                       6        6    the improvement of indigenous education.
b) Classrooms with minimum operational         38       58
standards
c) Schools with better educational materials   38       46
2.1 Expansion of secondary school places       104     130    Additional 42 classrooms, that will provide
through construction of classrooms.                           5040 new school places, are in final stage of
                                                              construction.
3.1    Assessment    system    consolidated,  100%     100%   This action benefited 100% of state schools
attending at least 100% of State schools in                   located   in   304    municipalities.    The
Educar Para Vencer municipalities                             performance    assessment    covered    2808
                                                              schools in 2004, and 2851 in 2005.
3.2 Education management improved by                          Results include re-certification of 2.173
means of:                                                     school principals.
a) At least 20,000 education management       20.000  31.383
personnel trained
b) School Autonomy transfer to secondary       100     113
schools
3.3    Project     management      operating   Yes     Yes
successfully
3.4 Project monitoring and evaluation in       Yes     Yes    229 schools were monitored by the Project
place                                                         Management        Unit    during     Project
                                                              implementation.




                                                   30

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The PAD for the Bahia Education II Project was unusual in the education sector, in that a
detailed attempt was made to calculate the potential economic and financial costs and
benefits of the Project.40 There were two main thrusts to this analysis:                                             first, an
examination of the costs and benefits of expanding secondary education; second, an
estimate of the cost savings and economic gains to be had from lowering repetition rates
and thus improving the efficiency of the education system.

The cost-benefit analysis was undertaken in the following manner: (a) the Project costs
were estimated; (b) the secondary level flow model was estimated for the state system;
(c) a flow model of the fundamental level was estimated for both state and municipal
systems; (d) a historical trend was applied for both flow models, using the method
introduced by Ruben Klein (1999), in order to determine how the flows of students would
look without the Project; (e) the impact of the Project on the flows was estimated to the
year 2007; (f) the number of students that conclude each grade was predicted and the
difference between the flows with and without the Project were determined; (g) given
these differences, the out-of-school benefits were calculated by using both the private
rates of return to each grade of education and the increment in productivity related to
improvements in Math and Portuguese test scores; and (h) in performing the sensitivity
analysis, the NPV and IRR were calculated and tested for different scenarios.

The worst-case scenario presented in the PAD was that the Project would lead to an
improvement of one percentage point over the historical trend of the fundamental cycle
promotion rate. Even in this worst scenario, the PAD calculated the internal rate of
return (IRR) to be 21.25%, significantly greater than the Bank's standard discount rate of
10-12%.

In fact, as discussed in the body of the ICR, promotion rates for the fundamental cycle
fell, rather than rose during the period. While this fact in isolation would seem to call the
efficiency of the Project into question, the Project did, in fact, have an important impact
on education system efficiency through helping to decrease age-grade distortion through
the accelerated classes program. The Project impact study found that age-grade distortion
in the fundamental cycle in Bahia exhibited a substantial decline from 2002 to 2006;
moreover, the decline was greater in schools with accelerated classes. Overall, the
reduction of overage students in the system over the period 2002-2006 was equivalent to
1,098,800 students, or 51% of those overage in 2002.41




40See PAD ­ World Bank Report #26118-BR, Annex 4 and Annex 5


41Most of the detailed analysis of the accelerated classes program is found in Avaliaão do Impacto do Projeto de Regularização de
Fluxo nas Taxas de Distorção Idade-Série. Consórcio Bahia Maior, São Paulo, November 2006.




                                                                31

Bahia: Age-Grade Distortion 2002-2006 (Percent of Fundamental Cycle Enrollment)
Year              Schools with Accelerated                 Schools Without Accelerated                 Total Bahia - %
                  Classes - % distortion                   Classes % distortion                        distortion
2002                              70.9                                       59.2                                 62.7
2006                              50.4                                       44.4                                 45.6



Bahia: Age-Grade Distortion 2002-2006 (Numbers of Overage Students)
Year              Schools with Accelerated                 Schools Without Accelerated                 Total Bahia
                  Classes                                  Classes
   2002                        714,100                                    1,439,600                             2,153,800
   2006                        276,100                                     779,300                              1,055,000
 % Change                       61.3%                                      45.9%                                  51%


Based on these findings, the impact study did a simple estimate of the cost savings
accruing to the education system from the reduction of age-grade distortion, plus the
economic gains associated with these students finishing the fundamental cycle of
education.42 The study estimated that the cost savings would total R$ 961.5 million at
2002 prices, while the total gains (both cost savings and long term economic gains) from
the reduction of age-grade distortion would be R$2.9 billion. While these estimates do
not constitute a full-blown cost-benefit analysis, they point to important economic and
efficiency gains.

With regard to the financial impact of the Project, the PAD also estimated the Projected
state revenues and debt burden for the Project time period. The Project at the time
represented a very small fraction of the total state debt burden, while the Projected
Debt/GDP ratio suggested a diminishing debt burden as a result of GDP growth and a
diminishing stock of debt. An ex-post-facto analysis of the state debt situation was not
undertaken as part of this ICR analysis; however, Appendix D of the Borrower ICR does
highlight the role of Project funding within total education expenditures. On a yearly
basis, Project spending was consistently less than 1% of total (state and municipal)
education expenditures, while the World Bank portion was about ½%. While these
largely non-salary Project expenditures are certainly not negligible, it seems likely that
the state will have sufficient funds for continuing with some of the Project initiated
activities, particularly given the anticipated cost savings from decreased age-grade
distortion discussed above. Whether spending on education continues to be a priority,
however, is a political decision.




42Note that the estimate assumes students "caught up" to grade level will go on to finish the fundamental cycle.




                                                                32

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                           Title               Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Alberto Rodriguez             Task Team Leader                 LCSHE
Alexandre Borges de Oliveira  Procurement Specialist           LCSPT
Amber Gove                    Education Specialist
David Plank                   Peer Review
Efraim Jimenez                Procurement Specialist           LCSPT
Marcus Verhine                Economist
Maria Madalena dos Santos     Sector Leader                   LCSHD
Marta Elena Molares-Halberg   Attorney                        LEGLA
Mauricio Pedrao               Economist
Robert Verhine                Education
Tulio Henrique Correa         Financial Management Specialist LCSFM
Veronica Jarrin               Program Assistant               LCSHD
Supervision/ICR
Ademildes Dantas            Operations Officer                LCSHE
Alberto Rodriguez           Task Team Leader                  LCSHE
Alexandre Borges de OliveiraProcurement Spec.                  LCSPT
Anemarie Guth Proite        Procurement Spec.                  LCSPT
Eduardo Velez Bustillo      Sector Manager                    LCSHE
Fabson Vogel                Financial Management Specialis    LCSFM
Jose C. Janeiro             Senior Finance Officer            LOAFC
Maria Jose Vilas Boas Per
Weiss                       Sr. Social Development & Civil     LCSSO

Susana Amaral               Financial Management Analyst      LCSFM

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                       No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                         17                        119.90
                           Total:              17                        119.90
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                     0.00
  FY04                                         11                         56.23
  FY05                                         19                         84.26
  FY06                                         13                         59.36
  FY07                                         10                         61.04
  FY08                                          2                          7.12
                           Total:              55                        268.01


                                            33

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The impact studies commissioned under the Project contained a substantial beneficiary
assessment component. Surveys and structured interviews were done with principals,
teachers, school councils, students and parents in a sample of 400 public schools (both
state and municipal). Interviews and surveys were done in 2002, and again in 2005,
although the same individuals were not necessarily interviewed both times. Altogether,
approximately 2,400 interviews and/or surveys were administered.                                              The beneficiary
assessment focused on detecting four types of change over time ­ cognitive, action,
behavior/routine, and values.                     In addition to investigating attitudes with regard to
education generally, the study also asked specific questions regarding Project supported
activities, including principal certification and the accelerated classes program. The main
findings from the study are presented below.

Perspectives on Education Generally

    a) All respondents reported improvement in the availability of school places.
          However, many noted that some schools were nonetheless overcrowded.

    b) In addition to the greater availability of school places, aspects of schooling
          perceived by most respondents to be improved over time were the skill of the
          teaching force, the relationship with the SEC and municipal secretariats of
          education, the use of computers in instruction, and the use of computers for
          administration/management.                      In addition, teachers felt that the capacity of
          principals had improved, school councils felt like the evaluation/assessment of
          students had improved; and principals felt like school management and planning
          had improved.

    c) Despite the improvements reported above, among all the groups surveyed, there
          was a clear perception that there had been a decline in the quality of both
          fundamental and secondary education; among these groups, the most negative
          were teachers.

    d) Respondents felt that the following things had gotten worse: (a) the relationship
          between school and community; (b) school physical plant; (c) school conditions;
          (d) student repetition; (e) student dropout; (f) student literacy; and (g) the quality
          of classes.43

    e) Principals and teachers expressed high rates of satisfaction with their professions,
          although there was a decline in satisfaction from 2002 to 2005, despite substantial
          salary raises and quality improvement efforts supported by the Project during this
          time period.



43Data collected at the survey sample sites confirmed that while drop-out had decreased, repetition had increased.




                                                                 34

  f) Overall, there was a general perception that both the satisfaction of teachers and
     motivation of students had declined. Importantly, the perception of low student
     motivation was predominant among all five groups surveyed.

  g) Education professionals surveyed largely blamed students, the community and
     social conditions for repetition; students, on the other hand, blamed school
     conditions, and the difficulty in paying attention in classes where students with
     little interest were disrupting class. Principals generally felt like their schools had
     been doing everything possible to combat dropout, repetition and late school
     enrollment;


Changes in Reported Conditions

  a) With regard to learning materials and infrastructure, more than half the schools
     reported satisfactory conditions.      Respondents found the situation with lab
     supplies, computers and learning materials for special needs children had
     improved, but was still far from satisfactory. About 1/5 of schools had less than
     half of the textbooks they needed, and the situation had worsened from 2002 to
     2005. The majority of schools had libraries or reading rooms, but they were
     reported to be under-used.

  b) Education professionals indicated that political affiliations still bore considerable
     weight in the appointment of school principals. Over the 2002-2005 time period,
     there was an increase in the rate of turnover of school principals and pedagogic
     coordinators, as well as a substantial increase in teacher leaves and absences
     (almost double), which may have affected student and parent perceptions of
     quality as well as student achievement results.

  c) The proportion of students working while attending school also increased from
     2002 to 2005, while the proportion of those who studied with siblings or parents
     at home decreased.

  d) Although the relationship between teachers and parents was perceived as very
     important, respondents also perceived a decline in the frequency with which
     teachers assigned homework and contacted the families of their students.

  e) Among students interviewed, most had more schooling than their parents, and
     nearly ¾ expressed the intention of completing college, which was an increase
     from 2005.




                                           35

Project Related Changes

     a) There was a notable improvement in principal qualifications. More than 95% in
          2005 had specific qualifications in education.                           Certification programs were
          viewed positively by principals, teachers, and parents, and participation in these
          programs had increased. Among principals, 94% said the idea of certification was
          "good" or "excellent" ­ while 61% felt it had improved quality in the schools a lot
          and 30% felt it had improved quality a little.

     b) There was a slight increase in schools participating in learning assessment testing,
          but this reached only 48% in 2005. About 60% of students taking the tests found
          them easy, and about 69% thought the grades were fair.

     c) Most schools had put together a PDE (84%) sometime from 2001 to 2005 ­ 30%
          had done one, 23% had done 2, and 24% had done 3, 13% had done 4 and 9% had
          done 5. However, only 38% said the PDE had been totally implemented, while
          43% said it had been implemented partially. After "various reasons" (49.2%) for
          non-implementation, the most common reason for non-implementation was lack
          of funds ­ 39.7%, followed by a lack of guidance from the SEC 23.8%

     d) Despite the implementation of the PDEs, teachers felt like the efficiency and
          quality of school management had declined from 2002 to 2005, while principals
          felt like school management had stayed about the same. In particular, teachers
          felt like they were getting less instructional support over the time period.
          Teachers did cite as a positive trend the inclusion of curricular components in
          special Projects, and the participation of the school community in the PDE
          process.

     e) Aside from increases in use of computers and libraries from 2002 to 2005, there
          were no indications that teaching practices had changed in schools surveyed.44

     f) Principals reported an increase in number of schools that offered accelerated
          classes, both for grades 1-4 and 5-8. During the same period, the average number
          of such classes declined slightly. 100% of respondents believed that the number
          of accelerated classes was sufficient for grades 1-4, while 94.4% believed that the
          number was sufficient for 5-8.

     g) Principals generally rated the Accelerated Classes program well ­ 7.5 out of a
          maximum of 10, with a standard deviation of 1.3, indicating considerable
          consensus among principals. The most common evaluation mark was an 8. They
          generally gave higher satisfaction marks to the appropriate of materials, but lower
          satisfaction regarding the voluntary participation of teachers, the reinsertion of



44ICR team note: This finding should be viewed with caution, as the methodology used by the impact study was not well-suited to

judging changes in teaching practices.



                                                             36

accelerated students back into regular classes, the overall improvements in
learning levels, and the ability of teachers to deal with over-age kids.
Respondents felt that kids did not spend sufficient time in accelerated classes to
cover the content, and in some cases did not feel like the content was sufficiently
flexible to accommodate different school characteristics. Principals also felt that
the SEC had been doing an adequate job in terms of supporting teachers
implementing the accelerated classes program.




                                   37

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                  38

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1. INTRODUCTION

The Government of the State of Bahia (the Government) emphasizes that in view of the
strategic importance of education for the development of the State, it has invested
financial and human resources to meet the challenge of improving the quality of public
education. In this respect, the Government and the Bank prepared the Bahia Education
Program to be implemented in two stages.

The broad objectives of the Program were improve the quality of education at the
fundamental and secondary levels, increase access to education at the secondary level,
and strengthen education management, in accordance with the guidelines of the Lei de
Diretrizes e Bases da Educação Nacional (law containing guidelines and norms for
education), the establishment of the Fundo de Manutenção e Desenvolvimento do Ensino
Fundamental e de Valorização do Magistério (FUNDEF), the negotiations of the Fundo
de Manutenção e Desenvolvimento da Educação Básica e de Valorização dos
Profissionais da Educação (FUNDEB), and the delegation of the fundamental level to
municipalities.

This annex describes the implementation of and the results achieved during second phase
of the Bahia Education Program (the Project), according to the following structure:
Information about the Project; Context; Results; Impact Indicators, Lessons Learned and
Sustainability. It also includes several appendixes45 presenting additional information on
the Project's execution, including a detailed analysis of results achieved, issues that
hampered the full achievement of expected results, and effectiveness of the Project's
goals.

2. INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROJECT

The Bahia Education Program was originally conceived to be implemented in two phases,
under an instrument known by the Bank as an Adaptable Program Loan (APL). The first
phase would be implemented from 2001 to 2003 and the second from 2003 to 2006.

Loan No. 4592-BR, which provided financing for the first phase, was signed by the
Government on February 12, 2001. That loan closed on June 30, 2003. Subsequently, on
December 15, 2003 the Government signed a new Loan Agreement, Loan No. 7186-BR,
to provide continuity in financing for the second phase of the Program. The loan was
expected to close on December 31, 2006. However, the Government requested and the
Bank agreed to an extension until June 30, 2007 in order to complete ongoing civil works.




45All appendixes to this annex are available in the Project's files.




                                                                    39

3. CONTEXT

The Government realized that a broad reform of the education system was needed, and
took this as a priority since 1991. The Government's Plano Plurianual for the 2000-2003
period assigned priority to education as a strategy for social inclusion and to jump start
other development indicators. The plan referred to education as "the main instrument of
social inclusion and for strengthening citizenship".

In 1991, the Secretariat of Education and Culture (SEC) carried out a detailed diagnostic
of its responsibilities to identify the major obstacles to the implementation of a State
education system reform, and decide upon priorities. The diagnostic highlighted the
following critical issues:

    (a) lack of administrative efficiency, implying a duplication of functions and an over-
        dimensioning of personnel;
    (b) deficiencies in control mechanisms of positions and salaries (cases in which
        school directors and sub-directors received unauthorized salary preferences);
    (c) inefficiencies in the managerial performance of the Diretorias Regionais de
        Educação (DIREC);
    (d) excess of teachers performing activities other than teaching (administrative tasks);
    (e) lack of teachers in schools (vacancy of 12 thousand hours/class in the capital);
    (f) deterioration of schools physical infrastructure;
    (g) slow, bureaucratic processes;
    (h) low level of computerization among the technical-administrative and teaching
        units.

In order to implement and carry out innovative features in the educational system, the
organizational restructuring of the SEC was the first step in the broad educational reform.
The actions were directed towards gradually and continuously overcome of identified
bottlenecks in Bahia's education system, of which the following were the most critical:

    (a) extremely high drop out rates, which reached around 40 % per annum;
    (b) deficiencies in teacher training - the majority of teachers (1st to 4th grades) did
        not have any formal teacher training;
    (c) high concentration of students in the first through fourth grades of fundamental
        education. In the second stage of fundamental education, 33% of students were in
        the fifth grade while only 8% were in the eighth grade;
    (d) very high repetition rates, leading to an elevated age/grade distortion;
    (e) administrative model centralized and hierarchical, with little autonomy assigned
        to schools.

The school autonomy, universal coverage (especially at the fundamental level), and
improvements in the quality of education were the basic principles of the strategies and
programs implemented by SEC over the 1991-2001 period. Until 1999, the emphasis
was on the rationalization of the administrative processes and on the SEC's institutional



                                             40

development. This period was also characterized by the proliferation of programs and
projects that sought to improve both intermediate and final outputs. In 1999, there was a
clear inflexibility in terms of vision and strategic projects. After then, there was a
concentration of efforts and resources on the formulation and establishment of integrated
projects, within the Programa Educar para Vencer, which put "the student at the center
of the reform" and "the school as the axis of change". Universal access to education at
the fundamental level was no longer an objective, as it was becoming a reality. The
priority objectives instead became those of improving the quality of education and
ensuring school autonomy.

Within this context, the Bahia Education Program was conceived with the objective of
financing actions of the Educar para Vencer Program, in addition to others included in
federal programs, such as the establishment of minimum standards for physical
installations. It is worth mentioning the expansion in access to the secondary level,
which was considered of high importance given the improved flow of students through
the fundamental level.

The Educar para Vencer Program was introduced in 2000 initially in 45 municipalities
reaching approximately 61,000 students and 3,700 teachers. In 2001, it increased its
coverage to 140 municipalities and in 2002 to 280 municipalities. The criteria for
municipalities' selection took into account the need to respond to the Faz Cidadão and
Cidades Líderes Projects. The Program involved the state and municipal schools with the
voluntary participation of municipalities, and focused on priority and strategic education
projects, as follows:

(a) Priority Education Projects: (i) Regularizing school flows in the 1st to 4th grade and
    the 5th to 8th grade; (ii) Strengthening of School Management; (iii) Management
    Training of the Municipal Education System; (iv) Certification of Managers and
    Specialists in Education; (v) External Learning Evaluation;
(b) Strategic Education Projects: (i) Instrumental Strengthening Program (Programa de
    Enriquecimento Instrumental); (ii) Expansion and Quality Improvements of education
    at the secondary level and of professional training; (iii) Distance Education
    Technology; and (iv) Information Systems.

Notwithstanding the achievements, there are several challenges in the State's education
system. Although all of the priority educational projects have been developed, and in
many cases have exceeded the expected targets, this has still not been sufficient to
substantially improve the quality of public education in Bahia.       The results of the
2000/2001 evaluation, which looked at the students' performance at the 4th and 8th grades,
indicated that there is a long way to go before students reach a desired level of learning.
Therefore, the challenge for SEC from now on includes the improvement of indicators
relating to student flow and learning achievement, quality of education at all levels, and
expansion of coverage at the secondary level.




                                            41

4. IMPLEMENTATION RESULTS OF THE PROJECT BY COMPONENT

The project supported the implementation of several activities aimed at achieving the
proposed objectives. To improve the quality of education at the fundamental and
secondary levels, strategic actions of the FUNDESCOLA Program were adapted and
expanded to a broader universe. The Plano de Desenvolvimento da Escola (PDE) and the
Plano de Melhoria da Escola (PME), allowed resources to be transferred directly to
schools to respond to their specific needs.
Classes to improve the flow of students between the 1st and 8th grades were established to
address the age/grade distortion. The results of the Project's impact evaluation, detailed
in Appendix D, show that the activities to correct the age/grade distortion achieved its
objective. Between 2002 and 2005, the distortion rate declined from 62.7% to 50.4%.
The decrease in the distortion rate increases the efficiency of the education system, since
it allows resources that would maintain a large number of overage students to be applied
to other activities.

The expansion of education at the secondary level was achieved through the construction
of new schools, mainly in those localities that didn't have even one school for secondary
level students. Finally, activities such as the certification of education professionals and
an external evaluation of education were introduced to strengthen education management.
The implementation results by component and subcomponent are presented below.

1.       Improving Educational Quality
1.1      Ensuring Minimal Operational Standards for Schools
In order to subsidize the implementation of minimum operational standards (MOS) for
the state network, the Project financed the inventory of the physical conditions of 1,457
public schools that had not received assistance from either FUNDESCOLA or the Bahia
Education Project, Phase I. This inventory included the state and municipal Indigenous
schools. The Project financed the purchase and distribution of school furniture and
equipment, benefiting more than three times the number of public school classrooms
established in the PAD - 7,188 classrooms against 2,100 classrooms as originally planned.

1.2      Supporting the Implementation of the Educational Development Plans (PDE)
The development of local planning capacity46is one of the pillars of the Projeto de
Fortalecimento de Gestão e Autonomia Educacional (Project for Strengthening
Management and School Autonomy). At the school level, this process has been facilitated
by the implementation of the PDE, which is a participatory strategic planning instrument
developed under the leadership of the school director. The implementation of PDEs has
helped the school management in the search for administrative, financial and pedagogical
autonomy at the school level. The Project supported the implementation of PDE in 2,560
state and municipal schools. Thus, it exceeded the targets originally established in the
PAD for both levels, covering 767 secondary schools and 2,560 fundamental schools.



46Meaning school and municipal levels.




                                             42

1.3 Financing the School Improvement Projects (PME)
The Project financed the PME at the fundamental level through financial transfers
directly to the respective schools, in accordance with the number of students enrolled.
The transfers varied from R$6,200.00 to R$15,000.00, and each of the 460 schools
received two separate transfers. The target for this activity established in the PAD (493
schools) was not reached in view of the process of delegation to the municipal level and
the disappearance of fundamental education units over the life of the Project.

The resources transferred to schools at the secondary level also varied in accordance with
the number of students enrolled from R$30,000.00 to R$200,000.00. During the Project,
767 schools received funding for their PME, and 133 of these counted exclusively on
counterpart resources. The PAD specified a target of 638 schools; therefore, this target
was exceeded.

1.4 Implementing Accelerated Courses
The Project financed accelerated courses aimed at correcting the age/grade distortion and
improving educational efficiency.        The Project financed the acquisition of teaching
materials, trained teachers, as well as a team of consultants to supervise the
implementation of these courses. Although this activity was restricted to grades 5 to 8, all
grades of fundamental education were benefited by the Project, which introduced 22,231
classes aimed to address age/grade distortion. The original PAD target of 18,000 was
exceeded. However, these activities reached 402 municipalities as opposed to the original
target of 417.

1.5 Expanding GESTAR
This activity was one of the few introduced in Phase II in relation to the earlier Phase I
Project. GESTAR was an activity developed by the FUNDESCOLA Program, originally
implemented as a pilot in two municipalities in Bahia. This activity sought to introduce
quality in education through the continuous in-service teacher training for the
fundamental level, an evaluation of students, an auto-evaluation of teachers and use of
specific teaching material. The final objective was to improve the academic performance
of students in the 1st to 8th grades in Portuguese and Mathematics.

The Project expanded the experience of GESTAR in the State: 6,040 teachers were
trained, of which 4,110 were in the 1st to the 4th grades and 1,930 were in the 5th to the 8th
grades, reaching 291 municipalities. As a result, the target of training 6,000 teachers in 65
municipalities established in the PAD was exceeded.

1.6 Improving Indigenous Education
1.6.1 Construction of Classrooms
An Indigenous school was built in Olivença (Ilhéus) for the Tupinambá. The school has
six classrooms, science and information technology laboratories, a library, a sports field,
and totally equipped. With this, 720 new school places were established for the
fundamental level. The PAD target - construction of six classrooms, was reached.




                                              43

1.6.2 Minimum Operational Standards (MOS) in Indigenous Schools
The establishment of MOS for physical installations in Indigenous Schools counted on
the transfer of financial resources to these schools. The Project supported 46 classrooms
with MOS of physical installations, and 58 classrooms with MOS, exceeding the target
established in the PAD (38 classrooms).

1.6.3 Improvement of Teaching Materials
The Project financed the purchase of school materials for all students of Indigenous
communities in Bahia, which included a set of pencils, pen, eraser, lead pen, ruler, glue,
notebook, files, paints, brushes, colored pencils and crayons, play dough and scissors.
This material was purchased for 49 Indigenous schools, exceeding the original target of
38 Indigenous schools. Additionally, information technology equipment was purchased
for 7 Indigenous schools.

2.     Expanding Access
2.1 Construction of schools
The increased access to education at the secondary level was possible due to the
construction of new schools delivered to 19 communities in municipalities in Bahia,
many of which had not had one single school at this level before. The demand for new
places at the secondary level is growing and is affected by other actions under the Project
such as the correction of the age/grade distortion at the fundamental level. The schools
financed under the Project have six or eight classrooms, a sports complex, a library, a
science and information technology laboratory, and the school was delivered
appropriately equipped. Until June 30, 2007, 172 classrooms had been financed (28
schools), accounting for the creation of 20,640 new school places at the secondary level.
These numbers include a school with six classrooms in a resettlement area in Arataca.
(The works are being concluded-90% progress at present). The PAD targets were
exceeded (104 classrooms and 12,000 school places) were reached and exceeded.

2.2 School Transportation
Despite efforts by SEC to complement funding for school transportation for the state
secondary schools, this occurred in only 14 of 276 municipalities originally expected to
receive funding under the Project.         Because of the operational difficulties, the
Municipalities were not able to comply with the established requirements, and the
activity was implemented with resources from PNATE and the State.

3.     Strengthening Education Management
3.1 Educational Evaluation
The external evaluation of education in the State public network was financed by the
Project. The objective of the external evaluation is to provide schools with the tools to
identify and address problems to improve quality of education. The difference between
the state evaluation and the national model is that instead of presenting data aggregated
by region, it provides each school with the results achieved by their own students in
relation to what they should be learning.




                                             44

The Project supported two broad lines of evaluation: the performance evaluation and the
evaluation of student learning. To properly develop and implement these activities, the
SEC signed an agreement with the Universidade Federal da Bahia in November 1999.
This agreement was valid until October 31, 2004, but SEC maintained a transition
structure until December 2006, contracting individual consultants through the Project.

The Performance Evaluation. The performance evaluation covered 2,808 schools located
in the 304 municipalities participating in the Educar para Vencer Program, achieving the
target established in the PAD.

The Learning Evaluation. The learning evaluation used standardized tests to allow
teachers to evaluate students' learning from the 1st to the 8th grade in Portuguese,
Mathematics and writing. The evaluation material was developed and sent to the schools,
and the teachers themselves delivered, corrected and interpreted the results of their
classes. The learning evaluation was delivered in 2,851 schools in the 304 municipalities
in Bahia. Therefore, the result predicted in the PAD was met.

3.2 Institutional Strengthening of Education Administration
3.2.1 Occupational Certification of Education Professionals
The certification is related to the effective competency of professionals at work and not
only with the formal aspects (formal training, extent, degree). Certification aims at
improving the professionalism and the quality of directors, managers and technicians, and
stimulating continuous professional education. The process of certification includes
practical and theory exams that evaluate the knowledge and abilities of the education
professionals. The methodology seeks to define a standard of quality to ensure that the
persons that occupy determined positions are capable of achieving good professional
performance. The Process of Certification is revalidated every three years.

The Project financed the certification of specialists in several disciplines (Portuguese,
Mathematics, Sciences, History and Geography), literacy teachers, pedagogical
coordinators and school secretaries in addition to the certification of the managers. The
PAD established a target of 20,000 education professionals to be submitted to
certification. In total, 31,383 professionals benefited from the program.

3.2.2 Financial Autonomy for the State Network of Middle Schools
3.2.2.1 Preparation at the School Level
The full financial autonomy at the school level had the objective of promoting the
necessary means so that the educational staff and the community could take school-
related decisions, making them responsible for results. The project supported a manual
and training before transferring financial resources to state schools that offered the
secondary education to less than 5,001 students and were non-classified as Colégio
Modelo Luis Eduardo Magalhães. The resources were then utilized prioritizing the
payment of the schools' recurrent expenses (water, power and telephone).




                                              45

3.2.2.2 Transfer of Resources for School Autonomy
Like the financing of PMEs, allocation of resources to secondary level schools varied in
accordance with the number of students enrolled, from R$30,000.00 to R$200,000.00,
plus R$84.60 per student. The Project transferred funds to each of 113 beneficiary
schools, exceeding the PAD target.

3.3 Project Implementation and Management
The Project activities were implemented by several Superintendencies of SEC. The SEC,
through the Coordenação de Projetos Especiais (COPE), was responsible for the project
management and monitoring. To this end, it counted on a project management team
(PMU), and used the Sistema de Gerenciameto do Projeto (GEP), which was developed
to assist in the management of financial resources and monitoring of the physical
progress of the Project activities. The PMU ensured that all information related to the
physical progress and financial execution of contracts was available for the Bank, the
SEC, auditors and other interested parties. In total, 229 public schools were monitored
during the project life.

3.4 Project Implementation and Impact
3.4.1 Impact Evaluation of the Project
The Project financed an impact evaluation (Appendix E). The impact studies included a
field survey to obtain quantitative and qualitative data, in addition to the use of secondary
data obtained from official entities and institutions.

3.4.2 Integrated Development Program of the State of Bahia
The Project financed some activities under the State Integrated Social and Economic
Development Program. Among those activities was one geared towards explaining the
dynamics of poverty in the State of Bahia.

5. IMPACT INDICATORS OF THE BAHIA PROJECT

The baseline for the Program's impact indicators that are being referred to relates to 1999,
except for the net enrollment in the secondary level of education, which refers to 2000
data. There is also an analysis which presupposes a baseline using 2003 data. The
decision to select 1999 (or 2000) as the baseline for the Bahia Program, as well as 2003
for the phase II, was made taking into account the beginning of the external financing.
The indicators were selected in function of the development objectives of the Bahia
Program, with emphasis on aspects relating to quality, access and management
(Appendix B).

6. LESSONS LEARNED

The Government's experience with the implementation of Phase I, as well as with the
Nordeste III and FUNDESCOLA II Projects was important for the appraisal of this
Project. The Bank's knowledge of the educational problems in Bahia and Brazil also
facilitated the appraisal in question.




                                              46

The choice of school autonomy as one of the pillars of the Project to improve quality of
education took into consideration the experiences and problems faced in Chile, Uruguay
and Colombia, which surfaced during discussions with the Bank's technical team. It was
also important the SEC's experience in the establishment of minimum standards, which
proved to be a concrete tool for reducing the educational inequality. The contribution of
Brazil's experiences with SAEB, and that of Chile, England and the United States in the
use of an external evaluation, was also important to the design of the Project. Finally,
specifically with respect to lessons learned during the implementation of phase II, the
following deserve highlighting:

(a) the strengthening of school management, as an important factor in the improvement of
quality of the public education in Bahia;
(b) the efficient application of resources in introducing minimum standards in schools;
(c) the inclusion of GESTAR to address the deficiencies of students in Portuguese and
Mathematics;
(d) the positive impact of the managerial certification on the approval indicators in the
schools located in most needy municipalities in Bahia;
(e) the importance of addressing the educational needs of special groups such as the
population in settlement areas and the Indigenous, strengthening the capacity of the
Indigenous through participatory processes administered by the respective community.
(f) as a result of the strong devaluation of the Dollar relative to the Real, the Project
adopted alternatives such as complementing counterpart resources to the activities that
were most affected, improving documents and bidding processes to allow greater
competition, and granting greater autonomy to the technicians in operational decisions;
(h) the continuous monitoring of activities under implementation led SEC to proper and
timely intervene and make necessary adjustments;
(i) the improvement of the project management system (GEP) and its linkage with the
states's financial management system (SICOF);
(j) the Government's commitment to the Project, addressing implementation issues as a
matter of priority, also contributed to the achievement of implementation results.

7. SUSTAINABILITY

The Government of the State of Bahia, conscious of the importance of education as the
most powerful instrument for jump-starting the development and social inclusion
indicators, has been building the institutional capacity and developing strategies to elevate
the quality of the education system and the autonomy of school units. The process of
gradually and permanently creating the conditions to ensure the autonomous and efficient
performance of municipal education systems and schools was focused and unveiled in the
context of Educar para Vencer.

From 1999 onwards, SEC has been changing the focus of its actions, emphasizing on the
development of policies, programs and projects for education, as well as on its role as an
agent of regulating the state educational system. But the results of this kind of change
take time, especially when the starting situation is so poor. It is necessary not only to
persist in pursuing the strategic objectives that were defined, but also accelerate the



                                              47

implementation of projects and instruments to transform outdated and conservative
practices and cultures in education in Bahia.

As concrete measures to guarantee the sustainability of the Project's successful activities,
SEC included in its 2008-2011 PPA resources for activities related to the strengthening of
management and education autonomy, the regularization of school flows, the adoption of
minimum standards for schools, the Program GESTAR, and the external evaluation. The
indicators and targets for the school network, as well as comparative graphs emphasizing
the historical series of investments in education, were presented in Appendix D.

The knowledge that was obtained from the improvement and optimization of the
managerial capacity of SEC is being gradually expanded to its departments, in this way
guaranteeing not only the inclusion of management technique in the education system,
but also the consolidation of these practices in the educational administration, including
the school. The mechanisms of internal controls, monitoring and permanent technical
assistance to the school units, including the promotion of continuous training and
upgrading the knowledge of the main players in school management and teaching
development, will constitute permanent tools in use by SEC in their efforts to improve
the performance of the public education system in the state of Bahia.




                                             48

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    49

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  Government Documents

  1. Avaliação de Concluintes do Ensino Médio: 1997. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e
     Pesquisas Educacionais ­ INEP, Brasília, 1998.

  2. Brazil: Secondary Education: Time to Move Forward. World Bank, 2000.

  3. Carta Lei Darcy Ribeiro no. 9.394, de 1996: emendas à constituição nos. 11 e 14,
     de 1996 e Lei 9.424, de 1996, Diretrizes e Bases da Educação Nacional. Gabinete
     do Senador Darcy Ribeiro, Brasília, 1997.

  4. Consórcio Bahia Maior, "Avaliação do Impacto do Projeto de Regularização de
     Fluxo nas Taxas de Distorção Idade-Série," São Paulo, Novembro 2006.

  5. Determinação de Custos Educacionais: Uma Análise Panorâmica do Estado da
     Arte: 1998. Robert E. Verhine, Universidade Federal da Bahia.

  6. Dinheiro na Escola: procedimentos operacionais. Ministério da Educação e do
     Desporto ­ MEC, Brasília 1997.

  7. Diretrizes Curriculares Nacionais Para o Ensino Médio: 1998. Conselheira
      Guiomar Namo de Mello: Ministério da Educação e do Desporto - Conselho
      Nacional de Educação.

  8. Ditos sobre a Evasão Escolar: Estudos de Casos no Estado da Bahia. Paulo
      Roberto Holanda Gurgel.

  9. Educação, Escola e Comunidade: Estudo Piloto no Estado da Bahia. Adélia Luiza
      Portela e Eni Santana Barreto Bastos. Ministério da Educação e do Desporto ­
      (MEC), Projeto de Educação Básica para o Nordeste, Brasília, 1997.

  10. Ensino Médio e Educação Profissional no Estado da Bahia: Diagnósticos de
      Elementos Estratégicos: Convênio entre a Secretaria de Educação do Estado da
      Bahia e o Instituto Miguel Calmon. Altiplanos Planejamento Engenharia e
      Consultoria Ltda.

  11. Evolução da Educação Básica no Brasil: 1991-1997. Instituto Nacional de
      Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasília, 1997.

  12. Exame Nacional do Ensino Médio: 1998. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e
      Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasília, 1998.




                                         50

13. Financiamento da Educação Básica: Um estudo de receitas e gastos das redes de
    ensino da Bahia: 1998. Universidade Federal da Bahia: Faculdade de
    Educação/Programa de Pós-Graduação em Educação, Centro de Estudos
    Interdisciplinares para o Setor Público - ISP.

14. Fundo de Manutenção e Desenvolvimento do Ensino Fundamental e de
    Valorização do Magistério: guia para sua operacionalização. Ministério da
    Educação e do Desporto - MEC, Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da
    Educação FNDE, São Paulo 1997.

15. Guia de Consulta, Programa de Apoio aos Secretários Municipais de Educação
    (PRASEM). Projeto Nordeste, Banco Mundial, UNICEF, Brasília, 1997.

16. Lições e Práticas 1-13. Vários Autores, Projeto Nordeste, Banco Mundial,
    UNICEF, Brasília 1997.

17. Manual de Orientação para Constituição de Unidades Executoras. MEC ­
    Secretaria de Educação Fundamental, Brasília. 1997.

18. Plano Nacional de Educação Brasília 1998.

19. Projeto da Educação do Estado da Bahia Ensino Médio ­ Estudo ­ Linha de
    Ação: Componente1: Setembro 1998. Secretaria da Educação - SEC,
    Superintendência de Desenvolvimento Educacional- SUD, Departamento de
    Desenvolvimento Educacional - DESEN.

20. Projeto da Educação do Estado da Bahia Ensino Médio -Estudos Preliminares-
    Linha de Ação 1A: Ações Preparatórias: 1º Julho 1998. Secretaria da Educação -
    SEC, Superintendência de Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento
    de Desenvolvimento Educacional - DESEN.

21. Projeto da Educação do Estado da Bahia Ensino Médio -Estudos Preliminares-
    Linha de Ação 1A: Ações Preparatórias: 2,2, IV, V: Julho 1998. Secretaria da
    Educação - SEC, Superintendência de Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD,
    Departamento de Desenvolvimento Educacional - DESEN.

22. Projeto da Educação do Estado da Bahia Ensino Médio -Estudos Preliminares-
    Linha de Ação 1A: Ações Preparatórias: VIII: Julho 1998. Secretaria da Educação
    - SEC, Superintendência de Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento
    de Desenvolvimento Educacional - DESEN.

23. Projeto da Educação do Estado da Bahia Ensino Médio -Estudos Preliminares-
    Linha de Ação 1A: Ações Preparatórias: VI: Julho 1998. Secretaria da Educação -
    SEC, Superintendência de Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento
    de Desenvolvimento Educacional - DESEN.




                                         51

24. Projeto da Educação do Estado da Bahia Ensino Médio -Estudos Preliminares-
    Linha de Ação 1B: Ações Preparatórias: XIII e XIV: Julho 1998. Secretaria da
    Educação - SEC, Superintendência de Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD,
    Departamento de Desenvolvimento Educacional - DESEN.

25. Projeto da Educação do Estado da Bahia Ensino Médio -Estudos Preliminares-
    Linha de Ação 2 Ações Preparatórias: IV: Julho 1998. Secretaria da Educação -
    SEC, Superintendência de Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento
    de Desenvolvimento Educacional - DESEN.

26. Projeto de Educação da Bahia: Um Estudo de Caso. Xavier, Antonio e Verhine,
    Robert. Março 2004.

27. Redirecionamento do Ensino Médio e Profissional do Estado do Bahia -
    Diretrizes: 1996-1998. Governo do Estado da Bahia, Secretaria da Educação -
    SEC, Departamento de Ensino - DEE.

28. Sistema Nacional de Avaliação da Educação Básica, SAEB/95: resultados
    estaduais. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais ­ INEP,
    Brasília, 1997.

29. Sistemática de Financiamento do Ensino Fundamental. Fundo Nacional de
    Desenvolvimento da Educação, FNDE, Ministério da Educação e do Desporto -
    MEC, Brasília, 1997.

External Documents

30. Blueprints for School Success: A Guide to New American Schools Designs,
    Educational Research Service. 1998

31. Brazil: A Call to Action: Combating School failure in the Northeast of Brazil:
    1997. Ministry of Education / Education Northeast Basic Education Project - The
    World Bank - UNICEF.

32. Chamada à Ação: combatendo o fracasso escolar no Nordeste. Projeto Nordeste,
    Banco Mundial, UNICEF Brasília, 1997.

33. Creating World Class Schools: A Progress Report on the Memphis City Schools,
    Memphis City Schools. 1997.

34. Design-Based Assistance as a Cornerstone of a School Improvement Strategy,
    Thomas K. Glennan, New American Schools. 1997.

35. How to Create Incentives for Design-Based Schools, Paul T. Hill, New American
    Schools, 1997.




                                        52

36. How to Engage Educators, Parents, and the Community in Design-Based School
    Change, NAS, 1997.

37. Indigenous Education Development Plan. Bahia State Secretariat of Education,
    2002.

38. Lessons from New American Schools' Scale-up Phase, Susan R. Bodilly, Rand
    Corporation, 1998.

39. The Brazilian "fundamental" cycle incorporates grades 1-8.

40. The World Bank Report #26118-BR - Project Appraisal Document for Bahia
    Second Education Project.

41. The World Bank Report #27018-BR - Implementation Completion Report for the
    first phase of the Bahia Education Project.

42. The World Bank Report #36452-BR - Implementation Completion Report for
    Brazil Second School Improvement ­ FUNDESCOLA II.




                                        53

