Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15842
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2678/CREDIT 1680-CHA)
June 26, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name = Renminbi
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Yuan Rate per US$1.00
1985    2.94              1991    5.32
1986    3.45              1992    5.53
1987    3.72              1993    5.76
1988    3.72              1994    8.60
1989    3.76              1995    8.50
1990    4.78
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALENTS
Metric System          British; US.system
I meter (m)          3.281 feet
I square meter (m2)    =    10.764 square feet
I cubic meter (m7)   =     35.315 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)    =    0.621 mile
I passenger-km (p-km)    =     0.621 passenger-miles
I t-km   =      0.621 ton-mile
I converted t-km (ctk)    =    I traffic unit (I p-km+1 t-km)
I ton    =     2,208 pounds
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)    =     860.42 kcal
I mu           0. 1647 acre = 0.0667 hectare (ha)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
Cr      -    Credit
ERR    -   Economic Rate of Return
FCTIO  -   Foreign Capital and Technical Import Office
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
ICR     -    Implementation Completion Report
MOF   -   Ministry of Finance
MOR   -   Ministry of Railways
OECF   -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PCR    -   Project Completion Report
SAR    -    Staff Appraisal Report
SPC     -    State Planning Commission



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2678/CREDIT 1680-CHA)
CONTENTS
P r e fa c e      .....................................................................................................................   iii
Evaluation  Summary  ..................................................... iv
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ......................................................1
A.  Project Objectives                            .................................................. ...I
B.  Achievement of Objectives                                 .....................................................2
C.  Implementation  Record  and Major Factors Affecting  the Project ....................                                         5
D.  Project Sustainability                                     . ....................................................           11
E.  Bank Performance                           .................................1.................... 1
F.  Borrower Performance ......................................................                                                 12
G.  Assessment of Outcome ......................................................                                                12
H.  Future  Operations                                .....................................................   13
I.  Lessons Learned ...................................................... 14
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES .....................................................                                                           16
Table 1:  Summary Of Assessments . ..................................................... 16
Table 2:   Related  Bank Loans/Credits ......................................                                 ............... 17
Table  3:   Project Timetable ..................................................... 18
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated  and  Actual .....................................................  18
Table  5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation  ..........................                                ............... 19
Table 6:   Key  Indicators For Project Operation ................................................. 19
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project                                  .......................................... 20
Table  8a: Project Costs .....................................................                                                 21
Table 8b: Project Financing  ..................................................... 22
Table  8c:  Allocation  of Loan  Proceeds ..................................................... 22
Table 9:   Economic  Costs and  Benefits ..                           ................................................... 23
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants ....................................................           .                           23
Table  11: Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements ...............                                        ................ 24
Table  12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs .....................................................     25
Table  13: Bank  Resources:  Missions                                    ....................................... 25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



- ii -
APPENDIX A: ICR PREPARATION MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE .................. 26
APPENDIX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ......................... 28
ANNEX  1: INCOME STATEMENTS ..........................................................                  30
Table 1: Actual and Forecast Consolidated Income Statements
for the 12 Months Ending December 31 ............................................... 32
Table 2: Actual and Forecast Annual Income Statements for
Chongqing-Guiyang   Line              .......................................................... 33
Table 3: Actual and Forecast Annual Income Statements for
Yingtan-Xiamen Line .......................................................... 34
Table 4: Actual and Forecast Annual Income Statements
for Xi'an Railway Signal Factory ......................................................... 35
ANNEX 2: ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
OF THE THIRD  RAILWAY  PROJECT .                             .............................................. 36
Table la: Chongqing-Guyang Line - Project Cost .............................................. 45
Table lb: Yingtan-Xiamen Line - Project Cost .................................................. 46
Table 2a: Chongqing-Guiyang Component-Economic ROR Calculation .......... 47
Table 2b: Yingtan-Xiamen Component-Economic ROR Calculation ................ 48
Table 2c: Third Railway-Economic ROR Calculation...... ..... ....... -- ...                    49



- jjj -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2678/CREDIT 1680-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Railway Project in
China for which Loan 2678 for $160 million and Credit 1680 for SDR 63 million ($70
million equivalent) were approved on April 15, 1986. The loan and credit were closed on
June 30, 1995, after being extended twice, each time for a year. Final disbursement was
made on April 10, 1995. The credit was fully disbursed, but $1.79 million of the loan
amount was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mmes./Messrs. Udo Marggraf (Task Manager),
Hennie Deboeck (Financial Analyst), Mohammed Rasheed (Financial Analyst),
Robin Carruthers (Transport Economist) and Tilly Chang (Research Assistant), and edited
by Barbara Koeppel of the Infrastructure Operations Division, China and Mongolia
Department of the East Asia and Pacific Region.  It was reviewed by Messrs.
Richard Scurfield, Chief, EA21N and Barry Trembath, Acting Project Adviser, EA2DR.
The borrower's implementation evaluation summary for the project is included as
Appendix B to the ICR.
The ICR, started shortly after the project closing date, was based on material in the
project file and data provided by the Ministry of Railways. The Borrower contributed to
the preparation of the ICR with its views and the data requested, its own evaluation, and
comments on the draft ICR.



- iv -
CHINA
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2678/CREDIT 1680-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Project Objectives
i.    China's development, which accelerated after the Government adopted the open-
door policy in 1978, substantially increased the demand for railway transport. For this
reason, the Government has been aiming to expand railway capacity since the 1980s, in
order to sustain economic development. The Third Railway Project reflected this priority,
as it was designed to help the Ministry of Railways (MOR) finance investments that were
urgently needed to increase its transport and production capacity.  It also aimed to
improve operational efficiency and develop MOR's technical and managerial capabilities.
These objectives reflected the Government's development approach and the Bank's
evolving strategy for the sector.
ii.    The project included investments to increase capacity on the Chongqing-Guiyang
and Yingtan-Xiamen lines, and modernize and expand production at an important
signaling factory. In addition, it was to introduce mechanical and track maintenance on
heavily trafficked lines, and support the ongoing Traffic Costing Study initiated under the
First Railway Project. Provision of technical assistance and training of staff on new
technologies  and  management  was  included  in  the  various  components.
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.   The project's components were neither too complex nor risky, although somewhat
too optimistic with regard to the scope of training and technical assistance envisioned.
iv.    The main objective was achieved, although at a higher cost than estimated
(para. vi) and, with a substantially lower yield (para. vii) according to the re-evaluated
economic rate of return (ERR). The second objective, to provide expertise needed to
manage the railway's future development, was only partly achieved because the technical
assistance program was not carried out as planned.
v.    Implementation proceeded somewhat slower than expected, largely due to the
addition of extra equipment when local and remaining Bank funds became available and
the way MOR planned and carried out works on the large line components. It focused on
constructing those parts of the components that would increase capacity and carried out
auxiliary works at a later stage. The difficulties encountered with the training program, as
well as with the cost and implementation time estimates are to an extent understandable,



- v -
since neither the Bank nor MOR had much experience in implementing Bank-assisted rail
projects in China when this operation was appraised.
vi.   In terms of US dollars, project costs were 17 percent higher than expected, with an
actual cost of $675.7 million compared to an appraisal estimate of $577.5 million. The
main reasons for cost increases were: (a) the addition of safety equipment for the
Chongqing-Guiyang line; (b) poor soil conditions at Signaling Factory workshop sites that
drove up the cost of works; and (c) inadequate estimates of local costs. In terms of local
currency, costs were about 50 percent above appraisal estimates, with the difference
between dollar and yuan costs due to the factors mentioned previously as well as
devaluation of the yuan over the life of the project from Y 3.20 per dollar to Y 8.70 per
dollar and the impact of inflation during the 1990s on the cost of many auxiliary works
and inputs that MOR dealt with only after major line capacity expansion was completed.
Summary and Findings, Future Operations and Lesson Learned
vii.   This project, which was one of the earlier ones in the sector, was relatively
uncomplex and helped MOR fund specific investments and technical assistance. The
project's physical components, which comprised about 95 percent of project costs, were
satisfactorily executed and their objectives were achieved. The economic rate of return for
the physical investments was an estimated 24.7 percent, based on analyses that covered 93
percent of project costs, compared to the 30 percent figure estimated at appraisal. The
drop in the ERR was due to the following: (a) costs rose by more than 50 percent in one
of the largest project components (the Yingtan-Xiamen Line) due to the unplanned
inclusion of safety equipment; (b) several costs were included in the evaluation that were
considered unquantifiable at appraisal; and (c) a different value was attributed to the
principal project benefit (an increase in coal production).  The project is financially
sustainable, with annual revenues now exceeding costs. However, in order to remain so,
tariffs will need to keep pace with inflation and its impact on railway operating costs. With
regard to technical assistance objectives, these were only partly achieved. In sum, the
project's outcome is rated as satisfactory, its institutional development as negligible and its
sustainability as likely.
viii.  The positive prospects for future MOR operations are reflected in the evolution of
its dialogue with the Bank and its increasing willingness to introduce needed--and difficult-
policy reforms that will place China's railways, including activities supported under this
project, on a solid footing. While the first four Bank-assisted projects primarily supported
much-needed capacity expansion, the next three had an increasingly policy-oriented
agenda. The two upcoming projects, both now being prepared in tandem to ensure a
correctly phased and well-coordinated policy package, will aim to commercialize and
restructure the railways. The commitment of the highest level of MOR management to the
envisioned reforms gives the Bank confidence that the Third Railways Project's
investments will be operated satisfactorily in the future.



- vi -
ix.    The problems identified in this ICR and new approaches taken by the Bank's
project team with regard to policy initiatives and technology are relevant to the
preparation and execution of future Bank-financed railway projects in China. The main
lessons learned from the project are as following:
a)    Difficulties were encountered during appraisal in obtaining agreements
about the need for and scope of technical assistance for maintenance
activities. This should have alerted the Bank that the Borrower had
minimal commitment in this area, despite agreements confirmed at
negotiations. Given these experiences, the Bank should seek a high degree
of commitment, participation and ownership from MOR under the
proposed Eighth and Ninth Railway Projects, particularly regarding
technical assistance, training and studies.
b)    The project was not adequately supervised especially in the first four years
when supervision was most needed. While procurement appears to have
been generally satisfactory, field supervision was clearly insufficient--
particularly of the project's institutional development aspects.  In later
years, it increased substantially and was generally adequate. Partly in
response to these problems, a different approach to supervision has been
adopted by the Bank; thematic reviews now focus on a few critical
components and issues common to several ongoing projects.  This
approach provides a more comprehensive picture of each component's
performance and allows the Bank and Borrower to identify the fundamental
problems affecting project implementation.
c)    The workload related to procurement was heavy. In future projects, the
Bank and  MOR should try to increase administrative efficiency by
agreeing on fewer but larger contracts.



- I -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2678/CREDIT 1680-CHA)
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    As with most other centrally planned economies, China's economy is transport-
intensive. The transport system, composed mainly of railways, highways, inland water
transport and coastal shipping, is concentrated along the eastern seaboard and serves high-
intensity freight traffic. Because of rapid economic growth--particularly after the
Government adopted an open-door policy in 1978--the demand for transport outpaced the
supply. Indeed, the network was and is one of the sparsest in the world, compared with
the area and population it serves, although the length of the railway more than doubled in
size while that of the highway system increased ninefold during 1952-83. Growth in rail
freight averaged 9 percent a year over this period, but slowed to around 4.5 percent a year
after 1978, as traffic saturated existing lines and rolling stock capacity. Thus, by 1983, the
railway could not meet transport demand.  The Government was aware of these
shortcomings and focused on developing the transport sector and particularly, the railway,
which played a critical economic role in China by transporting coal, the main energy
source throughout the country.
1.   In 1984, the Bank became involved in the railway subsector, with the First Railway
Project (Loan 2394-CHA), followed by the Second Railway Project (Loan 2540-CHA) in
1985. The third project, approved in April 1986, aimed to assist the Government to
increase rail transport capacity, which was essential for sustaining economic development,
and to enhance expertise needed to manage the railway's future development.
2.    The project was expected to help the Ministry of Railways (MOR) finance urgently
needed investments to increase its transport and production capacity, specifically to
transport coal and agricultural products. It also aimed to improve operational efficiency,
and develop MOR's technical and managerial capabilities.
3.    The project's five components were designed to:
(a)   Provide additional capacity on the 456 km Chongqing-Guiyang line, which
supports mining and agricultural activities in the southwest;



- 2 -
(b)   Provide additional capacity on the 704 km Yingtan-Xiamen line, which is
the key link between the special economic zone at Xiamen and the interior,
and transports coal and timber;
(c)   Improve technology and increase production at the Xi'an Railway
Signaling Factory, thereby providing the equipment needed to upgrade
traffic control and safety throughout China;
(d)   Provide better maintenance for permanent way (track) on heavily-used lines
where traditional labor-intensive methods were inadequate; and
(e)   Proceed with the traffic-costing study begun under the First Railway
Project.
5.    Technical assistance and training of staff in new technologies and management was
included in the various components. A total of 333 staff-months of training was planned.
6.    Project objectives were realistic, clearly articulated and consistent with the
Government's goal and the Bank's evolving strategy to develop the railway subsector.
Planned investments towards the objectives were also appropriate. The project was
neither too complex nor risky, although somewhat too optimistic with regard to
implementation scheduling and the scope of technical assistance to be provided.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.    The project's objectives were substantially achieved, as indicated below.
Project Implementation
8.    Chongqing-Guiyang Line. The upgrading and electrification of the 456 km
single-track line successfully met the objective of expanding the railway's capacity in
order to support economic growth on an important route. Traffic was increased from 6.5
million tons of freight a year and six pairs of passenger trains a day on the entire line in
1985, to 13 million tons on the northern section (between Chongqing and Ganshui) and 8
million tons on the southern section (between Ganshui and Guiyang), and eight pairs of
passenger trains a day by 1995. By 2015, traffic is expected to reach 20 million tons
north of Ganshui and 12 million tons a year south of Ganshui, plus eight pairs of passenger
trains a day on the whole line. Work was completed by December 1994, and traffic in
1995 exceeded the forecast by about 30 percent.
9.    Yingtan-Xiamen Line. Capacity was also expanded on a major link between the
special economic zone at Xiamen and the interior of China. When 73 percent of the line
was completed in mid-1991, freight traffic had already reached the 15.3 million tons
projected, and traffic in 1995 slightly exceeded the forecast of 19.5 million tons.
10.   Xi'an Railway Signaling Factory. The third component was to help this factory
increase its annual output, from 6,000 to 12,000 switching machines and 110,000 to



-3 -
300,000 relays, and improve their quality. This was to be accomplished through the
installation of better manufacturing equipment and construction of facilities, and through
technical assistance and training. The targets were set in the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986
to 1990) and were aimed at supporting construction on new lines and increasing capacity
of existing lines to expand rail traffic nationally.  The main intention was to avoid
continued equipment imports. This goal was fully achieved as were the objectives of
better design and quality. However, production did not reach the numbers anticipated
because orders from MOR were below the plan targets, which were overoptimistic.
11.   The component for improved maintenance of permanent way provided
technical assistance to help MOR determine the type and quantity of mechanical
equipment that could best respond to the heavy traffic, short intervals between trains, and
low wage levels, as well as financing for the equipment identified. It also involved
designing a track maintenance program, organizing maintenance teams, adjusting train
operations to allow the use of heavy on-track machinery, and training staff in operating
and maintaining the new equipment.
12.   At appraisal, MOR's Permanent Way Department had requested $35 million to
mechanize its maintenance teams (consultants had recommended this as a first step to
replacing the manual system of preventive maintenance). At negotiations, the allocation
was reduced to $20 million.
13.   In the beginning, procurement was slow, mainly because the Government linked
the purchase of some imported equipment to an agreement with the supplier to transfer
technology, a development not foreseen during appraisal. By early 1990, however,
contracts for the track maintenance machines had all been awarded, and those already in
service showed good results. Then, in 1992, when it was clear that funds were available,
MOR requested the procurement of additional equipment of the same type at a total cost
of about $15 million. The last machine was delivered in October 1995 and the goal of
forming maintenance teams equipped with modern machines was achieved.
14.   The traffic costing study was initiated under the First Railway Project to develop
a costing system that would allow MOR to establish a railway tariff structure and levels
which reflected operating costs. A task force was formed in MOR to carry out various
stages of the study. The first stage of the study, a tour for MOR officials to the US,
Canada and Europe, was designed to expose them to modern costing systems. This was
completed under the First Railway Project and the task force prepared a report entitled
'Introduction to China's Railway Costing." Under the Third Railway Project, the costing
system was to be developed and pilot testing and training in its use carried out.
15.   MOR laid out a three-step process to develop a comprehensive costing system. It
involved: (a) preparing a costing manual, (b) pilot testing it and (c) implementing the
system across the railway network. While MOR prepared the manual (which was
completed in January 1987), staff were trained at the Canadian National Railways. In
addition, a Canadian costing expert visited MOR several times to train and advise Chinese
counterparts on costing techniques and the restructuring of tariffs.



-4 -
16.   The manual was developed and pilot testing began, but this required considerable
time because of delays in the procurement of computers. While these were on order,
MOR and the Bank agreed on a time-bound action program to introduce the costing
system under the Fifth Railway Project. At the same time, MOR sent its cost experts to
railways in Western countries in July 1991 to discuss the adequacy of its costing manual
and be trained in railway costing. Based on recommendations from an international
consultant, the costing manual was improved and subsequently approved by MOR in
November 1994. However, in the Bank's view, there were some shortcomings in the
system. The Bank, therefore, employed an international expert to review the manual.
This review, carried out in 1995, concluded that the system offered a useful chart of
accounts and clear, uniform rules for reporting expenses but was incomplete because it did
not cover freight costing. This omission was corrected shortly thereafter, and the costing
model was successfully introduced in one sub-region (Fuzhou). Introduction of the new
costing system will be phased in throughout the railway over time.
17.   Technical Assistance. Staff training and TA in new technology and management
were included in the four physical components. These elements focused on: (a) design
and construction, signaling, tunnels, and operations with respect to railway electrification;
(b) product design, manufacturing, and management at the Xi'an Railway Signaling
Factory; and (c) track inspection, maintenance teams, and ballast cleaning, as well as
management assistance for the Permanent Way Department.
18.   With regard to assistance to enhance MOR's electrification capability, the SAR did
not elaborate on details and only defined it in terms of person-months spread over several
years. As with previous projects, MOR was reluctant to implement the program as
agreed, and the technical assistance related to electrification was not carried out.
19.   However, technical assistance was given to the Xi'an Railway Signaling Factory,
which helped improve the quality of its design and production (para. 10).
20.   The track maintenance component supported training by international experts and
the supply of track maintenance machines. In November 1992, MOR informed the Bank
that it would not implement the training program because international and local suppliers
were providing the required training. Further, some of the machines were similar to ones
already in use, for which staff had already been trained. Based on actual operation of the
machines, the training by international experts at the team level was successful. Technical
assistance was also to have been given to engineers involved in planning, since the concept
of mechanical maintenance was new. Although this assistance was not carried out, the
engineers' informal contacts with the experts delivering the machines helped them plan
their use efficiently.
21.   In summary, technical assistance and training as planned in the SAR were largely
not implemented, except for the part relating to the Xi'an Railway Signaling Factory.
However, based on the results of all of MOR's activities, the Ministry succeeded in
training its staff in track maintenance and maintenance planning with help of equipment
suppliers.



-5 -
C. IPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
22.   Implementation Schedule. Implementation proceeded somewhat slower than
expected, largely due to the addition of extra equipment when local and remaining Bank
funds became available and the way MOR planned and carried out works on the large line
components. Therefore, operations with electric traction on the upgraded lines began one
or two years later than originally envisioned, but provision of ancillary equipment was
often not completed until several years thereafter. No environmental or resettlement
problems were encountered.
23.   At appraisal, it was expected that the project would be completed by December
30, 1992, but the target was not met (Table 5, Part II). In general, the Ministry seemed to
focus on constructing those parts of the components that increased traffic capacity and,
depending on the availability of local and Bank funds, carried out auxiliary works such as
telecommunication lines, sidings, buildings, roads and bridges at a later stage, often with
an expanded scope.
24.   Full completion of upgrading and electrification of the Chongqing-Guiyang line
was delayed by six years. However, trains began to operate with electric traction by the
end of 1991 about a year behind the planned schedule. Safety equipment, financed
completely with local funds, was added to the component in 1992 and 1993, but will not
be in place until December 1996 due to counterpart funding constraints that arose as a
result of Central Government instructions to shift resources to the high priority Beijing-
Kowloon line.
25.   Upgrading and electrification on the Yingtan-Xiamen line lasted until December
1993, about two years later thant expected. Auxiliary works took longer to complete
because local funds were scarce. When MOR asked to use a substantial part of the
remaining loan funds (about $10 million), which would otherwise have been canceled, the
Bank agreed in 1994 to finance additional telecommunications equipment. The line
component was completed in December 1995, which constituted a four-year delay.
26.   Technical improvements at the Xi'an Railway Signaling Factory made a very good
start. However, at the time of the expected completion date, a substantial part of the
planned expansion had not been completed because local funds were unavailable to install
Bank-financed equipment and machinery. In addition, unforeseen major problems were
encountered with the subsoil at the sites for new workshops, which increased local costs
and consumed time.
27.   The supply of the original scope of track maintenance machines under the
permanent way maintenance component was completed by the end of 1991, about two
years later than envisioned. In 1992, when it became clear that funds were available,
MOR asked the Bank if it could procure additional equipment totaling US$15 million.
The Bank agreed to this request and the last machine of this new batch was delivered in
October 1995.



-6 -
28.   Procurement. Because the project was approved by the Board only two years
after the First Railway Project, it experienced the same difficulties as the two earlier ones.
First, MOR's workload was very heavy: For example, 450 items were procured through
356 contracts, which amounted to 54 percent more items and 40 percent more contracts
than under the Second Railway Project, although the amount disbursed for the project was
only 9 percent higher. Second, the procurement process involving numerous approvals
inside and outside the Ministry was cumbersome and time-consuming. Third, MOR had
to deal with internal procurement procedures under international competitive bidding
(ICB), with which it was still relatively unfamiliar. Fourth, activities were carried out by
several departments and were generally uncoordinated until 1987, when MOR assigned
externally-financed projects to a central department. Thus, procurement was generally
unsatisfactory until early 1992, when MOR reorganized its Foreign Capital and Technical
Import Office (FCTIO), and improved this function.
29.   Procurement of equipment was delayed, although against a tight schedule that
could be regarded as overly optimistic, particularly in light of MOR's limited experience
with Bank requirements and Chinese internal clearance constraints. The SAR had allowed
for delays by setting the completion date for December 1992, and the closing date for June
30, 1993. The latter was extended twice for one year each time: The first was in July
1992, to allow the Yingtan-Xiamen line to be completed (it was delayed due to a lack of
local counterpart funds) and the second was in May 1994, to accommodate the delivery
and installation of additional equipment.
30.   Project Costs. In terms of US dollars, project costs were 17 percent higher than
expected, with an actual cost of $675.7 million compared to an appraisal estimate of
$577.5 million. The main reasons for cost increases were: (a) the addition of safety
equipment for the Chongqing-Guiyang line; (b) poor soil conditions at Signaling Factory
workshop sites that drove up the cost of works; and (c) inadequate estimates of local
costs. In terms of local currency, costs were about 50 percent above appraisal estimates,
with the difference between dollar and yuan costs due to the factors mentioned previously
as well as devaluation of the yuan over the life of the project from Y 3.20 per dollar to
Y 8.70 per dollar and the impact of inflation during the 1990s on the cost of many
auxiliary works and inputs that MOR dealt with only after major line capacity expansion
was completed. For example, a substantial part of equipment for the Xi'an Railway
Signaling Factory was purchased later than planned, and consequently at a higher price
owing to inflation during the 1990s.
31.   Financial Performance. The financial results of MOR's total operations, as well
as project-related operations (the Chongqing-Guiyang and Yingtan-Xiamen upgrading and
electrification and the Xi'an Railway Signaling Factory components) are discussed below.
The following factors affected MOR's financial performance:
* Railway revenues accrue from two sources: base tariffs, which cover most
operating expenses, and a Railway Construction Fund freight surcharge,
introduced in 1991, earmarked for capital investments only.



-7 -
*  In 1986, the Government and MOR entered into a contract under which the latter
had to finance all its operating and capital expenditures (until 1984, the
Government financed capital costs with grants from the budget, while in 1985,
these were financed from a budget loan). In return, MOR was to keep its net
income after it paid taxes.
*  The negotiated lump sum payment of taxes, which was the practice from 1990 to
1993, was replaced by a 33 percent tax on net operating revenues from base
tariffs. This is the same rate as is applied to other enterprises in China.
*  MOR's capacity to set tariffs is limited because changes to base tariffs and freight
surcharges have to be approved by the State Planning Commission (SPC) and the
State Council.
32.   During 1984-93, MOR's operations were profitable.  However, its profit of
Y 1.2 billion in 1993 was achieved only because the Government waived taxes of Y 2.0
billion. (This was unknown when the Project Completion Report (PCR) for Railways II
was prepared, which reported a loss of Y 0.7 billion for 1993.) In 1994, MOR showed a
net loss of Y 2.9 billion (after paying Y 4.6 billion in interest from surcharge revenues);
however, if the surcharge revenues had been included with the base tariff revenues, the
Ministry would have shown a profit of Y 25.3 billion. Similarly, in 1995, the estimated net
loss was Y 8.8 billion; but, if surcharge revenues were included, the profit would have
been Y 27.7 billion. From 1994 onwards, MOR no longer had to transfer a lump sum to
the Government.
33.   The income statements for MOR's total operations are given in Annex 1, Table 1,
which lists the results for 1984-94, and estimates for 1995. The improved net income
from 1986 to 1989 (compared to previous years) mainly reflected the fact that MOR was
exempted from income taxes beginning in 1986.  In 1990, MOR's good financial
performance was due to an increase in freight tariffs, across-the-board. Since 1991,
revenues from base tariffs have been supplemented by those from a freight surcharge.
Revenues from base tariffs declined in the 1990s because they did not keep pace with
inflation and subsidies were phased out. The reported working and operating ratios,
deteriorating gradually, were low. However, they may not be relevant because they did
not reflect market prices for several input factors. Hence, reported costs were understated
or distorted by subsidies. There were no SAR forecasts for the ratios beyond 1984. The
working and operating ratios for 1984 to 1995 were as follows:



-8 -
MOR WORKING AND OPERATING RATIOS
(Percentages)        1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Working Ratio:
Appraisal forecast /a    49
Actual               49      48      54      56      66      70      64
Operating Ratio:
Appraisal forecast /a    61
Actual               61      62      67      70      74      83      72
/a The ratios were recalculated to be consistent with the tallies in this ICR.
Estimate
(Percentages)                  1991      1992       1993     1994    1995
Working Ratio:
Excluding surcharge revenues:    66   67          79       85        91
Including surcharge revenues  63       57         54       54        59
Operating Ratio:
Excluding surcharge revenues:    77    79         90       99        104
Including surcharge revenues  74      66          62      61         68
34.   The financial performance of the Chongqing-Guiyang line and Yingtan-Xiamen
line (1991-95), and the Xi'an Railway Signaling Factory (1990-95) indicates they
benefited from the project (see Annex 1, Tables 2 to 4, for a statement of their revenues
and costs).
35.   Passenger and freight traffic on the Chongqing-Guiyang line substantially
increased as the line capacity improved (see table below):
Passenger-km          Freight Ton-km
1991                                 2.8 billion            6.9 billion
1995                                 4.9 billion            9.3 billion
Net increase.                       75%                  35%
36.   The operating ratio improved from 87 percent in 1991 (against the appraisal
forecast of 110 percent) to 82 percent in 1995 and to 70 percent in 1993, due to a major
increase (over 270 percent) in the rate for the average freight surcharge per ton-km.



-9 -
Freight rates were also increased substantially in 1992-93 (Annex 1, Table 2). While
freight surcharges helped improve the financial status of the service, passenger fares did
not cover the steadily increasing costs of those operations.
37.   Expanded capacity on the Yingtan-Xiamen line, after its electrification and
upgrading, helped increase freight traffic from 11.1 billion ton-km in 1991 to an estimated
14.3 billion ton-km in 1995. Passenger traffic also rose, from 3.4 billion passenger-km to
5.8 billion passenger-km for the same period. Revenues during 1991-94 increased by
Y 599 million, while costs increased by Y 332 million (Annex 1, Table 3). Both freight
and passenger operations resulted in net gains.
38.   The financial performance of the Xi'an Railway Signaling Factory was not as
good as that of the Chongqing-Guiyang and Yingtan-Xiamen lines (see Annex 1, Table 4),
as it gradually deteriorated from 1990 to 1995: Operating ratios declined from 90 percent
in 1990 to 95 percent in 1994 (and reached an estimated 100 percent in 1995). Further,
operating costs rose by 79 percent during that period, but revenues increased by only 70
percent; MOR controlled the price of the signaling products, and factory managers had no
authority to adjust prices to ensure full cost recovery.
Economic Evaluation
39.   The project's ERR is estimated at 24.7 percent, based on analyses that cover 93
per cent of project costs. This rate is satisfactory, although lower than the 30 per cent
estimated in the SAR. The methodology used to calculate the revised figure was similar to
that in the SAR, except that benefits were evaluated using less favorable assumptions. The
main reasons for the reduction in the ERR include:
(a)   the economic costs of the Yingtan-Xiamen line increased by 54 percent (measured
in constant 1994 Yuan), which taken together with a reduction of 5 percent on the
Chongqing-Guiyang line, led to an increase of 23 percent in total project costs;
(b)   both the composition of traffic and value of benefits were evaluated differently
than in the SAR, with the international price of coal used to value all traffic on both lines,
and the addition of operating cost savings to the benefit calculation;
(c)    a higher than anticipated proportion of the project cost was allocated to safety
features, the benefits of which did not feature in the revised evaluation;
(d)   the cost of additional generating capacity to provide power for electric traction
was included in the reevaluation, while in the SAR it was expected that a local hydro-
electric power project would provide electricity at a negligible additional cost;
(e)   both railway lines are part of an integrated coal production and distribution system,
and all coal production and transport costs, as well as the benefits of coal use, are included
in both the SAR and revised evaluation. However, in the reevaluation, a less favorable
view was taken of the development and expansion cost of coal mines;



- 10-
(f)   at the time that the SAR was prepared there was no free market for coal in China.
Since it was not possible to value coal at its national market price, it was valued at its
export value (FOB Shanghai) less transportation costs. Now a market exists, so in the
reevaluation the price of coal in the national market, less its production cost, was used as
the estimate of its net value. In addition, the domestic price of coal was assumed to
increase in line with increases in international prices. The greatest impact on the evaluation
results came from these changes - the present domestic price of coal is higher than the
international price projected in the SAR and the projected domestic prices are even higher;
(g)   no attempt was made in the reevaluation to quantify the benefits of passengers and
products other than coal that would be generated by or attracted to the new lines from
other transport modes. The data available on volumes of passengers and freight generated
by and attracted to the new line because of increased capacity, and the techniques for
evaluating such benefits, were not considered to be of the same reliability as those for the
quantified benefits; abd
(h)   The SAR evaluation did not take account of the lower operating costs of using
electric rather than diesel and steam traction on the line. These benefits were included in
the revised evaluation.
40.   The sensitivity of the project's ERR to changes in the costs and benefits of rail
operation was very low, but sensitivity to the valuation of traffic and the assumed mine
development cost was very high. These costs accounted for more than 60 percent of total
project costs, and the benefits of increased coal production accounted for more than 90
percent of project benefits. For this reason, the project would be more appropriately
analyzed as a mining project than a transport project.
41.   The impact of these changes on the ERR results is shown as follows. There would
be a small difference in the relative impact of the different changes if they were considered
in a different order.
ERR Cumulative value
Chongqing - Yingtan -
Guiyang     Xiamen       Project
Base SAR value                        23.0%        33.0%        30.0%
a.    Change in investmentcost               23.4%        21.7%        22.1%
b.    Change in actual traffic and its projection   22.7%  18.6%       19.4%
c.    Exclusion of cost of safety investment  23.3%       18.9%        20.8%
d.    Add capital cost of electricity generation    23.2%  18.6%       20.6%
e.    Revised coal mine development costs    22.0%        18.0%        19.1%
f     Revised price of coal                  31.0%        23.7%        28.7%
g.    Exclusion of other products            28.2%        20.1%        23.5%
h.    Benefits of electric traction          30.2%        20.4%        24.7%



Project sustainability was assessed from economic, physical and financial viewpoints. The
projected demand for, and price of, coal are the main factors which influiences the
estimated economic return of the project.  Demand for coal is projected to increase
beyond the capacity of the Yingtan-Xiamen line by 2000 and that of the Chongqing-
Guiyang line by 2007. The demand for coal is mostly for electricity generation and since
this has an elasticity of about one in respect of GDP growth, and the latter is expected to
grow at about 7.8 percent per year for at least the next five years, the probablity of a
reduction in coal demand is very low. Even if coal demand were to reduce, there are
passengers and other products that would be transported by both of the lines at a cost
saving over road transport alternatives. However, even if the benefits were to be 25
percent less than those projected, the project would still have an acceptable ERR.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
50.   With respect to physical sustainability, MOR's record in maintaining infrastructure,
traction and rolling stock is good and there is no reason to believe this will change.
However, its deteriorating finances cause some concern. Although it has not had to
reduce costs to maintain financial feasibility in the past, if this becomes necessary, it would
probably reduce its maintenance costs first (as other railways have done). In such a
scenario, MOR would need to find ways to maintain financial viability without reducing
maintenance. The Ministry is aware of its financial vulnerability and is raising revenues
and increasing operational (mostly labor) efficiency.
51.   With respect to the two lines' financial viability, both showed acceptable operating
ratios of 82 percent and 69 percent, respectively, in 1995, and better financial ratios than
projected in the SAR in the last year for which comparisons were possible. Because total
costs will increase more slowly than marginal costs, the lines should be able to maintain a
sustainable financial status as long as tariffs keep pace with inflation and unit costs of
inputs do not increase significantly faster than inflation. There is, therefore, no reason to
doubt the lines' financial sustainability.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
51.   The project was consistent with the Government's objective, which was to
increase railway transport capacity so as to sustain economic development. In general,
identification of the components and preparation and appraisal of the project were
satisfactory. However, problems associated with the approach and style of this third
project mirrored those of the first two, because they were prepared within just three years.
52.   Training of staff could have been prepared in greater detail. Although well defined
in terms of person-months and time, the SAR did not elaborate sufficiently on individual
components; for example, it said nothing about general training and consultant services for
railway electrification.



- 12-
53.   During implementation, Bank involvement was not always adequate, and the
project was not sufficiently supervised. The annual average staff input was 8.4 weeks (see
Table 12) but, especially in the first four years when supervision was most needed, the
Bank provided limited resources for supervision (2.2 to 7.8 staff-weeks). Most of these
were used for procurement at headquarters. Only limited field supervision was provided
until mid-1990, always by a single person or in connection with other projects, where the
emphasis was on project preparation or appraisal. Also, there was little indication of "an
implementation culture ... to enable us to get results on the ground" (quoted from: Office
of the President, FYI to all Bank staff dated May 11, 1994). Beginning in 1990,
systematic and in-depth supervision emphasized the need to agree with MOR and SPC
that the railway take specific measures to improve implementation. These missions appear
to have helped the project progress. Since then, supervision reports have provided a
clearer picture and assessment of project progress and the reasons for delays.
54.   MOR's major foreign exchange resources were funds from the Bank and Japan's
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund. As a result, the Bank had to deal with a very
large part of procurement, which included various small items that needed to be imported.
The loan/credit amount of $240 million was disbursed through 365 contracts (450 items)
ranging from $187 to $10.5 million, of which only 54 contracts exceeded $1 million. This
created high administrative costs for the Bank (85 percent of the Bank's files related to
procurement issues).
55.   Overall, the project was implemented within the terms of the loan and credit
agreements, and without notable deviation from Bank policies and procedures.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
56.   Although MOR's administrative performance was  generally good, there were
several problems initially. First, because the Third Railway Project quickly followed the
first and second, little in the way of institutional experience was gained during the early
years. For example, MOR had some difficulty performing the functions of a project-
executing agency until it established the Foreign Capital and Technical Import Office
(FCTIO). Second, reporting was weak, untimely and barely informative. For this reason,
the Bank stressed that reporting, especially quarterly reporting, had to be improved with
regard to content and timeliness. While FCTIO improved the situation somewhat, it was
not yet to a satisfactory level.
57.   MOR and its regional organizations, which benefited from the project, were very
cooperative and helped prepare information for this ICR. They provided a great amount
of data to complement those available in the Bank's project file, which produced a more
comprehensive picture of project implementation.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
58.   Project implementation can be regarded as satisfactory, although its completion
was delayed, mainly because auxiliary works were added at a later stage and MOR wanted



- 13 -
to use any remaining Bank funds to the greatest extent possible.  The physical
components, which comprised about 95 percent of project costs, were satisfactorily
executed. Their objectives were achieved: (a) urgently-needed capacity was increased on
two railway lines; (b) the production capacity of an important signaling factory was
modernized and expanded, achieving the component's main objective of avoiding the need
to import switching machines and relays; and (c) maintenance teams equipped with
modern machines were established. Shortcomings were in the area of technical assistance,
as this objective was only partly achieved. The ERR for the project's physical investments
was estimated at 13 percent, based on analyses which covered 93 percent of total project
costs, compared to 30 percent estimated at appraisal.   At project completion,  the
railways' financial condition was still satisfactory--although slightly deteriorating. In sum,
the project's outcome is rated as satisfactory, its institutional development as negligible
and its sustainability as likely.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
59.   Although China's transport system  is a comprehensive network of railways,
highways, waterways and airways, it is still unable to meet the needs of the rapidly
growing economy. The railway is the dominant transport mode and will continue to play a
vital role in the foreseeable future, especially in long-distance bulk and semi-bulk freight
transport as well as in long-distance passenger transport. Still, it will increasingly face
competition from road, water, and air transport as the output of the economy continues to
shift services and manufactured goods.
60.   To improve its operations, the railway must first alleviate its severe capacity
constraints-bottlenecks in at least one direction reach 95 percent of design capacity on
nearly 40 percent of the system. As part of the massive investment program launched by
the Government in 1992, the railway plans to build about 16,000 route-km of new lines by
the year 2000, adding nearly a third to the size of the system. Further, it plans to upgrade
track and equipment, and to double-track several existing lines.
61.   Along with addressing physical capacity constraints, the railway recognizes it must
undertake reforms so as to operate in a market economy. MOR formulated its own vision
of changes in a 30-point Action Statement for Railway Reform, which was endorsed by
the State Council in April 1994. This Statement is consistent with the Government's 1993
50-point Agenda of Nationwide Economic Reform, which intends to intensify the market
orientation of China's state-owned enterprises (SOEs) that still largely operate outside
market forces, although price reforms were introduced several years ago. It is also
consistent with recommendations in 'China's Railway Strategy," which the Bank prepared
with MOR's close cooperation.
62.   The positive prospects for future MOR operations are in many ways reflected in
the evolution of its dialogue with the Bank and its increasing willingness to introduce
needed--and difficult--policy reforms. In the first four projects, the Bank helped the
railways implement specific investments. In the fifth, the assistance was broadened to
include systemwide modernization. And, beginning with the sixth, the Bank helped the



- 14 -
Borrower develop and implement key railway policy initiatives, modernize the system, and
make specific investments in line with the Bank's focus on economic reform.
63.   The sixth project (a transition operation), established the foundation on which to
create a series of policy reforms, carried out tariff and accounting studies and began a pilot
program  to modernize rail container transport.  The reforms would apply various
analytical tools, such as railway investment and costing models, for making economic
assessments and managerial decisions.
64.   The seventh placed even greater emphasis on policy and technology assistance and
built on the efforts in the previous projects, through the initiation of pilot programs, to
restructure the railways, reform tariffs, improve labor productivity, strengthen MOR's
investment decisions and financing, and commercialize container transport.   The
Government can accelerate railway reform with a phased program to be implemented
during the Ninth Five-Year Plan. This program would involve many aspects such as
promoting competition, enhancing autonomy in corporate governance, transferring social
services to the Government and divesting non-railway transport activities.
65.   The central focus of future Bank operations should be on separating the
Government's ownership and regulatory functions from the operational functions of the
railways, and on restructuring the railways. With these policy developments, future
operations of China's railways would be placed on a solid footing.
I. LESSONS LEARNED
66.   This project, which was one of the earlier ones, was relatively simple and helped
MOR fund specific investments and technical assistance. However, problems arose during
implementation with the training program and appraised estimates of costs and
implementation timing proved optimistic   These deficiencies are, to  an extent,
understandable since neither the Bank nor MOR had accumulated sufficient experience in
implementing Bank assisted railway projects in China by the time of appraisal. The main
lessons learned were as follows:
(a)  There were difficulties during appraisal with obtaining agreements
about the need for and scope of technical assistance for track
maintenance. This should have alerted the Bank that the Borrower
had minimal commitment in this area, despite agreements confirmed
at negotiations. Given these experiences, the Bank should seek a high
degree of commitment, participation and ownership from MOR under
the proposed Eighth and Ninth Railway Projects;
(b)  The project was not adequately supervised especially in the first four
years when supervision was most needed.  While procurement
appears to have been generally satisfactory, field supervision was
clearly  insufficient--particularly  of  the  project's  institutional
development aspects. In later years, it increased substantially and



- 15 -
was generally adequate. Partly in response to these problems, a
different approach to supervision has been adopted by the Bank;
thematic reviews now focus on a few critical components and issues
common to several ongoing projects. This approach provides a more
comprehensive picture of each component's performance and allows
the Bank and Borrower to identify the fundamental problems
affecting project implementation,
(c) The workload related to procurement was heavy. In future projects,
the Bank and MOR should try to increase administrative efficiency
by agreeing on fewer but larger contracts.



- 16 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of objectives       Substantial    Partial   Negligible   Not applicable
Macro policies                                                              x
Sector policies                                                x
Financial objectives                                 x
Institutional development                               x
Physical objectives             x
Poverty reduction                                                    x
Gender issues                                                        x
Other social objectives                                              x
Environmental objectives                                             x
Public sector management                                x
Private sector development                                           x
Other (specify)                                                      x
B.    Project sustainability         Likely          Unlikely          Uncertain
x
Highly
C.    Bank performance             satisfactory     Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                                    x
Preparation assistance                            x
Appraisal                                         x
Supervision                                                           x
D.    Borrowver performance
Preparation                                       x
Implementation                                    x
Covenant compliance                               x
Operation (if applicable)
Highlv                                       Highly
E.    Assessment of outcome  satisfactorv    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactorv   Unsatisfactory
x



- 17 -
Table 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                                          Approval      Status
Preceding Operations:
1. First Railway Project  Line capacity expansion; doubling  1984    Completed on
(Ln. 2394)           locomotive production; costing study.         12/31/90 (PCR
6/24/91)
2. Second Railway      Line capacity expansion through upgrade   1985    Completed on
Project (Ln. 2540)   and electrification; expand passenger        06/30/94 (PCR
coach production capacity; strengthen        6/30/95)
applied research; modernize management
techniques; advise on improvements in
university curricula.
Following Operations:
1. Fourth Railway      Line capacitv expansion; expansion and    1988    To be
Project (Ln. 2968)  quality improvement for three locomotive      completed on
and rolling stock factories; strategic plan  06/30/96
development for Beijing-Shanghai line.
2. Inner Mongolia      Construction of single track line;    1989    To be
Railway Project      acquisition of operational equipment;        completed on
(Ln. 3060/Cr. 2014)   training and recruitment of staff.          12/31/96
3. Fifth Railway Project  Track rehabilitation and maintenance;  1991    To be
(Ln. 3406)          acquisition of locomotives and rolling        completed on
stock; line capacitv expansion; expansion    12/31/98
of Xuzhou terminal; implementation of
costing study.
4. Sixth Railway Project  Line capacity expansion; technological    1993    To be
(Ln. 3581)          modernization for track maintenance,          completed on
telecom, MIS and container transport.        06/30/99
Policy reforms to rationalize tariffs,
modernize accounting standards and
improve railway management and
regulation.
5. Seventh Railway     Policv reform and institutional       1995    To be
Project (Ln. 38970)    development to provide TA to implement     completed on
railway restructuring, tariff reform and     12/13/02
labor productivitv enhancement.
Investments include: line electrification;
purchase of locomotives; upgrading
telecom system, commercializing
container transport; and protecting the
environment.



- 18-
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                                      Date Planned               Revised                 Date Actual
Identification                                                                               Oct/Nov 84
Preappraisal                                      -                                           Jan/Feb 85
Appraisal                                      6/85                                            Jun/Jul 85
Negotiations                                   2/28/86                                             2/27/86
Board approval                                                        4/22/86                     4/15/86
Signature                                         -                                              10/16/86
Effectiveness                                  9/1/86                                              1/13/87
Project completion                            12/31/92                                           12/31/96
Loan closing                                   6/30/93                6/30/95                      6/30/95
Table 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
($ '000)
FY87     FY88      FY89      FY90      FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95
Appraisal estimate       2,300    16,100    57,500    57,500    50,600    41,400     4,600         -         -
Actual: Loan                  -        -         -   21,304    18,795    37,841    21,830    37,065    21,372
Credit            1,175    14,810    22,518    38,364     2,448     2,179      442          -         -
Action as %of estimate      51.1      92.0      39.2    103.8       42.0     96.7      484.2       -         -
Date of final disbursement: April 10, 1995.



- 19 -
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Completion
Planned               Actual            Delay
Item/Year                      Start   Completed      Start  Completed    (months)
1. Chongqing-Guiyang Line      8/85      11/90        1985    12/96     73 months /a
2. Yingtan-Xiamen Line          1/86      12/91       1985    12/95     48 months Lb
3. Xi'an Signaling Factory     8/85       12/89       1986    06/93     42 months Lc
4. Permanent Wav
Maintenance                  1/87      12/89       3/88    10/95
5. Traffic Costing Study        N/A       N/A         N/A    11/94
/a Train operation with electric traction began at the end of 1991. The original scope of the line
upgrading and electrification, however, was completed in December 1994. Equipment for safe
train operation, which was financed from local funds, was added to the component in 1992 and
1993 and is expected to be fully in place by December 1996.
/b  Upgrading and electrification works were carried out with electric traction in full use by
December 1993. Auxiliary works including 100,000 SPC telecommunication lines added to
the component in 1994 were completed in December 1995.
/c  Lack of local funds, and unforeseen major problems with subsoil at sites for new workshops
caused the delay in completion.
Table 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
The SAR did not define key indicators for operation.



- 20 -
Table 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Traffic Costing Study
I  Purpose as defined at appraisal. The study was initiated under the First Railway
Project (Loan 2394-CHA, April 1984) to create a costing system capable of
establishing the railway tariff structure and levels in line with operating costs. Under
this Third Railway Project, the costing system was to be specified and pilot testing
and training to be carried out.
2.  Status. The Costing Manual was approved by MOR on November 25, 1994.
3.  Impact of study. While the prime objective of creating a costing system was
achieved, the Bank needed to ensure that the quality of the costing system was
satisfactory. In mid-1991, MOR and the Bank agreed on a time-bound action
program to introduce the costing system under the Fifth Railway Project. At the
same time, MOR sent its cost experts to railways in Western countries to discuss the
adequacy of its costing manual and be trained in railway costing.  Based on
recommendations from an international consultant, the costing manual was improved
and subsequently approved by MOR in November 1994. However, in the Bank's
view, there were some shortcomings in the system. The Bank, therefore, employed
an international expert to review the manual. This review, carried out in 1995,
concluded that the system offered a useful chart of accounts and clear, uniform rules
for reporting expenses but was incomplete because it did not cover freight costing.
This omission was corrected shortly thereafter, and the costing model was
successfully introduced in one sub-region (Fuzhou). Introduction of the new costing
system will be phased in throughout the railway over time.



Table 8a: PROJECT COSTS
Planned                                                          Actual
Local    Foreign      Total      Local     Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign       Total        Local   Foreign      Total
( Yuan '000)      -      ---       -S '000) .-              -------(Yuan '000)---------S '000)-----
Chongqing-Guiyang Line     335,111      306,403    641,514    104,722     95,751   200,473       819,075  210,265   1,129,340    159,910   96,958    256,868
Xingtan-XiamnenLine        364,281      381,302    745,583    113,838    119,157  232,995      1,202,162  314,379   1,517,541    270,819   98,556   369,375
Xi'an Signaling Factory       2,824      38,412     41,236        882     12,004    12,886        20,158   30,478     50,638       4,315    9,524     13,839         00
Permanent Way Maintenance        -       54,999     54,999         --    17,187    17,187             --  112,701    112,701          --  35,219    35,219           i
TraflicCostingStudy              -         960         960         -         300      300             --    1,257      1,257          --      393       393
Total Base Costs        702.216     782,076   1.484.292    219,442    244.399  463.841       ,041,395  770.080   2.811.475    435.044  240,650   675.694          0
Physical Contingencies      70,222       39,104    109,326     21,944     12,220   34,164
Price Contingencies         125,101     129,225    254,326     39,094     40,383    79,477
Total Project Costs  897,539     950.405   1847.,944    280.481    297,002  577,483     2.041,395  770,080   2.811,475    435.044  240.650   675694



- 22 -
Table 8b: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest Estimate
Local   Foreign                    Local    Foreign
Source of Financing        Costs    Costs         Total        Costs       Costs       Total
IBRD                         -       160.0       160.0           -        158.2       158.2
IDA                          -        70.0        70.0           -         81.9        81.9
Government               280.5        67.0      347.5         435.6          -       435.6
Total                 280.5      297.0       577.5         435.6      240.1       675.7
Table 8c: ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
Planned                          Actual
Credit      Loan              Credit         Loan      Total
Category                           SDR '000     $ '000      SDR '000   $ '000    $'000      $ '000
I . Equipment, materials and related
training and consultant's services
(a) Equipment and materials      58,578     153,220       62,572   81,753   157,489   239,242
(b) Training, services             740            -            -         -         -         -
2. Training and consultant's services  1,020         -           90       126       717       843
3. Unallocated                       2,670       6,780             -        -         -          -
Special Account /a                    -           -          338       57         2         59
Cancellation                          -           -            -         -     1,792     1,792
Total                        63.000     160,000       63.000   81,936   160,000   241.936
/a  The amounts indicated under the Special Account category represent the exchange rate fluctuation
from the time of the advances to the Special Accounts to the time of documentation of the Account.



- 23 -
Table 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(Y million, 1994 prices)
Total              Total             NPV
Component(s)                             Costs /a         Benefits /b   ((&, 12%)    ERR %
ICR:           Chongqing-Guiyang                           7,579              74,761           5,620                30
Yingtan-Xiamen                             7,089              47,559           2,849                20
Both lines                               14,668              122,320           8,469                25
SAR:           Chongqing-Guiyang                          4,571               51,700              n.a.             23
Yingtan-Xiamen                             2,875             127,600              n.a.              33
Overall Project                                                       -           -                 30
/a Sum of undiscounted cost stream.
/b Sum of undiscounted benefit stream.
Table 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Description of Covenant                     Original Date    Revised
Section            (Amended 2/7/89)              Status                       Date                  Comments
3.03      Training. Carry out the training in       CP        End of 1989               Training at mechanical team level was
accordance with a program agreed with                                        carried out by equipment suppliers.
the Association.                                                             Training for engineers at planning level
was not provided. The objective was
mainly achieved because planning of
equipment used by MOR tumed out to
be satisfactory.
3.04      Costing Study. Carry out the               C                                  Revised costing manual was approved
subsequent parts of the study of railway                                     by MOR on Nov. 25, 1994, but Bank
traffic costing begun under the First                                        identified improvements needed. These
Railway Project.                                                             have been made and system has been
pilot tested.
4.01 (a)   Maintain records and accounts adequate    C
to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures ofthe Project
subunits.
4.01 (b)   Borrower shall cause MOR to:
(i) have records and accounts including   C
those for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, by independent
auditors using appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied;
(ii) furnish, not later than six months   C                                  Audited financial reports have been
after the end of each such year, the audit                                   received on time and reviewed by the
report by independent auditors in                                            Bank.
reasonable scope and detail; and
(iii) fumish other information            C
conceming the records and accounts as
shall be from time to time reasonably
requested.



- 24 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (Cont'd.)
4.01 (c)   For all expenses made on the basis of
statement of expenditure:
(i) maintain separate records and          C
accounts;
(ii) retain all records (contracts, orders,  C
invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) until one vear after the
receipt of the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account was made;
(iii) enable the Association's              C
representatives to examine such records;
and
(iv) ensure that records and accounts are   C
included in the annual audit and that the
audit report contains a separate opinion
by the auditors as to whether the
statement of expenditure submitted can
be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
Status:   C       - Complied with.
CD      - Compliance after delay.
NC      - Not complied with.
SOON  - Compliance expected in reasonably short time.
CP      - Complied vwith partially.
NYD   - Not yet due.
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement Number and Title                                     Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
No significant lack of compliance



- 25 -
Table 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
FY85  FY86 FY87 FY88  FY89 FY90 FY91  FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95  FY96   Total
Preappraisal    26.9                                                                              26.9
Appraisal      14.9   48.9                                                                        63.8
Negotiations            8.1                                                                        8.1
LEN             1.1   10.5                                                                        11.6
Supervision             0.8   2.2   6.2   5.5   7.8   9.1  10.1  12.8  10.0  15.2                 79.7
SPNP                                                                   1.2   3.3   0.2             4.7
Completion                                                                   (.1           5.7     5.8
Total       42.9   68.3   2.2   6.2   5.5   7.8   9.1  10.1  14.0  13.4  15.4   5.7    200.6
Table 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating Lb
Stage                        No.   Days         Specialized       Imple-   Develop-      Types
of            Month/        of      in         Staff Skills     mentation   ment         of
Project Cycle       Year       Persons Field      Represented /a      Status  Objectives Problems /c
Preparation     Oct./Nov. 1984
Preappraisal    Jan./Feb. 1985      5     25    ENG, FNA, ECN, 2C
Appraisal       June/Jul. 1985      7      35    ENG, FNA, ECN, 2C
Supervision I    Oct. 1987          1      6           ENG(C)              I         I          --
Supervision 2    Mar. 1988          1      2           ENG(C)              I         I          M
Supervision 3    May 1989           1      3           ENG(C)              I         1       M, TA, T
Supervision 4    Jun./Jul. 1990    2       7         ENG, FNA              I         I       M, TA, T
Supervision 5    Oct./Nov. 1990    2       6        FNA, ENG(C)            1         I      M, P, TA, T
Supervision 6    Feb./Mar. 1991     3      5      FNA, ENG(C), TC         2          1      M, P, TA, T
Supervision 7    Oct./Nov. 1991    2       2        FNA, ENG(C)           2          1      M, P, TA, T
Supervision 8    May/June 1992      3      4   FNA, ENG(C), ENG(C)        2          1      M, P, S, TA
Supervision 9    Nov. 1992         2       4        FNA, ENG(C)           2          1      M, P, S, TA
Supervision 10   Apr. 1993          2      4          FNA, ENG            2          1        M, P, S
Supervision 11   Oct. 1993         2       5          FNA, ENG            2          1         M, S
Supervision 12   May 1994          2       3        FNA, ENG(C)           S          S         M, S
Supervision 13   May/June 1995     2       5        ENG, ENG(C)           S          S         M, S
/a C = consultant; ENG = engineer; ECN = economist; FNA = financial analyst; ESP = environment specialist; MEC
= mechanical engineering consultant; MISC = MIS consultant; TC = telecom engineer.
Lb I = no significant problems; 2 = moderate problems; 3 = major problems; S = satisfactory.
/c M = management; P = procurement; S = studies progress; T'A = technical assistance; T = training.



- 26 -
APPENDIX A: ICR PREPARATION MISSION'S
AIDE-MEMOIRE
October 30, 1995
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Mme. H. Deboeck and Messrs. U. Marggraf,
Sh. Tsukada, V. Alalouf (consultant), and R. McAfee (consultant) visited China in
October/November 1995 to supervise the implementation of selected components of the
Sixth Railway Project and to launch the Seventh Railway Project. During this mission,
Mr. Marggraf discussed with MOR outstanding contributions from MOR to the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). This aide-memoire, which will become part of
the ICR, records the mission's understanding of agreements reached, and actions to be
taken by the Ministry of Railways (MOR). It is subject to the confirmation by the Bank.
2.    During the supervision mission of ongoing railway projects in June 1995, the Bank
mission had discussed with the FCTIO, representatives of the Xi'an Signaling Factory,
Chengdu and Shanghai Administrations the evaluation of their respective components for
ICR. A table of content was suggested, the tables of the SAR were identified, which were
to serve as the basis for reporting of actual data, and a questionnaire from the Bank's
economist was handed out and explained. The representatives of the factory and the
administrations agreed to send: (i) the SAR tables and the economist's questionnaire by
July 31, 1995, to the Bank, and (ii) their component evaluation in Chinese by August 30,
1995, to the FCTIO.
3.    The closing date for the Third Railway Project was June 30, 1995. The Bank
started preparation of the ICR in July 1995, after the return from the previous supervision
mission. In August and September, the Bank received from MOR the economist's
questionnaire and postevaluation reports for the:
Chongqing-Guiyang line,
Yingtan-Xiamen line, and
Xi'an Signaling Factory.
4.    Additional information has been requested through RMC-clarification of data-
and by fax of October 17, 1995-full information on income statements. The mission
discussed with the FCTIO the information still needed and reached agreement on the
following actions to be taken:
(a)   the FCTIO will give Mr. Marggraf by November 16, 1995, the income
statements for 1990 to 1994 for actual results and estimates for 1995 for



- 27 -                    Appendix A
the: (i) Chongqing-Guiyang line, (ii) Yingtan-Xiamen line, and (iii) Xi'an
Signaling Factory;
(b)  the FCTIO will give Mr. Marggraf by November 16, 1995, the project costs
for the Xi'an Signaling Factory component split for 1993 and 1994;
(c)  the FCTIO will give Mr. Marggraf by November 16, 1995, the reply to the
questions related to the P-way component: (i) whether $35,055,464 total
expenditures for track maintenance machines is correct, (ii) whether
additional counterpart funds have been spent, and if so when (by year), and
(iii) when the last track maintenance machine was delivered, thereby
determining the completion of the component;
(d)  the Bank will send a draft ICR to MOR, incorporating the postevaluation
reports provided by the administrations and the signaling factory by
December 20, 1995;
(e)   MOR's comments and ICR contribution (previously Part II of the PCR) will
be sent to the Bank by January 31, 1996; and
(f)  the Bank will finalize the ICR and send to the Board of the Bank by
February 29, 1996.
UMarggraf, October 30, 1995.



- 28-
APPENDIX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Project Objectives
1.    As the deepening of China's reform progress and continuing of China's economic
increasing, the railways capacity has been almost saturated under the circumstances of
railway line permanent way operations becoming more and more imperative. In order to
expand the railway transport capacity and operations, the four components including
(1) electrifying/upgrading Chengdu-Guiyang railway line (CG line);
(2) electrifying/upgrading Yingtan-Xiamen railway line (YX line); (3) technical upgrading
for Xi'an Railway Signaling Equipment Works (X Works); and (4) modernizing
permanent way machinery (PW machinery) were included under the Third Railway Project
by the World Bank (Bank).
The Objectives Realizing
2.    CG line (415 km) is the transport access line to the South, Central and Northwest
China for Sichuan and Guizhou Provinces, it is also a key line for the national railway
network. Before upgrading it was operated under the over-saturated status and was the
bottleneck for regional economic development. The electrification/upgrading improved
transport operations remarkably for these two Provinces in the areas of industry and
agriculture and the line capacity has been increased by 54 percent, which reached the
target.
3.    YX line (698 km) is the only railway access for Fujian Province, starting from
Yingtan Railway Station located on Hangzhou-Zhuzhou railway line and ending at
Xiamen City and is one of the most important lines to connect the Southeast China with
Guangdong Province and the regions as Hongkong, Macau and Taiwan. Before
electrifying/upgrading, the capacity was considerably limited due to the factors of traveling
through Wuyi Mountain, located on hilly areas with complex geographic conditions, large
slopes, less sidings, more curves and small radiums. All of these prevented operating
speed. After upgrading the capacity has been increased by 57.17 percent, reaching the
target set.
4.    X Works is a specialized factory manufacturing railway electric-operated switches
and relays. With upgrading the manufacturing capacity increased, which now can make
more types of products with better quality. Previously the switches that it produced only
could be applied for 43 kg/m rails with annual capacity of 6,000 units, but now it can
produce switches for 50 kg/m, 60 kg/m and 70 kg/m rails with annual capacity of 12,000
units, the service life of switches extends from 200,000 times to 1.0 million times. As for
the relays, the annual capacity was 100,000 sets (1.0 million times as the service life)
before but now it is 300,000 sets (2.0 million times as the service life instead). The targets



- 29 -                      Appendix B
of increasing capacity and improving quality have been reached, then MOR does not have
to import them.
5.    PW machinery includes the procurement of track machines to facilitate the issues
of heavy traffics, short intervals, less maintenance windows and heavy labor intensity.
This also keeps the tracks under the normal operating conditions, which reached the
target.
The Construction Quality Evaluation
6.    Both CG line and YX line are located in the mountainous regions with heavy
existing traffics, the limited construction areas and difficult implementations. Yet the
various construction entities completed the works without interrupting the normal
transport operations, nor delaying the implementation schedule with good construction
quality as appraised by authorities concerned.
The Environmental Impact
7.    Electrification for both lines and traffic hauling changes reduced the pollution and
it improved the qualities of local air and waters tremendously. The railway entities also
take measures to minimize the noise and negative impacts by electric magnetic fields, and
they now meet the state requirements. The target has been reached.
The Comments to Bank
8.    During the project cycle, Bank sent one or two missions to China each year and
Bank staff provided many valuable comments which facilitated the implementation and the
future cooperation. Also we are deeply impressed by the diligence and the great sense of
responsibilities of Bank staff.
The Issues
9.    The procurement progress was rather slow due to too many internal procedures
such as (1) time-consuming reviewing; (2) lack of experience of procurement staff, and
(3) the weak administration capability, although efforts were made by MOR.
10.   Due to the reasons of heavy inflation rate for raw materials and labors in the
implementation period, implementation period extending and applying new technologies,
including the equipments for automatic axle counting and train over-speed protection for
CG line; non-power failure equipment for YX line, the total investment cost was overrun
for both lines.
11.   There is much room for MOR's hardware and software to be improved, which
obviously could not meet the requirement of Bank, in particular, the information feedback
to Bank was not timely. Fortunately MOR is under the processing of improvement, and
we are sure that the future cooperations by both sides will be improved.



- 30-
ANNEX 1: INCOME STATEMENTS
1.    The evaluation of MOR' s financial performance should be seen in the following
context:
(a)    Transfers to the Government consisted in 1984 and 1985 of an income tax
of 55 percent on net revenues and a business tax of 5.35 percent applied on
gross operating revenues from base tariffs [see (b)]; from 1986 to 1989 the
transfer was a business tax only; from 1990 to 1993, transfers consisted of
the business tax and an annual lump sum payment of Y 2.0 billion; from
1991 [when the freight surcharge was introduced-see (b)] a 0.24 percent
business tax on surcharge revenues was applied in addition to the 5.35
percent business tax and the annual lump-sum transfer; since 1994 transfers
are the two kinds of business tax and an income tax of 33 percent applied
to net operating revenues from base tariffs [see (b)].
(b)   Railway reven,ues are, by Government decree, divided into two parts: the
first is from base tariffs, which covers operating expenses and contributes
to the net income of the railway's transport operation; the second comes
from a Railway Construction Fund freight surcharge introduced in 1991,
which is earmarked for capital investments and cannot be used to meet
operating expenses. This separation has served the Government 's effort to
control MOR 's operating costs.
(c)    Tariff increases consist of across-the-board increases and selective
increases. Until MOR became responsible for financing all of its
expenditures in 1986, its tariffs had changed little since the mid-1960s. On
September 1, 1989, average passenger fares were increased by 112
percent; average freight rates were increased by 24 percent in March 1990.
On March 15, 1991, MOR was allowed to introduce a freight surcharge of
0.2 fen per tkm; the surcharge was increased to 1.2 fen and 2.7 fen per tkm
on July 1, 1992 and July 1, 1993, respectively. Selective increases in
freight rates (for example, new rates for new lines) and passenger fares (for
example, higher fares during periods of high demand in selected
administrations) have taken place in 1994 and 1995; no across-the-board
tariff increases were implemented since 1994.
(d)   In 1986, the Government and MOR entered into an economic contract
under which MOR must finance all of its operating and capital expenditures
(until 1984, capital expenditures were financed from the State budget as a
grant; in 1985 the financing was a budget loan). In return, MOR is



- 31-                        ANNEX I
allowed to keep its net income after transfers to the Government [see (a)
above].
(e)   In 1991, a Railway Law was enacted that lays down the powers and
obligations of the central and local governments, MOR, the railway
customers (shippers and passengers), and the public at large, pertaining to
railway construction, ownership, management, tariff-setting, and operations
(including service quality, passenger safety, and environmental protection).
With regard to tariffs, adjustments of the base tariffs and freight surcharge
require approval from SPC/State Council. MOR 'sflexibility in tariff
setting is thus limited.
2.    In July 1993, MOF issued new national accounting guidelines with the objective to
bring China's accounting system closer to international accounting standards. In response
to these new guidelines, MOR revised its accounting guidelines, classification of accounts
and reporting in financial statements. MOR is developing accounting policies for the
railways, with the assistance of consultants, under Railways VI.
3.    MOR has undertaken studies and developed tools to introduce financial and
technical reforms in its operations. In the costing area, the costing manual has been
prepared under Railways V and a costing model was developed under Railways VI. This
model has been used to underpin requests in tariff increases to SPC in 1994 and 1995. In
the area of investment planning, the initial Railway Investment Study was completed under
Railways V and has been used to prioritize future investments in the railways; these results
also supported the Government's decision in 1992 to raise the economic growth rate for
infrastructure investment planning from 6 percent a year to 8-9 percent. In the technical
area, six studies funded under Railways IV, V and VI focused on technical improvements
with systemwide implications, including its telecommunications and information systems,
maintenance and rehabilitation of tracks and locomotives and rolling stock, electrification,
and heavy haul operations. MOR applied their findings in modernizing the railways.
4.    Finally, several studies were launched under Railways VI to deal with tariffs and
costing, accounting issues, as well as regulations, management concerns, and
restructuring. They provided a basis for: (a) rationalizing tariffs in the market framework;
(b) redefining the Government-railways relationship; (c) restructuring the monolithic
railway organization into a number of profit-oriented, market-focused enterprises;
(d) bolstering the railways' treasury capability; (e) improving its labor productivity; (f)
rationalizing its diversified businesses; (g) reforming its housing system; and (h) enhancing
its human resources. Some of the studies' results support the Bank's reform assistance
under Railways VII.



Table 1: ACTUAL AND FORECAST CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS FOR THE 12 MONTHS ENDING DECEMBER 31
(in Y million)
1984        1985        1986          1987         1988        1989         1990        1991         1992         1993         1994         1995
Actual      Actual      Actual        Actual       Actual      Actual       Actual      Actual       Actual       Actual       Actual      Forecast
VOLUME                                                                                                                                                                                                              i
Freight(tkmbil.)                                 724         809          870          946          986         1,037       1,048        1,081        1,141       1,192        1,226         1,260
Passenger(pkmbil.)                              203          241          258          284          326          303         260          281          313          348          361          360
TOTAL (ctkm bil )                             927        1,050        1,128        1,230        1,312        1,340       1,308        1.362        1,454        1.540       1,587         1,620                  o
REVENUES                                                                                                                                                                                                       4 9
FREIGHT                                     13,215       15,773       17,707       19,186       19,925       22,007      27,213       31,139       39,229       58,402      68,535        69.500              0
From rates                                  13,215      15,773       17,707        19,186      19.925       22,007       27,213      29,143       30,625       34,055       34,600       35,500              0   e
From surcharge                                                -            -                  -                   -           -        1,996       8,604       24,347       33,935       34,000                   En
PASSENGERS                                   3,663        4,545        4,999        5,563       6,381         7,665      11,090       12,180       13,814       15,882      17,328        19,900             p   -
OTHER                                          871        1,072        1,205        1,463        1,756        1,935       2,802        3,385        3,428       6,010        7,745         8,400              U)  ^
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                   17,749      21,390       23,911       26,212       28,062       31,607      41,105       46,704       56,471       80,294       93,608       97,800              M   o
EXPENSES                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
OPERATING EXPENSES                                                                                                                                                                                                  cn         J
Payroll                                      1,291        1,571       2,582         2,897       3,444        3,905        4,277       5,566        7,400        9,500       11,578        14,700                              7
Materials                                    1,067        1,361       1,553         1,820       2,598        2,870        3,258       3,772        4,825        6,777        7,011         7,500
Encrgy                                       1,781       2,253        2,596         2,644       3,075        3,383        3,846       4,351        5,393        8,513        9,764        10,500
Electricity                                      .                        -          389          530          740         897         1,023       1,290        2,285        3,003         3,500             tl  ;D
Major Repairs                                2,159       2,510        2,993         3,314       3,414        5,874       6,527        7,277        8,085        8.915       11,581        11,300             t    3
Depreciation                                2,159        2,510        2,993         3,314       3,414        3,924       4,356        4,864        5,402        5,943        6,580        8,000              (   tI
Other                                         721          943        2,437        2,912        3,797        4,286       4,646        5,656        3,416        5,708        7,569        10,500
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                   9,178       11,148       15,154        17,290      20,272       24,982      27.807       32,509       35,811       47,641       57,086       66,000
OPERATING INCOME                               8,571      10,242        8,757         8,922       7,790        6,625       13,298       14,195      20,660       32,653       36,522       31,800                  t
Nonoperating Income from Subsidiaries
NONOPERATING EXPENSES
Interest                                         -            -            -         992          754         1,871       1,940        2,115        1,763       3,092        4,627         6,267             _-
Nonoperating expenses                         771                                                                 -           -            -       3,815        4,445        3,536         3,480       CQ
INCOMEHEFORETAXES                              8,065       9,764        9,606         8,922       7,901        5,233       11.558      12,129       15,319       25,515       28,331       22,053                  H>
Business lax                                 2,662        3,368        1,265        1,382       1,487         1,675       2,188        2,499       2,693        3,130        3,033        (3,169)                H
Income tax                                   2,971        3,517            -            -           -             -           -            -            -           -            4
Transfers to Govt                                -            -            -            -           -             -       2,000        2,000       2,000          100            -             -
NET INCOME                                    2,432        2,879        8,341        7,540        6,414        3,558       7,370        7,630       10,626       22,285       25,294       18,884
Of which allocated to:
Retained profits                            2,432        2,879       8,341         6,121       4,952         2,258       5,870        4,111       3,907        1,166       (2.914)       (8.849)
Special Fund for Health & Welfare               -            -            -        1.419       1,462         1,300       1,500        1,630           -            -9-                        - 1
RailwayConstructionFund                         -            -            -            -           -             -           -        1889        6,719       21,119       28,208        27,733                 o          ,
Working Ratio.
Including Surcharge Revenues                 49%          48%          54%            56%       66%            70%        64%          63%          57%         54%          54%           59%          
Operating Ratio:
Including Surcharge Revenues                 61%          62%         6 7/.          70%        74%            83%        72%          74%         66%          62%          61%           68%
Source. MOR and Bank staff, October 1995



- 33 -                             ANNEX 1
Table 2: ACTUAL AND FORECAST ANNUAL INCOME STATEMENTS
FOR CHONGQING-GUIYANG LINE
(in Y million)
1991     1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1995
Appraisal  Actual   Actual    Actual   Actual  Appraisal Estimate
Traffic
Freight (bill ton-km)             6.00      6.89     8.38      9.15      9.25      7.00      9.34
Passenger (bill Pass-km)          2.10     2.75      3.46      4.35      4.75      2.40      4.90
Total                        8.10     9.64      11.84    13.50     14.00      9.40     14.24
Revenues /a
Freight Rates                    95.46    164.73    164.58    201.83    223.84    111.37    226.08
Freight Surcharge:
- Avg. Surcharge/ton-km           0        0.0018    0.0075    0.0204    0.0277    0         0.0277
-Surchargerevenue                 0.00     12.40    62.85    186.66    256.23      0.00    258.72
Passenger                        32.59    28.46     34.75     46.43     52.29     37.25     52.81
Other                             0         3.36     3.70      5.28      6.13      0         6.19
Total                      128.05    208.95    265.88    440.20    538.49    148.62    543.80
Costs
Operations                       29.75     13.41    14.65     20.43     29.05     38.60     29.34
Stationsandterminals              6.55     15.89    22.61     38.44     55.11      8.80     55.20
Maint. mot. power & rolling stock    9.30  80.47    94.30    129.20    183.77     12.75    185.56
Subtotal                      45.60    109.77    131.56    188.07    267.93    60.15    270.10
Maint. infrastructure            86.45    60.93     88.88    107.21    152.45     90.35    153.97
- of which: depreciation        -34.00    46.67    49.84    47.35    -32.10    -34.00    -32.42
Direct costs                    132.05    170.70    220.44    295.28    420.38    150.50    424.07
Overheads                         8.95     11.83    10.53     14.19     19.72     10.20     20.38
Total                      141.00    182.53    230.97    309.47    440.10    160.70    444.45
-of which: freight              104.30    130.47    163.48    208.70    290.70    120.09    293.61
passenger             36.70    52.06     67.49    100.77    149.40     40.61    150.84
Net Revenues
Freight                          -8.84    46.66     63.95    179.79    189.37     -8.72    191.19
Passenger                        4.11    -23.60    -32.74    -54.34    -97.11     -3.36    -98.03
Total                      -12.95     23.06     31.21    125.45     92.25    -12.08    93.16
Operating Ratio                 110%      87%       87%       70%       82%      108%       82%
/a Since MOR appears to have not included freight surcharge revenue in the freight revenues, this table now
includes such surcharge revenues.
Source: MOR, February 1996



- 34 -                              ANNEX i
Table 3: ACTUAL AND FORECAST ANNUAL INCOME STATEMENTS FOR
YINGTAN-XIAMEN LINE
(in Y million)
1991       1992       1993       1993       1994       1995
Actual     Actual   Appraisal   Actual      Actual    Estimate
Traffic
Freight (bill ton-km)               11.054     12.383     12.24      13.314     13.700     14.287
Passenger (bill Pass-km)            3.444       4.112      4.51       5.377      5.748      5.838
Total                          14.498     16.495     16.75      18.691      19.448     20.125
Revenues /a
Freight Rates                     292.58     327.71      195.99     395.65     421.37     445.33
Freight Surcharge:                  0.0018      0.0075     0.00       0.0204     0.0277     0.0277
-Avg. Surcharge/ton-km              19.90     92.87        0.00     271.61     379.49     395.75
- Surcharge revenue                158.08     186.75      75.68     241.99     268.49     323.25
Total                         470.56     607.33     271.67     909.25    1069.35    1164.33
Costs
Operations                         122.76     144.76      77.38     207.11     266.61     333.57
Stationsandterminals                12.54      14.80       8.19      21.17      27.25      34.10
Maint. mot. power & rolling stock  32.74       38.61      26.09      55.23      71.10      88.75
Maint. infrastructure             104.77      123.55      63.63     178.74     227.51     284.84
- of which: depreciation           -34.57     -40.77     -21.20     -58.32     -75.07     -83.93
Direct costs                      272.81     321.72      175.29     462.25     592.47     741.26
Overheads                          40.28      46.37       13.54      30.13      52.93      65.82
Total                         313.09     368.09     188.83     492.38     645.40      807.08
- of which: freight               207.58     244.05      139.21     338.43     427.90     500.39
passenger              105.51     124.04      49.62      153.95    217.50      306.69
Net Revenues
Freight                           104.90      176.53      56.78     328.83     372.96     340.69
Passenger                          52.57      62.71       26.06      88.04      50.99      16.56
fotal                         157.47     239.24      82.84     416.87     423.95      357.25
Operating Ratio                    67%        61%         70%        54%        60%        69%
/a Since MOR appears to have not included freight surcharge revenue in the freight revenues,
this table now includes such surcharge revenues.
Source: MOR, February 1996



-35 -                                 ANNEX I
Table 4: ACTUAL AND FORECAST ANNUAL INCOME STATEMENTS
FOR XI'AN RAILWAY SIGNAL FACTORY
(in Y million)
1990        1991         1992         1993         1994       1995
Actual      Actual       Actual       Actual       Actual    Estimate
Revenues
Sales revenue less tax            59.3         63.4         68.6        108.5        100.7         97.6
Costs
Operating cost                    53.3         60.8         65.9        103.2         95.4          97.3
Net revenues                       6.0           2.6          2.7          5.3         5.3           0.3
Other income (net)                 0.0           1.0          1.0         0.5          0.5           0.9
Net income                         6.0           3.6          3.7          5.8          5.8          1.2
- of which allocated to:
Railway Construction &
Production Dev. Fund           1.9          0.0          0.7          2.6          1.2           0.0
Welfare & Incentive Fund
& other                        4.1           3.6         3.0          3.2          4.6           1.2
Operating Ratio                   90%          96%          96%          95%          95%         100%
Source: MOR, February 1996



- 36-
ANNEX 2: ECONOMIC REEVALUATION OF
THE THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Introduction
1.    Re-evaluation of the Railways III project focused on the two main project
components, upgrading and electrification of the 424 km Chongqing-Guiyang line and the
704 km Yingtan-Xiamen line. Together, these two project components comprised 93% of
the original total project costs.
2.    Costs. The costs evaluated for both lines included direct and indirect project costs.
Complementary costs included the cost of coal mine production, as well as power
transmission and generation and equipment and rolling stock required by the project. All
costs in the re-evaluation are expressed in December, 1994 prices.' Economic costs were
derived from financial costs provided by MOR, and shadow priced using conversion
factors derived from recent World Bank rail studies.
3.    Benefits. The project benefits comprised estimates for the value added of coal
transported by the project, based on incremental traffic generated by the project, as well as
the operating cost savings resulting from electrification of the rail line, which was
attributed to the base traffic on each line.
4.    Detailed accounts of the methodology used for calculating costs and benefits as
well as discussion of the results of the re-evaluation as compared with the SAR, are
included in the discussions on each project subcomponent below.
Direct Project Costs
5.    Financial costs for both rail projects were provided by MOR.2 Data for foreign
costs were re-calculated based on the official exchange rate before being converted to
economic costs.3 Financial costs were converted to economic costs by shadow pricing
local labor costs at 1.6 times financial costs.4 The proportion of local labor to non-labor
1Domestic and foreign costs were escalated/discounted using pyramids that were developed for the
Railways II PCR.
2 Foreign costs for line upgrading were not provided by MOR for the Yingtan-Xiamen line.
3 MOR had applied a constant exchange rate of 3.2 Y/$ for all years, 1986-1995.
4 The SAR utilized a conversion factor of .5 to calculate the shadow price of labor. A conversion factor of
1.6 was used in this economic analysis, based on studies prepared under Railways 7 (see Working
Paper 24).



3 7 -ANNEX 2
costs reported for the Yingtan-Xiamen line were used to shadow price local labor costs on
both lines. Local non-labor costs and foreign exchange were not shadow priced. Tables
la and lb compare SAR and ICR financial and economic project costs for the two lines.
These tables are summarized as follows:
Financial and Econnmic Direct Proiect, Costs (millions 1994 Yuar!
Chongqing-Guiyang                l.oc,al             Foreign             Total
Financial                        1141.5               360.3               1501.8
Economic                         1204.5               360.3               1564.9
conversion factor                I.05                1                   1.04
Yingtan-Xiamen                   Local               Foreign             Total
Financial                        1907.1               256.7               2163.8
Economic                         2012.7               256.7               2269.4
conversion factor                1 05                1                   1.05
The resultant overall conversion factor for project costs is 1.05.
6.    The comparisons of estimates for economic project costs as developed in the SAR
and ICR are presented in Tables 1 a and 1 b, and are summarized below:5
Economic Direct Project Costs (millions 1994 Yuan)
Chongqing-Guiyanzg                             S.AR                      ICR
1986                                           S  (2
1994                                           >64, 1                    1564.9
ICR/SAR                                                                 -5%
Yingtan-Xiamen                                SAR                        ICR
1986                                               i 1
1994                                                                     2269.4
ICR/SAR                                                                  +54%
As compared with the SAR, the 1CR economic project costs are 95 and 154 percent of
those reported in the SAR (adjusted to comparable 1994 prices) for the Chongqing-
Guiyang and Yingtan-Xiamen lines, respectively. For the Yingtan-Xiamen line, local costs
(which were subject to high rates of inflation during project implementation) accounted
5 Figures in MOR project cost icbics pel ihe C>iongqing-]u'iVani rinc iw-ere assumed to be in units of
current Yuan.



- 38 -                            ANNEX 2
for a much higher percentage of project economic costs (88% ) than the level predicted in
the SAR (approximately 50%).
Complementary Capital Costs
7.    Both railway projects are part of integrated coal production and distribution
systems. All coal production and transport related costs are therefore considered within
the cost stream. The detailed economic costs and comparisons with SAR estimates (in
current prices) are presented in Tables 2a and 2b and are summarized as follows:
a) Coal Mine Investment Costs. The economic cost of providing coal production
capacity is calculated at Y 326.5/ton/year. This figure is half the cost of new mine
production (as estimated in the coal mine investment model developed for
Railways 6) reflecting the assumption of excess mine capacity during the
evaluation period as noted in the SAR. 6 As in the SAR, the cost of production for
a given level of output is assumed to be spread equally over the five years prior to
production increments. Per-ton production costs (Y326) in the ICR are 68%
higher than the per-ton cost assumed in the SAR (Y194/ton in 1994 prices). The
annual cost of mine production estimated in the ICR exceeds that estimated in the
SAR for both lines for this reason. In the case of the Chongqing-Guiyang line,
higher coal mine development costs are also due to the higher than expected level
of traffic on the line. Actual line output (and therefore coal production costs) has
so far exceeded the levels predicted in the SAR. Consequently, over the period
1991- 2015, the line realizes an average increase in output of over 35%, as against
predicted levels.
b) Power. SAR estimates for this complementary cost only included the cost of
transmission (construction of the 110 kv power line). As it was assumed that
power for the project would be sufficiently provided by existing hydro-electric and
thermal generating stations, no new generating power capacity was considered
necessary, and estimates included the cost of transmission only. By contrast, the
ICR method reflects the known shortage of power in the project regions. The cost
of power generation is shadow priced at Y5 million per megawatt required, based
on studies developed under Railways 7.7 Line power generation requirements are
estimated to be 208 MW for the Chongqing-Guiyang line, and 345 MW for the
Yingtan-Xiamen line.8 As a result, the economic costs for power generation in the
ICR are much greater than the estimates developed in the SAR (which included the
cost of transmission only). In particular, for the Chongqing-Guiyang line, this
6 see Railways 6, Working Paper 22.
7see Railway 7, Working Paper 24.
8 Power requirement for the Yingtan-Xiamen line was provided by MOR. This information served as the
basis for estimating power required on the Chongqing-Guiyang line.



-39 -                            ANNEX 2
complementary cost comprises 14% of all costs in the ICR, as compared with 2%
in the SAR. For the Yingtan-Xiamen line, the economic cost of power generation
comprises 24%  of total costs, as compared with 7%  in the SAR.  These
complementary costs are included in Tables 2a and 2b.
c) Locomotives and Rolling Stock. Information on locomotives to operate each
line was provided by MOR. Rolling stock figures were estimated by applying
average asset utilization rates to existing and projected freight traffic.9 Financial
costs for assets were converted to economic costs based on conversion factors
developed by MOR for Railways 7 (see Working Paper 24), presented below:
Shadow Prices and Conversion Factors for Economic Costs
1994 Yuan (million)
Financial    Economic    Conversion
Cost Element             Price        Price        Factor
Diesel locomotive        3.1          4.0          1.29
Electric locomotive      5.7          7.4          1.29
Freight wagon            0.133        0.159        1.20
Passenger coach          0.450        0.540        1.20
In addition, the scrap value of steam locomotives is estimated by assuming an
average weight per locomotive of 80 tons and the value of steel at $50.00/ton in
1994 prices.
Chongqing-Guiyang line. According to MOR, 42 electric locomotives are used on
the Chongqing-Guiyang line. It is assumed that the electric locomotives have
replaced the 66 diesel and 27 steam locomotives which were scheduled to be
retired, as reported in the SAR. Approximately 2,800 wagons are estimated to be
needed over the project timeframe. The economic cost of equipment and rolling
stock, net of the depreciated value of the retired diesel locomotives (50% of
replacement value) and scrap value of steam locomotives, is Y 712 million, and is
detailed in Table 2a. This cost is approximately 50% of the cost estimated in the
SAR, in 1994 prices.  One possible explanation for this discrepancy is the
difference between the number of locomotives attributed to the line in the ICR (42
electric locomotives as reported by MOR) versus the SAR (69 electric
locomotives), although this explanation would appear to be counterbalanced by the
higher-than-predicted economic cost of locmotives in the ICR as compared with
the SAR. It is suspected that locomotives needed to operate this line have been
under-reported, especially in view of the fact that actual traffic has outpaced traffic
levels predicted in the SAR.
9 The average turnover rate per wagon is estimated to be 2 million ton-km per wagon per year. This
estimate is based on the reported load per wagon (56 tons), the average load factor per wagon (65%)
and the average traveling distance per wagon per year (55,000 km.).



- 40 -                            ANNEX 2
Yingtan-Xiamen line. According to MOR, 149 electric locomotives have been
purchased since 1987, and have replaced a total of 168 diesel locomotives.
Furthermore, approximately 2,350 wagons are estimated to be required to operate
the line over the project timeframe. The economic cost of locomotives and rolling
stock, net of the depreciated value of the retired diesel locomotives (valued at 75%
to reflect 30 years of remaining useful life), is Y966 million. This cost is roughly
65%  greater than the estimate included in the SAR, in 1994 prices.  This
discrepancy is likely due to the fewer number of locomotives (113) estimated to be
needed and lower economic cost for each in the SAR as compared with the ICR.
Project Benefits
8.    Traffic. The SAR calculated incremental traffic benefits by assuming equivalence
of a ton-km of coal, a ton-km of other product, and a passenger-km. The ICR estimated
benefits on the stream of actual and expected freight traffic only, on the assumption that
the capacity of the line in the main direction would be taken up entirely by freight traffic in
the long term.
Chongqing-Guiyang line. Freight traffic on the line was estimated by dividing line
turnover figures provided by MOR by the length of the completed line. Reported line
tonnage was not used because it implied average distances greater than the length of the
line. This method yields the average annual two-way tonnage moved on the line. Traffic
in the peak direction was then calculated by dividing line density by 1.6, a relationship
assumed in the SAR. A long-term average growth rate of 3.9% was assumed (based on
SAR estimates) for traffic between 1995-2015. Based on this method and assumption, the
line outperformed its expected output by an average of 35% between 1991 and 2015. As a
result the line is expected to reach capacity earlier than estimated in the SAR, in the year
2007.
Yingtan-Xiamen line. Freight traffic on this line was also estimated by dividing line
turnover figures provided by MOR by the length of the completed line. Reported line
tonnage was not considered reliable because it was shown as additive. A growth rate of
5.4% was developed by MOR and used to project traffic between 1995-2015. Based on
this method, the line performed as was expected over the project years. As in the SAR,
the line is expected to reach capacity near the year 2000.
9.    Coal Value Added. The main economic benefits of the project components are
represented in terms of coal value-added made possible by the project. Incremental freight
traffic beyond the baseline year of 1990 is assumed to be induced traffic, and is valued at
Y 314 per ton, in 1994 prices. II
10 Average benefit per ton of coal was estimated at the International price of coal in 1994, as found in
World Bank publication "Commodity Markets and the Developing Countries", February, 1996, p. 23.



-41-                               ANNEX 2
10.   Operating Cost Savings.  Additional benefits are associated with the lower
operating and maintenance costs of electric as contrasted with diesel locomotives. A
savings of .0126 Yuan per ton-km was attributed to baseline traffic beginning in 1991 to
approximate this benefit." The SAR did not include this benefit in the original ROR
calculation.
11.   As compared with the SAR, the ICR project benefits are 45% higher than the level
predicted in the SAR on the Chongqing - Guiyang line and 63% lower than predicted on
the Yingtan-Xiamen line. This discrepancy does not reflect poor technical performance of
the rail line, but rather is primarily due to the assumed composition and valuation of
incremental traffic as calculated in the ICR versus the SAR. In the SAR, the benefits of
increased coal production were estimated by taking into account the saved opportunity
cost of coal that would otherwise be imported, taking account of the border price, valued
at the international rate for the same quality coal, and the costs of transport from the port
to the region of consumption. Since the SAR was prepared there has been instability in the
international price of coal. Therefore, for the purposes of the ICR, the benefits of
increased coal consumption have been measured by the direct value added to the national
economy. This was estimated by the national price for coal minus all the costs of its
production. It was further assumed that the elasticity of economic growth to coal
production was equal to 1.
12.   The method used in the SAR yielded a composite (coal and TSP fertilizer) per-ton
net benefit of Y220 on the Chongqing-Guiyang line and Y1,141 per-ton benefit on the
Yingtan-Xiamen line (assumed to carry coal and timber) in 1994 prices. These values are
0.7 and 3.6 times the values, respectively, of that used in the ICR (Y314) to reflect the
value of coal, in real terms. The discrepancy between the valuation of benefits in the ICR
and SAR is therefore primarily due to the composition of traffic assumed in the ICR (coal
only and not also the higher-priced commodities) and secondarily due to the valuation of
coal at its domestic rather than border price.
13.   Non-quantified Benefits.  Though not quantified here, from an environmental
perspective, the benefits of electrification are also significant. This is particularly evident
in maintenance shops where a serious environmental problem - the disposition of waste
diesel oils - is avoided by the substitution of electric units.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
14.   Net benefits were calculated for the 30-year project evaluation period, 1985-2015
to arrive at estimates for NPV and EIRR. A discount rate of 12% was used to arrive at
the NPV. Detailed calculations for the Chongqing - Guiyang line, the Yingtan - Xiamen
1 l Source for per-km operating cost savings: MOR, based Yingtan-Xiamen line data.



- 42 -                           ANNEX 2
Line and for the two lines together are presented in Tables 2a, 2b and 2c, respectively, and
are summarized below:
Re-evaluated NPV and EIRR
Chongging-Guiyang  Yingtan-Xiamen     Both Lines
NPV@12%
(millions '94 Yuan)              5,620              2,849         8,469
IRR (%)                         30.2%               20.4%        24.7%
15.   Based on the inputs stated above, the detailed component EIRR and sensitivity test
results, in comparison with the SAR and are summarized below:
Sensitivity Analysis
Chongqing-Guiyang Line
SAR                                   ICR
Best Estimate                   23%    Best Estimate                   30%
Project Cost                           Benefits:
+20%                     22%    Value Added ( SAR)               24%
Benefits Delayed                       Operating Cost Savings
1 year                   21%           +20%                      31%
2 years                  20%    Traffic Growth Rate
Coal and Phosphate Prices                     +38% (5.4%, MOR, YX)  31%
-10%                      17%    Costs:
+ 10%                    28%    Mine Development Cost
Mine Development Costs                       -40% (Y194/ton, SAR)       36%
+10%                      19%          +100% (no excess capacity) 22%
-10%                     27%    Power Generation Cost
- 88%  (Y82, SAR)        31%
16.   Chongqing-Guiyang line.  Sensitivity tests for the ICR reveal some significant
effects given adjustments in the benefit and/or cost categories tested. In terms of project
benefits, the valuation of traffic was tested to compare ICR and SAR methodologies.
Traffic valued based on the values in the SAR yielded a 24% overall rate of return. While
this component of project benefits was extremely sensitive, operating costs were not as
sensitive. Savings were tested by increasing the benefits 20% but this yielded only a 1%
gain in the ERR. The traffic growth rate of 3.9%, as was used in the SAR, was also
tested, by projecting traffic between 1995-2015 to 5.4%, the rate MOR applied to



- 43 -                            ANNEX 2
projections on the Yingtan-Xiamen line.'2 This input did not have a significant impact on
project evaluation, mainly because the traffic capacity of the line is reached sooner as a
result of the higher growth rate. Along with the value of traffic, mine development costs
appear to be a highly sensitive input. With the estimate of mine development costs used in
the SAR, in real terms, the IRR climbs to 36%. In addition, if it is assumed that there
does not exist any capacity at other mines, and therefore mine development costs are
estimated at their full economic value (Y653), the IRR falls to 22%. Given the known
high demand for power in China, the result of the sensitivity test for this input may be
significant. As power generation costs were not included in the orginal SAR, which only
included transmission costs, the sensitivity of the power generation costs were tested by
assuming the cost of transmission only, in 1994 prices. In doing so, the impact on
evaluations is barely discemable.
Sensitiviy Analysis
Yingtan-Xiamen Line
SAR                                    ICR
Best Estimate                   33%    Best Estimate                    20%
Project Cost                            Benefits:
+20%                      31%    ValueAdded
Benefits Delayed                              (SAR)                     41%
1 year                   29%    Operating Cost Savings
2 years                   25%           +20%                      21%
Coal and Timber Prices                  Traffic Growth Rate
-10%                      31%           +20%                       21%
+10%                      35%           -20%                      20%
Mine Development Costs                  Costs:
+10%                      32%    Mine Development Cost
-10%                      34%           -40% (Y194/ton, SAR)      22%
+ 100% (no excess capacity)   17%
Power Generation Cost
-81%  (Y229, SAR)          22%
17.   Yingtan-Xiamen line. Generally, as in the case of the Chongqing-Guiyang line, the
sensitivity tests for this line reveal significant effects for only certain inputs. In terms of
project benefits, the use of SAR valuation figures resulted in a 41% rate of return. This
reflects the SAR assumption that timber comprises half of the commodities carried on the
Yingtan - Xiamen line. Operating cost savings were tested by increasing benefits 20%,
but this did not improve the rate of return by much. The traffic growth rate of 5.4% was
12 Note: this change also affects costs simultaneously, as incremental traffic is an input to the mine
development cost model and the rolling stock model.



- 44 -                            ANNEX 2
also tested, by projecting traffic between 1995-2015 at 1.2 times and 0.8 times that rate."3
Again, varying this input did not have a significant impact on project evaluation. Along
with the valuation of traffic, mine development costs appear to be a highly sensitive input.
Assuming the estimate of mine development costs used in the SAR, in real terms, the IRR
climbs to 22%. In addition, assuming full costs of mine development (the equivalent of
assuming no excess capacity at other mines) the IRR falls to 17%. For this line, as for the
Chongqing-Guiyang line, given the known high demand for power in China, the result of
the sensitivity test for this input may be significant. Finally, as power generation costs
were not included in the orginal SAR (which only included transmission costs), this input
was tested by assuming the cost of transmission only, in 1994 prices. The resulting impact
on evaluations is not significant, raising the rate of return to only 22%.
18.   The sensitivity analysis EIRR for both lines taken together is summarized below:
SAR (Overall Project):                 ICR (Both Lines)
Best Estimate                    30%    Best Estimate                    25%
Benefits:
Value Added (SAR)                36%
Operating Cost Savings
+20%                      25%
Traffic Growth Rate
+20%                      25%
Costs:
Mine Development Cost
-40% (Y194/ton, SAR)      28%
+100% (no excess capacity) 20%
Power Generation Cost
- 81%  (Y229, SAR)        26%
13 see footnote above.



- 45 -                                ANNEX2
Table la
Chongqing-Guiyang Line
Project Costs by Year
Financial Project Costs by Year                                          Financial Project Costs by Year
Current Year Yuan                                                        Constant '94 Yuan
Year          Local       Foreign         Total                         Year          Local       Foreign          Total
1985      3.718.624            0      3.718.624                         1985      8.451.681            0       8.451.681
1988     25.012.338            0     25.012.338                         1986     54.296.078            0      54.296.078
1987     54.795,711            0     54.795.711                         1987    113.176.959             0    113.176.959
1988     71.481.512    11.949.776    83.431.288                         1988    132.057.594     13.441,108    145.498.702
1989    102,593.095    18.800.000    121.393.095                        1989    173.884.666     21.294.760    195.179.426
1990    133.648.147    47.683.810    181.331.957                        1990    202.792.982     51.097.971    253.890.953
1991     92.296.263    69.57a.591    161.874.854                        1991    129.553.277     73.029.689    202.582.966
1992     59.890.428    47.020.940    106.911.368                        1992     77,623.505     47.317.172    124.940,677
1993     30.003.000    26.647.200    56.650.200                         1993     34.443.444     27.446.616    61.890.060
1994     59.738.000            0     59,738.000                         1994     59.738.000             0     59,738.000
1995     99,116.157     4.185,833    103,301.990                        1995     86.943.997     4,123.973     91.067.971
1996     86.781.422    126.611.846    213.393.268                       1996     68.580.229    122.535.103    191.115.332
1985-1996         819.074 697    352.477 996  1.171.552.693              1985-1996       1.141.542.414    360.286.392   1.501.828.806
SoqocA MOR. DOArmoer 995 laduswa #or forsgn ea.wngs)
Shadow Pricing of Labor                                                  Shadow Pricing of Labor
Local Cost: Proportlon Labor and Non.Labor                               Conversion Factor for Local Labor: 1.6           Economic
Year          labor     non labor                                       Year          labor      non labor    Local Costs
1985         11.7%         88.3%        100.0%                          1985        987.346      7.464.336     8.451.681
1986         10.0%         90.0%          100%                          1986      5.447.352     48,848.726    54.296.078
1967          7.6%         92.4%          100%                          1987      8.590.112    104.586.847    113.176.959
1988          4.9%         95.1%          100%                          1988      6.519.199    125.538.396    132.057.594
1989         10.3%         89.7%          100%                          1989      17.905.208    155.979.458    173.884.666
1990         16.2%         83.8%          100%                          1990     32.778.256    170.014.717    202.792.982
1991          9.2%         90.8%          100%                          1991      11.952.748    117.600.531    129.553.277
1992          7 5%         92.5%          100%                          1992      5.826.965     71,796.539    77.623.505
1993          6 7%         93.3%          100%                          1993      2.319.505     32.123.939    34,443.444
1994          6.6%         93.4%          100%                          1994      3.947.233     55.790.767    59.738.000
1995          5.6%         94 4%          100%                          1995      4 903.018     82.040.979    86.943.997
19961         5.6%         944%           100%I                          19961     3 867.433    64.712.796    68.580.2291
Soujgca MOR Y)Ingmla..amem Une
Economic Total Prolect Costs
Constant '94 Yuan
Year         Local         Foreign          Total
1985      9.044 089             0       9.044.089
1986     57.564.489             0      57.564.489
1987    118.331.026             0    118.331.026
1988    ,35,969.114     13.441,108    149.410.221
1989    184,627.791     21.294.760    205.922.551
1990    222.459.942     51.097.971    273.557.913
1991    138.724.925     73.029.689    209.754.614
1992     81.119.684     47,317.172    128.436,856
1993     35.835.147     27,446.616    63.281.763
1994     62.106.340             0     62.106.340
1995     89.885.808     4.123.973     94,009.782
1996     70.900.689    122.535.103    193.435.792
19851996  1.204.569.044    360.286.392   1 564.855.436
ICR'94          1.564.855.436
SAR'86            822.900.000
SAR '94 (calc.)   1,647.173.074
ICR/SAR                  95%



- 46 -                                 ANNEX2
Table lb
Yingtan-Xiamen Line
Project Costs by Year
Financial Project Costs by Year                                          Financial Project Cosu by Year
Current Year Yuan                                                        Constant 1994 Yuan
Year          Local       Foreiqn          Total                         Year          Local        Foreign          Tota
1985    160.423,000            0    160.423,000                          1985    364.609.086             0    364.609.086
1986     56.322.000             0     56.322.000                         1986    122.262.209             0    122.262.209
1987    113.974.000            0    113.974.000                          1987    235.405.847             0    235.405.847
1988    114.995.000     9.329.063    124.324.063                         1988    212.446.025     10,493.330    222.939.354
1989    105.848.000    22.260.375    128.108.375                         1989    179,401.393     25.214.327    204.615.715
1 990    130.058.000   81.257.013    211.315.013                         1990    197.345.420     87,075,015    284.420.43!
1991     56.685.000     15.113.788    71,798.788                         1991      79,566.900    15.863.431     95.430.331
1992    106,994.000     16.266,841    123.260.841                        1992    138,674.067     16,369.322    155.043.38S
1993    199.173.000     36.000.000    235.173.000                        1993    228.650.604     37.080.000    265.730.604
1994     84.702,000     53.234.000    137.936.000                        1994      84,702.000    53.234.000    137.936.00(
1995     72,988.000     11.552.031    84.540.031                         1995      64.024.561    11,381.312     75.405.87:
1985-1996        1.202.162.000    245.013.109  1.447.175.109             1985-1996        1.907.088.112    256.710.736   2.163.798.84t
Souoc. MOR. Decemrz. r 995 (asousieo for foreign .eruianqe,
Shadow Pricing of Labor                                                  Shadow Pricing of Labor
Local Cost: Proportion Labor and Non-Labor                               Converion Factor for Local Labor: 1.6             Economic
Year          labor      non labor                                       Year           labor     non labor    Local Cost:
1985         11.7%          88.3%        100.0%                           1985     42.594.519    322.014.566    364.609.081
1988         10.0%          90.0%         100%                            1986     12.266.176    109.996,033    122.262.20
1987          7.6%         92.4%          100%                            1957     17.867.264    217.538,583    235.405.B41
1988          4.9%         95.1%          100%                           1988      10,487.680    201.958.34    212,446.02!
1989         10.3%         89.7%          100%                           1989      18,473.275    160,928.117    179,401.39:
1990         16.2%         83.8%          100%                            1990     31.897.754    165.447.666    197.345.42t
1991          9.2%         90.8%          100%                            1991      7.340.941    72.225,959     79.566.90(
1992          7.5%         92.5%          100%                            1992     10.409.850    128.264.218    138.674.06'
1993          6.7%          93.3%         100%                            1993     15.397.888    213.252.716    228.650.60'
1994          6.6%          93.4%          100%                           1994      5.596.748    79,105.252     84,702.001
1995          5.6%          94 4%         100%                            1995      3.610.526    60.414.035     64.024.56
Source MOR. Ymingiailllramen Line
Economic Total Project Costa
Constant 1994 Yuan
Year         Local         Foreign          Total
1985    390.165.797             0    390.165.797
19S6    129.621,915             0    129.621.915
1987    248.126.205             0    248.126,205
1988    215.738.633     10.493.330    229.231.963
1989    190.485.358    25.214.327    215.699.685
1990    218.484.072    87,075.015    303.559.087
1991     83.971.464     15.863.431     99.534.896
1992    144.919.977     16.369.322    161.289.299
1993    237.889.337    37.080.000    274.969,337
1994     88.060.049    53.234.000     141,294,049
1995     66,190.877     11.381.312     77.572.189
1985-1995  2.012.653.685    256.710.736   2.269.364.420
ICR 94            2269364420
SAR'88            850.100.000
SAR 94 (calc.)   1.477.089.552
ICRISAR                 154%



-47 -                                                   ANNEX 2
Table 2a: CHONGQING-GUIYANG COMPONENT-ECONOMIC ROR CALCULATION
(Y million, 1994 prices)
Freight                             Costs                                         Benefits                     Net
Incremental     Dlirect     Mine      Power    Loco &       Total        Value     Op'g Cost     Total       Benefit
I-way        Project     Dev.       Gen.    Rail stock    Costs       Added       Savings    Benefits     Cash Flow
1985                    9.04                                       9 04                                                -9.04
1986                   57.56      58.52                          116 09                                              -116.09
1987                  118 33     20185                   709     32727                                                -327.27
1988                  149 41     275 58                 7.09     432 08                                              -432.08
1989                  205.92     284.92                  7.09    497 93                                              -497.93
1990                  273.56     31963                   7.09    60027                                                -60027
1991     0.90         209.75     29717                  90.19    59711            281 33       86.86      368 19      -228.92
1992     3.09         128.44     191.31                134.08    453 83           970.30       86.86    1,057 16      603.33
1993     4.22          6328      15651                 98.06     31785          1,32473        86.86    1,411.59     1,093.74
1994     4.36          6211      18762                 64.73     314.45         1,369.61       86.86    1,456.48     1,142.02
1995     4.89          9401      19494      519.08      17.97    826.00         1,536.46       86.86    1,623.32       797.33
1996     5.45         193.44     202.54     519.08      18.67    933 73         1,709 82       86.86    1,796.68       862.95
1997     6.02                    210.44                 19.40    22984          1,889 93       86.86    1,976.80     1,746.96
1998     6.62                    218.65                 20.15    238 80         2,077.08       86.86    2,163.94     1,925.14
1999     7.24                    227 17                20.94     248.11         2,271.52       86.86    2,358.38     2,110.27
2000     7 88                    236.03                 21.75    257.79         2,473.54       86.86    2,560.40     2,302.61
2001     8 55                    245.24                 22.60    267 84         2,683 44       86.86    2,770.31     2,502.46
2002     9.24                    254.80                 23.48    278.29         2,901.53       86.86    2,988.39     2,710.11
2003     9.97                    207.67                 2440     232.07         3,128.12       86.86    3,214.99     2,982.92
2004    10.72                    158.69                 25.35    18404          3,363.55       86.86    3,450.42     3,266.38
2005    11.49                    107.80                 26.34    13414          3,608.17       86.86    3,695.03     3,560.89
2006    12.30                     54.93                 27.37     82 30         3,862.32       86.86    3,949.18     3,866.88
2007    13.15                                           28.44                   4,126.39       86.86    4,213.25     4,213.25
2008    13.15                                                                   4,126.39       86.86    4,213.25     4,213.25
2009    13.15                                                                   4,126.39       86.86    4,213.25     4,213.25
2010    13.15                                                                   4,126.39       86.86    4,213.25     4,213.25
2011    13.15                                                                   4,126.39       86.86    4,213.25     4,213.25
2012    13.15                                                                   4,126.39       86.86    4,213.25     4,213.25
2013    13.15                                                                   4,126.39       86.86    4,213.25     4,213.25
2014    13.15                                                                   4,126 39       86.86    4,213.25     4,213.25
2015    13.15                                                                   4,126.39       86.86    4,213.25     4,213.25
ICR '94               1,564.86   4,292 02   1,038 17    712 27    7,578.87                             74,760.51    67,181.64
% oftotal            21%        57%        14%        9%
SAR '86               823        683.70    38.00      625.20     2,169.80                              23,820.96
% of total           38%        32%        2%         29%
SAR '94               1,647.17    148416    82.49     1357.17    4,570.99                              51,700
ICR/SAR               95.0%      289.2%     1258 5%    52.5%     165.8%                                 144.6%
NPV                     5,620
IRR                     30.2%



- 48 -                                                    ANNEX 2
Table 2b: YINGTAN-XIAMEN COMPONENT-ECONOMIC ROR CALCULATION
(Y million, 1994 prices)
Freight                               Costs                                              Benefits                    Net
Increme      Direct     Mine       Power        Loco. &         Total      Value      Op'g Cost         Total        Benefit
ntal
I-way      Project   Develop.  Generation     Rail Stock       Costs      Added       Savings        Benefits     Cash Flow
1985                390 17                                              390 1 7                                               -390 17
1986                129.62       52 68                                  182 30                                                -182.30
1987                246.13      131.41                    7.94          3854S                                                 -385.48
1988                229.23      18756                   10325           52710                                                 -520.05
1989                215.70      201.17                  103 25          120 1 2                                               -520.12
1990                303 56      242.89                   99 28          645.73                                                -645.73
1991       0.81      99.83      234.18                  15654           490.55       253.23      9903             352.26      -138.28
1992       2.01     161.29      201 79                   79.68          442 75       631.70      99.03            730.73       287.97
1993       2.87     274.97      194.48                   60.24          52970        901 63      135.83         1,037.46       507.76
1994       3.08     141.29      232.36                  155.76          52941        967.02      135.83         1,102.85       573.44
1995       372       77.57      191.56    863.10         35.91         1,168.14     1,16756      135.83         1,303.39       135.25
1996       4.39                 147.59    863 10         3784          1,048.54     1,378.93     135 83         1,514.75       466.22
1997       5.10                 10125                    3989           141 14     1,601.71      135 83         1,737.53     1,596.40
1998       5.85                  52.40                   42.04           9444      .,83652       13583          1,972.34     1,877.90
1999       6.64                                          44.31                     2,084 011     135.83         2,219 83     2,219 83
2000       665                                            (179                      2.08842      13583          2,224.24     2,224.24
2001       6.65                                                                    2,088.42      135 83         2,224.24     2,224.24
2002       665                                                                      2,088.42     135 83         2,224.24     2,224.24
2003       6.65                                                                    2,088 42      135 83         2,224.24     2,224.24
2004       665                                                                     2,088.42      13583          2,224.24     2,224.24
2005       665                                                                     2,088.42      135.83         2,224.24     2,224.24
2006       6.65                                                                    2,08842       135.83         2,224.24     2,224.24
2007       6.65                                                                    2,088.42      135 83         2,224.24     2,224.24
2008       6.65                                                                     2,088.42     135.83         2,224.24     2,224.24
2009       6.65                                                                     2,088.42     135 83         2,224.24     2,224.24
2010       665                                                                     2,08842       135 83         2,224.24     2,224.24
2011       665                                                                      2,08842      135.83         2,224.24     2,224.24
2012       6.65                                                                    2,088.42      135.83         2,224.24     2,224.24
2013       6.65                                                                     2,088.42     135 83         2,224 24     2,224.24
2014       6.65                                                                    2,088.42      135.83         2,224.24     2,224.24
2015       6.65                                                                     2,088 42     135 83         2,224.24     2,224.24
ICR '94           2,269.36       2,171.33     1,726.20   966.73      7,088.52                                  47,559.06   40,470.5
%of total         32%           31%          24%       14%
SAR'86            850            269.30      105.60    269.00        1,49400                                  58,776.60
% of total        57%           18%          7%        18%
SAR'94            1,477.07       584.59      229 23    583.94       2,874.83                                  127,600
lCR/SAR            153 6%        371 4%,,o    753 0%    265 6%      247%                                          37%
NPV                       2,849
IRR                       20.4%



- 49 -                                       ANNEX 2
Table 2c: THIRD RAILWAY-ECONOMIC ROR CALCULATION
(Y million, 1994 prices)
Both Lines           Net
Chongqing-Guiyang        Yingtan-Xiamen         Total       Total       Benefit
Costs      Benefits     Costs      Benefits     Costs       Benefits    Cash Flow
1985             9.04           0.00   390.17           0.00    399.21           0.00     -399.21
1986           116.09           0.00   182.30           0.00    298.39           0.00     -298.39
1987           327.27           0.00   385.48           0.00    712.75           0 00     -712.75
1988           432.08           0.00   520.05           0.00    952.13           0.00     -952.13
1989           497.93           0.00   520.12           0.00  1,018.05           0.00    -1,018.05
1990           600.27           0.00   645.73           0.00  1,246.00           0.00    -1,246.00
1991           597.11         368.19   490.55         352.26  1,087.66         720.45      -367.20
1992           453.83        1,057.16   442.75        730.73    896.58        1,787.88     891.30
1993           317.85        1,411.59   529.70       1,037.46    847.55      2,449.05     1,601.50
1994           314.45        1,456.48   529.41       1,102.85    843.87      2,559.33     1,715.46
1995           826.00        1,623.32  1,168.14      1,303.39  1,994.14      2,926.71      932.57
1996           933.73        1,796.68  1,048.54      1,514.75  1,982.27      3,311.44     1,329.17
1997           229.84        1,976.80   141.14       1,737.53    370.97      3,714.33     3,343.36
1998           238.80        2,163.94    94.44       1,972.34    333.24      4,136.28     3,803.04
1999           248.11        2,358.38    0.00        2,219.83    248.11      4,578.21     4,330.10
2000           257.79        2,560.40    0.00        2,224.24    257.79      4,784.65     4,526.86
2001           267.84        2,770.31    0.00        2,224.24    267.84      4,994.55     4,726.71
2002           278.29        2,988.39    0.00        2,224.24    278.29      5,212.64     4,934.35
2003           232.07        3,214.99    0.00        2,224.24    232.07       5,439.23    5,207.17
2004           184.04        3,450.42    0.00        2,224.24    184.04       5,674.66    5,490.62
2005           134.14        3,695.03    0.00        2,224.24    134.14      5,919.28     5,785.13
2006            82.30        3,949.18    0.00        2,224.24    82.30       6,173.43     6,091.13
2007             0.00        4,213.25    0.00        2,224.24     0.00       6,437.49     6,437.49
2008             0.00        4,213.25    0.00        2,224.24     0.00       6,437.49     6,437.49
2009             0.00        4,213.25    0.00        2,224.24     0.00       6,437.49     6,437.49
2010             0.00        4,213.25    0.00        2,224.24     0.00       6,437.49     6,437.49
2011             0.00        4,213.25    0.00        2,224.24     0.00       6,437.49     6,437.49
2012             0.00        4,213.25    0.00        2,224.24     0.00       6,437.49     6.437,49
2013             0.00        4,213.25    0.00        2,224.24     0.00       6,437.49     6,437.49
2014             0.00        4,213.25    0.00        2,224.24     0.00       6,437.49     6,437.49
2015             0.00        4,213.25    0.00        2,224.24     0.00       6,437.49     6,437.49
Total         7,578.87      74,760.5  7,088.52      47,559.06 14,667.39     122,319.57   107,652.18
NPV          8,468.64
IRR             24.7%









IMAGING
Report No:      15842
Type: ICR.



