Dan of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
C&  /- :PC       C,- C1t-
Report No. P-S_-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP?JENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $160.0 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 63.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
March 17, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Yuan (Y)
Y 1.0 = Fen 100
Calendar 1985       January 1986
$1  = Y 2.96           Y 3.20
Y 1.0 = $0.34          $0.31
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
X      =  meter (= 3.281 feet)
sq m   =  square meter (  10.764 square feet)
cu m   =  cubic meter {  35.315 cubic feet)
kcm    =  kilometer C= 0.621 mile)
tkm    =  ton kilometer (= 0.621 ton-mile)
pkml   =  passenger-kilometer ( 0.621 passenger-mile)
am     =  0.1647 acre = 0.0667 hectare (ha)
mu     =  kilo-Newton (-=9.81 ton-force)
kWh    =  kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kcals)
CTK    =  Converted ton-km or traffic unit
>CTK   =  million tons
mtpy   =  million tons per year
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CIF    -  Cost, insurance and freight
CRSCC  -  China Railway Signal & Communications Company
CTC    -  Centralized Traffic Control
EAAMS  -  Economic Analysis of Aluminum Milling in Shanghai
ERR    -  Economic Rate of Return
FAS    -  Free Alongside Ship
FOB    -  Free on Board
FYP    -  Five-Year Plan
GRS    -  General Railway Signal
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding
MR     -  Ministry of Railways
SAA    -  State Audit Agency
SOE    -  Statement of Expenditure
SPC    -  State Planning Commission
TSP    -  Triple Superphosphate
XRSF   -  Xi'an Railway Signalling Factory



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHrNA
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        People's Republic of China.
Beneficiary:     Ministry of Railways (MR).
Amount:          IBRD Loan:  $160.0 million.
IDA Credit: SDR 63.0 ($70 million equivalent).
Terms:           IBRD Loan:  20 years including 5 years of grace; standard
variable iaterest race.
IDA Credit: standard.
Project
Description:   This will be the Bank Group's third invoLvement in the
railway subsector. The proposed project will support the
Government's objectives of increasing railway capacity and
improving its operations and efficiency. It will also
further develop MR's technical and managerial capabilities
and contribute to the-overall economic growth of the
country. The project will consist of five components:
(a) upgrading and electrification of the 456 km single track
Line between Chongqing in Sichuan province and Guiyang in
Guizhou province; (b) upgrading and electrification of the
704 km single track line between Yingtan in Jiangxi province
and 2iamen in Fujian province; (c) increasing the capacity of
the Xi'an Railway Signalling Factory, which is a part of the
China Railway SignaL and Communications Company, and
improving the quality of its production; (d) introducing
mechanized track maintenance on a pilot project basis by
providing equipment, technical assistance and training; and
(e) supporting continuation of the Traffic Costing Study,
initiated under the First Railway Project (Loan 2394-CHA).
The electrification works involve proven technology that is
already in wide use in China and elsewhere in the world;
technological risks are therefore small. Similarly, the
modernization of the Xi' an factory carries little risk, since
it will include the participation of an established foreign
manufacturer. The Ministry of Railways has successfully
completed similar projects for a number of years; risks from
inadequate project implementation and operation are tberefore
negligible. Accordingly, the risk that the benefits of the
project will fall substantially short of projections is low.
This docunment has a reucted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pcrfornnanc
of their ofcil dutics. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost:
Local     Foreign   Total
($ min) --
Chongqing-Cuiyang Line                         104.7      95.7      200.4
Yingtan-Xiamen Line                            113.8     119.2      233.0
Xi'an Railway Signalling Factory                 0.9      12.0       12.9
Permanent Way Maintenance                         -       17.2       17.2
Traffic Costing Study                             -        0.3        0.3
Base Cost                                219.4      244.4      463.8
Physical contingencies                          22.0      12.2       34.2
Price contingencies                             39.1      40.4       79.5
Total Project Cost /a                    280.5      297.0      577.5
Financing Plan:-
IBRD                                              -      160.0      160.0
IDA                                               -       70.0       70.0
Government                                     280.5      67.0      347.5
Total Financing                          280.5      297.0      577.5
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Group FY          1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Annual                  2.3   16.1   57.5   57.5   50.6   41.4    4.6
Cumalative              2.3   18.4   75.9  133.4  184.0  225.4  230.0
Rate of Return: 30%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 6002-CHA, dated March 7, 1986.
/a The project is exempt from import taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
and credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a third railway
project. The loan for $160 million would have a term of 20 years, including 5
years of grace, with standard variable interest rate. The credit, for SDR
63.0 ($70 million equivalent), would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic report entitled, "China: Long-Teim Issues and
Options" (No. 5206-CHA) was distributei to the Executive Directors on        :
May 22, 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Since 1978, China has initiated economic reforms in both rural and
urban areas and in the external sector. Reforms have been greatest in rural
areas. Following some experiments with the abolition of collective farming in
impoverished areas, the Government implemented a comprehensive restructuring
of rural institutions based on various forms of the "production responsibility
system". By 1983 the farm household had become the fundamental unit of
management and production in agriculture, within a framework of collective or
state ownership of land and major fixed assets. Reforms have not yet proceed-
ed as far in the urban economy, but there have been significant changes in
enterprise management and finance. The scope for collective and individual
economic activities has been enlarged and state enterprises have been allowed
greater freedom in production, pricing and marketing above their mandatory
plan targets. State enterprises have also been allowed to retain some profits
and investment projects have increasingly been financed on a loan rather than
a grant basis.
4.        In international trade and investment, China has promoted opening up
to the rest of the world in recent years.  Between 1978 and 1984, the share of
exports to GDP nearly doubled to about 10Z, a ratio similar to other large
economies such as the U.S. and Brazil. Foreign investment has been encour-
aged, first through establishment of four Special Economic Zones and signing
of joint venture contracts for offshore oil exploration, and more recently
through opening of several coastal cities to foreign investment.



-2-
Growth and Stabilization
5.        Reform  have helped stimulate rapid development of the whole
economy.  Real GDP growth averaged 5Z p.a. between 1978 and 1981 and 1OZ p.a.
between 1981 and 1984. During these six years, per capita incomes in real
terms more than doubled in rural areas and increased by more thAn 50% in urban
areas. Agriculture has continued its remarkably strong performance, with
gross agricultural output value (excluding rural industry and comerce) rising
at nearly ;1Z p.a. between 1981 and 1984 and grain output at 8Z p.a. (reaching
over 400 million tons in 1984). Cash crops and animal husbandry, stimulated
by rising demand and attractive prices, have also grown rapidly. Gross indus-
trial output value grew at over 1OZ p.a. over the same period, with heavy
industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12Z p.a. vs. 9Z p.a.).
If rural industrial output is included, total industrial output value grew at
close to 12Z p.a. in real terms between 1981 and 1984. The energy constraint
on industrial growth was eased by rising coal output (8Z p.a. between 1981 and
1984), renewed increases in crude oil production (4Z p.a. between 1981 and
1984) and improvements in the efficiency of energy utilization (primary
comiercial energy consumption grew only 60Z as fast as GDP between 1981 and
1984). Manufactured exports growth at 8Z p.a. between 1981 and 1984 was
slower than during the 1978-81 period but it started from a much higher base
and in the face of worsening world market conditions.
6.        The Government continues to face difficulties in combining system
reform and rapid overall growth with maintenance of economic stability.
During 1979 and 1980, China experienced large budget and current account
deficits combined with excessive investment and inflationary pressures. In
response, a strict stabilization program was introduced in 1981 relying mainly
on administrative controls on investment spending. The program slowed growth
but also helped lower the budget deficit from about 5Z of GDP in 1979 to less
than 1Z in 1981, reduce inflation to around 2% p.a., and change China's
external position to one of current account surpluses averaging nearly
$4 billion during 1982-84. As a result, foreign debt and debt service ratios
remained at low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5% respectively in 1983) and
China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion (over
7 months' imports) by mid-1984.
7.        This comfortable balance of payments position, achieved at the cost
of drastic reductions in investment spending and some recentralization of
investment decisionmaking, disappeared rapidly during the course of 1984 and
early 1985. Partly as a result of decentralization of decisionmaking and the
lack of effective indirect levers, there was a rapid acceleration of invest-
ment and consumption during 1984 and the first half of 1985 causing the
economy to overheat. Real GDP grew by 14Z during 1984, while average wages in
state-owned enterprises rose by 20% and domestic credit grew by 36%. The
retail price index rose by only 3Z in 1984, but inflation is expected to be
higher in 1985. Imports of capital goods increased from $4 billion in 1983 to
over $7 billion in 1984, with most of the increase occurring in the second
half of the year. There was also a rapid expansion in consumer goods
imports. These trends continued during early 1985. As a result, foreign
exchange reserves (excluding gold) had fallen to about $10 billion by
July 1985 (equivalent to 3.1 months of exports), and the current account



-3-
deficit for the year is likely to be in the range of $10 billion. The Govern-
ment has responded quickly by launching a strict stabilization program that
includes further increases in interest rates as well as a series of adminis-
trative directives governing bank credit and project approval. As a result,
aggregate credit and demand as well as new import orders have begun to slow,
though total imports will continue to rise as past orders are filled.
Recent Reforms
8.        The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on "reform of the economic structure" in October 1984. Recent reform
developments have been fully in accordance wiLh the directions indicated in
the October decision: (a) state enterprises should be made fully independent
units which pursue profits and are responsible for losses; (b) the scope of
mandatory planning should be reduced and replaced by indicative planning while
the focus of planning should shift from annual to medium- and long-term
guidance planning; (c) a more rational price system should be introduced by
reducing the role of state-controlled prices and increasing the role of
"floating" and free market prices; and (d) the tax system should be improved,
finance and banking should be reformed and a larger role should be given to
indirect macroeconomic regulation through instruments such as tax, credit and
pricing policy.
9.        Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagri-
cultural activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households"' (which concentrate on cash crops, animal husbandry, or nonagri-
cultural activities) and pooling of capital by small groups of households in
various types of ventures are becoming increasingly common forms of economic
organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for some agricultural
products have emerged. To encourage investment in land improvement and devel-
opment, farming contracts between collective and peasant households for the
use of land (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years) can
now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, the system of
agricultural procurement was changed. Previously the Government purchased
quota output of grain and other crops at relatively low prices and stood ready
to purchase all above-quota output at a higher p-ice. Under the new system,
procurement up to a certain amount (below former quota procurement) is based
on contracts concluded voluntariLy between peasants and procurement
agencies. Prices for these purchases are based on the reLatively high average
price of past years. Output above the contracted amount must be sold by
peasants directly on the free market, but the Government will ir'  ene to
purchase grain if the price falls to the original low quota procurement
price. Thus a considerably larger portion of basic crop production will be
produced for and traded on markets with flexible prices.
10.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. In enterprise management, the focus has been on broadening
and delineating the decisionmaking authority of urban enterprises. Profit
retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and
to nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce, construction, and other
services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety



of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).
11.       In financial reforms, the most important new development has been
the implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by
state enterprises to the government budget. Though most enterprises have
switched to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the
application of a different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset
the impact of distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems
have resulted in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on
the fixed capital provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they
have hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed
investment. Financial discipline at the enterprise level remains weak, in
spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing systems and more
strictLy enforce existing financial regulations.
12.       Some progress has been made with price reform.  The majority of  r
agriculture commodity prices were decontrolled even before the recent change
in pricing and procurement of grain. Prices of many minor consumer goods are
also set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20Z above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g., for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions, at largely uncontrolled prices, has
increased in recent years. Gradually over time, and only partly as a result
of conscious policy, a two-tier system is emerging; a large but shrinking
share of the total supply of most important goods is subject to mandatory plan
allocation and administratively set prices, while at the margin a substantial
and growing share is allocated by the market mechanism, largely at flexible
prices. This pattern may permit China to "grow out of the plan" in a rela-
tively smooth transition, though there are obvious threats to this strategy
arising from the strong incentive for arbitrage between planned and unplanned
realms.
13.       The Government recognizes the need to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management and has taken some steps to do so. The People's Bank
of China was established as a separate central bank at the beginning of 1984,
with its commercial banking functions taken on by the newly created Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China. In 1985, new methods of credit planning and
control were introduced and lower-level and specialized banks were given
significant redeposit requirements. Interest rates (including deposit rates)
were also raised in 1985, with some move toward unification of rates and
development of a term structure resembling that in other countries. Technical
transformation loans with a maturity less than one year and loans for working
capital now carry the same 7.9% interest rate while loans of longer maturity
carry higher rates, up to 10.8% for 10-year loans. However, interest rates on



-5-
budgetary capital construction loans (formerly grants) remain low and there
are a variety of directed credit schemes. On the external side greater use is
now being made of the exchange rate. The old internal settlement rate was
abolished at the beginning of 1985 and between January and end-October 1985
the rate against the U.S. dollar declined by over 13%. Despite these changes
progress in developing new indirect levers of control has been slow. Recent
difficulties in securing macroeconomic balance highlight the need to
strengthen institutions and macroeconomic management tools (including
monetary, fiscal, and exchange race instruments) for a decentralized and more
market-oriented economy.
Long-Term Issues and Prospects
14.       In September 1985 a national party conference adopted a proposal
which will be the basis for drafting a new Seventh Five-Year Plan covering the
period 1986-90. The proposal reaffirms a political commitment to economic
reform and provides guidelines for future reform and development. One of the
main objectives of the plan will be to create a favorable environment for
reform which, in turn, will set the stage for future development. Target
growth rates (7% p.a. for industry, 6Z for agriculture, a little over 7% for
GlNP) are b'low rates of growth achieved with the Sixth Five-Year Plan, invest-
ment is to be restrained in the next few years, and emphasis is to be placed
upon quality rather than quantity of output. It is felt that slower growth
will facilitate reform.
15.       The plan proposal identifies three main areas of reform.  First,
enterprise management and incentives are to be improved by: giving enterprises
greater autonomy in production, pricing, and employment decisions; lowering
and equalizing taxes; increasing competition, increasing accountability for
performance; and reforming personnel procedures. In addition, some small
state enterprises will be turned over to collective or individual management
through contract or lease. Second, the role of the market is to be extended
and market networks strengthened. The scope of mandatory planning will be
further reduced and markets for capital, technology, and labor will gradually
be developed. Third, the emphasis of planning will shift from detailed admin-
istrative control to indirect macroeconomic control through economic policy.
To this end a series of mutually reinforcing reforms in the planning, pricing,
fiscal, banking, and labor and wage systems will be introduced during the plan
period.
16.       Implementation of the plan proposal will help foster an environment
in which fundamental reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated
way. But specific policy measures will take time to design and then to imple-
ment. Many of the reforms required will be difficult, particularly since
reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appropriate
sequencing and coordination are essential. For example, price reform in the
absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have limited
benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result from tighter
financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted
prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be incomplete
without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises
(which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and



-6-
in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them
wich Covernment-supported social service programs.  The plan proposal suggests
moving in this direction by comercializing housing.
17.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means CDP growth of well over 6X
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates, The plan proposal recognizes there must be
major structural changes in the economy over the next two decades, including a
reduction in the share of agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and
services (which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization.
There will also be a shift within agriculture, away from grain and basic crops
and into cash crops and animal husbandry. The new plan will emphasize
development of the service sector, mainly through removing restrictions on
collective and individual activity. Urban development will focus on small and
medium sized cities and towns while restrictions on growth of large urban
areas will continue.
18.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
in transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the elderly in' China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to
maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
19.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be
addressed by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories,
suboptimal scale of many plarts, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
20.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to the
fore, as the plan proposal recognizes. Management of a reformed economy with
indirect fiscal, monetary, and other instruments is a major issue (see para.
13 above). In this context, maintaining an adequate saving rate (if the
Government no longer accounts for the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding
inflation (as well as deep cyclical downturns) will be major goals. Assuring
an adequate minimum standard of living for the population and an appropriate
level of social services will become a major challenge as enterprise and rural
communal responsibilities in these areas are reduced. The problem of poor,



-7-
backward rural areas in various parts of the country will continue to require
attention. Redistributing financial resources to these areas through the
fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas, and
lowering nonagricultural wages to make investment in them more attractive are
some options for alleviating poverty.
21.       In order to mobilize the external resources needed for rapid,
sustained growth the plan proposal calls for export growth of 40-50% over the
next five years, greater efforts to attract foreign investment, and increased
commercial borrowing. If exports grow at 8% p.a. between 1984 and 1990 and
imports grow at 9% p.a., China would have a relatively modest current account
deficit of around $4-5 billion p.a. (except in 1985) during the remainder of
this decade, equivalent to about 1% of GNP. This implies that the present
debt service ratio would increase only moderately by 1990. If China's exports
grow more slowly imports will probably have to be cut back because a higher
borrowing target, though feasible in terms of debt service indicators, would
probably run into supply constraints as China would become one of the largest
developing country borrowers. This highlights the need for continued export
growth in order to meet other plan objectives and service greater commercial
borrowing. The plan proposal recognizes that greater use of exchange rate and
pricing policies will be needed to encourage export growth.
22.       Even with continued good export performance, China will have
substantial external capital requirements during the remainder of the
decade. Under the trade growth assumptions outlined above (exports growing at
8% p.a. and imports at 9% p.a. during 1984-90), the current account deficit
would be over $5 billion in 1990 and the gross borrowing requirement would be
about $6.5 billion. If export growth fell to 6% p.a. during this period and
imports continued to grow at 9% p.a., the current account deficit would reach
$14 billion by 1990. Although the plan proposal calls for increased borrowing
at commercial rates, access to concessionary capital will play an important
role in sustaining China's growth. China also has a claim to concessionary
lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of-the world. But
China's access to concessionary capital to finance development and moderniza-
tion is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of conces-
sionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other bilateral
donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a. during the
rest of the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       To achieve the target growth rates envisioned in proposals for the
Seventh Five-Year Plan, to increase efficiency and innovation, and to maintain
equity in distribution, China will need continuing and fundamental reforms.
Large investment will be required and China will need to import more technol-
ogy and increase trade. In the next few years, therefore, the Bank can best
assist China by increasing its access to foreign technology and practices and
supporting the development and implementation of reforms that will help to
increase the efficiency of resource use and reduce poverty.



-8-
24.       To address China's objective to update technology, the Bank will
play the role of intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry,
agriculture and the social sectors, the Bank will contribute to technology
transfer by bringing the Bank's experience to bear on project design and by
helping China to seek appropriate technical solutions through international
competitive bidding, training, and foreign technical assistance.
25.       Bank assistance will be closely linked with the Government's reform
efforts. There are five major elements common to both rural and urban reform
in China that will be the focus of the Bank's involvement. First, institu-
tional clhange, involving both the separation of economic and administrative
functions and further decentralization of decisionmaking, will extend to every
sector in which the Bank is involved as well as the overall process of plan-
ning and management. Second, financial sector reform, primarily development
of financial institutions that can serve as intermediaries between the
suppliers and users of resources, has become a focus of reform and is an area
where Bank assistance can play a useful role. Third, improving planning and
project analysis will be critical to reform in sectors such as agriculture and
industry, where decisions are now being made by households and independent
enterprises, as well as in infrastructure where direct government involvement
will be required. The Bank will therefore continue its emphasis on introduc-
ing appraisal methods and will include sector investment and financial
planning as well as analysis of intersectoral issues. Fourth, the Bank will
be involved in the Government's major program of price reform and development
of indirect levers such as control via money, credit and fiscal policies. And
finally, the Government will make institutional and policy changes to further
improve the quality of social programs. The Bank will thus support reforms in
health, education and other social services and measures in particular, to
address the problems of poor regions.
Economic and Sector Work
26.       Our economic and sector work in China aims to develop the Bank's
understanding of the structure and direction of the Chinese economy and to
introduce to the Government new perspectives on economic management. This
work builds a foundation for lending and for the dialogue with Government on
issues of reform and development options and policies in the various
sectors. Past work has included two major economic reports, studies on
sectoral investment analysis and planning, and collaborative research with
Chinese institutions. We have also organized seminars on macroeconomic and
sector issues.
27.       Over the next two years, the Bank will carry out a large program of
studies to-follow up on issues identified in che most recent economic report
and analyze policy options. In this program, we will examine alternatives for
developing the financial system and foreign trade and investment. We will
also analyze issues of intersectoral and interregional planning and develop-
ment of resource-poor regions. One such study is already underway in Gansu
province to review and formulate programs to increase interregional resource
flows, improve the spatial efficiency of development and reduce poverty.
Research on urban development and transport planning and finance at the
provincial level wilL also be initiated, and we will undertake studies of



-9
regional industrial subsectors to form the basis for project preparation.
Collaborative studies with Chinese research institutions will continue. An
ongoing study of management and guidance of state-owned industrial enterprises
will be followed by a study of collective enterprises, which are expected to
become increasingly important industrial organizations in the reformed system.
Lending Operations
28.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Croup in May of
1980, 33 projects involving lending of $3,159.L million to China have been
approved. Of the projects, eleven have been in the agriculture sector, seven
in energy! four in transport, four in industry, three in eduration, two in
technical cooperation and one each in health and water supply. In FY85, IFC
made its first investment in China of $17.02 million in automobile manufactur-
ing. Annex II contains a summary statement of these loans, credits and IFC
investment as of September 30, 1985.
29.       In addition to the proposed third railway project and the recently
approved Second Rural Credit, Third Industrial Credit, and Second Technical
Cooperation projects, we expect to present projects to the Board this year for
aquaculture, provincial higher education, port, power, gas development, and
health. For FY87 and beyond, we expect the China lending program to continue
to grow from current levels. Infrastructure projects in energy and transport
will remain priorities. Technical renovation of enterprises, particularly in
industry, will be given greater attention and support as will the regional
approach to project development, now being used to assess the needs of Gansu
province.
30.       In the energy sector, future Bank lending will be aimed at reducing
energy consumption and expanding energy production. For example, in the coal
subsector, we will assist in upgrading the facilities and operations of exist-
ing mines and in transferring improved technology for mines under construction
or in operation. in power, we will assist China in technology transfer, staff
training and institution building. Through a power tariff study, we will seek
to introduce a tariff system based on marginal cost and emphasize the need for
a nationwide power system development program. In the gas subsector, the
rationale for Bank involvement will lie in the identification, packaging and
transfer of specialized technologies as well as in the strengthening of
investment planning and management capabilities.
31.       Future transport projects will both upgrade technology and strengthen
institutions. In roads, major changes in organization and financing will be
required as a result of administrative decentralization and introduction of
the production responsibility system in rural areas. In railways, we will
focus on technologies to improve domestic production of railway equipment and
materials in addition to our work on line construction and electrification.
We also intend to broaden our involvement in ports to include coastal shipping
and inland water transport. For all transport subsectors, we will support
efforts to improve financial analysis and investment planning.
32.       Agriculture lending will focus on developing institutions to provide
services to individual farmers and to monitor and stimulate change in the pace



- 10 -
and pattern of agricultural development. The shift from grant to loan finance
and the increased autonomy of the rural banking system will be major aspects
of change that will be supported through rural credit projects. We will
continue to assist with the training, research, extension, and other service
activities of the ministries concerned with agriculture. In addition, we
ezpect to finance programs for specialized agricultural development such as
livestock and fisheries, and for irrigation and area development.
33.       Bank lending in industry, as in agriculture, will focus on strength-
ening of financial intermediaries which provide credit to state and collective
enterprises. In addition, we expect that there will be large regional
projects in fertilizer, cement and machine tools and other subsector projects
concerned with upgrading technology and improving organization and management.
34.       Bank lending in education will gradually be broadened beyond the
present concentration on higher education. For example, we will finance
vocational and technical education which is now being given great emphasis in
China. In view of the Government's recent decision to universalize access to
primary and lower secondary education, another major aim of education lending
will be to assist with basic education, particularly in poor rural areas. In
this context, support for teacher education will be given priority.
35.       Project preparation in the urban sector is currently concent-ated in
Shanghai on efforts to improve services, especially in environmantal upgrading
and housing, and development of municipal institutions. Future lending is
expected to include support for development of medium-size and small urban
areas in specific provinces. In addition, we expect to continue lending for
rural water supply. Bank lending in health will provide access to new medical
technologies for more efficient health care in both the lingering problems of
communicable disease, primarily in poor rural areas, and the emerging problems
of chronic disease. This will involve further support for medical training
and planning and management of service delivery systems. Projects will also
support the reform of systems for supplying and financing health services.
36.       Cofinancing with multilateral and bilateral agencies has been
arranged for projects in coal, power and rural water supply and will remain a
feature of our assistance program. We will ezplore options for cofinancing
with export credit agencies. Commercial bank cofinancing and the use of
B-loans also appear viable, particularly as China increases the overall volume
of its foreign borrowing. In technical assistance, we will continue to incor-
porate into projects components for training, overseas study, and access to
foreign expertise. In addition, we will be the executing agency for a second
UNDP umbrella project in China. EDI activities remain an important element of
the Bank's program and in coming years will provide an extensive program of
policy seminars for senior Chinese officials, and economic tnd financial
management courses and sector-specific training for officials from core and
line agencies.



- 11 -
Implementation
37.       Project implementation is generally proceeding well.  Most project
agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning
Commission, have established and staffed offices to handle Bank projects.
Disbursement performance has also been satisfactory. Special accounts have
been established for 22 of the 33 approved projects and have helped to speed
up disbursements. In October 1985, the Bank opened a resident office in
Beijing to support further expansion of the lending program, accelerate
project preparation, improve project implementation and further economic and
sector work.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
38.       The structure of China's economy, which for three decades emphasized
heavy industry at the expense of light industry and the service sector, is
still inherently "transport intensive," despite recent reforms of the sectoral
priorities. Chinese policy statements repeatedly identify transportation and
energy shortages as the two most critical bottlenecks in the economy. Coal is
at the heart of both problems, because coal is simultaneously the most impor-
tant source of energy and the largest user of transport capacity. This dual
problem with coal is exacerbated by China's high level of energy consumption
per unit of GDP (about two and a half times that of other LDCs). However, the
need to ship large volumes of coal is not the sole cause of the transportation
bottleneck.
39.       The rapid growth of China's economy in recent years has naturally
entailed a growing demand for the shipment of commodities of all sorts, and
for passenger travel as well. Efforts to reduce waste within the transport
system (for example by eliminating cross hauling of the same commodity,
increasing the processing of raw materials before shipment, and increasing the
intensity of road and waterway utilization) are certainly desirable. More
fundamentally, however, the Government's strategy for solving transportation
shortages will have to rely on an expansion of the system's capacity,
primarily by increasing the productivity of existing facilities whenever
possible, and secondarily by building new facilities where needed.
40.       Freight Traffic.  Domestic freight transported in 1984 reached 1,131
billion ton-km (tkm), more than a 15-fold increase since 1952, or an average
annual growth rate of almost 9X, systematically higher than the growth of
domestic product. By the year 2000, domestic freight traffic could be in the
range of 3,000 billion tkm, or nearly three times the 1984 level. The modal
split has moved toward a more balanced use of modes, but the railways still
handle 64Z of the traffic versus 82Z in 1952; this predominance is expected to
continue for quite some time.
41.       Passenger traffic reached 362 billion passenger-km (pkm) in 1984, a
14.6-fold increase since 1952 and an average annual growth rate of almost
9Z. Since 1978, growth has averaged 13% p.a. This illustrates the potential
demand for travel as income grows. It is likely that this growth would have



- 12 -
been even more rapid if it had not been constrained by the limited capacity,
particularly of the railways, to offer more passenger services. The modal
split has shifted more rapidly than for freight, and the railways now hAndle
56% of the traffic versus over 80X in 1952. Despite the rapid growth of
passenger traffic in recent years, the mobility of people in China is still
much lower than in countries of comparable income levels. By the turn of the
century, passenger traffic may well reach about 1,500 billion pkm per year or
about four times current levels.
42.       Investments.  Over the period 1953-84, some Y 136 billion, or 14X of
all new investments under central government control went to transport. In
comparison with other countries, annual levels of transport investment appear
somewhat on the low side, a factor contributing to make transport a bottleneck
to economic development. For example, by 1983, 30 million tons of coal had
accumulated in Shanxi for lack of transport, and some of this stockpiled coal
was destroyed by spontaneous combustion. Despite a recent policy of
curtailing production to match available transport, the volume of coal
stockpiled in Shanxi increased during 1984. Rural areas are short of
transport, both for agriculture and for local enterprises. In the ports, lack
of proper handling facilities is hampering trade of bulk commodities such as
fertilizers, cement and grain. In the forthcoming decades, a much larger
investment effort will be needed in transport if these bottlenecks are to be
overcome.
43.       Port traffic has grown rapidly since 1976, reflecting the economic
opening of China to foreign trade. Annual growth has averaged 11.3Z. Domes-
tic coastal shipping and inland water transport also increased substantially.
As a result, ports became congested despite commendable efforts to achieve
high productivity. A major effort to modernize ports started in the early
1970s and continues with particular emphasis on container and bulk terminals,
the latter mainly for coal. The Bank's first transport operation in China was
the Three Ports Project (Loan 2207-CHA, December 1982), which includes
container terminals at Huangpu, Shanghai, and Tianjin, and a coal berth at
Huangpu. A second port project, which will provide eleven additional berths
at Tianjin, is now being considered for Bank financing.
44.       The highway network comprised about 915,000 km in 1983, of which
about 180,000 km were asphalt paved, about 510,000 km were gravel or sand
paved, and the remainder were earth roads. Despite impressive expansion of
the road network since 1949, when only some 80,000 km of roads suitable for
motor vehicles existed, the roads in China today are inadequate because:
(a) pavement strength and quality are poor; (b) there are many thousand kilo-
meters of extremely rough macadam surfaced roads with traffic in excess of 300
average daily traffic; (c) congestion is severe near cities, due to mixed slow
and fast moving traffic; and (d) there are gaps of about 4,000 km on major
national roads linking large cities and provincial capitals. The road network
and road transport in China today can therefore be characterized as under-
developed. Road maintenance, however, is well organized and currently absorbs
much of the attention and resources of the provincial and other local
authorities.



- 13 -
45.       Except for western China, the highway network is still very much a
system of feeder roads to the railways. Nevertheless, motor traffic on the
national highways has grown at a very high overall annual average of 15Z since
1978. The Bank's First Highway Project (Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA,
September 1985) involves the construction or improvement of about 290 km of
national roads and about 1,400 km of rural roads.
46.       Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s.  The transport system
has been severely taxed by the recent economic development, and capacity con-
straints are evident in all modes. At present, railway transport is a greater
constraint on energy supplies than coal mine development. Recently initiated
projects of line electrification and new line construction are addressing the
problem although it will take several years to alleviate bottlenecks between
major mining areas and coastal cities. Improved freight car technology and
other operational improvements could also contribute to capacity increases.
China will also need to expand substantially its port and waterway facilities
for domestic and foreign trade. But the most serious transport need is for
dramatically expanded road transport, especially in rural areas where
increased specialization has created an urgent demand for better farm-to-
market transport services. It is widely recognized in China that road trans-
port should and will play a larger role in the future. Yet there seems to be
no strategic plan to bring this about. There is a need for more efficient
trucks of both larger and smaller size, as well as for more and better roads
to handle the traffic. Potential sources of financing for road development,
such as road user charges, need to be investigated as they could generate
sufficient funds for an accelerated construction and betterment program as
well as contributing to an economically appropriate division of traffic
between modes. Considerable efficiency gains could be made in the entire
transport system through better intermodal coordination, which has thus far
been impeded by the vertical and self-contained organization of transport and
other sectoral agencies. Through container transport from origin to destina-
tion is still the exception. Changes in policy, pricing and management of the
system are needed to maximize the benefits of intermodal transport. To
support all the development referred to above, staff development and training
will also be an important objective in the sector.
The Railway Subsector
47.       Organization.  The principal agency in the subsector is the Ministry
of Railways (MR), with a staff of some 3.1 million, which administers a
nationwide, interconnected system of 52,000 route-km. Other railroads are
administered by the Ministries of Coal Industry, Forestry, and Communications
for uses associated with their own operations, and by provincial governments
for limited services within their own jurisdictions. The Chinese system is
the fifth largest and carries the second highest freight and passenger traffic
in the world.
48.       Four Vice-Ministers and a Chief Engineer support the Minister of
Railways in administering 19 bureaus concerned with specific functional
aspects of MR's work, and 13 regional administrations which are responsible
for operations. The regional administrations are organized in the form of
State-owned enterprises, which are self-accounting, have authority over their



- 14 -
own retained earnings, and have contractual capacity and the right to hire and
fire staff. Each administration is headed by a general manager, and is
typically divided into a number of sub-administrations, each of which controls
the basic units (stations, workshops, etc.) that are responsible for day-to-
day operations within its territory.
49.       MR also controls a number of factories, which together provide the
greater part of MR's requirements of locomotives, passenger and freight cars,
ties, fishplates, etc., and nine construction companies which carry out most
of the civil works. Design, engineering and architectural services are also
carried out "in house" by a number of specialist bureaus. Signalling and
communication facilities are the responsibility of the China Railway Signal
and Communications Company (CRSCC), a State-owned enterprise under the
direction of MR. CRSCC will be a beneficiary of part of the proposed project.
50.       Education and Research.  In coordination with the State Education
Commission, MR operates 11 universities, 20 staff colleges for in-service
training, and more than 2,000 schools with 100,000 teachers and staff. Eight
of the universities provide technical courses, two provide medical courses,
and one is a teacher training college. Most of them now offer graduate
programs. For high school graduates unable to enter university, MR operates
more than 60 vocational schools which train locomotive drivers and other
operations staff; MR's other schools provide primary and secondary education
for an enrollment now exceeding one million. Graduates of MR's schools
proceed exclusively to employment in MR, but graduates of MR's universities
may be employed elsewhere.
51.       MR also operates the ten research institutes which comprise the
China Academy of Railway Sciences. Mostly, the institutes are concerned with
applied research and acceptance tests on new products procured locally and
abroad, but also provide instruction at Masters and Doctorate levels.
52.       Planning and Investment.  On the basis of national production plans
and origin/destination tables for key products and of its own observation of
passenger movement patterns, HR develops five-year traffic forecasts by prin-
cipal routes throughout its network. At the regional administration level,
these forecasts are translated into traffic density patterns and compared wita
existing Line capacities. From these comparisons are derived the railways'
requirements in motive power and rolling stock and in route capacity enhance-
ment. Production schedules and work programs are developed for MR's own fac-
tories and construction companies, and the total investment plan is submitted
to the State Planning Commission (SPC) for approval; SPC may indicate the need
for some adjustment, and further iterations of some or all of the process may
be required, but finally a total plan is evolved which is consistent (and
integral) with the national five-year plan. From this plan, various subsi-
diary plans are derived, including a manpower development plan and a schedule
of material requirements (in particular, rails and other steel products) from
external suppliers. At present, however, a financial plan does not form part
of the package.
53.       In the 1981-85 Sixth Five-Year Plan (FYP), after falling to Y 1.4
billion in 1981 during a period of budgetary stringency, railway investments



- 15 -
were increased to Y 2.6 billion in 1982, Y 4.2 billion in 1983, and Y 6.4
billion in 1984. The 1983 amount represented over half the total investment
in transport of Y 7.2 billion, but was still far short of the level which
would be needed to alleviate bottlenecks. The Seventh FYP (1986-1990), now in
preparation, will focus on upgrading existing facilities; the anticipated
traffic growth will be carried primarily by the existing system. Neverthe-
less, expenditure levels are expected to be at least equal to those of the
Sixth FYP.
54.       Budgets, Accounts and Audit. The expense of MR's bureaus fo.rms part
of the central Government budget, and is not recovered from railway revenues.
Operating costs of the regional administrations are controlled by annual bud-
gets compiled at sub-administration level. Accounting is likewise focused at
the sub-administration level, although some basic procedures such as cash
collection and disbursement are decentralized to the operating units.
Consolidation of budgets and financial statements is routinely carried out
only up to the administration level; consolidation at the overall system level
(all administrations combined) is generally confined to income statement
items. The accounting system is double entry, on the accrual basis, and
accounting rules and procedures are uniform between administrations.
55.       In common with all ministries whose responsibility includes the su-
pervision of enterprises, MR contains an Audit Bureau, whose principal func-
tions are to monitor compliance with accounting rules and to evaluate the
efficiency of operations. MR's Audit Bureau was established in 1985, and its
procedures are being developed with a pilot administration. The Industrial
Transport .Bureau of the State Audit Agency (SAA) also carries out test audits
of parts of MR's operations selected randomly. In particular, SAA will audit
the accounts of sub-administrations which are beneficiaries of Bank loans and
IDA credits.
56.       Railway Facilities and Rolling Stock.  China's railway network more
than doubled in size between 1949 and 1984, from 21,800 to 51,700 route-km.
The network now includes 9,700 route-km of double track and 3,100 route-km of
electrified track. Further double tracking and electrification works are in
progress as present line capacity is insufficient to meet traffic demands.
The rail network is served by a fleet of 11,100 locomotives, 291,000 freight
cars and 19,600 passenger coaches. At present, 68% of tractive power is still
steam, 28% is diesel and 4% is electric. Rolling stock includes large numbers
of older wagons and coaches, many in poor condition and with high operational
and maintenance costs. Traffic growth has outstripped production of new units
and the fleet is far from adequate.
57.       Operations.  Despite the limitations of network and rolling stock,
rail operations utilize track and equipment intensively and efficiently.
Freight traffic density averages 15.0 million net tkm per route-km which is
the highest freight density in the world after the Soviet Union, and 50%
higher than freight density in the United States. China's passenger traffic
density of 4.2 million passenger-km per route-km is also the second highest in
the world, this time after India. Passenger traffic density in the Soviet
Union is roughly the same as in China. Despite this heavy traffic density,
track and other fixed instalLations are carefully maintained, aLthough the



- 16 -
labor-intensive methods now used are rapidly becoming inadequate for the
maintenance of trunk lines and will soon become inadequate elsewhere under the
traffic planned for the future.
58.       Scope for utilizing track and equipment even more efficiently is
mostly limited to lengthening trains (freight car turnaround time is already
extremely quick and it would be difficult to improve upon the present average
of 3.4 days). The average train now has 35 cars as 75X of passing loops are
only 650 meters Long. Most of the remaining 25% of loops are 850 meters long,
which allow 50-car trains to run in some regions. A program is under way to
extend passing loops in more regions.
59.       Traffic.  Freight traffic on the railways has grown from about
100 million tons in 1950 to 1.2 billion tons in 1984. Because of an increase
in the average length of haul, traffic volume in tkm has grown even faster,
from 39.4 billion in 1950 to 533.2 billion in 1978, averaging 1OZ p.a. Since
1978, growth has slowed to around 4.5% p.a., but was again 9% in 1984. Three
quarters of all freight traffic involves ten important basic commodities
(including coal, iron and steel products, grain and construction materials),
and the shortage of freight capacity has emerged as one of the key constraints
on economic growth. The Seventh FYP envisions an annual growth rate of 6%,
leading to a freight traffic of 1.7 billion tons by 1990.
60.       In 1950, the railways carried about 150 million passengers; in 1984,
they carried 1,123 million. The growth of passenger traffic has been partic-
ularly rapid since 1978 -- that is, since the introduction of major economic
reforms. In just the six years from 1978 to 1984, passenger traffic increased
from 109.1 to 204.3 billion pkm, an average of 112 p.a. This rapid growth
shows the high priority afforded to personal travel out of the extra income
generated by the economic reforms. Yet the mobility of people in China is
still low. Average per capita travel in India is about 800 pkm p.a., much
more than China's average of about 300 pkm p.a.  This low mobility is partly
due to a shortage of transport infrastructure; there is an acute shortage of
passenger coaches, and on crowded lines passenger trains compete for space
with freight trains. The Seventh FYP envisions an annual growth rate of 6%,
leading to a ridership of 1.6 billion passengers by 1990.
61.       Tariffs.  In common with other sectors, the railways have changed
their tariffs very little since the early 1950s. Freight rates were increased
in late 1983 for the first time since 1967, at which time they had been
reduced. Passenger rates, however, remained at the 1967 level. The 1983
freight rate reform doubled the minimum chargeable distance to 100 km, and
increased rates for 75% of the commodities (including coal, cement, oil and
fertilizers) by 23% on average. As of end May 1985, the average freight haul
of about 572 km yields an average gross revenue of Fen 1.68 per tkm, 57% above
average operating costs. The average passenger journey was 169 km, and this
yielded a gross revenue of Fen 1.78 per pkm, 65Z above operating costs. To
further discourage short haul traffic, the Government introduced the following
rate increases effective June 1, 1985: (a) 36.8% for less than 100 km
passenger trips; (b) 50% for monthly suburban season tickets; and (c) Y 4.00
per ton for freight transport up to 200 km. It is too early to assess the
effect of these rate changes on MR's financial results.



- 17 -
62.       Government Objectives and the Role of the Bank Group.  The Sixth
Five-Year Plan (1981-1985) allocated Y 27.5 billion, 16.2Z of total
investments, to the transport sector. Of this, Y 17.3 billion was for
investment in railway. These resources have facilitated considerable
development of the railway network, but not enough to keep pace with China's
rapid economic growth. If China is to achieve its goaL of quadrupling the
gross value of industrial and agricultural output by the year 2000, the
railway's expansion and modernization must be accelerated.  The Bank Group's
strategy for the subsector is to support this acceleration of railway
expansion and the improvement of operational efficiency. It will, in addi-
tion, assist HR in modernizing its technical and management capabilities.  The
first part of the strategy is thus to be responsive to the immediate materiaL
needs of China's railway system as they arise; the second part is to help
better equip the subsector with the expertise it needs to manage the future
development of the railway system.
63.       The first project (Loan 2394-CHA, April 1984, presently being
implemented on schedule) contained components to alleviate bottlenecks on two
key routes, and to increase locomotive production; the second (Loan 2540-CHA,
August 1985, just entering implementation) focused on further route capacity
improvements and the expansion of passenger coach manufacture. The proposed
project will continue the provision of enhanced route capacity -- in this case
aimed at improving the flow of mining and agricultural products    and will
provide both hardware and software to increase and modernize the manufacture
of signalling and switching equipment. Updated technology in track
maintenance will also be introduced.
64.       On the software side, the first project initiated the design of a
traffic costing system, and a study team from MR has now examined railway
costing systems in Europe and in the USA and has reported on its main
conclusions and recommendations. The second stage (supported partly from the
first loan and partly from the proposed one, para. 77) will complete system
specification and implement it on a pilot basis. The second railway project
provided for the startup of a major management information system study, which
is just getting under way in selected areas of MR. In the context of ongoing
project work, the Bank Group has also begun a dialogue with MR on aspects of
total system planning and control, and will shortly present a seminar (with
the assistance of senior railway executives from UK) to demonstrate approaches
to system management better tailored to MR's needs in the new era of economic
reforms (para. 92). By such means, the Bank Group hopes, through the instru-
mentality of future projects, to be of assistance to China's railway subsector
in its organizational development as well as in its system expansion.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
65.       In January 1985, the Government requested Bank Group assistance in
financing urgently needed investments to increase transport capacity on the
Chongqing-Guiyang and Yingtan-Xiamen lines, to modernize and increase the
production capacity of the Xi'an Railway Signalling Factory, to improve the
maintenance of permanent way on heavy-traffic lines and to support the



- 18 -
continuation of the Traffic Costing study initiated under the First Railway
Project. The proposed project was prepared by the Government and was
appraised in June/July 1985. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6002-CRA, dated
Karch 7, 1986) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data
are given in Annez III of this report. Negotiations were held in Washington,
February 24-27, 1986 with a Government delegation headed by Mr. Luo Qing,
Deputy Director of the Ministry of Finance.
66.       Project Objectives.  The project will make a direct contribution to
the Government objective of increasing railway capacity to support economic
growth. In particular, the project will significantly improve transport capa-
city in the southwestern provinces of Sichuan and Guizhou and the southeastern
provinces of Fujian and Jiangxi, all four of which rank below the median in
terms of provincial per capita incomes. The modernization of production of
switch machines and relays at the Xi'an Railways Signalling Factory and a
pilot project in track maintenance will introduce significant technological
changes enabling capacity increases throughout the system without large new
infrastructure investments.
67.       Project Description.  The proposed project consists of the following
five components designed to:
(a) provide much-needed additional capacity on the 456 km Chongqing-
Guiyang line, which supports vital mining and agricultural
activities in southwest China;
(b) provide urgently-needed additional capacity on the 704 km Yingtan-
Xiamen line, which is the major link between the Special Economic
Zone at Xiamen and the interior of China and carries important coal
and timber traffic;
(c) improve technology and increase production at the Xi'an Signalling
Factory, thereby providing essential equipment for the upgrading of
traffic control and safety throughout China;
(d) provide better maintenance for permanent way on lines with heavy
traffic density, where traditional labor-intensive methods prove
inadequate; and
(e) proceed with the traffic costing study started under the First
Railway Project (Loan 2394-CHA, April 1984).
The five subsections which follow give a brief summary of each of the project
components.
68.       Chongqing-Guiyang Line Upgrading and Electrification.  The Ministry
of Railways proposes to upgrade and electrify the 456 km single-track line
from Chongqing in Sichuan province to Guiyang in Guizhou province, most of
which runs through difficult mountainous terrain. On the most difficult
section, the 1984 traffic of 5.14 million tons in the heavy (northbound)
direction, plus six daily pairs of passenger trains, was already in excess of
normal operating capacity and was achieved only by extraordinary efforts.



- 19 -
Traffic on the remaining sections is also approaching capacity. Because of
the difficult terrain, double tracking or realignment would be far more
expensive than electrification. Electricity will be provided primariLy by the
630 MW hydro project at Wujiang, and secondarily by two thermal generating
stations at Chongqing and Guiyang.
69.       Three alternatives were considered for increasing the capacity on
this line:  a major realignment to reduce ruling gradients; the use of foreign
diesel locomotives instead of the present mix of steam and domestic diesels;
and electrification. Electrification was found to be the least-cost solution
and also offers operational advantages because adjoining routes are already
electrified. Adequate electric locomotives to serve the line will be produced
by the Zhuzhou factory, supported in part by the Bank's First Railway Project.
70.       Yingtan-Xiamen Line Upgrading and Electrification.  The 704 km
single-track line from Yingtan in Jiangxi province to Xiamen on the coast in
Fujian province was built to low gradient and curve standards in the 1950s.
The line's limited capacity has three causes: steep gradients, lengthy
sections without passing loops, and heavy curvature. The ruling gradient for
most of the line is 1.2Z. More serious is the problem of long sections that
have no passing loops, which occurs because the line snakes its way through a
series of narrow river -alleys, with a steep slope on one side and water on
the other. Finally, there is the problem of severe curvature: of the 704 km,
curves occupy a total of 372 km (54%), and curves with a radius of 300 m or
less occupy 193 km (28%).
71.       Six alternatives were considered for increasing the capacity on this
line: two realignments; an entirely new line in a parallel river valley; the
use of domestic diesel locomotives instead of the present steam locomotives;
the use of imported diesels; and electrification. Electrification was found
to be the least-cost solution. In the beginning electricity for this project
will come from the existing grid, but in the future primarily from two new
hydro stations, both under construction: 300 MW at Shaxikou and 1,400 MW at
Shuikou.
72.       Xi'an Railway Signalling Factory (XRSF).  The Xi'an factory is part
of the China Railway Signal and Comunications Company (CRSCC), a State-owned
enterprise under the supervision of MR. XRSF has about 3,200 employees,
including 335 technical personnel. Among its products are relays, switch
machines, other signal parts, control panels for diesel locomotives, and
locomotive radiators. System-wide, MR uses about 2,000,000 relays of the AX
type manufactured at XRSF. The AX relay has several shortcomings, which
affect its reliability in the field; its current life expectancy is one
million cycles or about 15 years. XRSF produced about 110,000 relays in 1984,
near its capacity limits, but is being asked to produce 220,000 in 1988, and
300,000 in 1990, of which only about 30,000 are for replacement and the rest
are for new installations. Yet, with the current life expectancy, replace-
ments alone should require about 133,000 relays per year. The proposed
modernization of the factory would increase output to 300,000 relays p.a.



- 20 -
73.       The model ZD6 switch machine, of which XRSF can produce about 6,000
per year, was designed for use with 43 kg rail and is too weak for handling 50
kg rail, especially in cold weather. The ZD6 sometimes fails in service,
creating the risk of derailment. Since MR plans to upgrade its high density
routes to 60 kg (and eventually 70 kg) rail, a stronger, safer model is
needed. The Seventh Five Year Plan calls for XSRF to produce 12,000 switch
machines per year in 1990, either the ZD6 or preferably an improved model, and
this target is far beyond the factory's current capabilities.
74.       In late 1985, CRSCC entered into a technical assistance contract
(not financed by the Bank Group) with an American supplier, General Railway
Signal (GRS) of Rochester, N.Y. The contract includes technology transfer to
XRSF, technical assistance by CRS experts seconded to XRSF, and training of
factory staff. Specifically, GRS will assist CRSCC to modernize XRSF,
increase its capacity, and improve both the design and quality of the relays
and switch machines produced. The Bank Group contribution will be to finance
machine tools, handling equipment, and other production and management aids.
75.       Maintenance of Permanent Way.  Track maintenance has traditionally
been carried out manually in China, although a few primitive mechanical
devices are used for some operations. Traffic is increasing on many lines and
the track deteriorates faster while time for track maintenance becomes
shorter; manual maintenance is a slow process, no longer adequate for
providing the track quality and safety needed for present and future traffic
levels. To prevent accidents, slow orders are increasingly imposed, reducing
line capacity at a time when more capacity is badly needed. Better track
maintenance methods are clearly required and MR has now decided to mechanize
some operations such as tamping, levelling, lining, ballast cleaning and
ballast regulating.
76.       The proposed project will assist MR in determining the types and
numbers of mechanical equipment best suited to the Chinese conditions of heavy
traffic, short intervals between trains, and low wage levels. Equally impor-
tant are the design of a track maintenance program, the organization of track
maintenance teams, the adjustments needed in train operations to allow the use
of heavy on-track machinery, and the training of staff in operating and main-
taining the new equipment. The proposed project will therefore, in addition
to providing financing for hardware, focus heavily on the important matter of
staff training.
77.       Traffic Costing Study.  This study was initiated under the First
Railway Project (Loan 2394-CHA, April 1984). The study is progressing well
and on schedule. Since it will not be completed by December 31, 1987, the
loan closing date, the proposed project will include funds (about $300,000) to
finance the foreign costs of the study after that date. During negotiations,
it was agreed that the Borrower shall continue to carry out the study accord-
ing to the terms of reference and timetable agreed with the Bank under the
First Railway Project, and according to arrangements acceptable to the Bank
Group.
78.       Technical Assistance and Training.  Training of staff in new
technology and management is included in the components above. The



- 21 -
corresponding technical assistance and training program totals 333 man-months,
of which 261 man-months are for training Chinese staff abroad and 72 man-
months are for technical assistance by foreign experts in China. During
negotiations, it was agreed that the training program will be carried out in
accordance with the outline and timetable agreed with the Bank Group.
79.       Cost Estimates and Financing.  Detailed designs are completed for
all project works. Quantities were derived from final engineering, and unit
prices are based on current world market prices for equipment to be imported.
The cost of equipment and materials to be procured locally and not to be
financed by the Bank Group was estimated on the basis of current domestic
prices. The estimated project cost, expressed in January 1986 prices and
including training and contingencies, is about $577.5 million, of which
$297.0 million represents direct and indirect foreign exchange costs. The
Government has requested a loan and a credit totalling $230 million which
woultd cover about 77Z of the estimated foreign exchange cost. The Government
will finance other materials, equipment and construction costs from its own
resources.
80.       An average of 7.4Z physical contingencies was included in estimated
project costs. AnnuaL price escalation rates were applied to local and
foreign costs in accordance with Bank Group guidelines, as follows: 7.0% in
1986 and 1987, 7.5X in 1988, 7.7% in 1989, 7.6% in 1990, and 4.5% in 1991.
The January 1986 exchange rate of Y 3.20 to the US dollar was used for the
calculation of the foreign exchange costs. The total cost of consultants to
assist MR in track electrification works and track maintenance mechanization
is estimated at about $400.000. In addition, $1.2 million will be earmarked
for training MR personnel abroad in track electrification works, signalling
equipment technology and manufacture, and mechanized track maintenance.
$300,000 will be allocated to the continuation of the costing study.
81.       The proposed Bank loan and IDA credit would provide financing for
the following:
(a) the Chongqing-Guiyang and Yingtan-Xiamen lines upgrading and elec-
trification: rails, other steel products, timber and cement, trans-
formers, copper wire, insulators, power and signalling cables,
design and construction equipment, technical assistance and
training;
(b) the Xi'an Railway Signalling Factory: machine tools and other
equipment needed to increase production to the required levels,
technical assistance and training;
(c) the maintenance of permanent way: the foreign exchange cost of
imported equipment, technical assistance, and training; and
(d)  the Traffic Costing Study:  the foreign exchange component of the
continuation of the study beyond December 31, 1987.
82.       Project Implementation.  Upgrading and electrification of the
Chongqing-Guiyang and Yingtan-Xiamen lines will be carried out by the rail-



- 22 -
ways' own forces.  This is common practice for work on lines with heavy
traffic. The Ministry of Railways is well equipped and has experience in this
type of work. In this case, the Second and Fourth Design and Construction
Bureaus will be responsible for track, station and yard upgrading and the
Electrification and Automation Bureau for installing electrification equip-
ment. Implementation of the other components of the project will be carried
out by MR with the help of competent consultants (para. 74). The project is
expected to be completed by December 1992, and the Closing Date of the
proposed loan and credit would be June 30, 1993.
83.       Procurement.  Procurement of materials and equipment for electrifi-
cation works and of equipment for the XRSF will be subject to international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for pro-
curement, except for a number of small items worth less than $150,000 per
order and totalling less than $4.0 million, which would be purchased on the
basis of quotations received from at least three potential suppliers. All bid
packages valued at more than $500,000 will be subject to the Bank Group's
prior review of procurement documentation. In bid evaluation, Chinese manu-
facturers will be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the CIF cost of
competing imports, or the relevant prevailing level of customs duties,
whichever is lower.
84.       For items not financed by the Bank Group, Government procurement
procedures will apply. Such items comprise civil works, various local
materials, and miscellaneous equipment. The civil works involved in this
project are not suitable for ICB. They include a large number of small
concrete foundations for the catenary masts all along the lines to be elec-
trified, and clearance adjustments on a few bridges; these works have to be
carried out under heavy traffic. Other civil works include lengthening
crossing loops by 200 m each and minor modifications to existing workshops at
the XRSF. Delivery of major materials such as rails, other steel and cement
is independently arranged by the owner and supplied to the construction
bureaus. In this case, such materials are to be procured through ICB and
financed by the Bank loan and IDA credit.



- 23 -
($ million)
Project Element         Procurement Method              Total
ICB          Other             Cost
Civil Works              0.0           189.6             189.6
(0.0)          (0.0)             (0.0)
Materials               57.4           137.0             194.4
(57.4)          (0.0)            (57.4)
Equipment              175.6            16.2             191.8
(166.6)          (4.0)           (170.6)
Services                 0.0             2.0              2.0
(0.0)          (2.0)             (2.0)
Total                  233.0           344.8             577.8
(224.0)          (6.0)           (230.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be
financed by the Bank Group.
85.       Disbursement.  Disbursement of the proposed loan and credit would be
as follows:
(a)  100% foreign expenditures of the CIF cost of imported equipment and
materials;
(b)  100% local expenditures of the ex-Eactory cost of locally manufac-
tured equipment and materials; and
(c)  100% of the cost of technical assistance and training.
86.       Domestic transport from port or factory would not be eligible for
Bank Group financing. Any savings under the loan and credit would be
cancelled unless otherwise agreed with the Bank Group. Disbursements against
training and contracts for goods and services valued at less than $200,000
each would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). To
facilitate disbursements for these items, a special account will be estab-
lished with an initial deposit of US dollars equivalent to SDR 900,000 repre-
senting about four months of expected expenditures. Documentation supporting
the SOEs will not be submitted to the Bank Group but will be kept in the
project office in Beijing and made available for review by the Bank Group's
supervision missions.
87.       Disbursements are expected to be very similar to the standard
profile. The disbursement schedule is based on the assumption that the
proposed loan and credit would become effective by September 30, 1986.



- 24 -
88.       Environment.  No negative impact on the environment is anticipated
from the project. The electrification of the 1,160 km of lines between Chong-
qing and Guiyang (currently steam and diesel operated), and between Yingtan
and Xiamen (currently steam operated), will significantly reduce pollution in
the area.
89.       Recent Financial Performance. The MR's recent results indicate a
satisfactory growth of profits. While profit growth was driven chiefly by the
volume of traffic, careful control of operating costs also contributed; unit
costs per traffic unit remained virtually constant throughout the period.
Freight revenues also benefitted from tariff increases effected in late 1983.
90.       Future Financial Performance.  At the present time, so many elements
of MR's financial affairs are in the process of change that it would not be
sensible to attempt to quantify future results. In the context of national
reconsideration of the role of prices in the economy, a number of MR's costs
-- especially fuel and energy -- are liable to change; tax policies are in a
process of evolution; and financing mechanisms are being radically altered.
In such changing circumstances, MR could derive considerable benefit from
enhanced procedures for planning and control. Well developed techniques of
project financial evaluation and investment planning are already in place and
budgetary control is used effectively to manage costs of operations. MR has
recently sought Bank Group assistance in improving its management information
and costing systems, and measures to address these needs are already in the
process of implementation under the First and Second Railway Projects. But
the management process lacks the framework of an overall corporate plan -- and
especially a financial plan --- to coordinate the individual short and medium
term planning mechanisms and focus on the systems of control.
91.       Until very recently, State systems of control made it unnecessary
for MR to think of itself in corporate terms -- as witness the lack of
consolidated financial statements. But new responsibilities increasingly
require the operational administrations of MR to be in a position collectively
to relate operational results to their new debt service obligations; evaluate
the longer term effect of the intended policy of lOOZ debt financing for
capital expenditure; assume control of increasing amounts of retained earnings
(even though their use is not yet fully discretionary); and formulate and
recommend tariff policies for services in a period when costs may become more
volatile than hitherto.
92.       Such concepts have already been addressed in the context of the
broadening dialogue between the Bank Group and MR on financiai and management
matters, and will shortly form the subject of a presentation to MR managers by
Bank Group staff and consultants (para. 64). The adoption by MR of suitable
financial planning procedures is a condition precedent to the formulation of
appropriate financial objectives and performance criteria, and none such are
therefore proposed for the present project. These are, in any event,
sensitive areas in which progress can be expected only gradually.
93.       Financial Impact of the Chongqing-Guiyang Line Upgrading and Elec-
trification. Because of the line's difficult terrain and the use of expensive
diesel traction, often in multiple units, operating costs were about 60% above



- 25 -
the network average in 1984 and will remain well above this average even after
electrification. Unit saLes revenues reflect the network average, not the
cost characteristics of individual routes. Thus, the line income statement
currently shows a small operating loss (Y 8.4 million) which is, however,
negligible when compared with overall network operating profits (Y 5,400 mil-
lion). In 1991, "with project" unit costs are expected to be about 8Z below
"without project" costs, even though only 40% of the electrified line's
capacity will be used in that year.  Unit costs will decrease further with
increased capacity utilization. The project is expected to generate a 7Z
discounted cash flow rate of return over 25 years, based on present traffic,
cost and tariff projections.
94.       Financial Impact of the Yingtan-Xiamen Line Upgrading and Electrifi-
cation. The 1984 line operating cost of Fen 1.01 per traffic unit was very
close to the network average, despite the line's relatively difficult terrain,
due to the exclusive use of cheap steam traction, and to the spread of the
line's fixed operating costs and overheads. Due to the same factors, "with
project" unit costs, although declining with increased utilization of the
electrified line, are expected to remain higher than "without project"
costs. The profitability of the additional traffic made possible by the
project is partly offset by this increase in unit costs. As a result, the
discounted cash flow rate of return the project is expected to generate over
25 years is 3%.
95.       Such financial returns do not prejudice the railways' overall
profitability, since they are insignificant in relation to total earnings.
Neither is the project justification called into question, since the economic
return is very high. The significance of the results is that they suggest the
desirability of considering regional tariff supplements where local unit costs
differ significantly from the system average. This would represent a radical
departure from previous principles of rate fixing and may not be acceptable at
this stage. The ongoing traffic costing study will provide MR with the first
opportunity to review the adequacy of its rate structure.
96.       Financial Impact of the Xi'an Railway Signalling Factory Moderniza-
tion and Expansion.  The project will finance the purchase of modern machine
tools and equipment to replace existing obsolete ones which have been
producing poor quality products.  SpecificalLy, the quality of reLays and
switch machines will be improved and annual production increased from 110,000
to 300,000 for relays and from 6,000 to 12,000 for switch machines in 1990,
the year when the project takes full effect.  Furthermore, unit costs of these
two products will decrease as a result of better production equipment and
economies of scale. In financial terms, the return on investment in new plant
and machinery -- represented by the gross profit on the incremental sales and
the incremental profit on existing sales -- is 12X. The effect on the
factory's results (assuming the mix of products remains unchanged) will be to
reach a satisfactory pre-tax rate of return of 28% in 1990.
97.       Audits.  It was agreed during negotiations that the project accounts
and the financial statements of the Chongqing, Guiyang and Fuzbou railway
subadministrations, and the Xi'an Railway Signalling Factory will be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group, and that audit reports



- 26 -
will be sent to the Bank Group for review not later than six months after the
end of each fiscal year.
98.       Main Benefits.  This project will make a direct contribution to the
Goverment's overall plan for providing the increased rail transport capacity
that is essential for sustained growth of the economy. Under electrification,
the Chongqing-Guiyang and Yingtan-Xiamen lines will carry increased tonnages
of coal, minerals, timber, iron and steel, grain, and other key commodities,
without having to curtail their essential passenger traffic. By increasing
both the quality and quantity of production at the Xi'an Railway Signalling
Factory, the project will supply components that are essential to the growth
of traffic capacity on the railway system, at a substantial cost saving
compared to imported components. The proposed project will also improve the
quality of track maintenance on high-traffic routes, thereby avoiding the loss
of traffic capacity that occurs when slow orders must be imposed. Project
benefits will thus be well spread throughout the economy.
99.       Overall Evaluation and Risks.  Overall economic evaluation shows
that implementation of all project components is well justified and should
proceed without delay. The overall economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated
at 30%. Sensitivity analysis for the various project components indicates
that in no case does the ERR for any component fall below 17%. The eLectrifi-
cation works involve proven technology that is already in wide use in China
and elsewhere in the world; technological risks are therefore small.
Similarly, the modernization of XRSF carries little risk, since it will
include the participation of an established foreign manufacturer. MR has
successfully completed similar projects for a number of years; risks from
inadequate project implementation and operation are therefore negligible. The
constraints placed on China's development by transportation bottlenecks insure
that this subsector will continue to receive Government attention and
priority. The evident success of the recent economic reforms, and the rapid
growth of transportation demand that has accompanied the reforms, suggest that
rail traffic is likely to grow as projected, or even faster, so the risk that
the benefits of the project would fall substantially short of projections is
low.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
100.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association, and recommend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan and credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
March 17, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-27 -                                                Annex I
T     A I LE LA                                      Page  1 of  7
CHINA. PtOtr            ociaL INDICA0OR  DATA SMUT
aINI. PEOPLrS U1. or                u       r cin  (EIGI  AVUSE) /a
MOST                     CmOS RECENT EsTIMATE) lb
17LlS Rt=              Lo umt la"11c
a   (mourn. sq. no                                        ZSrtl-A          ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA a PACIrlC
TOTAL                            9561.0      9561.0      9561.0
wIOI.ITURAL                      3z37.6      3 32.0      2665.9
m  F CwTA (3519                        ..          ..       300.0              275.)                   1011.1
(KILOGams OP aIT EQuZYALET        202.0       259.0      441.9              ins.?                    3n..
P6lA0 II  VXTL S           _AM
PoPUIAnoNmD-n    (THOUSANDS) 651000.0   s15110.0  1019.102.0
AM  IILAO  CZ OF TOTAL)             16.4 s.     ..        Z1.0               22.3                     25.9
POPULATION liRCtzCIIOS
oouriaT ZN TsEA 2000 (HILL)                            1242.3
STATIOAEY POPULATION CHILL)                            1571.0
PowLAzION  aamTU                                          1.6
POPLATON OBESITY
PER Sq. Ra.                      68.1        11.3       106.2             173.5                    366.9
PER Sq. M. Aitt. LAND            199.       z10.0       260.6             353.3                   1591.2
PMOULATUO  "M  STRUCUB  CX)
0-14 13S                         38.9       37.6        32.0              36.3                     38.2
15-6  IRS                        56.2        57.2       63.1               59.4                     57.7
65 ASD AMOVE                        .7        5.0         5.0               4.3                      3.5
POPULTIN GRcwm  RATE CZ)
TOWL                               t.1        2.2         1.7               2.0                      2.3
URfl                               ..         ..          ..                4.1                      4.1
-DIEMH RAU  (PI TDIOUS)            39.2 /d    35.7         18.6              27.5                     30.1
CROn  nunA RA  (PR TROUS)          23.5 7       6.84       7.1               Lo.2                      9.4
GROSS SEnODUCTON RATE               1z.8 Id     2.3         1.0               1.7                      1.9
FAMILY PLAIWaI
ACCePTRS. AUAL (TOOS)              ..
USES  CZ or MAUE  HH               ..         ..         7t.0              49.4                     56.
isHUI or FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
C1969-71-100)                       ..        100.0       123.0             116.6                    124.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALRIES CZ OF  EUQUIrZTS)        94.6 fd   101.6        119.8             106.3                    115.7
PWrIL'4S (CRAMS PER D1T)         53.0 77    56.2        69.7               60.1                    6O.3
OF 11IC AUMAL AND PULSE         12.5 7d    13.3        15.9              14.4                     14.1
ChILD (CAES 1-4) DEA  RATM         13.5         8.5        2.0                7.3                      7.2
HELTH
LIFE XPECr. AT SEIN (TEAS)         41.0 la    60.9        67.1               60.5                     60.6
INFANT MM. RATE (PER THOUS)       161.0 7      69.0       38.0               69.2                     64.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (CiOP)
TOTAL                              ..         ..         SO.0              .4.2                     &0.0
-MAN                               ..         ..         85.0             7".2                      57.6
RURAL                             ..          ..        40.0               34.b                     37.1
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DtSPOSAL
C ' OF POPULATION)
TOrAL                              ..         ..          ..                7.8                     50.1
US                                ..          ..          ..               26.8                     52.9
RUML                              ..          ..          ..                5.1                     64.7
POPMATtiON PER PHYSICIa          7940.0 If  3190.0 /t  17A0.0 If           3318.0                   7751.7
POP. PEt SURSING PERM50          3630.0      2760.0      1710.0            4690.7                   U464.8
POP. PEM 1SPITAL bED
TOTAL                           1040.0      760.0       640.0            1039.2                   1112.1
UERI                            210.0         ..        160.0             299.1                    651.4
RURAL                          10140.0        ..        1020.0           6028.2                   2596.9
ADMISSONS PER ROSPnTAz LED          ..          ..          ..               52.3                     41.1
AVERAGE SIZl OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..          ..         5.1                 .
CREAMA.                                                  4.1
RURAL                             ..          ..         5.4
AVERAGE HO. OF PESOMiROOCN
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URSAN
RURAL                             ..          ..
PERCEm1TAOE oD ULcINS WM  UEECT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
UR                                ..          ..
RURAL                             ..          ..



-28-                                               Annex I
TL^ ^ L..LL                               ,     Page 2  of 7
iRh.-Lg@ tk  Pw                     M^LM ss o ucm *311n)152
PUtADa  lOYAL                    109.0       110o       110.0               12.6                    100.7
HALl                    *1          *.        123.0             103.3                     104.4
lUALE                   .. .H                 97.0               79,3                     9712
UnUDART  TOTAL                    21.0       no.0        23.0               31.3                     47.6
ALSS                     .*        4. 41.0                       40n.                     soe.
F1ALK                   ,,          ..        23.0               21.9                     44.6
VOCATZ        f IOMAR)               ..         ..         2.                  2.2                    16.4
PUPZL-TUAIM RATIO
PRNAT                              3. 22.0               2'l.0              36.0                     20.4
scm                                ..        u.0         16.0               17.4                     22.2
PAu        CAROUA   tr               ..          ..         0.  Ih             0.                       0.1
Roza RICIMIOUIAJ                     ..         14.7      2100.1             129.                     172.9
TV 3Zm /?0UCSDD Po                              0.6        25-3               19.6                     36.3
UVUVW   (""myi. @3634?
ZNT01") CZIOICATWIO
t   IO   POPULATION                3* ..                   2.4               23.7                     635.
CuIIAnA  ATNUIcicA                   ..          ..         .                  6.0                      3.4
TOL LASOR FORCE (MM)            321646.0    203533.0   470862.0
3w! (UncIT)                       31.3       38.0        37.3               33212                    3Z.
AMUML!U  (P SNT)                   ..         ..        b6.e                69.6                     52.2
UIIJST   CVOD T                    ..          ..        16.:7l .6                                   17.9
PARTZCPATION UN (PEREIN)
TOTAL                             446.6      4.0         441                41.9                     31.9
KALI                              53.9        54.5        5.4               33.3                     50.3
.JX*11                            37.0        35.0       35.1               29.1                     26.6
fosg:c namnunct  MO0                 0.9         1.0        0.                 1.0                      1.1
m          ~m
PEREN 01 IUVATE INOMZE
_sacz n
6s1 32  Uor  Eo       S            ..          ..        12.5
R--ST 20 Of UOWS                   ..          ..        39.                 ..                      46.0
LOzES 20t01 NOCSENOT6              ..          ..         6                  ..6.
Lo1 .4 OXa oxSuOLU                 ..          ..        16.43               ..                      15.5
- --
ESTINA2U ABSOLUTE 10931 IN006Z
LEvEL  USS PE cAThW
a                                  ..          ..         ..               133.9
UCRAL                              ..          ..         ..               111.6                    131.
LEVL (VW  U  CAPITA)
Um                                 .           ..         ..                 ..                     177.9
Lu                                 .           ..         ..                 1.7                    164.7
35228421P10. UBLOW ABSOLUTE
POEi  scem Li. (u
rDZ         DXM    ZZ  (X)
Ull A                              ..          ..         ..                43.8                     Z3.5
L                                  ..          ..         ..                51.7                     37.8
NOT AVAILBLE
NOT APPLZCAIA
110 ST IS
/a  The grmp aveage; for each indicator are popolatiomwMted a*ttetlc _en. Coverege of cbutriON
aesg te iadiecr  depr on avalablity of dta and Is noc uiLfero.
2b   Uma, otbatwia noted. Data ftr 1960" refr to ee yer betwem 1959 and 1961; 'Date for 1970" between
1969 ad 1971; and data for "Iot Secoat eame" betwen 1981 and 1963.
2e  1964; 1d 1953-4  arae;  /a 1953-64 avere; /f Seor dectar of weteran edlcina;              Dctribution
of peop1  ranke  by hosebaoll  per capita Income.T979 date; 1h 19S0.
J;. 1983



Annex I
- 29 -                                           Page 3 of 7
DEnNmoNS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Neol Although the data a drawn frnm oun  generally judged the me authuniatave and reimble. i haouWk also hc noted that they may not be internaliunslly
compaable because of the lack of standardized defNioiso and coneepsa used by differemnt cousns in collecting the data. The data are. nonctlcvs useful to
decribe orden or _maitude. indicate trends. and chranterize certain major difflercnce between countries.
The reknena groups *e etI the same countfy grup of the subjt country and 121 a cousury group wiah wnsewhba higher avernge incomre ihan the country
group oftdie ubject country (escept ror HKgb Income Oil Et sporse  group where -Middle Income North Afrra  and Middle Eat thshb en becusue of viroager
toia-culurd a*finitieal. In the reremece group data the avenge are population weighied anthmenic nman. ror each indicator ind shown only when mnjurity
orthe eountrie inn agmup baa dt  or that indicaor. Sinrc the coveageof countna nong the indic tdepends on the availability orddta and is not unifonn.
cmution muss be exrcisd in rdating averge orone indicator to another. Thee averag  are only ueful in compnrng the value oone indicator at s timn among
the county and reference groupL
AREA (thousand sq.kmnU                                            CrudeMBirthRate (perthousand)- Numbcrorlivebirthsin theyear
Torit-Total surface area comprising land ara and inland waters.   per thousand of mid-year popultlion: 1960. 1970. and 1983 dati.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Cnde Death Rate fper ihonsaudD-- Number of deaths in the year
Agnieuhrwl-Estimnate of agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
permtanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprdution Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie faDow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her normal reproductive period ir she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World      Famil
Bank A ilas lY19183 basis); 1983 daL.                                  r Pk0nV-Aceptors, Anwal (ttlusiaa              Annual num-
ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.       FuslyP&i saig-fis(perentofmarriwedte nj  Thepeacen
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geoterhmal elec-   tage of married women of child-beasing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive uSage is measured for Lctheo age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                   groups.
Tteed  epopeaon. Mid-Year (thoulandsji-As of July 1; 1960 1970.   FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Urban Populaion  (pecent of total) - Ratio of urban to staid    Indx ef Feed   duion Percapital 169-71=Ilk)  inde xorpr
different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  capita annual production of all food connodities. Production
population; eifrn  eiiin  fubnaesmyafc  opr                        xcludes animal feed and seed for agtriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.        include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane inslead or sugar)
Popaton Prjectiens                                                which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in Year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.    excluded): thcy compnse cereals. root crops. pulscs. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on    vegetables fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production or each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters   on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1971. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis or generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               Per Capita S5 ply of Calries (perent ofreqireuents)-Comput-
Stationary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie eluivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita pcr day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also   food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fenility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                        waste at household level; 196. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentumn-Is the tendency for population growth to     Per Capira Supply of Protein (rs per dly) -Proteitin cnicnt ol
continue bcyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the ne reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all counsnes estahlished b5 USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population tn the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulsc protocn. of which 10 gra.nr
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at rplace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment kvel from year r onward. 1985 data.                          75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
PopAtion Density                                                  average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply; 1961. 1970 and 19X2 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capita Poein Supp4l from Anmals and Pulse-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agrkulturaf land-Computed as above for agricultural    or food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
PopuAlao Age Structure (percent)- Children 10-14 years). work-    ChAid(ages -4j DeathRare (per tosand)  Numberuofdeathsol
ingage(I5-64yars).andretired(65yearsandover)aspercenLage          children aged 1-4 vears per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For moss developing countries data derived
Population Groat Rate (percentl-roral-Annual growth rates% of     from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
Population Growth Rate (percentr)-srhana- Annual growth rates     Life E.rpecrwry at Bith frean) -Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.       infant would live if prevailing pattems of mortality for all people



30  -Annex  I
Page 4 of  7
at the dume of of Its birth were to stay the ume throughout its lire;  NupIl.eachr Ratio - prlmary. nd arcent'-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled In primary and scondary levels divided by numbern or
lif. Menrrep Rav (pefr thmusea)a-Number of Infant who die    teachers In the corrponding levels.
berore reachin one year of age per thouund live births In a given
yer, 1960, 1970 and 1983 dat.                                  CONSUMMflON
Am  to Sft IWr   (pm    of pp         umfiI bu  an             Pssge Car (pr  1housan_,d popu Nl)--NRsengez CUrs uo am
ral-Numnber or people (total urban, and rural) with reasonble  priw motor cars wting les than cight persons: calui  anibul-
access to safe water aupply (Includes trted surface watm  or   ances. hbearand military vehicles.
untmted but uncontaminated water such as that from protected   Rza Rec s (par thousand populualea-All typ  of receivers
borehole, sprini  and aunitary wel) a percentage of their respea-  for radio broadcast to genera public per thousand of populauion;
dye populadon. In an urban area a pubic fountain or tandpost   excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in  ioeurs when
located not more than 200 meters from ai house may be consideredo  t wsinefct  at  orrcntyar  a
a being within resnable aess of that house. In rural  reg iot be co fmble ince mowst icnteffecst datior recent years may
reasonable acces would imply that die housewife or members oftthre  tb  oprbesnems  onre  blse  iesn
houelhold do not have to spend a diproportionate part of the day  TVReaI (pern thmadpqpuaue- TV receivrs for broadeast
in fetching the family's water   r. to iener pubnic per thousand population; excludr n uolicenset wV
receiveo o  in count hos and in years whenpopu stitn ees    ouf lIV sets was
Acces to ExcKtei Dfposfl (pwmnt of papukrilsx)--ratale urbM. in effect.
nd rof-Number of people (total. urban, and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentges of their respective populations.  Newspa ty    ian (per thousandIppatin)- Shows tie aver-
Excreta disposl may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of "daily general interest neewspaper.' definul ab a
without treatment. of human eacreta and wastewwater by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording enel news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily' if it appears at least four tunes a week
ntp.tb.n per Pkysicia-Ppulation divided by number of prc-      Cinema Anna Atnendee per Capita per Year-Baewd on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. induding admissions to
Fbpalaon per Nursig Person--Population divided by number of    drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Popu1tn pr Hospital  ed-total, urban and rurol-pulation        Toal Labor orea (rhousandsjD-Economically active persons in-
(totaL urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  eluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private, general and specialize  students. etc. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals am             various countries are not compamble: 1960. 1970 and 19b3 data.
penranently staffed by at least one physician. Establshments prov-  Feimae (percenrt-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding prncipally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitds.  force.
however. includebhealth and medical centers not pennanently staffed  Agricultue (peran)-Labor force in farming. forest v hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 19tl0
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         Industry (percenrt)-Labor force in mining. consirution. mann-
Adissions per Hospital hi-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage ol total labnr
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force: 1960. 1970 and 1950 daLa.
Ponicjao Rare parent-toaL k. sandfe           4Particpatzon
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total. mak. and female labor force
Aerg Size of Hwehol (persons per houuehld-rotal, uba,          as pectages of total. male and female population of dll ages
andrrl-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sea structure of the population. and
mdy not be included in the housebold for stastical purposes.   long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Number of Parson per Room-e-o. urban. and rural- -     Economic Dependeny Rato-Ratio of population under I S. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings cxdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTlION
Perceage of DweMus wih Ekerrdcity-4etol. urbag. ad rund-       Percentage of Totl Dfsposable Inco  (both in cash ad Lind)--
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked bv total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively.        hold incomc.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjud Eirolme  Ratos                                           The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
P1imary school - total. male and female-Goss total. male and   levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrolUmen of al ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimated Absote Poverty Income Leel (C'S per ca pia)-urban
respective prinaty school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
conider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country pracices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated Reltive Povarty Income Level ( USS per eapira)-urban
education, gross enroOment may exceed 100 percent since some    dnd rura/-Rural relative poverty income It'd is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total. male andfemale-Computed as above;    living in urban areas
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  E&ted Ppuaion Beklow Absolte Poverty lneonw  Level (pr-
mary instruction: provides generaL vocational, or teacher training  ceuti-arban ad rura-- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of aye; correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocatioa Enrollmnent percent of srcondryi-Vocational institu-             Comparativc Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Departmcnt
independently or as departmnts of secondary institutions.                               June 19115



- 31 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 7
Populatton    z  1.019 mdllten (id-1983)
GNr1 per capitas 5300 (1983)
CHINA - ECONOMC INDICAtItS
Amo_t - 1984                                Annual arowth races (2)
(milLion US$ at                 Actual                                        -Projected
Indicator                    current prices)/b 1980   1981   1982   1983   19OR/a   19J5        1936      1987     1986      1989     1990
NIATZOIPA  ACCOUTSI
Cr.os den  atic product         261.260        6.6    4.9    7.5    9.6   14.0       10.4      6.8       6.8       6.8      6.8      6.t
Agrtcultur                    100.630       -1.7    6.4   11.2    9.0   13.9        6.0      4.9      4.9        4.9      4.9      4.9
Industry                      12S.D10       12.3    2.3    7.3   11.4   16.6       14.0      7.7      7.7        7.7      7.7      7.7
Srvitce                        55,820        8.2    8.9    3.3    6.5    7.7       10.0      7.9       7.9       7.9     7.9       7.9
ConstmptLoe                     198,190        9.1    5.2    5.9    9.0   12.5       12.5      8.9       7.4       7.4      7.4      7.1
Cros inestent                    83,100        1.3  -1.8   10.9   15.2   20.7        11.0      2.3       4.8       4.5      S.1      5.7
Export. of G115 /a               26,720       17.8   16.7    0.6    9.5   13.0        3.0      8.9       8.8       5.S      I.e      8.8
Tmports of cmr7 7Ta              26,750       16.1   -6.7   -5.7   28.1   25.9      43.1       0.0       5.6       5.9     6.0       6.2
Greos national SavtIuS           85,S70       -0.2    3.6   17.0   12.0   17.0        5.0      2.4       5.1       5.1      5.6      6.2
PRICES
-D? deflator (1980 - 100)                    100.0  101.6  101.7  102.9  107.6    113.1    tl6.7    124.7    131.0    137.5    144.4
xchange rare C(uan/USS)                       1.50   1.70   1.89   1.98   2.32       2.84     2.84      2.84     2.84      2.D4     2.84
Share of CDP At _arket prtceS (2)                   Average anual increas  (2)
(at current  Srtce)                           (-t constant 1961 rtic..)
:960   1970     73           1965     9        1960-70  1970-73  1 0        98          489  198-94
Groso  domeotic product Ia      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0          6.1       5.2      6.6       9.0      7.3       6.6
Agriculture                    23.0   35.0   32.8   32.0   34.2   31.3          6.7       3.4      3.3      10.1      5.0       4.8
Industry                       68.0   41.0   45.8   48.0   47.9   49.9          7.8       7.5      9.9       9.4      8.6       7.4
Service.                       29.0   24.0   21.4   20.0   17.9   18.8          3.4       4.5      5.4       6.6      8.2       7.5
ConaptiLon                       62.4   70.6   69.1   71.3   66.7   69.3          6.1       4.7      6.4       8.1      8.4       6.8
Cros tnvestrec                   37.6   29.2   31.1   30.0   34.4   30.9          9.5       6.9      9.7      11.3      5.1       6.1
Exporta of GUYS                   4.8    2.8    5.3    7.1    7.7    8.5         -1.5      10.8      5.7      12.3      8.0       7.7
lIports of CUPS                   5.0    2.7    5.5    8.4    8.8    8.6           1.2     13.9      13.0     12.2      8.4       7.4
Croes national *awtng            37.7   29.Z   30.9   26.9   33.6   30.7           0.1      6.7      7.2      14.0      4.8       6.2
As 2 of GDP
1957           1970            1030            1983            1964
PnILIC rFIacE
Current reveue                                       28.7            29.6            30.6           27.8            26.7
Currant expe-ditures                                 15.1            15.7            23.1           21.6            20.1
Surplus (4) or deficLt C-)                          +13.6           413.9           +7.5            +6.2            +6.6
Capital expenditure                                  13.7            13.3            11.0             7.B            8.2
Fore4sn financing                                     0.7             M.&.            0.5            0.2             0.3
1960-70     1970-75      1973-80     1980-84      t984-89      1989-94
OTRER IlDICAIORS
GOT growth rate (S)                                  6.1          5.1         6.4           9.2         7.2         6.6
GC  per capita grwcrh race (2)                       3.5          2.9         5.2           7.9         6.1         5.5
Energy con.siption growth race (2)                  -0.3         9.2          5.8           4.1        5.3          4.8
ICOR                                                 3.3         4.7          5.1           3.8        4.0          4.6
arginal eavinS rate                                  0.4          0.4         0.3           0.3        0.2          0.3
Imort el-aticity                                     0.2         2.7          2.0           1.4        1.1          1.2
/a Data for 1981 and 1982 are Eron different sources; data for 1982 exclude re-exports.
East As1a and Pacific Regional Office
February 7. 1985



-32                                                   ANNEX I
Population    z  1.019 %UlLon (mid-1983)                                                                       Page 6 of 7
OMll per capita:  $300 (1983)
CHlINA- EXTERNAL TRA
Amount - 1984                Annal arowth rates (t) (et constant prices
(ilCio  USS at                         ACtua& l                        rctd
curremc prices)        1980     I981              1963     1984      15       1990
lEX!RAL TRADE /.
VArehandioo experts                      25,020             14.8      17.3      5.5     10.1     10.4      2.8      8.7
Primary                                11.410              1.S    -1.4       3.9     14.6       9.6      3.3      6.8
Manufactures                           13,610             32.2     36.2      6.6       7.0    11.1       2.4     10.4
IbrcbandLue Imports                      26,740              6.8      7.2      0.2     29.7    22.3    47.1         6.2
Food                                    2,330              9.1    68.3    42.9   -30.9   -24.9          14.4      7.L
Petroleum                                 130             52.6   -65.5    130.0   -43.5        30.8      0.0     35.5
Ibehinery and aqulpeenc                 8,420             16.4      19.0   -41.7      34.7    52.3      56.2      5.1
Others                                 15,860              0.9    -13.3      7.1     71.7    16.8       19.9      6.3
lPO r  price index (1980-100)                               100.0    102.7     98.7     85.8     90.5    86.0    126.0
Iopart price index (1980-100)                              100.0   106.5    89.2       76.7     75.4    77.3    112.0
Trm  of trude ind   (1980.100)                             100.0    98.3    110.7  1l5.8    115.4   113.8    112.5
Coupositioc of merchandise trrad  (Z)                Average anual Increase (2)
(at c  urrt pr8ces)                             (at contnt prices)
L978        1961        19C4       1990      L9N0-84                     198I 6  c92-994
xports                         100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0       10.8                7.9                7.6-
Primary                       53.4        46.6        45.6       42.1        6.7               6.4                 6.1.
Manufactures                  46.6        53.4        54.4       57.9       15.2                9.4                8.2
Imports                        100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0       14.9               8.5                 7.5
Food                          12.8        17.4         8.7        9.7       13.9               8.9                 8.5
Petroleum                      0.5         0.4         0.5        0.9       13.0               17.2               16.1
:Ichinary and equipmnt        18.9        29.2        31.5       33.3       23.6               12.0                6.8
Otharo                        67.9        53.0        59.3       56.1       20.5               6.7                 7.5
Share of trad  wlh        Share of trade witb        Share of trade with
industrial                 developin                 the USS and
countres                   -ountri                 Estern Ero
1977    9lTJ 1983          1977    1t801 983          1977     1980   1983
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                   36.      46.7    42.1      46.8     48.7     53.2     16.8      6.6       4.7
Imporrs                                   63.1     73.6    69.0      20.7     19.7     24.5    16.2       6.7       6.5
/a  Based on customs statistics.  Exports. f.o.b.. imports. c.i.f.
East AuLa and PacLfic  sgionsl Office
November 22, 1985



_ 33 _hANNEX I
rage 7 of 7
Population        1,OIY9  iltio.   (mid-1983)
GM? per capita:  5300 (1983)
CHINA - BALANCC OF ?AtZSr .    RXTLEEA. CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Mllons ol US5 at currpnt prLcoo)
Actual                                    reted
Indicator                     -               1978    1979    1980    1961         1982      1983       1984        13P      T990
BALANC  OF PAHIKNT
Export. of 30048and nonft,ctor services  10.370  14,983  20,324  24,423    23,637    23,16    26.716            26.840   S8.590
Of wbich:  Porcbeandls f.o.b. /a          9.607  13,658  18,492  22.027    21,125    20,707    23,905         23,900   52.130
Imports of goods and nenfactor services  11,668  17,759  24,058  23,446    18,900    20,711    26,748           38,290   63,180
Of which:  Morcbandise f.o.b. la         10,745  16,212  Z2,049  21.047    11.876    18,717    23.890         35,150   56,950
Net factor incone froa  abroad                 -8      -77    -117    -200         452     1,25.      1.620       1,140     -850
Net traunsfer                                  597     656     640      464        530       436        304         300      300
Current account balance                      -709  -2.197  -3.211   1.241       5,719      4.164      1,892    -10,010   -5,140
Privat, direct investmaet (nt)                   -       -      57      265        430       636      1,100       1.650    1.950
OffIciL& grcat aid (not)                        -        -      21      156        -44        75        137         140      140
ILT leam  (ate)                                549   3,815   1,069      310        301       927       -145           0    4.450
Disburse_ents                               549   3.895   1.670   1.659       2,481      1.600        71B         950    6.390
M rrLsatieo                                   -       80     601   1,348      2,180        673        863         950    1,940
Other capital lb                             -628  -1,021   2,455       -47       -115    -1,672    -2,689        2,330        -
Cmange in resrtves
'-' indMicating increase)                   7U    -597    -391  -1.92S    -6,291    -4.130            -95      5.890   -1,400
International reserves                      6.677   7.274   7,665   9.590    15.881    20U011    20.106         14.220   23,500
Of which:  Gold                           5         , 5,120   5.150   5.120 5.120        5,120    t5120        5.120    5.120
Raserves an mths e       pf torts             6.2      4.5     3.5      4.6       10.1      11.7        9.1         4.5      4.2
UNflUIL CAPITAL AMD DEBT Id
Grow disbursement                                        .       ..      ..         .
OffcSal. grants,....                                                              ..                   .
Concessianal loans                           ..       .       ..       ..
DAC                                        ..       ..      ..       ..
Ot.e                                                ..      ..       .. . ..
Other,
Nonconceseional loans                         .
Official export credits                    ..       .       .        .
IBRD                                       ..       ..      ..       ..
Otger  ultilaceraL                          ,                        ..
Private                                              .                          .         .
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed              549   4.364   5.433   5.261       5.562      6.397      6,340
Official 
Private                                    ..       ..      ..       .         .
Undisbursad debt
*    Debt service
Total service payments                         ,              .
Tnierest                                    ,                         .                    . .
Paym.ats as Z of exports                    0.4      2.7     6.3      9.0      11.4        4.9        5.0
Average interest rate of new loans (2)
Average meurlty uf new loans (years)            -        -       -        -          -         -          -
/a  Dnca for 1978-81 are not comparable wLth those of 1982-85 because of a difference in their sources.  The latter exclude
re-exports.
lb  Includes net iwe of DHF credit and met flow of short-turi  capital.
W  Valued st USS402/troy ounce.
7d- Excludes short-tern loan. (one year or less).
East Asia and PacifEc Regional Office
November 22. 1985



- 34 _
ANUPI tl
!TATSIR OF BANK cROuP OPKRATIONS IN TRr PrnOPLr'8 RRPOLItC OP CITNA
A. STATPNN OF BAN! LOARS AIM tIRA CR0I7T3t
(an of Septembr 30, 19R5)
Loan or                                                                               II8t nillon
Credit                                                                         Amunt Clam. nan&ellactonm)
lmber   Tear   orrovwr                      Purpose                            lank     tn6  rlndiahursee
2021/1167    1981 People'a Republic of China  Ilniveraity Devalopaant            ln.n   10D.)         24.6
1261    1992  People'a Republic of Chin.  Iorth China Plain Agrtculture        -       6n.0       16.3
2207    1992 People's Republic of Chins  Three Ports                          69.0       -        46.n
1297    1962  People'a Republic of China  Agric. Education & Reaarch           -       75.4      13.1
222611313    1982  People'. Republic of Chin. Inodutrial Credit                    40.6    30.0        37.R
2231    1993  People'a Republic of Chin. Daning Petroteum                    162.4       -        91.8
2252    1983 People'a Republic of China  Zhongyuan-Venltu Petroleum          Imn.a       -        74.1
2261/1367    1983  Paople'u Republic of Chin  lbilounliang Laud Reclamtion        25.3    65.D        10.8
1611    1983 People'a Republic of Chin. Polytechnic/TV Univereiny               -      85.n       73.4
1412    1983  People'a Republic of Chipn  Techniale  Cooperation               -       1n.n        7.5
1417    1984 People'e Republic of China  Rubber Development                     -     inn.n       12W3
23e2    1984  People'. Republie of China  Lubuge Wydroelectric               145.4       -       134.4
2394    Iq8  People'e Republie of Chin. Railway                             22n.n       -       126.1
1462    1986  People'. Republic of Chin. Rural Credit                          -       5n.n       34.2
1672    1984 People's Republic of Chiwn  Rural Health A Kedieol Alue.          -       R5.0       67.1
2426    1984 People'. Republic of China  rtrrasy Petroleum                   94.5        -        946.i
2434/1691    1994  People'e  Republic of China  Second 'tndutrial Credit          105.n    7n0n       153.7
2444/1500    1984  People's Republic of Chin. Second Agricultural Rducetion        45.3    23.5        546.
1516    19114 People'a Republic of Chine  Second Agricultural Reaearch         -       25.n       19.7
1551    1985  People'e Republic of China  Second Iuiverlity ?levelopment       -      15.0       14n.1
2493    1985 People'e Republic cf Chin. Second Power                         117. n              117.0
2501/a  1485  People'e Republic of China  Chanxcun (Loan) Coal Wining        126.0       -       12fin
15577i1 1905  Peoule's Republic of Chin.  Seede                                 -      4n0.       4n.n
155677  1985  People's Republic of Chin  Rural Water Supply                    -       Rn0n       N,.II
2539/15947d- 19E5  Pecle'e Republic of China  Highway                              42.6     3n.n       72.6
25407  1985  People'a Republic of Chin. Second Railway                       235.0       -       235.0
25417f  1985  People's Republic of Chin. wertilizer Rehabilitation and        o7 n       -        97.n
Enargy Saving
1605/A  1985  People's Republic of Chin. Forestry Devlopment                    -      47.1       47.1
2579/16067iW 19115 People's Republic of Chin. Piabihang-Chobu Area flevelopn,ent  17.0    7Sn         92.0
255O0   1935 People' Republic of China  deivuan Cas Wie7d Technical           25.0       -        25.n
Assistance
Total                                                                           1772.  1,176.2   2,246.3
Total now neld by Bank and IDA                                                  1,777.  1.176.2
Total Undiabursed                                                               1,452.1   794.0   2.7&6.3
R. STATEMET OF IPC INVESTMENTS
(aa of September 30, 19R5)
Amount in Uss million
Tear   Obligor                                    Type of buelnese              Loan      Equity     Total
1485Lj Cuangzhou and Peugeot Automobile Co.       Automobile                      13.0       2.n       17.0
Total Groan Coitments                                                              15.0      2.0       17.0
Lea. cancellations. terminatione,
repayment and sales
Total Commitments nw held by ItC                                                   15.0      2.0       17.0
Total ludisbureed                                                                  15.0      2.n       17.0
/a  Became effective on October 31, 1945.
7ii BeAme effective on October 24, 196S.
7;i ecme effective on Novmber 13, 1985.
77  Bece effective on December A. 1435.
7; Becam  effective on November 22. 1IR5.
7F Became effective on Decmber 18, 1985.
Becme effective on Novmber 26, 1985.
Became effective on March 3. 19316.
7?  Became effective on Jamry n  1, 1986.
21  Signed on October 16, 1985.
Noten: (I)  Subsequent to the above date of Part A, a credit of SDR 8.0 million (S90 mill1on equivalent)
for the Second Rural Credit Project wes approved December 17, 1985; a loan of 975 tillion and
credit of SDR 22.8 million ($25 million equivalent) for the Third Industrial Credit Prolect wes
approved March 4, 1986; and a credit of 513 18.0 million (820 million equivalent) for the
Technical Cooperation Project -m  approved March 13, 1986.
(2) Te *ataus of the projecta lhated in Part A io deacrtbed in a separnte report on all TankfInA
financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Fxecutive
Directore on April 30 and October 31.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
CHINA
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           12 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                     Government, Ministry of
Railways
(c) First presentation to Bank Group
and first mission:                       January 1985
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:          June 1985
(e)  Completion of negotiations:              February 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           September 1986
Section II. Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None.
Section III. Special Conditions
During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following conditions:
(a) the costing study will be carried out in accordance with terms of
reference and timetable agreed with the Bank under the First Railway
Project, and according to arrangements acceptable to the Bank Group
(para. 77); and
(b) the training program will be carried out in accordance with the
outline and timetable agreed with the Bank Group (para. 78).



IBRD 18976
xoo             ~~      ~~lir.          nr   .__               12V
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT                                                              s.S.R.
ELECTRI FICATION
..... .. Propoed Project
.....  In opemtlonJ
....    Under construction                     p                      w
.....  ... Neer term plan
I   Single track railways  _                                  )
Double track rallwaVs
<-.-.  Double track railways Near term plan)     "I YIONGJI
Province bounderIsr
-   International bounderies
L    Tongl ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ OTBE  15
Me  o N  G     O L I A         _            6 
V " ' > '::<T' >1~~~~~~~"IVRE
4' . 



