WHMlAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT WHBER 1680 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Railway Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       O   He              1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1680 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        0 c     l    /        , 1986, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank
(the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to one
hundred sixty million dollars ($160,000,000) (the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of
the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:


﻿- 2 -
(a) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term in-
cludes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (as modified), as
applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
(b) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
I (c) "MR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Railways or any
successor thereto;
(d) "XRSF" means Xi'an Railway Signalling Factory, one of
the signalling factories under MR; and
(e) "Project   Sub-units"  means   the  administrations  and
sub-administrations of MR, including KRSF, which are carrying out
the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent   to  sixty-three   million   Special  Drawing   Rights
(SDR 63,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this 'Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a bank and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits


﻿- 3 -
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Janu-
ary 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1996, and ending Janu-
ary 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 15, 2006, shall be one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate railway, engineering, financial and administrative
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out the training
under the Project in accordance with a program agreed with the
Association.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Part E of the Project, the
Borrower shall carry out the subsequent parts of the study of
railway traffic costing begun under Railway Project (Loan No.
2394-CHA) between People's Republic of China and International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, dated April 13, 1984, in
accordance with terms of reference and arrangements acceptable to
the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause MR to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with
sound accounting practices, the operations and financial condi-
tions of each of the Project Sub-units.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MR to:
(i)  have   the  accounts   and   financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and of
sources and application of funds) of the Project


﻿- 5 -
Sub-units and the Special Account, for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing   principles  consistently  applied,   by
independent    auditors    acceptable    to    the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
such financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements
of the Project Sub-units and the audit thereof and
said records as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause MR to:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section, and that the report thereof con-
tains, in respect of such separate accounts, a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause MR, as to each of the
Project Sub-units to carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
railway and engineering practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 5.02. Without limitations     to  the  provisions of
Sections 9.03 and 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall cause MR, as to each of the Project Sub-units:
(a)  to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice; and
(b) at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
railway practices.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the    Borrower's  State   Council  has   approved   this
Agreement; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, except the effectiveness of
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANMIN                            22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By W
Authorized Representative
INTFRNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 4
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the   Loan Allocated
Credit Allocated (Expressed in         % of
(Expressed in      Dollar       Expenditures
Category         SDR Equivalent)   Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment,
materials
and related
training
and con-
sultants'
services:
(a) equipment      58,570,000      153,220,000  100% of foreign
and materials                               expenditures,
and 100% of
local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory cost)
(b) related           740,000                    100%
training
and consul-
tants'
services
(2) Training and         1,020,000                    100%
consultants'
services other
than (1) (b)
above
(3) Unallocated          2,670,000        6,780,000
TOTAL         63,000,000      160,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrt,wer    in
increasing the capacity and improving the operations and -ffi-
ciency of its railways, including MR's technical and management
capabilities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from -ime to time to achieve such objective.
Part A:   Upgrading and electrification of the 456 km single
track line between Chongqing in Sichuan Province and
Guiyang in Guizhou Province.
Part B:   Upgrading and electrification of the 704 km single
track line between Yingtan in Jiangxi Province and
Xiamen in Fujian Province.
Part C:   Assisting XRSF in increasing the quantity and improving
the quality of its current production.
Part D:   Introducing mechanized track maintenance on lines with
heavy traffic density on a pilot project basis.
Part E:   Carrying out of subsequent phases of the study of
railway traffic costing commenced by the Borrower in
1984.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1992.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in China may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than $150,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding $4,000,000 equivalent, may be procured on the basis of
a comparison of quotations received from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of more than $500,000, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply;
provided, however, that where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association, pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines, shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.


﻿- 13 -
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however,
that where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association, pursuant to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, together with the
other information specified therein, shall be furnished as part
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 5 of
Schedule 4 (the Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding paragraphs (a) and (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association
has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis
of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained,
in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower shall employ    consultants whose    qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
2.   Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with prin-
ciples and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", published
by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of SDR
900,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association or the
Bank requests for replenishment of the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association or the Bank shall specify. On the
basis of such requests, the Association or the Bank shall
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the


﻿- 15 -
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such    deposits  shall be withdrawn     by  the
Association from the Credit Account or by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association or the Bank, prior to or at the time of such
request, such documents and other evidence as the Association or
the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was
made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association or the Bank when either of the following
situations first arises:
(i) the Association or the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made
directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement or from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories, minus
the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association or the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow
such procedures as the Association and the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association or the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on


﻿- 16 -
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association or the Bank shall have determined at
any time that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was
made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association or the
Bank, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association or
tho Bank shall so request, refund to the Association or the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the
Association or the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association or the Bank shall have determined at
any time that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible expendi-
tures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Associa-
tion or the Bank, refund to the Association or the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account or Loan
Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


