                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000548




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (MULT-28200)




                                    ON A

                   GRANT FROM THE MULTILATERAL FUND

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$13 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                        ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                    FOR A

           OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PHASE OUT PROJECT




                               September 21, 2007




Environment and Water Resource Management Unit
South Asia Sustainable Development
South Asia Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective July 17, 2007)

                       Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (PKR)
                                US$ 1.00 = PKR 60.45

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 ­ December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CBR     Central Board of Revenue            MoE            Ministry of Environment
CFC     Chlorofluorocarbon, an ozone        MP             Montreal Protocol on Substances that
        depleting substance                                Deplete the Ozone Layer
CP      Country Program                     MLF            Multilateral Fund for the
                                                           Implementation of the Montreal
                                                           Protocol
CPU     Country Program Update              MT             Metric Ton, a unit of measure
                                                           equivalent to 1,000 kilograms
CTC     Carbon Tetrachloride, an ozone      MTR            Mid-Term Review
        depleting substance
DAL     Domestic Appliances Ltd.            NBP            National Bank of Pakistan
ExCom   Executive Committee of the          NDFC           National Development Finance
        Multilateral Fund                                  Corporation
FI      Financial Intermediary              ODP            Ozone Depleting Potential
FY      Fiscal Year                         ODS            Ozone Depleting Substance
GEO     Global Environmental Objectives     OTF            Ozone Projects Trust Fund
GOP     Government of Pakistan              PCR            Project Completion Report
IA      Implementing Agency                 PSR            Project Status Report
ICR     Implementation Completion           RMCPL          Refrigerators Manufacturing Co.
        Report                                             Pakistan Limited
IOC     Incremental Operating Costs         SGA            Sub-Grant Agreement
LC      Letter of Credit                    UNEP           United Nations Environment
                                                           Programme
MDI     Metered Dose Inhalers               UNIDO          United Nations Industrial
                                                           Development Programme
MELG&RD Ministry of Environment, Local
        Government, and Rural
        Development



                            Vice President: Praful C. Patel
                          Country Director: Yusupha B. Crookes
                           Sector Manager:  Karin E. Kemper
                       Project Team Leader: Ernesto Sanchez-Triana
                          ICR Team Leader   Ernesto Sanchez-Triana

                                                PAKISTAN
       Montreal Protocol Ozone Depleting Substances Phase Out Project




                                               CONTENTS




A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ...........................................................................................ii
E. Bank Staff...................................................................................................................ii
F. Results Framework Analysis.....................................................................................iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... iv
H. Restructuring (if any)................................................................................................. v
I. Disbursement Profile.................................................................................................. v
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 20
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 21
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 23
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 24
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 25
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 32
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 33
Annex 10. Additional Annexes..................................................................................... 34
MAP IBRD 33460

A. Basic Information

                                                                     PHASE OUT OF ODS
Country:               Pakistan                Project Name:
                                                                     PRE
Project ID:            P034301                 L/C/TF Number(s):     MULT-28200
ICR Date:              09/21/2007              ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Borrower:             GOP
Original Total
                       USD 13.0M               Disbursed Amount:     USD 8.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B                      Global Focal Area: O
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Environment (Ozone Cell)
National Bank of Pakistan
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/17/1994     Effectiveness:        08/04/1997      08/04/1997
Appraisal:             07/15/1995    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/23/1997     Mid-term Review:                      09/17/2004
                                      Closing:              06/30/2001      12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome             Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:      Moderately Satisfactory Government:                Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory      Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:           Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory      Performance:               Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance             Indicators              (if any)             Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry     None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                        Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                        Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             2                  2
Other industry                                               98                 98


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Pollution management and environmental health               Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                   At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:         Praful C. Patel                  Joseph Wood
Country Director:       Yusupha B. Crookes               Mieko Nishimizu
Sector Manager:         Karin Erika Kemper               Maritta R. V. B. Koch-Weser
Project Team Leader:    Ernesto Sanchez-Triana           Jitendra J. Shah
ICR Team Leader:        Ernesto Sanchez-Triana
ICR Primary Author:     Mary-Ellen Foley




                                            ii

F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The objective of the project is to assist Pakistan's transition into non-CFC technology.
The project will help Pakistan reach its objective by: (i) supporting the GOP's proposed
program to phase out ozone depleting substances (ODS); (ii) implementing cost effective
priority subprojects identified in the Country Program for technical conversions; and (iii)
building local capacity to identify, develop and implement ODS phaseout.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
Not applicable

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised      Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target     Completion or
                                                documents)         Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Help Pakistan achieve its commitments under the Montreal Protocol for phaseout
                 of CFCs, which are (i) 50% phaseout by 2005, and (ii) 85% phaseout by 2007.
                                            Initially 640 ODS
                                            MT (calculated on
                                            the basis of the 7              17 subprojects were
Value            Zero. No phaseout had      subprojects in the              completed
(quantitative or been done when the         foam and                        amounting to the
Qualitative)     project started.           refrigeration                   phaseout of 1,243
                                            sectors identified              ODS MT.
                                            at the time of
                                            approval).
Date achieved 01/15/1997                    12/31/2006                      12/31/2006
Comments         100% of 640 ODS MT from subprojects identified at approval plus an additional
(incl. %         603 ODP MT resulting from additional subprojects identified during the
achievement)     project's life.
Indicator 2 :    Build local capacity to identify, develop and implement ODS phaseout.
                                                                            Ozone Cell has

                                            Ozone Cell will be              been enabled to

                                            able to sustain                 sustain ODS

                                            ODS Phaseout                    Phaseout after

Value            Ozone Cell established     Country                         project closure and

(quantitative or during project             Programme after                 complete phaseout

Qualitative)     preparation.               Bank project                    of CFC by 2010.

                                            closes and                      Capacity of NBP

                                            complete phaseout               was strengthened to

                                            of CFC by 2010.                 identify, develop
                                                                            and implement
                                                                            ODS phaseout.
Date achieved 01/01/1996                    12/31/2006                      12/31/2006



                                                 iii

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                approval           Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Implement cost effective priority subprojects, identified in the Country
                 Programme for technical conversion to replace use of CFCs.

Value            Seven subprojects          About 10

(quantitative or identified at the time the subprojects within                  17 subprojects were

Qualitative)     project was approved.      48 months of GA                     completed.
                                            signing.
Date achieved 01/15/1997                    12/31/2006                          12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 GEO                        IP                  Disbursements
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     10/04/2000              Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                      1.65
  2     12/19/2000              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        2.12
  3     06/17/2001              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        2.17
  4     12/28/2001              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        2.34
  5     06/14/2002              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        3.62
  6     12/03/2002              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        4.72
  7     06/01/2003              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        5.09
  8     12/30/2003              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        5.20
  9     06/29/2004              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        5.31
  10    12/28/2004              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        5.80
  11    01/06/2005              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        5.80
  12    05/13/2005              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        6.59
  13    07/01/2005              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        6.69
  14    01/13/2006              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        7.89
  15    07/20/2006              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        8.23
  16    06/22/2007              Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        8.62




                                                 iv

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                             v

1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

The Montreal Protocol Ozone Depleting Substances Phase Out Project channeled grant funding
from the Multilateral Fund (MLF) for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol to Pakistan to
finance the incremental costs of conversion to ozone friendlier technology for a group of
subprojects in two industrial sectors. This contributed to the Government of Pakistan's ability to
reduce demand for chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) and thereby, assisted it in meeting its obligations
to the Montreal Protocol (MP). The country and sector background and rationale for World Bank
assistance is described below.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background

Preceded by two decades of relatively fast economic growth and moderate inflation, in 1993 the
Government of Pakistan embarked on a program of macroeconomic adjustment and structural
reform that aimed to enhance the country's economic performance. Pakistan's economic growth,
along with greater population growth, urbanization, and industrialization posed significant
challenges to the country's environment. In response, a National Conservation Strategy was
adopted in 1992 followed by an Action Plan for 1993-1998 that aimed to improve natural
resource management. Provincial environmental strategies, as well as a new comprehensive
environmental law, were developed.

Pakistan's commitment to address environmental problems also included the ratification in 1992
of the Vienna Convention, the Montreal Protocol, the London Amendment, and of the
Copenhagen Amendment in 1995. These instruments were the response of the international
community to control the production and consumption of substances that scientific assessments
found to be causing the thinning of the Earth's ozone layer, resulting in more harmful ultraviolet
radiation (UV-B) reaching the surface of the Earth.

Ozone depleting substances (ODS) controlled by the MP are categorized as Annex A substances
(CFC and halon), Annex B substances (including carbon tetrachloride (CTC)), Annex C
substances (including hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs)), and Annex E substances (methyl
bromide (MeBr)).

Developed countries that are Parties to the MP initially committed to phase out Annex A
substances by the year 2000 (which was accelerated to 1996 in a 1993 adjustment to the MP).
Recognizing the special situation of developing countries, Article 5 of the MP established that
developing countries with an annual consumption level of Annex A substances of less than 0.3 kg
per capita could benefit from a ten-year grace period, up to 2010. Moreover, Article 5 countries
were automatically eligible to receive technical and financial assistance from the Multilateral
Fund (MLF) to meet the agreed incremental costs for complying with the Protocol's control
measures. With an estimated annual per capita consumption of 0.018 kg of ODS substances at the
time of project appraisal, Pakistan was also eligible for MLF assistance.




                                                  1

  Government of Pakistan ODS Phaseout Strategy

  The Ministry of Environment, Local Government, and Rural Development (MELG&RD) led the
  development and implementation of the national program to comply with Pakistan's obligations
  under the MP. MELG&RD defined three program components, namely: (i) the development of a
  phase out strategy; (ii) setting up of institutional arrangements to implement the strategy, and (iii)
  an investment component comprising technical and financial assistance to enterprises for the
  adoption of non-ODS technologies.

  Taking advantage of Pakistan's eligibility to receive MLF assistance, MELG&RD sought support
  for the development and implementation of these components from the four MLF implementing
  agencies: the World Bank; United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP); United Nations
  Development Programme (UNDP); and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization
  (UNIDO).

  With UNEP's assistance, Pakistan prepared its strategy, or Country Program (CP) in 1996 which
  laid out the investment, non-investment, institutional and policy actions that the country would
  undertake to phase out ODS and comply with its MP obligations. The main sectors targeted by
  the CP were domestic and commercial refrigeration, as well as foam. Under the CP, the
  Government of Pakistan's (GOP's) main role consisted of providing information, financial
  incentives in the form of lower tariffs on equipment and materials required for conversion to non-
  CFC technology, and instituting a ban on imports of CFC-based equipment. The CP further
  envisioned that, responding to such stimuli, the industry would decide how and when to convert
  to non-ODS technology.

  The following table summarizes Pakistan's obligations under the MP by ozone depleting
  substance. Consumption is defined in the Protocol as imports plus production (not applicable in
  the case of Pakistan), minus exports of ODS.

          BASELINE CONSUMPTION OF ODS IN PAKISTAN AND MP OBLIGATIONS
Montreal Protocol (ODP MT)                     CFC         Halon      Methyl        CTC        TCA
                                                                     Bromide
Baseline consumption (1995-1997)              1679.4        14.2        14*        412.9**     2.3**
Allowed consumption during 1999-2004          1679.4        14.2        14          412.9       2.3
Allowed level of consumption in 2005           839.7        7.1         11.2        62.00       1.61
Allowed level of consumption in 2007          251.91        7.1         11.2        62.00       1.61
Allowed level of consumption in 2010             0           0          11.2          0         0.69
Allowed level of consumption in 2015             0           0           0            0          0
Source: World Bank and Ozone Cell (2002), "The Islamic Republic of Pakistan: Country Programme
Update".
*1995-1998 baseline       **1998-2000 baseline

  The second component, institutional arrangements for the implementation of the CP, received
  support from UNDP and included the establishment of an Ozone Cell within MELG&RD to
  develop and implement all ODS-related activities within Pakistan and to guide the country's ODS
  phase out program. Activities undertaken by the Ozone Cell included assisting in the preparation
  of legislation, developing public awareness campaigns, making ODS-related information
  available, and facilitating the enterprises' coordination with the MLF implementing agencies.

  The final component was the provision of technical and financial assistance to enterprises for the
  adoption of non-ODS technologies (the investment component). This component was to be



                                                     2

supported by UNIDO and the World Bank. Whereas the former would focus on small and
medium-scale subprojects, the original intention in GOP's strategy was that the Bank would work
with the larger enterprises in the foam and refrigeration sectors.

Country Program Update

During the implementation of the CP it was seen that there was a need to reassess the level of
ODS consumption on a sector level. First, a number of ODS-consuming firms had not been
identified in the CP and some sub-sectors were excluded. Second, exogenous factors led to the
restructuring of the composition of relevant markets, with some firms exiting the market and
others increasing their market share while overall growth in these economic sectors continued.
This meant that the level of reductions of ODS from projects was not necessarily reducing
baseline consumption.

In this context, Pakistan received funding in 2002 to carry out a Country Programme Update
(CPU) with the World Bank's assistance. The CPU's objectives were to provide information on
recent ODS use, correct any past data reporting inconsistencies and incorporate into an overall
ODS phaseout strategy the sectors and ODS consumption not targeted in the original CP.

According to the CPU, total ODS consumption in Pakistan amounted to 2,300.7 ODP MT as of
December 2002 (excluding HCFC). This amount indicated that between 1995 and 2002, the level
of consumption decreased slightly overall, and increased in two sectors (solvents and halon)
despite ongoing MLF projects and in light of the impending 50% MP reductions in Annex A
substances by 2005. The following table compares actual ODS consumption by controlled
substance in 1995 and 2002 with Pakistan's MP compliance baseline. The phaseout achieved up
to 2002 at the subproject level through MLF and implementing agency support (also included in
the table) did not translate to significant consumption reductions at the national level.

       COMPARISON OF ODS CONSUMPTION BY CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE
           ODS           Consumption in        Phase out     Compliance          Remaining
                         CP (ODP MT)         achieved 2002     baseline        consumption in
                               1995            thru MLF                       CPU (ODP MT)
                                              subprojects                           2002
      CFC               2102.7               691.83         1679.4            1646.71
      Halons            21                   0              14.4              16.95
      Methyl            0                    0              14                0
      Bromide
      TCA               12.8                 0              2.3               0
      CTC               614.9                0              412.9             636.9
      Source: World Bank and Ozone Cell (2002), "The Islamic Republic of Pakistan: Country
      Programme Update".

The outcomes of CP implementation also underscored the need for more interventions from the
GOP. When the CP was developed, one regulation was in place ­ a ban on the trade of ODS with
non-Parties to the MP. In the following years, a number of additional regulations were phased in.
Key regulations included: i) a licensing system introduced in 1998 by MELG&RD and the
Ministry of Commerce (MoC) to allow only registered companies to import ODS; ii) an Import
Policy Order (SRO 895(1) 99 Import Policy) to restrict the level of ODS imports; and iii) the
2000 Ozone Depleting Substances policy which among others, introduced a progressive CFC
quota reduction schedule starting in 2003.




                                                   3

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators

The objective of the project was to assist Pakistan's transition to non-CFC technology. The
project aimed to help Pakistan reach its objective by: (i) supporting the GOP's proposed program
to phase out ODS; (ii) implementing cost-effective priority subprojects identified in the Country
Program for technical conversions; and (iii) building local capacity to identify, develop and
implement ODS phaseout.

The project utilized an Umbrella Grant Agreement under which the GOP and the Bank agreed on
the overall objectives of the project, as well as on the eligibility and operational criteria to assess
and support the implementation of technology conversion subprojects. The Agreement was
followed by a Memorandum of Agreement signed by the Economic Affairs Division,
MELG&RD, and the Financial Intermediary (National Development and Financial Corporation-
NDFC). MELG&RD, as lead agency for implementing the country program, was responsible for
overseeing the project on behalf of the GOP and for ensuring that subprojects were consistent
with the ODS Country Program. MELG&RD had the responsibility for issuing the final clearance
of subprojects that were presented for funding, as well as for implementing a policy framework to
encourage early phaseout of ODS.

As financial intermediary, NDFC's responsibilities included: assisting in promotion of subproject
identification, administering funds allocated by the Bank to subprojects endorsed by ELG&RD
and approved by the Executive Committee of the MP and by the Bank, evaluating financial
viability of enterprises based on the eligibility criteria agreed with the Bank, disbursing grants to
subproject beneficiaries, and supervising subproject implementation.

MLF's resources from the Bank were channeled through NDFC to ODS users to cover the
incremental costs of ozone protecting technologies, understood as the difference between the cost
of complying with MP targets and the costs that would be incurred without the MP. After each
subproject had been endorsed by MELG&RD and the appraisal reports had been approved by the
Bank and the Executive Committee of the MP, sub-grant agreements were signed between NDFC
and subproject beneficiaries according to a model sub-grant agreement approved by the Bank.
Subprojects also included technical assistance for technology transfer, design, safety, training,
and implementation to beneficiaries.

The original project indicators used by the Bank to monitor performance of ODS projects were
established by the MLF and the Bank's MP Unit. Main indicators included ODP phased out
during and after project implementation; disbursement rate; compliance with baseline CFC
equipment disposal requirements; time from approval of subproject to signing of the sub-grant
agreement; cost effectiveness; and time to project completion. Individual project completion
reports (PCRs) for each subproject that were required by the MLF contain further details on these
indicators and actual performance.

MELG&RD was responsible for monitoring the overall project and achieving the subprojects'
ODS phaseout targets, while enterprises remained responsible for implementing their own
subprojects. NDFC was required to prepare reports for MELG&RD and the Bank, monitor
compliance of enterprises (including equipment disposal agreements), prepare jointly with
enterprises subproject completion reports upon final implementation of each subproject, and
monitor compliance with environmental and safety standards, among other requirements.




                                                  4

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The original global environment objectives were not revised. However, they were slightly
reoriented to focus more directly on compliance with GOP's Montreal Protocol obligations
through the original project approach ­ implementation of subprojects and building local capacity
to develop and implement ODS phaseout projects ­ rather than on the CP.

As previously mentioned, during the implementation of the project it was found that some sectors
using CFC had not been identified in Pakistan's Country Programme. By looking at CFC
consumption (import) data, it was seen that CFC use was greater than first assessed in the CP. For
example, there was one large sector of thermoware in rigid foam insulation that had not been
identified by the CP (which subsequently was included under the ODS Project through two
subprojects). ODS consumption was reevaluated in different sectors and enterprises, as well as
the total ODS consumption of the country in the Country Program Update.

The Bank assisted the Government in preparing the CPU, which also laid out the strategy for the
phased reduction and phaseout of controlled substances by the year 2010, as scheduled under the
Montreal Protocol (halon, CFC and CTC). It encompassed initiatives to strengthen general and
sector specific policies, and deliver technical assistance to ensure compliance with the phase out
of ODS. The CPU identified the final project activities required to completely end the use of
CFC in manufacturing in Pakistan. The ODS Project objective was therefore slightly recast to
better align enterprise-level CFC phaseout with Pakistan's impending Montreal Protocol CFC
reductions (50% by 2005, 85% by 2007, and 100% by 2010) and its associated quota system.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary target group as identified at appraisal was CFC-consuming enterprises in the foam
and the refrigeration manufacturing sectors. The project anticipated that more firms from the
refrigeration and foam sectors than originally identified at the time of appraisal (seven
subprojects) would benefit from the financial assistance to convert to non-CFC technologies. By
the end of the Project, a total of 21 subprojects had been approved for these sectors by the MLF
(including four subprojects that were later cancelled due to beneficiary choice or liquidation).

The project also included a technical assistance component to strengthen the Financial
Intermediary's (i.e., NDFC) technical capabilities in ODS-related data collection, project
implementation review and supervision. This component had a significant impact as it helped
NDFC to develop managerial skills and technical understanding of ODS-related issues that were
crucial to advance project implementation.

Finally, the GOP benefited from the Project in that it helped deliver multilateral financing for
incremental costs associated with complying with the MP. In turn, global benefits were accrued
insofar that additional emissions of ozone-depleting substances were avoided.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The two original components of the ODS Phase-out Project were: 1) an investment component
which would include approximately 10 subprojects and 2) a Financial Intermediary (FI) Fee,
which was used by NDFC, along with additional Bank resources, to fund technical assistance to



                                                 5

strengthen NDFC's technical capacity for project implementation. These components were
captured as follows by the Grant Agreement:

                 No.                    Component                     Finance allocation
                                                                         (US$ million)
               1.         Subprojects                                          12.61
               2.         Financial Intermediary Fee                           0.39
                          Total                                                13.00


An additional US$2 million was envisioned as counterpart funding to contribute to meeting the
incremental costs of converting to non-CFC technology. The design of the Project is directly
related to the achievement of objectives in that the FI effectively served as an executing agency
for all subprojects in Component 1 and enabled funds to be channeled to the beneficiaries for
technology conversion and ODS phaseout while safeguarding MLF funding. Implementation of
Component 1 served to strengthen the FI's administrative capacity over the course of the project.

1.6 Revised Components

The above components were not revised. In practice, counterpart funding amounted to nearly
US$3 million (see Annex 10.1 for a breakdown by subproject).

1.7 Other significant changes

The closing date was extended twice primarily because i) some subprojects experienced delays at
the appraisal and implementation stages; ii) additional CFC users were identified at a later stage,
leading to required revisions of the country strategy to comply with ODS phaseout obligations;
and, ii) a disconnect between early GOP policy and investment grants, resulting in reduced
incentives for timely technological conversions. (See next section for further discussion).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry


The umbrella project was modeled on other ODS phaseout projects under the Bank in its role as
one of four implementing agencies of the MLF. The modality served its purpose well, enabling
an overall agreement to be reached with the GOP on ODS phaseout while individual subprojects
were approved by an external body (the Executive Committee of the MLF) on a rolling basis
based on demand over the duration of the grant agreement. The umbrella ceiling amount of
US$13 million was sufficient to absorb the total cost of subprojects and fees approved by the
MLF.

The design was appropriate for the capacity and needs of the Government of Pakistan. The
prominent role in project implementation that was given to the designated Financial Intermediary,
NDFC, permitted program continuity in times of flux within the Ministry of Environment (MoE)1.


1The Ministry of Environment, Local Government and Rural Development was bifurcated in pursuance of
Cabinet Division notification number SRO.826 (1)/2002 and an independent Ministry of Environment was
established on April 22, 2002.



                                                    6

Some of the limitations of the design are apparent when looking at the actual duration of the ODS
Project in comparison to the planned timeframe. The closing date was extended twice for a total
duration of ten years instead of 4.5 years. In retrospect, the planned duration was perhaps overly
ambitious due to several reasons described next.

In the first place, the duration of the project had been largely based on the expected subproject
demand as identified in Pakistan's first Country Program; an ODS consumption assessment and
action plan, prepared with the assistance of UNEP (one of the MLF Implementing Agencies).
However, during project implementation, two important developments occurred: first, initially
identified subprojects did not move forward and were eventually cancelled; and second,
additional ODS users were later identified in several sectors.

Another reason for the length of implementation was apparent at the subproject design level.
During subproject technical appraisal, some projects were significantly modified to account for
unforeseen changes. These changes were at times a departure from Executive Committee
approval criteria and time was needed to devise a plan that met the needs of the beneficiaries
while still fulfilling MLF requirements. These changes were due to the lag in time between
preparation and approval of funding, changes in enterprise business and their markets and to
some extent, initial assessments in the project preparation phase were rushed.

These challenges in subproject implementation are directly linked to the most significant aspect
not foreseen in project design ­ the critical role of concurrent government policy to provide added
incentive for enterprises to convert to alternative production technologies. Enterprise demand for
subprojects was limited to available grant funding and not to changes in the market, which
provided more economic gain in the short-term given high growth rates in the sector and low
CFC cost. This omission in project design was more common in earlier Bank ODS umbrella
projects. In fact, this aspect was later added by the Bank in new umbrella projects and was
subsequently adopted by the MLF as a new strategic approach to ODS phaseout assistance: the
linking of policy to investment incentives to achieve sustained ODS phaseout.

Nonetheless, the dialogue instituted with the GOP through the project (reaching its pinnacle
during the CPU preparation) did lay the path for policy development. The Government of
Pakistan did implement more comprehensive regulations beginning in 2000 and when these came
into effect, the pace of project implementation in the refrigeration sector quickly accelerated. The
GOP has sought to complement such regulations with adequate training for officials who are
responsible for their enforcement. This is illustrated by the Refrigerant Management Plan (RMP)
which is implemented by UNIDO and aims to train senior customs officials, along with other
activities, including training technicians and supplying servicing equipment.

The regulations enacted by the Government, coupled with careful planning for the
implementation of investment projects, have been fundamental to ensure that Pakistan is in
compliance with its obligations with the MP. An action plan was prepared in 2003 to eliminate
the use of CFCs in the manufacturing sector on a priority basis so as to end the manufacturing of
CFC-based refrigerators, while commencing activities in the servicing sector to ensure sufficient
CFC supply in the coming years. With the quota system imposed by the Government and CFC in
the manufacturing sector completely phased out, Pakistan is in compliance.




                                                   7

2.2 Implementation

Some of the factors that affected implementation were beyond the control of the GOP and the
implementing agency. Technology itself played a less prominent role in the project outcome as
might have been expected, however, it was a factor in terms of its appeal to enterprises as
compared to the pace of project initiation once a subproject was approved by the MLF. Some
enterprises requested changes in equipment and at times in technology, to adapt to new market
circumstances. This led to some delays during the technical appraisal.

Non-CFC technology was readily adopted by the foam sector, in part because the technology was
well-proven and the alternatives were marginally higher in cost than CFC. However, in the
refrigeration sector enterprises were reluctant to switch over to non-CFC technology because,
among other reasons, more than one technology was available and enterprises were reluctant to
take the lead and preferred to "wait and see", especially in the absence of regulatory and market
pressures to reduce the high cost differential between CFC-12 and the alternatives.          Some
resistance was also encountered in regards to cyclopentane, which was the cheapest technology in
terms of operating costs but what was perceived to be dangerous and requiring high upfront costs.
Moreover, early in implementation, cyclopentane suppliers were difficult to find.

Another factor which had an impact on project implementation and outcomes was the role of the
MLF and the guidelines and policies governing the use of grant funding. The MLF Executive
Committee issued decisions and guidelines throughout ODS Project implementation which were
expected to be adhered to by the Implementing Agencies and respective executing agencies and
consultants. Although these decisions were aimed at making the most effective use of funding
and to foster sustainable outcomes, they were at times difficult to apply in the midst of
implementation. Implementation of some of these decisions were perceived to be ambiguous or
irrelevant by the beneficiaries and executing agents and led to some minor delays.

Additionally, a few external events added to delays in the project. For example, after "9/11"
subprojects at the equipment procurement stage suffered some delay because of travel restrictions
imposed on technicians from European suppliers who were needed to provide training and
complete equipment installation and commissioning.

Implementation was also affected by factors subject to government control. The major reason for
delay in project implementation was that incentives offered to enterprises to convert to non-CFC
technology were not sufficient to compensate for the gains to be had in the market. Regulatory
pressure in parallel with the grant funding by the MLF would have created a fairer playing field
for the enterprises by establishing conditions conducive towards the introduction of cleaner
technology and alternatives to the market.

This factor was exemplified in the case of Dawlance and United Refrigeration. These two major
projects in the refrigeration sector were cancelled in early 2001 at the request of the enterprises
because they had not found it financially feasible to implement projects while CFC prices were
low. Their withdrawal caused other enterprises with ODS subprojects to delay implementation
because of fears of losing market share to these firms. Once the GOP import quota system came
into effect and began to impact CFC prices, the two enterprises reapplied for technical and
financial assistance (but received much reduced assistance from the MLF).

The critical role of Government policy was apparent in the speed of implementation of the last
group of subprojects to be approved by the MLF for Pakistan in the foam and refrigeration sectors
in 2003 and 2004. By this time GOP had instituted several important regulations. These


                                                 8

subprojects were completed within three years of approval ­ a significant departure from the
average duration of subprojects under the umbrella project of six years.

Another source of delay which also created an avoidable financial burden to enterprises
participating in the ODS Project, was the difficulty in obtaining duty waivers for implemented
non-CFC equipment mainly due to lengthy procedure. Because the equipment was being funded
to cover incremental costs of converting to non-CFC technology under the Protocol, the MLF
requested Governments to exempt equipment of duties. The responsible authority for the issuance
of waivers of the customs duty and sales tax was the Central Board of Revenue (CBR). However,
due to a high turnover of concerned officials in CBR, the implementation of the policy was never
widely adopted and a waiver had to be sought on a case-by-case basis during the life of the
project. This resulted in the delay of clearance of machinery imported under the project and the
incurrence of demurrage, which at sometimes was higher than the customs duty.

Finally, factors subject to the implementing agency's control affected project implementation.
NDFC was initially chosen as a Financial Intermediary by the Government of Pakistan. During
implementation, NDFC was merged with NBP and project implementation came to a halt. It took
some time to streamline procedures and regain momentum. Once NBP assumed the role of
Financial Intermediary, it was able to partly overcome this hurdle by contracting the original MP
project staff to continue MP project implementation.         However, due to changes in upper
management, and because of revision of policies post-merger, disbursement approvals continued
to take more time than necessary.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The monitoring and evaluation framework focused on key measurable indicators planned at
project inception. These included ODP phased out versus that planned to be phased out; the cost-
effectiveness of a specific intervention (the cost divided by the amount of phaseout); and
destruction of CFC-based equipment (indicating sustainable phaseout). In addition, the
disbursement rate and time elapsed from appraising subprojects to signing of subgrant agreements
were indicators of the progress at the overall umbrella project level.

Data was collected through several monitoring mechanisms. NBP tracked implementation based
on main progress and financial indicators and reported to the Bank on a semi-annual basis. The
data was, in turn, reported through the Bank's progress and financial database of subprojects to
the MLF Executive Committee on an annual basis for monitoring. Upon completion, a PCR
evaluating main results was required and submitted to the MLF for each subproject.

In practice, the monitoring and evaluation framework was easily implemented and provided
complete information at any given time. This is due primarily to having easily measurable
indicators and strong external demand (the MLF) for detailed and frequent reporting on project
progress. In fact, a separate mechanism was set up by the MLF to monitor subprojects with
implementation delays (determined by the time needed to reach key project milestones). Several
subprojects with some delays benefited from the increased surveillance ­ because of the pressure
of possible cancellation under the mechanism, beneficiaries were compelled to ensure
implementation did not stall completely.

The main sustainability indicator, that baseline equipment used to manufacture with CFC was
destroyed, was captured through a certificate of destruction passed on to the Ministry of
Environment. With project completion, full monitoring responsibility of project beneficiaries
will fall on MoE and subproject files will be provided by NBP. (See Annex 10, Table 10.1 for


                                                 9

performance of individual subprojects for some of the main project indicators and individual
subproject completion reports for detailed evaluation of subproject results).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project was rated as EA Category B (partial assessment) because with the main objective
being environmental protection, there was no possibility of major environmental impacts. During
preparation, subprojects were evaluated by international experts to ensure the design was in line
with accepted environmental and safety norms and that the replacement chemical was one of the
approved replacement substances under the MLF. Project beneficiaries were also required to
comply with all country environmental and health regulations and standards related to their
operations and to receive clearances from local authorities before new operations commenced, as
required.    In cases of safety issues surrounding some of the replacement substances (i.e.,
hydrocarbons), safety, training and audit measures were included in the subproject design.

The utilization of NBP as a financial intermediary served to ensure fiduciary compliance. It was
responsible for ensuring that enterprises and suppliers complied with procurement and financial
management/disbursement policies of the Bank. During implementation NBP staff received
guidance on Bank policies as well as MLF eligibility criteria to safeguard the MLF grant. This
included support from Bank procurement and financial management specialists and training
through Bank-organized, annual FI workshops. Procurement and financial management reviews
were conducted on a regular basis in accordance with Bank guidelines.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Transition to normal, non-CFC based operations was the end objective of each subproject. After
the satisfactory completion of the conversion, the enterprise resumed operations and reported on
its project in terms of cost, phaseout, technology choice and sustainability. Some enterprises
transitioning to alternatives with higher costs at the time of subproject approval were paid
incremental operating costs to sustain operations for a limited amount of time. However, it is
assumed that with the new technology and GOP ODS policy, regular operations will continue.

The Government of Pakistan is responsible for compliance with MP obligations. As such,
enterprises in sectors where CFC was once utilized are under the direct supervision of GOP. GOP
is aware of its obligations to the Protocol and its role in ensuring that CFC phaseout is sustainable.
A post-impact study might provide additional insight in a few years on how enterprises have
sustained their operations and utilized the new equipment.

Pakistan is well ahead of the CFC phaseout schedule but periodic monitoring and control of the
end-use of CFCs is as important as monitoring the supply to ensure that the country remains in
compliance. Pakistan has signaled its strong commitment to continue phasing out the use of ODS,
as required by the MP. The GoP has implemented projects in other sectors besides refrigeration
and foam. In particular, with UNIDO's assistance, Pakistan has completed 32 projects in the
solvent sector out of a total of 34 identified projects. GOP has further imposed a ban on the
import of CTC with immediate effect through SRO. (1)/2007 dated 28th May, 2007. Important
actions have been also carried out regarding halons. There have been no imports of halons over
the last two years and the Halons Banking and Recycling System has been established at Lahore.
Finally, in pursuance of an agreement between GOP and the MLF, a notification regarding the
imposition of a ban on halons is also in the pipeline.




                                                  10

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project was consistent with the Government's priorities. Pakistan is committed to comply
with its obligations as a party to the Montreal Protocol. GOP has aimed to ensure that meeting
such obligations does not affect the competitiveness and economic performance of enterprises
and facilities in key sectors. In this context, the objectives of the project responded to Pakistan's
interests as it (i) supported the GOP's ODS phaseout program by providing financial and
technical assistance to support firms' conversion to non-ODS technologies; (ii) implemented 17
cost-effective priority subprojects including an umbrella project in the foam sector and another in
the refrigeration sector; and (iii) built local capacity to identify, develop, and implement ODS
phaseout, both in the MoE's Ozone Cell, and in NBP.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

The main objective of the ODS Project was to facilitate the transition to non-CFC use in several
sectors. Ten subprojects were expected to be fully committed within 48 months of the Grant
Agreement's effectiveness with an expected total phaseout of 640 MT of CFC. The objective was
fully achieved as evidenced by the complete cessation of CFC-manufacturing technology in the
17 subprojects that were eventually implemented under the ODS Project (more than the original
10 subprojects target), for a total of 1,243 MT of CFC phased out."

Under the main project component, 21 subprojects were approved in the refrigeration and foam
sectors only despite the fact that the ODS Project had not excluded possible activities in other
sectors. Other Implementing Agencies assisted Pakistan in ODS phaseout in the remaining
sectors. Four of the subprojects were umbrella subprojects ­ three in the foam sector and one in
the refrigeration sector. Thermoware I and II, two group projects approved by the MLF to assist
26 enterprises, were treated as one subproject in implementation. Conversely, the implementation
of the two remaining umbrella projects (one in foam and one in refrigeration) was done on an
individual beneficiary level (with a total of 10 separate subgrant agreements).

In the end, 81% of the subprojects approved were implemented due to four cancellations. Two of
the cancellations were attributed to bankruptcy. Similarly, in the large Thermoware subprojects,
several enterprises went out of business. In all these cases, CFC phaseout was achieved. The
Dawlance and United Refrigeration projects were cancelled on the request of the enterprises
because they did not find it financially feasible to implement projects while CFC prices were low.
The firms were subsequently converted in the last refrigeration umbrella subproject by 2006.

By the closure of the ODS Program, the total phase out target of 1,243 MT was met at a cost to
the MLF of US$6.73/ kilogram. The cost effectiveness, when factoring counterpart funding by
the beneficiaries was US$9.11/ kilogram. This includes consumption by Dawlance and United
Refrigeration and the closed Thermoware enterprises.

The project's main indicator of success is that enterprises in the two manufacturing sectors in
Pakistan that were covered by the project (foam and refrigeration) have successfully transitioned
to non-CFC technology and are no longer consuming CFCs as of the end of 2006. The gradual



                                                  11

reduction in consumption of CFC in the manufacturing sector, a total of 1,243 ODP MT, has
allowed Pakistan to stay in compliance and meet its 2005 fifty percent CFC consumption
reduction targets. The performance of individual subprojects in regards to the indicators outlined
in Section 1.2 is partly captured in Annex 10, Table 10.1.

Under the Financial Intermediary fee component, planned objectives were likewise achieved on a
longer trajectory than had been first envisioned. NBP's fees were based on the percentage of
disbursement made to the enterprises (3% of the amount). However, due to implementation and
administrative delays, the cost of business significantly increased for NBP since its fees were
capped at the amount of the disbursed grants but project duration more than doubled. Support of
a national consultant contracted by the Bank became necessary to assist NBP in some of its
requirements under the project, such as with the subproject PCRs.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

ODS conversion projects provide neither economic return nor financial return to the enterprises
affected. Out of the allocated umbrella amount of US$12.61 million for subprojects, the MLF
approved 21 projects for the Government of Pakistan at a value of US$9.17 million with an
overall planned cost effectiveness of US $7.13/kilogram. The actual cost to the MLF was
US$8.36 million for the phase out of 1,243 MT in 17 subprojects. The resulting cost effectiveness
of US$6.73/kilogram is close to the lowest cost/kg thresholds set by the MLF for the foam and
refrigeration sub-sectors (which range from US$6.23 to US$16.86) that were covered by the
project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of GEOs, and efficiency)
Rating:          Satisfactory

The project's overall outcome rating is satisfactory, as a complete cessation of CFC-
manufacturing technology was achieved in the subprojects covered by the ODS Project and a
total of 1,243 MT of CFC were phased out. A "highly satisfactory" rating would have been
achieved if the project had not incurred delays in implementation, which resulted in additional
CFC emissions to the environment.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Not applicable.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The implementation of the ODS Project under the NBP and MoE has resulted in the
augmentation of capacity in both institutions. Project implementation came to a halt after NDFC
was merged with NBP, and it was only after NBP contracted the original MP Project staff that
project implementation resumed. Once project implementation regained momentum, NBP gained


                                                12

a better understanding of procedures surrounding the appraisal and implementation of
environmental protection projects. Through the project, it has become a conduit for building
awareness among the general public on environmental protection. NBP staff capacities were
extended beyond financial appraisal to the ability to manage projects requiring a technical
understanding paralleled with that of external MLF policies and guidelines on a myriad of project
implementation details.

Relatively high turnover in the Ozone Cell in the Ministry of Environment slowed down project
implementation. However, overall cooperation with the Government was good throughout the
project. Ozone Cell and MoE officers were receptive to NBP and the Bank's efforts in involving
GOP in overseeing the progress of the project. This was particularly the case after 2002 during
the preparation of the Country Program Update where its success was directly dependent on
GOP's lead in the process.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

A positive unintended outcome arising from the project was an increase in broad environmental
awareness of stakeholders (NBP and the beneficiaries). In addition, beneficiaries are now in the
position to market their products as "ozone-friendly," or "green" which is an added marketing
advantage. Another unintended outcome was a slight change in the market due to external factors
and the ability of some enterprises with new equipment and production methods to fill resulting
market gaps.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

No survey or workshop was conducted for the Core ICR.



4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating:          Low or Negligible

Project implementation was delayed by a number of factors, ranging from those outside of the
control of the government (including market circumstances and changes in MLF policies) to
those that GOP could have addressed earlier (such as the issuance of customs waivers and the
imposition of comprehensive regulations on the use of CFCs). However, the GOP remained
committed to fulfilling its obligations as a party to the MP and therefore maintained strong
ownership of the project throughout its design and implementation.



5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating:          Moderately Satisfactory




                                                13

The performance of the Bank in terms of delivering grant funding for subprojects is rated as
moderately satisfactory which is applied to the identification, preparation and obtaining MLF
approvals of respective subprojects.

The identification of the subprojects was well conceived keeping in mind the capacity of
enterprises, technology options and the industrial environment. The Bank assisted the GOP to
prepare 21 subprojects (including four umbrella subprojects) comprising of 80 units small,
medium and some large.

The absence of a project implementation manual and insufficient corresponding training arranged
for the NBP staff is a factor contributing to delay in project implementation. However, on average,
the Bank performance in project preparation is rated as moderately satisfactory.


(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating:           Satisfactory

Quality of supervision is rated satisfactory as there was strong continuity in the supervision
efforts (only three task managers over a ten-year project duration) and there was clear and
substantial achievement of target outcomes. On average, more than three to four supervision
missions per year were made in the initial years.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating:           Satisfactory

The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory, given a successful outcome, in terms of ODS
abatement achieved, in terms of helping Pakistan meet its broader Protocol-mandated phaseout
deadlines and in terms of the performance management framework that was introduced during the
latter part of project implementation.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating:           Satisfactory

The Ozone Cell in MoE and NBP/NDFC, the FI, were staffed adequately for project
implementation. Performance of both these actors was in general satisfactory. NBP kept 2-3 staff
assigned full time to the project in the early years. The Ozone Cell provided adequate support
from its core staff. Policy support for the project could ideally have consisted in the issuance of
rules earlier in the project. Such a measure would have gotten the attention of the industry and
made it easier for the financial intermediary (NBP) to accelerate the pace of subproject
preparation and processing.

The Ozone Cell working under the MOE was helpful during the implementation of the projects
and played an active role. There were some quick transfers and postings in the Ozone Cell which
resulted in delays in formulating policies. However, this was managed efficiently by the newest
staff member who had some prior experience in the Ozone Cell. The non- or delayed issuance of
certificates of duty waiver by the Central Board of Revenue (CBR) was also one of the causes of
delay in the implementation of the project.




                                                 14

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating:          Satisfactory

Enterprises visited by the World Bank mission were generally satisfied with the Financial
Intermediary. Hence, it is clear that NBP performed creditably and maintained substantial
compliance with its reporting obligations under the Grant Agreement. Financial management,
disbursement and procurement arrangements were found satisfactory, although there were some
shortcomings in the initial period of project implementation. A detailed review of financial
management arrangements/risk assessment was not undertaken at the time of appraisal; however,
detailed reviews were carried out during implementation review and agreement was reached on a
set of actions that were implemented to improve financial management. Shortcomings were
overcome through guidance from Bank staff and commitment on the part of NBP financial
management staff. Staffing, internal controls, fund flow and financial reporting were largely
adequate. Acceptable annual audit reports and quarterly financial management reports of the
project were mostly submitted to the Bank on time and there were no audit issues. Continuous
follow up by NBP/Bank resulted in most of the subprojects maintaining separate books of
account, including fixed assets registers, and having these audited. Financial ratios and cost
effectiveness of the subprojects was also worked out after follow up by the Bank. Subprojects
contributed their share in the project cost and also created charge (for assets financed) in favor of
NBP/NDFC. The project was not subjected to review by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group
(QAG).

During the initial stage, the project withdrew a small amount of US$ 100,000, as an initial
advance into the Special Account. Therefore, the NBP continued to follow the Special
Commitment procedure for Letters of Credits, even for small amounts, for import of goods.
Regular coaching on withdrawal of funds procedures was made available to NBP staff throughout
the life of the project. Based on the Bank's advice, the project increased the initial advance up to
the allowed authorization of US$500,000, to avoid submission of applications for issuance of
Special Commitment for small amounts.

As required, the NBP did not submit Withdrawal Applications on regular monthly intervals.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating:          Satisfactory

The borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory as both the Ministry of Environment and
the NBP responded effectively to the challenges that arose during project implementation. Both
MoE and NBP faced various difficulties, including significant organizational changes and the
need to undergo a learning process to strengthen their capacity to oversee and facilitate the
implementation of technically complex subprojects. Although these factors were associated with
the lengthening of project duration, both organizations fulfilled their functions and contributed to
the achievement of the project's objective.



6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

During the implementation of the umbrella projects (where there were more than one enterprises
involved) it would have been more appropriate that the selection of machinery be based on each
individual enterprises' technical and working capability so that the equipment supplied met their


                                                 15

working environment. This was not the case in the Thermoware project where one type of
equipment was procured for a group of enterprises with different levels of capacity and resources
to maintain and use the equipment properly. The key in umbrella projects is to strike a balance
between individual enterprise needs and the overall resources available. Finding common
denominators does lead to more cost-effective approaches but they should not overshadow any
differences between the beneficiaries.

The Montreal Protocol provides for a CFC phaseout schedule for Article 5 countries which is
supported by MLF assistance to these countries. In most of the subprojects, the enterprises also
contributed counterpart funding because the grant was at times insufficient (due to cost-
effectiveness thresholds set by the MLF) and could not be used for specific equipment that
enterprises selected (because of MLF eligibility rules). In these cases, it was found that
enterprises were extremely pro-active in implementation and in making choices on technology
options. There were cases, however, where no contribution was made by the enterprise (the grant
covered the full incremental costs). It was found that these enterprises had less of a stake in the
equipment and consequently were not as careful with using and maintaining the equipment. In
projects that involve funding the private sector to transform a market, it is advantageous to have
some counterpart contribution to ensure ownership.

In cases where subproject implementation was deliberately stalled because of a lack of enterprise
commitment, it would have been helpful to the FI to have a "stick" to encourage enterprises to
move forward in implementation. The Executive Committee did have a cancellation procedure
for projects identified as having delays. Many of the Pakistan subprojects entered the list and
remained in the list until completion. However, they escaped cancellation due to steady, albeit
slow progress.

The early ODS conversion subprojects generally were implemented apart from Government
policies and rules to restrict the supply and demand of ODS. This was partly a result of the initial
MLF approach to assist countries develop ODS strategies (Country Programs) and to then
approve investment activities as stand-alone subprojects in specific sectors without linking them
to national or sector ODS consumption levels. Institutional strengthening and capacity building
activities were also treated separately. Performance-based, sector or national approaches to CFC
phaseout which combine policy and investment measures in one project and provide for a project
management unit within the Government have now become the norm in the MLF. The lessons
drawn from the Pakistan ODS Phase-out Project support the findings that sustainable phaseout
hinges upon Government policy action early on and a project design that promotes Government
involvement in implementation through capacity building and other support measures.

Although an assessment of economic costs and benefits to the country to convert to non-ODS
technology and to implement the MP is beyond the scope of this report, some broad conclusions
can be made based on experiences from implementation of the ODS Project. The MLF covered
the majority of the conversion costs; however, costs were incurred by the beneficiaries through
duties and demurrage on equipment and short-term losses by enterprises that did convert and had
to compete with the enterprises that continued using CFC. Some of the benefits were
technological upgrades which allowed enterprises to become more competitive and to expand
their markets. They could also advertise that their products were ecologically sound.

As discussed above, project implementation took longer than originally planned for various
reasons. Consequently, supervision efforts were conducted over a timeframe that was twice as
long as had been originally envisioned, resulting in above average supervision costs. Delays in
project implementation could have been reduced if the GOP had implemented early on some of


                                                16

the policies that it eventually implemented. However, these measures would have not sufficed to
address other factors that affected project implementation, such as the events of 9/11.
Additionally, the project's supervision costs could have been reduced if the FI's staff had been
exhaustively trained in all aspects of project implementation. Still, efforts were made to reduce
supervision costs, as supervision missions were reduced from five to a maximum of three, and
after the national consultant had been hired, to a maximum of two.

Greater interaction of Bank staff and providing guidance to the implementing agency/follow up
helped a great deal in improving financial management of the project. Staff continuity also paid
off.

Finally, one important lesson learned was that a capacity needs assessment would have been
helpful to determine what type of training NBP needed to ensure it was able to deliver on its
obligations in the earlier stages of the project.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Minimal changes and additions were provided by the Ministry of Environment of the
Government of Pakistan and have been incorporated in ICR (See copy of letter in Annex 7). In
addition, the GOP provided a contribution to the ICR which is also found in Annex 7 as a short
report.

NBP's comments are captured in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                                 17

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                  Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                   (USD millions)     Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)         Appraisal

INVESTMENT COMPONENT                     12.61                8.34           66.14
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
COMPONENT (Agency Fee)                     0.39               0.25           64.10

ODS Phase-out / Charges                    0.0                0.03           103.00



            Total Baseline Cost          13.00                8.62           66.31
Physical Contingencies                     0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies                        0.00               0.00
             Total Project Costs         13.00                8.62           66.31
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)         0.00               0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.00               0.00
     Total Financing Required            13.00                8.62           66.31




(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)

Borrower                            Commercial
                                    Credit        2.00         2.96         148.00

Montreal Protocol Investment Fund                 13.00        8.62          66.31




                                             18

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project covered two manufacturing sectors with a total final phaseout of 1,243 ODP MT at a
cost of US$8.34 million under the first component of the Project. All subprojects complied with
project completion requirements set forth by the Bank and the MLF ­ phaseout of CFCs was
achieved; baseline equipment was destroyed (where applicable) and non-CFC manufacturing is
underway. With the completion of these projects, the Government of Pakistan has closed CFC-
based manufacturing in the country in these two sectors.




               MLF          Funds                                  Planned Cost-      Cost-
             Approved     Disbursed    ODP Phaseout ODP Phased      effectiveness  effectiveness
  Sector     Funds (US$)    (US$)        Approved        Out      (US$/Kilogram) (US$/Kilogram)
Foam           5,933,784    5,470,732           866          866              6.85           6.32
Refrigeration  2,967,851    2,893,252           377          377              7.87           7.67
Total          8,901,635    8,363,984         1,243        1,243              7.16           6.73


The second component consisting of technical assistance and the FI fee for NBP/NDFC had a
US$390,000 allocation. Actual disbursement was US$255,594.




                                              19

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not applicable.




                                        20

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

            Names                          Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending

Jitendra J. Shah            Country Sector Coordinator         EASRE   Task Team Leader
                                                                           (Lending)


Supervision/ICR

Paul Jonathan Martin        Sr. Environmental Specialist       AFTEN   Task Team Leader
                                                                          (Supervision)
Mosuf Ali                   Consultant                         SASDN       Technical
Anwar Ali Bhatti            Financial Analyst                  SACPK     Financial Mgmt
Mary-Ellen Foley            Operations Officer                ENVMP      Technical (MP)
Afzal Mahmood               Program Assistant                  SASDO Task Team Support
Hasan Masood Mirza          Consultant                         SACPK      Procurement
Ernesto Sanchez-Triana      Senior Environmental Engineer      SASDN Task Team Leader
Hasan Saqib                 Sr Financial Management Specialist SARFM     Financial Mgmt
Bert Veenendaal             International Consultant           SARES     Process Expert

Carla P. Vale de Holguin    Research Analyst                   SASDN     Support to ICR
                                                                            Review

Cecilia Belita              Senior Program Assistant           SASSD   Task Team Support
                                                                             (ICR)
Jack H. Williams            E T Temporary                      WBIVP Task Team Support



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle
                                       No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY94                                                                   30.25
   FY95                                                                   99.28
   FY96                                                                   92.17
   FY97                                                                   49.45
   FY98                                                                    0.00
   FY99                                                                    7.54
   FY00                                                                    0.04
   FY01                                                                    0.00
   FY02                                                                    0.00
   FY03                                                                    0.00
   FY04                                                                    0.00
   FY05                                                                    0.00



                                            21

 FY06                                                                    0.00
 FY07                                                                    0.00
                           Total:                                      271.15
Supervision/ICR
 FY94                                                                    0.00
 FY95
 FY96                                                                    0.00
 FY97                                                                   55.91
 FY98                                                                   78.56
 FY99                                                                  142.49
 FY00                                          46.94                   147.73
 FY01                                          14.22                   101.98
 FY02                                           9.84                    74.71
 FY03                                           8.81                    91.79
 FY04                                          15.88                   137.77
 FY05                                          27.49                   174.97
 FY06                                         113.18                   110.64
 FY07                                          17.79                   103.52
                           Total:             154.15                  1220.11
Note: Information on number of staffweeks for FY04-FY99 not available




                                             22

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                    23

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                  24

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR




               GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
               MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT
                          OZONE CELL
                                  ------




        PAKISTAN OZONE DEPLETING
   SUBSTANCES PHASE OUT PROJECT
           (FOAM AND REFRIGERATION SECTOR)
                Implementing Agency World Bank




       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                             29th June, 2007




                                   25

    PAKISTAN OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PHASE OUT PROJECT
                     (FOAM AND REFRIGERATION SECTOR)

                               COMPLETION REPORT

    (i)    Assessment of the operation's objective, design, implementation, and
           operational experience

OBJECTIVE

The objective of the project was to assist Pakistan in the transition from CFC-based
technology into non-CFC technology by:

    (i)    Supporting the Government of Pakistan's proposed program to phase out
           Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS);
    (ii)   Implementing cost-effective subprojects, identified in the Country Program
           (CP) for technical conversion; and
    (iii)  Building local capacity to identify, develop and implement ODS phase out
           subprojects.

The country strategy considered the possibility of taking advantage of the Multilateral
Fund (MLF) funds and assistance available for Article 5 countries of the Protocol. With
the MLF's resources and support of the United Nations Environmental Program (UNEP),
the Government of Pakistan developed the Country Programme (CP), which defined
actions to phase-out ODS. Also, with the support from United Nations Development
Program (UNDP), the Government of Pakistan created the Ozone Cell, Ministry of
Environment in 1996 to facilitate implementation of the CP. The project with the World
Bank also helped to receive MLF's resources for assistance in technical and financial
terms to support enterprises that wished to convert to non-ODS technologies. The
objective of the project followed the actions identified by the CP to achieve compliance
with the Montreal Protocol (MP).


DESIGN

The design of the project was based on the Country Program and was adequate. The CP
contained a first estimation of ODS consumption in Pakistan, that was developed using
end-user data for the refrigeration and foam sectors and import data for the Halons and
solvents sector. The CP established that refrigeration and foam were priority for
conversion for Pakistan. The ODS phase-out strategy in the CP gave responsibility to the
Government for increasing public awareness about use of ODS and to the enterprises for
converting to the non-ODS technology of their choice.

The project had two components - US$ 12.61 million for subprojects for enterprise
conversion to non-ODS technologies and US$ 0.39 million for payment of the fees of the
National Bank of Pakistan (NBP), which acted as Financial Intermediary (FI), for a total
of US$ 13 million. The design of the project also included umbrella sub-projects. The



                                            26

inclusion of umbrella projects strengthened the project's design because it set the basis
for cooperation and definition of targets in the reduction of ODS, while allowing
flexibility to provide financial support to the enterprises.

Identification and preparation of project document was carried out well in accordance
with the guidelines of Montreal Protocol and to the utmost satisfaction of the sub-project
beneficiaries within ambit of rules. Phase out of project was supported by the MLF
assistance, but in some cases the grant funding was not sufficient and the project
beneficiaries had to contribute from their own resources for the change in technology.

The implementation of the project took more than double time that was originally
envisioned. However, it was not because of the design but due to evidence arose during
project implementation that the estimates of ODS consumption contained in the CP were
inaccurate, as some important enterprises and sub-sectors had not been taken into
consideration. Keeping in view the need to include more enterprises and sub-sectors in
the country's strategy to comply with MP's obligations, the Government of Pakistan
prepared a Country Program Update (CPU) in 2003. The CPU developed a strategy to
phase-out controlled substances by 2010, as required by the MP. Based on the CPU, the
project's targets were revised to achieve compliance with the reduction of ODS as per
schedule envisaged in the MP.

IMPLEMENTATION

The novelty of non-CFC technologies reduced the interest for conversion of enterprises in
some sectors. For example, the availability of more than one technology in the
refrigeration sector delayed conversion due to the fact that the enterprises preferred to see
the experience of other firms with new technologies, and also to observe the trend of the
market for adopting any specific technology. Although the operational cost of the
cyclopentane was low, yet enterprises were reluctant to switch over to cyclopentane due
to safety concerns and high capital cost. Since in the beginning the prices of CFCs were
lower as compared to non-CFCs, the refrigeration industry was hesitant to switch over to
non-CFCs.


Another reason regarding slow implementation was frequent changes in MLF rules and
guidelines for the use of grants. The MLF Executive Committee issued new decisions and
guidelines on numerous occasions during project implementation. Several sub-projects
were already being implemented and it was at times difficult for these sub-projects to
comply with new decisions and guidelines without a delay in their implementation.

Besides above, the progress of the projects was hampered on a couple of occasions such
as the event of 9/11 in 2001 and merger of Financial Intermediary National Development
Finance Corporation (NDFC) with National Bank of Pakistan (NBP) in 2002.




                                              27

OPERATIONAL EXPERIENCE

The implementation of the project accelerated as the Government of Pakistan introduced
regulatory measures to provide more incentives for conversion to non-ODS technologies.
These regulatory measures reflected Pakistan's commitment to comply with the Montreal
Protocol. The regulations included the:-


        Introduction of an import authorization/licensing system in July 1998 to regulate
        and monitor the imports of ODS in the country.

        Adoption of the Import Policy Order in 1999 (SRO 895(1)99 Import policy,
        dated 3rd August, 1999).

        Putting in place in 2000 the regulation ECC-196/16/2000, dated 27th November,
        2000 that modified the custom duty tax in favor of CFC-free components and
        introduced a CFC quota reduction schedule.

        Prohibition established through SRO 489(I)2000 to import used compressors, air-
        conditioners, refrigerators and other second-hand household machines

        Imposition of ban on import of CFC-based refrigerators and deep freezers in
        fiscal year 2002 ­ 2003.

Ozone Cell, Ministry of Environment in collaboration with the Directorate General of
Training & Research (Customs) and the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization (UNIDO) also arranged training of 200 Customs officials to enhance their
capacity to curb illegal import of ODS. Besides, training of 3000 technicians in the
servicing sector under Refrigeration Management Plan (RMP) is also in progress through
UNIDO.


   (ii)    Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives;

Major target of the implementation of the project was achieved by assisting Pakistan to
convert the CFC-based technology into non-ODS technology. Financial and technical
assistance provided by MLF accelerated the implementation of the CPU. World Bank
implemented 17 cost-effective technical conversion sub-projects, and helped strengthen
the capacity of the Ozone Cell and NBP. As per CP, the project was originally expected
to help phase-out 640 MT of CFC in four and a half years. However finally, 1,243 MT of
CFCs (almost double the initial target) were phased-out over a period of ten years.

Out of 21 identified sub-projects, 17 sub-projects were implemented successfully and
CFC was phased out. Remaining 4 sub-projects were cancelled, as either enterprises
became bankrupt or went out of business.

As a result of the implementation of these sub-projects, the refrigeration and foam
industries in Pakistan have completely switched over to ozone friendly technology.


                                            28

Pakistan is in strong position to stay in compliance with its 2007 reduction obligations
after the technological conversion of these industries coupled with introduction of
regulatory measures taken by the Government to reduce the use of ODS.

    (iii)  Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the preparation
           and implementation of the operation, with special emphasis on lessons
           learned that may be helpful in the future;

The Ozone Cell, Ministry of Environment was created to facilitate and coordinate with
the implementing agencies for the implementation of the CP and CPU to fulfill
obligations under the MP. The capacity of the Ozone Cell was enhanced since its creation
to identify and manage technological conversion projects. The Cell had a good
coordination with the World Bank and NBP and provided adequate support to the NBP.

The NBP deputed adequate staff to work full time in the project, particularly in the initial
years. This helped the Financial Intermediary to provide services of high quality to the
enterprises that participated in the phase out program. It may be noted that NBP
consistently complied with its monitoring obligations and conducted disbursement and
procurement arrangements as required by the World Bank. NBP and the Ozone Cell
played a vital role through their dedicated and devoted efforts in the phase out plan under
the MP.

    (iv)   Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any co-financiers, or of other
           partners during the preparation and implementation of the operation,
           including the effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on
           lessons learned

The World Bank helped the Government of Pakistan to identify and prepare a total of 21
subprojects (including 4 umbrella projects) that comprised 80 small, medium and large
enterprises. It also helped in delivering resources and grants, and obtaining MLF approval
for these subprojects. The design of the subprojects was appropriate considering the
characteristics of the enterprises, the available technologies, and the industries' context.

The Bank carried out supervision missions regularly to ascertain timely implementation
of the projects. This helped to meet the project's ODS abatement goal and support
Government of Pakistan to manage project preparation and implementation.

    (v)    Description of the proposed arrangements for future operation of the
           project

The Government of Pakistan is fully committed to comply with its obligations under the
MP. Pakistan is ahead of its CFC phase-out schedule and the Government is making all
out efforts to remain in compliance. It includes continuing enforcement of regulatory
measures to control the end-use and supply of CFCs. Ozone Cell will periodically visit
the enterprises that have converted to non-CFC technology to ensure that they are
operating with the new ozone friendly technology.




                                              29

SUGGESTIONS:

1. Before closing the projects formally, final visits to the sub-projects may be carried out
   jointly by the Ozone Cell, Ministry of Environment, National Bank of Pakistan and
   World Bank to ensure that all the sub-projects are operating with new
   technology/equipment.

2. It would be appropriate if one of the team members from National Bank of Pakistan is
   allowed to continue coordination with the Ozone Cell for a period of at least six
   months for assistance, if any, required in connection with the completed projects.




                                            30

31

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

           Comments of the Financial Intermediary, the National Bank of Pakistan
                                Received during the ICR Mission

Quality Of Technical Appraisal:
NBP reported that some enterprises remarked that the technical appraisals performed by the
World Bank consultants did not fully provide for actual incremental costs with the result that
extra costs had to be borne by the enterprises.

Project Implementation Manual:
NBP was of the view that project implementation could have been speedier had an operational
manual been prepared for the guidance of the financial intermediary for project implementation
and the appraisal of the project.

Incentives and penalties:
NBP felt it did not have sufficient instruments at its disposal to enforce timely implementation by
subproject beneficiaries who could not be penalized for delay. NBP would have liked to have the
option of reducing, say, the reimbursement entitlement in respect of incremental operating cost or
alternatively enforcing a penalty for delay, paid for from enterprise entitlements. In the absence of
such wherewithal, NBP is of the view that much of the overall delay in project implementation
remained outside of its control. It is felt that this contention would be moot had there been
adequate regulatory compulsion.

Technical Training for Staff:
NBP suggested that there should have been provision for basic technical training of its staff,
relative to the technological issues relevant to process conversion in various sub-sectors. Initially
NBP faced problems in understanding the technical issues/terms related to conversion. However,
after hiring of a National Consultant this problem was resolved. This also helped the World Bank
in identifying new eligible projects for conversion.

Supervision Frequency:
NBP made the comment that frequent Bank supervision missions were critical in supporting
implementation. Two per year was considered optimal.

Canceled Projects and Compensation:
NBP is of the view that all the work they did for a project should have been compensated, even if
the project was eventually cancelled.     This did not happen in the two cases where the projects
were cancelled and NBP received no compensation, although it had undertaken a financial
appraisal and other activities. In this regard, NBP expressed its dissatisfaction with the
disbursement-fee arrangement. In their opinion, it would have been preferable to anticipate such
situations by adding a clause for compensation in such special cases. From the perspective of the
World Bank and the MLF, however, it is clear that a disbursement-based fee arrangement is to be
preferred, both from the standpoint of simplicity, and because it ensures that fees are tied to
performance. It entails some risk for NBP, but it may be noted that they have again accepted a
disbursement-tied fee arrangement.

Incremental Operating Cost (IOC) Disbursement:
Finally, it was observed that IOC disbursements were problematic until the Bank decision to link
IOC disbursement to actual expenditures for raw material purchases.



                                                 32

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  1. The World Bank. Report No. 14990-PAK. Pakistan Montreal Protocol ODS Phase Out
     Project, in the form of a Memorandum and Recommendation, Country Department I
     Director to the Regional Vice President (South Asia Region). January 15, 1997.
  2. OTF Grant Number TF-028200-PAK. Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant Agreement
     between Islamic Republic of Pakistan and International Bank for Reconstruction and
     Development, Acting as Trustee of the Ozone Projects Trust Fund. February 7, 1997.
  3. Amendment
  4. Montreal Protocol Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-Out Project: Mid-Term Review.
     Aide Memoire ­ September 13-17, 2004.
  5. The World Bank and the Ozone Cell, Ministry of Environment, Government of Pakistan.
     The Islamic Republic of Pakistan: Country Programme Update. December 2003.
  6. Other documents kept in Project Files and in Iris, including subproject completion reports.




                                            33

Annex 10. Additional Annexes


                                                      Table 10.1 List of Subprojects and Associated Performance



                                                                                                                                    Counter-part
                                                                                                             Funding     Funding                Cost Effective-  Total Cost
                        Enterprise Name                       CFC to     CFC Phased Date of MLF  Date of                             Funding
                                                                                                            Approved    Disbursed                ness (US$ per Effective-ness
                                                           Phaseout (MT) Out (MT)    Approval   Completion                          Disbursed
                                                                                                             (US$)       (US$)                        kg)       (US$ per kg)
                                                                                                                                      (US$)


       1Refrigerators Manufacturing Company Pakistan Ltd.              -          -   Nov-98     Cancelled   Returned             -           -              -              -
       2United Refrigeration Industries Ltd.                           -          -    Jul-98    Cancelled   Returned             -           -              -              -
       3Dawlance P. Ltd.                                               -          -    Jul-98    Cancelled   Returned             -           -              -              -
       4Domestic Appliances Ltd. (DAL)                                 -          -   May-96     Cancelled   Returned             -           -              -              -
        Pakistan Air-conditioning Engineering Co. P. Ltd.,
       5(PAECO)                                                       20         20   Dec-00      Aug-05        176,681     176,681      70,619          8.97          12.55
       6Mumtaz Engineers                                              14         14   Dec-00      Nov-05        204,736     182,866      18,800         13.16          14.51
       7Diamond Group of Industries                                   64         64   Nov-97      Feb-05        563,339     558,939     146,113          8.72          11.00
       8Master Group                                                 205        205    Jul-95     Feb-05      1,211,000   1,204,000     465,000          5.87            8.14
       9Jaguar Industries                                             40         40   Nov-99      Jun-05        279,280     273,667      55,000          6.84            8.22
      10Singer Pakistan Ltd.                                          18         18   Nov-97      Jul-04        205,893     205,893     238,225         11.57          24.95

      11Synthetic Products Enterprises (Pvt) Ltd. (SPEL)             14          14   Nov-97      Jan-02        160,625     136,829           -         10.06          10.06
      12Kold Kraft Ltd.                                              12          12   Nov-97      Dec-02        175,000     171,435       8,500         14.91          15.65
      13United Foam Industries                                       29          29   Nov-98      Dec-01        178,200     178,200      32,500          6.23            7.37
      14Saleem Automotive Industries Ltd.                             3           3   Nov-98      Mar-99         33,875      31,603           -         12.64          12.64
      15Shadman Electronic Industries P. Ltd.                         16         16    Jul-98     Nov-02        236,936     236,936      24,450         15.26          16.83
      16Razi Sons                                                     60         60   Nov-95      Nov-02        493,262     493,274      59,000          8.22            9.20
      17Umbrella project: Thermoware I                               240        240   Nov-97      Oct-06      1,600,000   1,390,525      52,000          5.80            6.02
      18Terminal umbrella: Thermoware II                             106        106    Jul-98     Oct-06        718,900     557,052           -          5.27            5.27
      19Cool Industries Ltd. (Waves)                                 118        118   Nov-97      Dec-06        841,750     841,750     506,000          7.13          11.42
        Foam Umbrella: Pakistan Insulation, Simpson Wire,
        HEPCO, Indus Plastic, Workman, Thermocraft
      20Engineering                                                  107        107   Dec-03      Dec-06        658,973     646,643     172,923          6.04            7.66
        Refrigeration Umbrella: Dawlance, United
      21Refrigeration, Ice Age, 29 small enterprises                 181        181   Apr-04      Dec-06      1,126,855   1,077,691   1,110,512          5.95          12.09
        TOTAL                                                      1,243      1,243                           8,865,305   8,363,984   2,959,642          6.73            9.11




                                                                                      34

                      Table 10.2 Subproject Approvals and Completion by Year

Subprojects 1995 1996 1997          1998 1999   2000  2001    2002  2003  2004 2005   2006 Total

Approved       2       1       6     7      1    2      --      --    1    1     --     --  21
Physical       --      --      --    --     1    --     1       4     --   1     5      5   17
and
Financial
completion



                                  Table 10. 3 Subproject size in US$*

No.                          Size Range                           Count      Percentage
 1    Less than $100K                                                     1         5.90
 2    $100K - $199K                                                      4         23.52
 3    $200K - $499K                                                      5         29.41
 4    $500K - $1,000K                                                    4         23.52
 5    More than $1,000K                                                   3        17.65
      TOTAL                                                              17       100.00
*Excludes 4 cancelled subprojects.




                                              35

36

