Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
OTF GRANT NUMBER TF 028200 PAK
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND
GRANT AGREEMENT
(Montreal Protocol Ozone Depleting
Substances Phase-Out Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Ozone Projects
Trust Fund
Dated  February 7, 1997
OTF GRANT NUMBER TF 028200 PAK
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1997, between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
acting by its President (the "Recipient") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT, acting as Trustee of grant funds provided by Parties 
to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer into the Ozone 
Projects Trust Fund ("OTF") (the "Trustee").
WHEREAS (A) The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
"Bank"), pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors 
of the Bank (the "Resolution"), established a Facility, including the OTF, to assist 
in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound 
and sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B) The Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the 
Ozone Layer to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer have 
established the Interim Multilateral Fund (the "Fund") for the Implementation of the 
Montreal Protocol to operate under the authority of the said Parties to provide the 
financing of agreed incremental costs to enable the Parties operating under paragraph 
1 of Article 5 of the Protocol to comply with control measures provided for in the 
Protocol;
WHEREAS (C) The Executive Committee of the Fund (the "Executive Committee") and 
the Bank have entered into an agreement effective on July 9, 1991, pursuant to which 
the Executive Committee has agreed to provide funds into the OTF to be administered by 
the Bank as Trustee in accordance with the provisions of the said agreement and the 
Resolution;
WHEREAS (D) The Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested 
Page  2
assistance from the resources of the OTF in the financing of the Project, and the 
Trustee has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions 
of the Resolution; and
WHEREAS (E) The Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend a grant (the "OTF Grant") to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the "General Conditions") 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (g), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
The term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
(ii)
The term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
The term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
The term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the OTF Grant; and
(v)
The term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the OTF Grant Account.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Country Program" means the Recipient’s Country Program for the Phase-Out 
of Ozone-Depleting Substances, substantially conforming to the draft dated January 
1996 satisfactory to the Trustee;
Page  3
(b)
"ELG&RD" means the Recipient’s Ministry of Environment, Local Government 
and Rural Development;
(c)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Recipient’s fiscal years, which period commences on July 1 and ends on June 30 in 
each calendar year;
(d)
"NDFC" means the National Development Finance Corporation of Pakistan, a 
legal entity established and existing under the Recipient’s National Development 
Finance Corporation Act (XIII) of 1973, as amended from time to time;
(e)
"MOA" means the Memorandum of Agreement to be entered into among MOF, 
ELG&RD and NDFC referred to in Section 3.01(b)  of this Agreement;
(f)
"MOF" means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance;
(g)
"ODS" means ozone depleting substances;
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(i)
"Subgrant" means a grant to be provided under a Subgrant Agreement to 
finance a Subproject;
(j)
"Subgrant Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.05 of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"Subproject" means a project, selected and prepared in accordance with 
the Operating Policy Guidelines and approved by the Trustee or the Executive 
Committee, as the case may be, consisting of investments and other activities eligible 
under the Protocol which result in reduction of ODS use or in the substitution of 
non-ozone depleting technologies for ozone depleting technologies; 
(l)
"Subproject Beneficiary" means any private or public sector entity which 
shall carry out a Subproject, using a portion of the proceeds of the OTF Grant; and
(m)
"Operating Policy Guidelines" or "OPG" means the guidelines prepared by 
the Recipient, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, for the 
preparation and implementation of Subprojects to phase out ozone-depleting substances 
financed under the OTF, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Trustee.
ARTICLE II
The OTF Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the OTF Grant in an 
amount in various currencies not to exceed the equivalent of thirteen million dollars 
($13,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the OTF Grant may be withdrawn from the OTF 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project, and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant.
(b) 
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank and on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure 
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. NDFC is hereby designated as representative of the Recipient for 
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement, except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purposes of the 
Project from the Executive Committee referred to in WHEREAS Clause (C) of the Preamble 
to this  Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)  The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project through MOF,  ELG&RD and NDFC with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, and 
financial practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing, the Recipient 
shall, through MOF and ELG&RD, enter into a memorandum of agreement with NDFC, 
satisfactory to the Trustee, appointing NDFC as the financial intermediary on behalf 
of the Recipient for purposes of the Project, and delineating the respective 
responsibilities of MOF and ELG&RD, on the one hand, and NDFC, on the other hand, 
under the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and services required for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the OTF Grant, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. On the basis of the MOA, the Recipient shall cause NDFC, as the 
financial intermediary of the Recipient, to make a portion of the proceeds of the OTF 
Grant available to each Subproject Beneficiary to carry out its respective Subproject, 
under the Project, under a Subgrant Agreement, which shall have been approved by the 
Trustee, to be entered into between NDFC and each Beneficiary in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.05 of, and Schedule 4 to, this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, 
Operating Policy Guidelines, satisfactory to the Trustee, setting forth the terms and 
conditions and related procedures for the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of 
Subprojects and the contracting, processing, financing and monitoring the carrying out 
of Subprojects, which Operating Policy Guidelines shall include, inter alia, a model 
Subgrant Agreement satisfactory to the Trustee.
(b)
When submitting a Subproject to the Trustee, for approval of the Trustee 
or the Executive Committee (as the case may be, pursuant to Subparagraphs 2 (b) and 
(c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement), the Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee an 
application, in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee, containing inter alia: 
(a) an appraisal of the Subproject, and a description of the expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant; (b) a detailed description of how 
such Subproject meets the Operating Policy Guidelines; and (c) such other information 
as the Trustee or the Executive Committee shall reasonably request in respect of such 
Subproject.
Section 3.05. (a) The Recipient shall cause NDFC to enter into a Subgrant 
Agreement with each Subproject Beneficiary, under terms and conditions consistent with 
the Decisions of the Executive Committee and acceptable to the Trustee, including 
those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, providing for the transfer, on a 
grant basis, of the proceeds of the OTF Grant allocated to such Subproject 
Beneficiary’s Subproject and the obligation of the Subproject Beneficiary to carry out 
such Subproject.  The Trustee shall promptly inform the Recipient of any Decision of 
the Executive Committee, issued after the date of this Agreement, which will affect 
the terms and conditions of any Subgrant Agreement.
(b)
The Recipient shall cause NDFC to exercise its rights under the Subgrant 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient, NDFC and the 
Trustee and to accomplish the purposes of the OTF Grant, and, except as the Trustee 
shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not permit NDFC to assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive the Subgrant Agreement or any part thereof.
Section 3.06. For each Subproject approved by the Trustee in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement, NDFC shall be entitled to an agency fee in an amount not 
to exceed the equivalent of three percent (3%) of the amounts disbursed under each 
Subgrant Agreement, such fee to be paid out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant as 
Page  5
follows: (a) one percent (1%) of the Subgrant amount after approval of the Subproject 
by the Trustee; and (b) the remaining two percent (2%), pro-rata, on the dates of 
disbursement of the Subgrant proceeds under the Subgrant Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Recipient shall, at least during the execution of the Project, 
maintain within ELG&RD, responsible for the overall management and coordination of the 
implementation of the Project, qualified staff in adequate numbers and with all 
necessary resources.
Section 3.08. The Recipient and NDFC shall, starting six (6) months after the 
Effective Date and until the completion of the Project, carry out semiannual reviews, 
jointly with the Trustee, to monitor progress in Project implementation, including the 
need for adjustments to the MOA, the OPG, and the model Subgrant Agreement, when such 
amendments shall be deemed to be necessary to achieve Project objectives.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall maintain an Ozone Cell within ELG&RD with 
staff, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee.
Section 3.10. The Recipient shall through ELG&RD ensure that Subprojects 
submitted to the Trustee conform to the Country Program and adopt cost-effective 
technologies in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Trustee.  Provided, 
however, that nothing herein shall preclude the Recipient from proposing, and the 
Trustee from considering, for financing out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant, 
Subprojects which shall not have been included in the Country Program but which shall 
otherwise in all respects have qualified as Subprojects within the meaning of the term 
set forth in Section 1.02 (k) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall:
 (i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the departments, agencies or entities (including, but 
without limitation, NDFC) of the Recipient responsible for 
carrying out the Project or any part thereof; and
(ii)
cause each Subproject Beneficiary to maintain records and separate 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of such 
Subproject Beneficiary in respect of its Subproject.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information con-cerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the OTF Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one (1) year after 
the Trustee has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in 
which the last withdrawal from the OTF Grant Account was made, all 
Page  6
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely:
(a)
The Recipient, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of NDFC, or for the 
suspension of its operations;
(b)
The Recipient, or any other authority, shall have taken any action, 
including but without limitation, the enactment or issuance of legislation or 
regulations, which, in the opinion of the Trustee, may adversely affect, prevent or 
interfere with the carrying out of the Project, or any part thereof or the performance 
by NDFC of any of its obligations under this Agreement; or
(c)
NDFC shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations under 
the MOA.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement:
(a)
the Operating Policy Guidelines have been issued; and
(b)
the MOA has been duly executed on behalf of the Recipient, acting through  
MOF and ELG&RD, and on behalf of NDFC.
Section 6.02.  The following matter is specified as an additional matter, within 
the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the 
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Trustee, namely, that the MOA has been duly 
authorized or ratified by MOF and ELG&RD on behalf of the Recipient and by NDFC and is 
legally binding upon each party in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03.  The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.04.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until parties to this 
Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs 
Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section 
Officer in the Economic Affairs Division of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  7
For the Recipient:
Secretary to the Government
 of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:
Telex:
ECONOMIC
ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By  /s/  Mansoor Elahi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Trustee of the Ozone Projects Trust Fund
By  /s/  Fakhruddin Ahmed
Acting Director, Country Department I
South Asia Region 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the OTF Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the OTF Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
  OTF Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
   Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Subgrants
12,610,000
(a)  Goods 
100% of  foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
Page  8
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally
(b)  Consultants’
100%
       services
(2)
NDFC Agency 
    390,000
Amounts due pursuant
Fee
to Section 3.06
of this Agreement
TOTAL  
13,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
 (a) 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made 
up to $1,300,000  in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after December 18, 1992;
 (b) 
under a Subproject estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, 
unless the Executive Committee has approved such Subproject;
(c)
under a Subproject estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$500,000, unless the Trustee has approved such Subproject; and
(d)
under any Subproject, unless the respective Subgrant Agreement has been 
entered into between the parties thereto.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
OTF Grant Account was used for any expenditure not eligible for financing under this 
Schedule or used in any manner not consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee, for 
deposit into the OTF Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the 
portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
5.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Trust Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for goods not 
exceeding $200,000 equivalent, under contracts with consultants’ firms not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent, and under contracts with individual consultants not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.
6.
Without limitation on any other provision hereof, import duties and other direct 
taxes are not eligible for grant funding.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in the effort to reduce 
ODS consumption in Pakistan.
The Project consists of the following, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Subgrants
1.
Provision of Subgrants for Subprojects in all ODS user and production industries 
including refrigeration/air conditioning, foam, aerosols, solvents and halons; and
Page  9
2.
Provision of Subgrants for Subprojects for non-ODS production; ODS closure; and 
switching from ODS to non-ODS technology. 
*               *               *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $13,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any  bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan 
for the project shall be furnished to the Trustee for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Trustee and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.  NDFC will review contracts estimated to cost $200,000 
equivalent or more and the Trustee will review contracts estimated to cost $1,000,000 
equivalent or more.  Prior review will be carried out for all proprietary items.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  10
Section II.
Employment of  Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other 
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of Subgrants 
1.
The Recipient shall select and submit Subprojects, for approval by the Trustee, 
in accordance with the Operating Policy Guidelines.
2.
For the purpose of carrying out Subprojects, the Recipient shall make available 
a portion of the Grant to Subproject Beneficiaries under Subgrant agreements to be 
entered into between the Recipient, represented by NDFC and each of the Subproject 
Beneficiaries upon terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Trustee, including the 
following:
Terms and Conditions of Subgrants:
Subgrants shall be provided on terms whereby the Recipient shall obtain, through 
the Subgrant Agreements, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Trustee and 
the Recipient, including but without limitation, the right to:
(a)
require the Subproject Beneficiary to carry out and operate the 
Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial, environmental and ecological standards;
(b)
require that:
(i)
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
OTF Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(ii)
such goods and services shall be used exclusively for the purposes 
and in furtherance of the objectives of the Project;
(c)
require the Subproject Beneficiary to comply with obligations similar to 
the financial covenants set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
(d)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Trustee, if the 
Trustee shall so request, the goods and plants included in the Subproject, the 
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(e)
require that:
(i)
The Subproject Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practices; and
(ii)
Without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall 
cover the hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and 
Page  11
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant to 
the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be 
made payable in a currency freely useable by the Subproject 
Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
(f)
obtain all such information as the Trustee shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Subproject Beneficiary and to the benefits derived from the 
Subproject;
(g)
obtain upon demand the refund of any part of the proceeds of the OTF 
Grant (together with payment of interest thereon at the commercial rate from the date 
of payment until repayment thereof) which, in the opinion of the Recipient or the 
Trustee, has been misused by the Subproject Beneficiary; and
(h)
suspend or terminate the right of the Subproject Beneficiary to the use 
of the proceeds of the OTF Grant upon failure by the Subproject Beneficiary to perform 
its obligations under the Subgrant Agreement.
3.
The extent of funding provided for Subprojects through Subgrants shall be 
proportional to ownership of the equity of the Subproject Beneficiary by Pakistani 
nationals or nationals from developing countries, determined in accordance with 
methodology and criteria acceptable to the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term "Eligible Category" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the OTF Grant allocated from time to time to the Eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to five 
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) to be withdrawn from the OTF Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the OTF Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the OTF Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the OTF Grant Account under the respective Eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
Page  12
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
If, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the OTF Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the OTF Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the OTF Grant allocated to the 
Eligible Category, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into 
by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the OTF Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the OTF Grant allocated to the Eligible Category shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Trustee, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee:
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; 
or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall 
so request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Trustee into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the OTF Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  13
