Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14647
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING (ELECTRICITY) PROJECT
(LOAN 2594-ECT)
JUNE 26, 1995
Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound (EP)
October 1985: US$1 = EP 1.25
October 1994: US$1 = EP 3.36
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
CNTI -       Cairo North Training Institute
CSTI  -      Cairo South Training Institute
DC    -       Distribution Company
EDA   -       Electricity Distribution Authority
EEA   -       Egypt Electricity Authority
GTZ   -      Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICB    -      International Competitive Bidding
ICR   -       Implementation Completion Report
ILO    -      International Labor Organization
ITI    -     Instructor Training Institute
LCB   -      Local Competitive Bidding
MOE  -        Ministry of Education
MOEE -        Ministry of Electricity and Energy
SCTC  -      Swedish Commission for Technical Cooperation
TC    -      Training Center
TI    -       Training Institute



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface ....................................                                               i
Evaluation Summary .................................... ii
PART I.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives .1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives.                                          3
C. Implementation Record.                                                      4
D.  Project Sustainability.                                                    7
E. Bank Performance.                                                           8
F.  Borrower's Performance.                                                    8
G. Assessment of Outcome .9
H. Future Operation .10
T.  Key Lessons Leaned .10
PART II.  STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .14
Table 3: Project Timetable .15
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .15
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Projec Operation .17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .18
Table 8A: Project Costs ...........................  18
Table 8B:  Project Financing ...........................  18
Table 9:   Allocation of Loan Proceeds ...........................             19
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ..........        .................  20
Table 11:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .............      ..............  20
ATTACHMENTS
Annex 1:  ICR Mission Aide-Memoire ......................  22
Annex 2:  End of Project Report - EEA  ......................  26
Annex 3:  End of Project Report - EDA .............        ..............  29
MAP No. 18755
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING (ELECTRICITY) PROJECT (LOAN 2594-EGT
Preface
This is the Inplementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Vocational Training (Electricity)
Project (Ln.2594-EGT) in the Arab Republic of Egypt, for which a loan in the amount of US$19.3 million
equivalent was approved on June 25, 1985 and made effective on February 20, 1987.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1994, twelve months after the original closing date. Final
disbursement took place onNovember 14, 1994, at which time a balance of US$1,223,910.58 was
cancelled. Cofmancing for the project (US$7.3 million) was provided by Deutsche Gesellschaft fur
Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) -- US$4.5 million equivalent, and the Swedish Commission for
Technical Cooperation (SCTC) -- US$2.8 million equivalent.
The ICR was prepared by the Human Resources Division (MN2HR) of the Middle East and North
Africa Region and reviewed by Messrs. Jacques Baudouy (Division Chief) and Gianni Brizzi, Project
Advisor of Country Department HI.
Preparation of the ICR began in September 1994 during the completion mission. The report is
based on material in the project files and from information gathered during the ICR mission. The Borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing end of project reports which have been included as
appendices to the report.






- ii -
VOCATIONAL TRAINING (ELECTRICITY) PROJECT
(LOAN 2594-EGT)
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The Vocational Training (Electricity) project was initiated as a response to the Government's
decision to address severe shortages of skilled manpower in the electrical power sector, through manpower
planning and recruitment of an adequate number of well trained staff. Emphasis was placed on improving
the quality and relevance of training programs, distributing training opportunities equitably and
strengthening the institutional base for manpower development. To address the critical manpower training
needs, the project was designed to support the Egypt Electricity Authority (EEA), a publicly owned
enterprise, responsible for almost all electricity generation and primary transmnission, as well as the
Electricity Distribution Authority (EDA), which is responsible for electricity distribution and customer
services throughout eight distribution regions of the country.
In support of the Government's efforts to meet its priority needs in Education, the Bank has
financed six education and training projects (Part II, Table 2 refers). With the exception of the last project
(Basic Education Inprovement Project - Cr.2476), all operations have contributed to expanding and
upgrading training for managers, technicians, skilled and semi-skilled workers. Moreover, under the Third
Power Project (Loan 1886/Cr. 1052-EGT - which became effective in July 1981), additional manpower
training and development was financed. Four of the education projects as well as the Third Power project
have been completed satisfactorily, and two operations are still ongoing.
Proiect Obiectives
The main objectives of the Vocational Training (Electricity) Project were to alleviate the shortage
of trained manpower in the sector, and to develop a training capability within the Ministry of Electricity
and Energy (MOEE) to upgrade the skills of its engineers, technicians and skilled craftsmen each year (Part
I, para. 5).
To support these objectives, the project was to enhance the training capability of the EEA and
EDA through the establishment of four multipurpose (skilled craftsmen, technicians, and engineers)
training institutes (TIs); and six single purpose (skilled craftsmen) training centers (TCs) (Part I, Para. 10).
The Bank, at the request of the EEA, approved an amendment of the project description in 1991 to include
equipping of the Cairo North Training Institute (CNTI). This center was previously supported by
Canadian bilateral assistance, and it provides training for instructors of the TCs, with specialized courses
in instrumentation and control.
Implementation Experience and Results
The Experience. The project's implementation phase was postponed by one and a half years due to
initial delays in the loan signing and effectiveness process. Lack of a project preparation facility (PPF) to
finance start up activities also contributed to delays. Civil works also experienced delays due to soil test
results which necessitated changing sites and other construction issues which further postponed project



- iii -
start up (para 14 [i]). Moreover, the procurement of equipment, particularly for the EEA component of the
project encountered major delays through misunderstandings by counterpart implementation staff over the
Bank's guidelines and regulations, as well as problems with suppliers (para 14 [ii]). The processing of
bidding documents and providing approvals to procure was turned over to the Bank's resident staff in
Egypt to improve the procurement process (paras 18,23).
The technical assistance program was very successful and provided the project with the necessary
training opportunities to fulfill its major objectives (para 14.[iii]). Bilateral agreements between the
Government of Egypt, Sweden and Germany in support of the Bank project were signed with the EEA in
February 1987 (para. 11). Under these agreements, GTZ (Germany) undertook the training program for the
Fayid TC while BITS (Sweden) trained twelve engineers and fifteen technicians in Sweden who returned to
serve at the Aswan TC. EDA engineers and technicians (two groups of 47 instructors) were trained in
France at the Electricite de France (EDF). A study on manpower training for the sector and one on training
needs for the EEA and EDA were completed by expert services from the Irish Electricity Supply Board
(IESB - also known as the Electricity Supply Board International) and EDF experts respectively. The
recommendations were used by the agencies in finalizing their ongoing and long-range training programs.
Two senior EEA officials also benefitted from training at the ILO's Turin center in Italy for one month.
There was a large proiect cost underrun (almost $15.0 million or 43% of total project costs) as
appraisal estimates of physical and price contingencies were incorrect. The Bank loan was used to procure
additional equipment for the centers and also for an additional (non-Bank appraised) center, the CNTI.
Overall disbursement performance was considerably below appraisal targets because of civil works and
equipment procurement delays (Part II, Table 4).
Results. All facilities have been constructed and equipped. The project has also contributed
significantly to the agencies current and future manpower training goals. The successful completion of
technical assistance activities was one of the most positive outcomes of the project.
The experts who were commissioned to review the training needs of the EDA and EEA prepared plans
which encompassed the human resources planning activity applicable to all employees of the public
electricity generation and distribution companies and their staff. This work enabled the MOEE to prepare
an overall staff training and development policy for this sector.
Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
Findings. The project has achieved its primary goal of strengthening Egypt's capacity to meet
manpower training requirements of and upgrade skills in the electrical power sector (paras.24-26). In spite
of delays during its implementation phase, its outcome is satisfactory, with major objectives fulfilled and
good prospects for sustainability. In retrospect, the coordination and management of the EEA and EDA
components through the use of a project coordinator, did not materialize. As a result,
there was some duplication of administrative tasks for both components.
The full impact of the project's quantitative and qualitative benefits are difficult to assess at this
stage as some training centers and equipment were commissioned up to three years later than expected at
appraisal.
Key Lessons Learned. In retrospect, the project's implementation phase provided the following
insights:
(a)    efficiencies in project administration and sector development could have been
enhanced if the project had been successful in forging a more solid



- iv -
collaboration between project-financed agencies which have similar functions in
developing sectoral priorities (paras.7,17);
(b)     flexibility in project design and Bank agreement to amend the loan to facilitate
evolving needs of the sector and the beneficiaries, was important to the successful
implementation of project objectives (paras.6,15);
(c)    the transfer of responsibility for procurement to the resident mission helped with
project implementation in the second half of the project's life (para. 15);
(d)     counterpart staff training in Bank procurement guidelines and procedures is
critical to effective implementation;
(e)     when funding for the start up of project activities is not possible (for example
through the use of a PPF), some type of bridge financing is useful (perhaps
through a UNDP grant) to initiate critical activities, such as soil testing and
experts to assist with the specifications for buildings and equipment (para. 13);
and
(f)    technical assistance activities supported by different donors should be carefully designed
and coordinated to avoid duplication of tasks (paras.7,19).



l



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING (ELECTRICITY) PROJECT
(LOAN 2594-EGT)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Obiectives
Sector Background
1.           In 1984 when this project was designed, it was estimated that peak demand for electricity
in Egypt would rise by about 10% per annum between 1984 and 1990. It was determined that in order to
meet the growing demand for electricity and to provide adequate service to the consumers, the power sector
would have to overcome, inter alia, the constraint of a severe shortage of skilled manpower. It was
therefore decided that a concerted effort should be made to implement an effective and realistic manpower
planning and staffing policy for the sector.
2.            The main issues that were encountered in attempting to improve the sector's manpower
planning and staffing initiatives were related to the recruitment and retention of a sufficient number of
competent and experienced staff. Specifically, these issues were the:
(a)    Shortages of skilled manpower: the lack of qualified manpower to sustain growth in the
sector and to improve productivity and efficiency in electricity generation and distribution;
(b)    Shortages of instructional staff: the shortage of well-trained and experienced instructors
for conducting training activities; and
(c)    Coordination of training activities: the coordination of training plans and efforts among
the various sector agencies engaged in training.
Government Initiatives
3.            At the time of the project's development, the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-1987)
emphasized the rapid development of skilled manpower required for the country's economic development.
Emphasis was placed on increasing the provision of industrial training programs; improving the quality
and relevance of the skills of the new and existing labor force; providing training opportunities where they
are needed with special attention to the needs of the regions; and strengthening the institutional base for
manpower development. The Egypt Electricity Authority (EEA) was a pioneer in the manpower training
arena since the early 1980s, having established two training institutes (Cairo North and South). It is a
publicly owned enterprise, responsible for almost all electricity generation and primary transmission. To
sustain its efforts, EEA secured bilateral assistance from the United Kingdom. The Electricity Distribution
Authority (EDA) is a holding company for the seven publicly owned distribution companies (DCs),
responsible for electricity distribution and customer services through the distribution regions of the
country.



-2-
Bank lending strategy
4.            To support the Government's efforts in developing skilled manpower and other related
goals, a total of six education and training projects were approved by the Bank for Egypt in the period
1977 to 1993 (Part II, Table 2 refers). Four completed projects were implemented satisfactorily and two
are ongoing. In addition to projects which were specifically designed for the education and training sector,
the Bank also supported manpower training under the Third Power Project which assisted the EEA in
taking initial and essential steps to address the problem of manpower training and development by
financing international consultants to help develop a five-year training plan. The four completed projects
focussed on expanding and upgrading the training of managers, technicians, and skilled and semi-skilled
works in industrial, agricultural, construction and commercial trades, and expanding and improving teacher
and instructor training in selected areas.
Project Objectives and Design
5.            The Vocational Training (Electricity) Project's main focus was designed to alleviate the
shortage of trained manpower in the electrical power sector and raise the quality of existing staff by
developing a training capability within the Ministry of Electricity and Energy (MOEE) which would enable
it to:
(a)    produce each year approximately 530 additional skilled craftsmen and 120 technicians for
the electrical power sector;
(b)    provide a practical training program for orienting and introducing approximately 90 new
electrical engineers per year in the electrical power sector; and
(c)    provide in-service training for upgrading each year about 250 engineers, 500 technicians,
and 1,500 skilled craftsmen.
These objectives were consistent with both Government and Bank strategy for the sector.
6.            The project's design included support for the two authorities of the MOEE - the EEA and
the EDA - by (i) constructing and equipping seven new training institutes (two for EEA and five for EDA);
extending and equipping two existing training institutes for EDA; equipping one existing EEA institute;
and (ii) implementing an institutional development program for improving the quality of manpower
training in the electrical power sector, including the development for the training institutes of EEA and
EDA of courses and teaching materials and of management and planning policies and procedures; the
training of master instructors of these training institutes; and a study of the manpower training needs of the
sector. In response to a request from the EEA, the Bank approved an amendment of the project description
in April 1992 to include equipping of the Cairo North Training Institute (CNTI). This center, supported in
the past by Canadian bilateral assistance, is a central training unit which provides training for future
instructors of the TCs and also provides specialized courses for trainees in the area of instrumentation and
control.
7.            Although the project's design did anticipate the need to establish common implementation
mechanisms between the two implementing agencies, the lack of coordination between the EEA and EDA
resulted in inefficiencies in the implementation of certain ongoing project activities. In particular, there
was a lack of coordination in: (i) progress and audit reporting as well as the use of a single special account;
(ii) use of technical assistance, e.g., two groups of consultant experts, who produced similar reports of the
sector which generated some initial confusion with respect to their separate terms of reference; and (iii)
donor support.



8.            The project was prepared by the Government subsequent to a Bank identification mission
in July 1984 and a preparation assistance mission in October 1984. It was appraised in December 1984.
To underpin project preparation arrangements, agreements were reached during loan negotiations on civil
works (preliminary drawings, site plans and cost estimates) at the EDA training center at Dokki; detailed
furniture and equipment lists for all project items; terms of reference for project consultants and the
fellowship training plans. During implementation, these early start-up actions proved to be insufficient in
some instances where site selection and acquisition issues, as well as problems resulting from soil test
analyses delayed construction. Moreover, early training of the project's implementation staff, particularly
in Bank procurement methods, was not foreseen as a critical factor for efficient project implementation.
B. Achievement of Proiect Obiectives
9.             This report's statistical annex (Part II, Table 6) entitled Key Indicators for Project
Operation, documents the training places, estimated and actual output capability by training facilities, and
highlights project achievements. The project has contributed to enhancing the training capability of the
MOEE as well as preservice and inservice training programs at the EEA and EDA project-financed centers.
At the EEA, training for technicians and engineers has reached a total output of 953 trainees for the
1993/94 period against a plan of 1300 at full development. Full project development is now estimated to
be around November 1996. At the EDA, the training staff now comprises 116 trainers, with seven
directors of training units. These directors were trained in France as well as forty-three general trainers.
Seventy-one others have been trained as general or practical trainers in Egypt. All have received
pedagogical training, followed by an examination.
10.           Additionally, the project achieved the following:
(a)    seven training facilities (EEA - Fayid and Aswan; EDA - Cairo, Alexandria, Aswan,
Minya, and Ismailia) were constructed and equipped; '
(b)    two existing training centers (EDA - Tanta and Dokki) were extended/renovated and
equipped;
(c)    two existing training institutions (EEA - Abu Qir and CNTI) were equipped; and
(d)    technical assistance to support the foregoing investments, was provided which included
fellowship training and specialists' services to assist with the preparation of equipment list
and other specifications, the preparation of training programs that were executed, future
training programs, studies on manpower training needs for the electrical power sector, the
training of local staff, as well as a training development and management plan (paras. 14
iii, iv).
11.           Amendment of the loan agreement facilitated implementation of project objectives. The
loan was amended (in July 1991) to reallocate US$1.36 million from the civil works category of the loan to
the equipment and furniture category. This was possible as Govenmment decided to fnance all civil works.
Another amendment in April 1992 (noted in para.6 above) permitted the inclusion of the CNTI as a project
financed TC, which facilitated the acquisition of instrumentation and control equipment for the center
which needed to be upgraded so as to keep pace with the electrical generation control being used in modem
1/ Equipped centers were also provided with fiuniture.



- 4 -
generating plants. The need for this equipment was highlighted in the Bank-financed electricity sector
training needs study and during the donors' seminar for the sector, in May 1991.
12.           Bilateral Support was also instrumental in ensuring the achievement of project objectives.
Agreements with Sweden and Germany in support of the Bank project were signed with the EEA in
February 1987. Support was arranged for two EEA TIs (Fayid and Aswan) from Germany, through the
Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusanumenarbeit (GTZ), as a continuation of a pre-existing
arrangement with the Government of Egypt. Assistance from Sweden, through the Swedish Commission
for Technical Cooperation (SCTC) was also provided which facilitated, inter alia, progress in preparing the
curricula and building specifications. GTZ provided US$4.5 million for instructional equipment as
specified in the project and SCTC contributed US$2.8 million for the feasibility study and prelinlinary
designs.
C. Implementation Record and Maior Factors Affecting the Project
13.           Project implementation got off to a slow start when loan signing was completed almost
nine months after the Bank approved the loan, and effectiveness almost eleven months after the loan was
signed. Altogether, twenty-one months elapsed from the project's approval to its effectiveness. The
implementing agencies were not entirely responsible for these delays which were caused by the length of
time necessary for completing Government parliamentary procedures for new loans. In addition to start-up
delays, the loan's closing date had to be extended by one year to permit completion of delayed civil works
at two centers and the procurement of additional equipment. Use of a project preparation facility (PPF) to
enable project activities to commence before loan effectiveness was not feasible, as the same parliamentary
approval process is necessary for a PPF as a loan in Egypt.
14.          Implementation perfornance of the various loan disbursement categories are noted below:
(a)    Civil Works. Contrary to original plans, Government financed the full costs of
construction. Funds allocated for the civil works to be carried out under the project
(US$1.36 million) were reallocated to the furniture and equipment category of the loan.
With the exception of the extension of the Dokki training institute and the Cairo Institute
where lengthy delays were experienced due to site and soil issues, the EDA training
centers were completed expeditiously, within the agreed timeframes. EEA sites at Fayid,
Aswan and AbuQir were also delayed beyond the original target completion dates (Part II,
Table 5), due to construction related problems.
(b)    Equipment and Furniture Procurement. The reallocation of all funds allocated to
the civil works category of the loan to the equipment and furniture category
facilitated the provision of additional equipment for the centers. Inclusion of the
CNTI, which was not one of the TCs included when the project was appraised,
was also approved. Also, instead of the purchase of one simulator in the original
plan, two were purchased with the additional funds made available from the
reallocation. In addition, various workshops were equipped for the EDA,
including the following for:
-      Control Operations (Institute)
-      Cable Fault Location (Institute)
-      Meter Unit (Institute)
-      Electrical Laboratory (Institute and six centers)
-      Transformer (Institute and six centers)



-      Distribution Panels (Institute and six centers)
-      Overhead Transmission Line (Institute and six centers)
-      Underground Cables (Institute and six centers)
-      Consumer networks (six centers)
There were delays in procuring equipment for the EEA centers as a result of delays in
construction (in most cases the procurement of equipment was to coincide with the
completion of civil works). (Part II, Table 5 refers). Procurement was also delayed by
misunderstandings (paras. 15, 23) over the Bank's guidelines and regulations and problems
experienced with suppliers.
(c)    Technical Assistance - EDA engineers and technicians (two groups of 47
instructors) were trained in France at the Electricite de France (EDF). A study on
manpower training for the sector and one on training needs for the EEA and EDA
were completed by expert services from the Irish Electricity Supply Board (IESB
- also known as Electricity Supply Board International [ESBI]) and EDF experts
respectively. Most of the recommendations of both studies were used by the
agencies in finalizing their ongoing and long-range training programs. Two
senior EEA officials also benefitted from two fellowships to the ILO's Turin
center in Italy for one month. The EDF experts included eight technical
specialists, one manpower specialist and a team leader. This team conducted the
preliminary review of equipment specifications for the EDA; compiled data and
manuals in connection with curriculum development for the TCs; and trained
eight Egyptian counterpart engineers in computer operations who then trained
eight additional local EDA personnel. Other tasks of the experts are described
below:
Main Tasks of the EDF Experts
Task Undertaken                             Completion Date
1. Data Collection                                        End of 1989
2. EDA Personnel Master Plan                               April 1990
3. Training Master Plan                                   March 1990
4. Study of Training Facilities                           March 1992
5. Fellowship Training in France                           April 1990
6. Project Management Assistance                        November 1992
SOURCE: EDA Progress Report
The EDF experts encountered some difficulties due to the delay in completing
construction of the TCs which postponed the start up of local traiing; and lack of
adequate field space to install training stations outdoors. Nevertheless, their tour of duty
in Egypt was completed satisfactorily. At the completion of their assignment, the experts
supporting the EDA had developed courses and teaching materials; management training
programs and planning policies; trained master instructors (in France) and conducted a
manpower training needs sector study. All project-financed technical assistance was well
executed and fully utilized.



Bilateral agreements between the Government of Egypt, Sweden and Germany in support
of the Bank project were signed with the EEA in February 1987 (para. 11). Amounts and
purpose are summarized below:
Grant Assistance to Project-Financed Centers
During the Project's Implementation Phase
(US$)
Source                      Amount             |Purose
USA                                  3,400,000            T.A. & Equipment
GTZ                                  4,500,000            T.A. & Equipment
Sweden                               2,800,000            T.A./ Feasibility Sty.
UK                                   1,210,050            Equipment & Trng.
Total                                11.910.050
Under these agreements, GTZ (Germany) undertook the training prograrn for the
Fayid TC while BITS (Sweden) trained twelve engineers and fifteen technicians in
Sweden who returned to serve at the Aswan TC.
(d)    Loan Covenants. The agencies complied with all covenants established in the loan
agreement. One covenant stipulated that an evaluation of the training undertaken under
the project be prepared by June 30, 1991. This was satisfied when in May 1991, a
comprehensive review of all ongoing and proposed training for the electrical power sector
was undertaken during a seminar for senior managers of the sector which was attended by
major donors for the sector, including the Bank.
A study on the training needs for the sector was undertaken in June 1989 and
completed in April 1990. Major recommendations of the study focussed on (i)
the MOEE training policy; (ii) a ten-year training plan; (iii) a training
organization structure; (iv) manpower profiles and statistics; (v) institutional
structures to support training; and (vi) management and technical training
programs. With regard to the issues identified in the manpower training sector,
the report raised issues and proposed recommendations on: (i) the installation of
sophisticated technology (e.g., instrumentation and control systems) which
outstrip the capacity of the staff to operate and maintain them; (ii) the dangers of
over-dependence on external sources of financing such as donors and suppliers to
meet internal facilities and resources; and (iii) the need to obtain and retain the
right staff for training purposes.
As stipulated in the legal agreement, training centers are staffed with qualified
and adequately trained employees. Both agencies have stated that their incentive
systems for retaining their staff is comparable with private sector opportunities.
Progress reports were prepared semi-annually and made available to visiting
Bank supervision missions which greatly facilitated the work of these missions.
Audit reports, though sometimes delayed, were provided annually.



- 7 -
(e)    Project Costs. Financing and Disbursement Performance
Project costs were about $15.0 million less than anticipated at appraisal because
estimates for physical and price contingencies were incorrect. Loan funds which
had been allocated at appraisal for civil works were reallocated to the equipment
and furniture category at Government's request (Part II, Tables 4, 8A, 8B and 9
refer).
Final Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Project Item        Government        Donors           Bank            Total
Civil Works                  5.76              -                             5.76
Equipment/Fumiture            3.44           0.50            15.62           19.56
Tech. Assistance             0.09            6.80            2.46            9.35
Total                   9.29           7.30            18.08           34.67
15.           Several factors affected project performance positively. These include the addition of
equipment for the CNTI, which was not one of the original project-financed centers; the one-year extension
of the loan's closing date to penrnit the completion of delayed centers and additional equipment
procurement; and the Bank resident mission's contribution to supervision which greatly improved the
procurement process. Moreover, the concerted effort and participation of the Government, project-
financed agencies, the Bank's implementation team and electrical power sector donors in a seminar in May
1991, to review the ongoing and proposed training needs of the sector, was valuable in fostering donor
collaboration. The project was adversely affected by delays in the completion of civil works and equipment
procurement (para 14, 23); lack of counterpart familiarity with Bank procurement regulations and use of
local procurement methods which were not acceptable to the Bank, and which resulted in delays in Bank
approval of procurement activity.
D. Project Sustainability
16.           Both EEA and EDA have put in place mechanisms which should ensure project
sustainability. The budgets of these two agencies cover incremental recurrent costs generated by the
project, including maintenance. The introduction of manpower planning and development policies has also
helped to rationalize personnel management and make it more responsive to the needs of the electricity
sector. Strict entry standards have been established for trainees so that training resources are not wasted on
candidates below adequate levels. The quality and distribution of graduates is being monitored and salaries
and benefits are kept at competitive levels to retain trained personnel. The Bank's involvement has helped
mobilize donor resources and external foreign expertise making the overall sector mroe efficient and
sustainable.



- 8 -
E. Bank Performance
17.           A more persistent effort on the part of the Bank should have been made to ensure the use
of a project coordinator. Although the project's design included a mechanism to ensure closer collaboration
between the two agencies funded (para.7), their full coordination did not materialize during the project's
implementation phase. Project administration could have been enhanced if the two components were
managed by a project coordinator as originally planned. For example, the two agencies did not agree after
project start-up, on the use of a single special account for both components of the project, and on the
preparation of one audit report on the project's accounts. The lack of coordination was most noticeable in
the preparation of two separate studies on the training needs of the sector. Although the study prepared by
the experts who supported the EDA was more specific to that agency, the other study (which was a legal
covenant) prepared under the EEA component, encompassed the needs of the entire sector. Bank staff had
to delineate the differences in the two studies to avoid misunderstanding between the two sets of experts.
18.           The Bank participated actively in the project's design and implementation phases (Part II,
Table 11), responding to implementation actions as they became evident, for example the need to support
the CNTI when Canadian funding for this center came to an end. To accelerate the review of tender
documents and approvals to procure equipment, the Bank transferred management for all procurement
activity to its resident mission in Cairo. This proved to be an efficient arrangement and sped up the review
and approval process for procurement actions. In May 1991 a Bank supervision team included in its terms
of reference, a special review of the accounting/audit reporting capability of the two agencies. The review
was undertaken by a local auditing firm which was familiar with the Bank's audit reporting requirements.
The review concluded that adequate accounting standards were being maintained by the agencies and
recommended specific areas where improvements could be made to make project accounts and progress
reporting less arduous and more efficient.
19.           Although an evaluation of the training provided under the project was expected at the
estimated midterm of the project's implementation phase (June 1991), this could not be carried out due to
lengthy delays in the completion of facilities, which in turn delayed the procurement of equipment and
planned development objectives. Nevertheless, the Bank participated at the donor's seminar of May 1991
(para. 14,iv) which was an important opportunity to identify the issue affecting the electrical power sector
and propose recommendations for improving the management of training for the sector. This proved to be
an excellent opportunity to evaluate the project's training objectives at that stage of implementation. The
seminar was also instrumental in providing a forum for all donors in the sector to meet and discuss their
ongoing and proposed initiatives for the sector as well as methods to avoid duplication.
20.           During the project's implementation phase, a Bank supervision team visited the EDF
training facilities in Soissons, France where forty-seven Egyptian instructors were being trained. The
mission, which consisted of the Bank's task manager (a technical training specialist) and an Operations
Officer, reviewed ongoing training programs and methods of instruction for the Egyptian participants. The
mission concluded that high quality training was being provided.
F. Borrower's Performance
21.           During the project's design and development phase the government agencies collaborating
with the Bank in preparing the project performed satisfactorily. As noted earlier, agreement was reached
during the negotiations stage on preliminary drawings, including site plans and cost estimates, for all
proposed new construction and construction drawings for renovating the EDA training center in Dokki;
detailed furniture and equipment lists for all project items had been prepared and agreed on with the Bank;



-9-
as well as terms of reference for project consultants and the fellowship training plan. Moreover, specific
government procedures for carrying out LCB procedures were discussed and agreed. The bilateral
agreements concluded between the Governments of Egypt, Sweden and Germany in support of the Bank
project in the same month that the project became effective (February 1987), facilitated progress in the
preparation of the curricula and bidding specifications, to expedite start up of programs.
22.           During the implementation phase, Bank missions were always provided with up-to-date
project status reports, and implementation staff of both agencies were available to participate with Bank
mnissions in reviewing ongoing activities. Both agencies prepared end-of-project reports as requested by
Bank supervision missions towards the end of the project's implementation phase. Field trips to
construction sites were expedited and the staff of both agencies where new TCs were being constructed
welcomed visiting Bank staff and provided necessary information. Civil works at the TCs took much
longer than anticipated due to site and soil problems, which delayed project implementation. However,
agency personnel responded promptly in making the necessary adjustments. With regard to technical
assistance, the experts who were employed to conduct the two studies which were commissioned were able
to complete their tasks satisfactorily, largely in part to the consistent support and cooperation of the
agencies.
23.           Prior to the resident mission's involvement in the implementation phase, EEA personnel
did not always comply with the Bank's guidelines for equipment procurement, which caused delays as
documents had to be returned from Bank headquarters for amendment. In some cases, bids were rejected
by EEA for reasons which the Bank could not agree to; in other instances, the practice of using two
envelopes for the bid opening process was rejected by the Bank as it was explained that this method did not
permit all bidders equal opportunity to have all of their proposals reviewed. EEA argued that some of the
Bank's regulations, in particular, the prohibition on negotiating bid prices, were contradictory to their own
Government regulations. Other than the delays in procurement and civil works at some of the centers, the
performance of the agencies was satisfactory.
G. Assessment of Outcome
24.           Full operation of the project-financed institutions is expected to be around November
1996, although current training enrollments for the project financed institutions indicate that substantial
training targets and objectives of the project have been realized (Part II, Table 6). In spit;^ of delays in civil
works and equipment procurement during the implementation phase, the outcome of this project is
considered to be satisfactory. It has achieved its major objectives and is likely to have a sustainable
positive impact on the electricity sector. All physical project components have been executed as designed;
one center (the CNTI) which was not one of the originally appraised TCs, was equipped under the project.
With Bank agreement, civil works were paid for entirely by the Government, and financing reallocated
from this component provided for additional fumiture and equipment. Delays in constructing some of the
project-financed centers, postponed the start up of classes.
25.           The project has contributed to the agencies' current and future training goals. The EEA's
recommendations for sector manpower training prepared under the project included, inter alia, the
following goals: (i) developing long-term continuous training and learning programs for management staff;
(ii) analysis of data collected to further improve training interventions such as behavioral and leadership
skills, crisis management, creative thinking, strategic planning, performance management and appraisal,
career planning, human resources development, as well as total quality management; (iii) the establishment
of job descriptions which would be reviewed on a five-year time span and modified as relevant; (iv)
comprehensive career planning system for EEA staff; revising organizational structures to allow for more
effective management practices, particularly in the areas of delegation and decentralization; (v) developing



- 10 -
a new process for top management selection and promotion; and (vi) establishing an information system
for conveying suitable strategies, policies and plans to various management levels within the EEA.
26.           The technical assistance component was the most successful of the project (para. 14 [iii]).
The experts who were commissioned to review the training needs of the EDA, developed training methods
for the eight electricity distribution public companies (48,000 employees) and the EDA staff which is now
in effect. The project's study of manpower training needs for the sector, focussed on the wider issues
concerning the electricity sector as a whole. It reported on the need for institutional structures and
management systems to support the development and implementation of MOEE training policies
throughout the entire sector. This work also made full use of data obtained by the EDF study. The study
also enabled the MOEE to prepare an overall staff policy for the sector.
H. Future Operation
27.           At the loan's closing (June 1994), the majority of project centers were newly completed
(two EEA centers were completed only in October 1994) and procurement of equipment was finalized in
mid-1993 for the EDA centers and in mid- 1994 for the EEA facilities. It is therefore difficult to assess the
quantitative and qualitative benefits of the project and the needs for further intervention in the sector.
However, it is likely that there will be scope for additional Bank support in the area of training for
manpower and managers of the electrical power sector, and in particular, for supporting additional
infrastructure (more training facilities) to cover parts of the country where training opportunities are not
currently provided.
28.           Under its training plan (ongoing through 1998), the EEA wants to establish new centers in
the northern parts of Upper Egypt and in the West Delta. Establishment of a senior Management Training
Center for the MOEE is also envisaged as well as development of existing centers to include additional and
specialized workshops. The development of an administrative and financial training center for the sector is
also projected which would facilitate training in the fields of languages; computers; studies and research;
methods of enhancing the capacity of the MOEE in procurement procedures and equipment specifications;
various feasibility studies; development of a data bank and information system for the EEA and training
needs related to the agencies working procedures. A follow up to the May 1991 donor's seminar for the
sector is planned for May 1996 and will give the opportunity of reviewing further project achievements and
review possibilities for further operations.
I. Key Lessons Learned
29.           The project's implementation phase demonstrated that:
(a)    efficiencies in project administration and sector development could have been enhanced if
the project had been successful in forging a more solid collaboration between project-
financed agencies which have similar functions in developing sectoral priorities
(paras.7,17);
(b)    flexibility in project design and Bank agreement to amend the loan to facilitate
evolving needs of the sector and the beneficiaries, was important to the successful
implementation of project objectives (paras.6,15);



- 11 -
(c)     the transfer of responsibility for procurement to the resident mission helped with
project implementation in the second half of the project's life (para. 15);
(d)     counterpart staff training in Bank procurement guidelines and procedures is
critical to effective implementation;
(e)     when funding for the start up of project activities is not possible (for example
through the use of a PPF), some type of bridge financing is useful (perhaps
through a UNDP grant) to initiate critical activities, such as soil testing and
experts to assist with the specifications for buildings and equipment (para. 13);
and
(f)     technical assistance activities supported by different donors should be carefully
designed and coordinated to avoid duplication of tasks (paras.7,19).



- 12 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING (ELECTRICITY) PROJECT
(LOAN 2594-EGT)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:       Summary of Assessments
Table 2:       Related Bankl Loans
Table 3:       Project Timetable
Table 4:       Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated andActual
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:       Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:       Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:      Project Costs
Table 8B:      Project Financing
Table 9:       Allocation of Loan Proceed
Table 10:      Status of Legal Covenant
Table I1:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs



- 13 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Anhoevament nf nhjeetiven                    Substantial          Part"ia             Neghgiht          Nnt applicshle
Macro policies
Sector policies                                                                                              X
Financial objectives                             X
Institutional development                                                                                    X
Physical objecives                               X
Poverty reduction                                X
Gender issues                                                                                                X
x
B. Prnjet Mu,fiunah1ihty                              Lik4                      UllnliW                  llin
x
Highly
C. Rank perfrnuwnce                                 Sati 5                    Satifarcir                  Deficient
Identification                                                                  X
Preparation assistance                                                          X
Appraisal                                                                       X
Supervision                                                                     X
Highly
D. Rarrnwer perfnrrnce                              Satisaly                  Satis                      Deficient
Preparation                                                                     X
Implementation                                                                  X
Covenant compliance                                                             X
Operation                                                                       X
[    Highly                                                     Highly
E. Asceqsimpnt nf nutrnmg                       SatiSfacItnr      Sati;fiCtnry     IUnsalisfactory        umnalisfacinry
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



- 14 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan No                                                            Year of
Project Title                     Purpose of Project                Approval            Status
Preceding Operations
Cr.681-EGT                     Basic Voc.Training for the construction       1977            Completed
Education I                   sector,
Apprenticeship Training for industry,
.Technical training;
.Skilled worker training;-
.Voc.Instructor Training.
Cr.868-EGT                    .Manpower development through skilled          1978            Completed
Education II                  worker, technician and management
training;
.Training of primary and secondary teachers;
.Population education.
Cr.1069-EGT                    Training of qualified workers; technicians;   1980            Completed
Education m                   and managers;
.Secondary mathematics and science teacher
training;
.Improving teaching skills of university staff
Ln.2264-EGT                    Voc. Training for the construction and        1983            Completed
Vocational Training            industrial sectors;
.Upgrading and expansion of instructor
training.
Following Operations
Ln.3137-EGT                    Eng. Educ.Development                         1989             Ongoing
Engineering & Technical       .Tech.Education Development
Education
Cr.2476-EGT                    Basic Education                               1993             Ongoing
Basic Education                Distance Education
Improvement                    Inservice Teacher Training
.Educ.Management Informnation
System



- 15 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in the Project Cycle                Date Planned                  Date Actual
Identification                                       n.a.                         07/84
Preparation                                          n.a.                         10/84
Appraisal                                            n.a.                         12/84
Negotiations                                         n.a.                         05/85
Board Presentation                                   n.a.                         06/85
Signing                                              n.a.                         03/86
Effectiveness                                        7/86                         02/87
Project Completion                                 12/30/92                       10/94
Credit Closing                                     06/30/93                       06/94
NOTE: Actual project completion continued through October 1994 when civil works at two remaining sites were completed.
Final disbursement of the loan occurred in November 1994.
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year              Appraisal Estimate         Actual         Actual as % of Estimate
1986                         0.8 
1987                         2.5 
1988                         6.1 
1989                        10.9
1990                        15.2                   1.58                   14
1991                        18.3                   3.42                   19
1992                        19.1                   6.08                   32
1993                        19.3                  11.17                   59
1994                                              15.31 
1995                                              18.08
NOTE: An amount of US$1,223,910.58 was cancelled with effect on November 14, 1994.
Final disbursement of the loan occured on November 14, 1994.



- 16 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators                        |                      ACTUAL
Estimated
EEA                        EDA
1. Civil Works
-Renovation & Extension of        April 30, 1988        I (AbuQir) in 6/94             1 (Tanta) in 6/89
existing facilities                                                                   I (Dokki) in 4/92
-Construction of new              April 30, 1990        2 (Fayid & Aswan) in 10/94    10/89-04/93
facilities
2. Eguipment Procurement
(Completion of all                February 28, 1991     4 centers instead of 3.       Completed 7/93
Installation)
3. Technical Assistance
a. Manpower Study & Planning      . March 31, 1987      May 3, 1990
b. Training Institution Dev.      . December 31,        Ongoing at Project Closing    Completed 11/92
1992                 at Aswan
center (Sweden).



- 17 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Preservice and Inservice Training
(Training Places, Estimated and Actual Annual Output Capability)
Key Operating Indicators          I          Estimated           |          Actual
Training Center/Institute         |  Places      |  Output       |  Places     |  Output
Egvpt Electricity Authority (EEA)
Training institutes (3)
Skilled workers                                      300            600            300
Technicians                                          210            460            210            693
Engineers                                             75            240             75            260
EEA Totals                                           585            1300           585            953
Electricity Distribution Auth.(EDA)
Training Institute (1)
Skilled workers                                       70            205             70             21
Technicians                                           70             160            70             60
Engineers                                             35             100            35            108
Training Centers (6)
Skilled workers                                      420           1230            420           3233
Teclnicians                                                            -           210           4554
337
EDA Totals                                           595           1695            805           8313
Project Totals                                      1180           2995           1390           9266
NOTES: 1.  Actual output is for the 1993/94 period
2.  EEA project-financed centers are being used only for the training of technicians and engineers at this time. Skilled
workers are being trained at non-Bank financed centers.
3.  EDA centers have workshops with a capacity of 12 trainees per shift for each workshop. Each workshop has an
engineer and a technician, trained either in France of Egypt. Training programs are for 2-3 weeks in duration.
Annual capacity of institutes can be about 700 trainees per year. Training programs are repeated about six times a
year, and trainees sometimes attend more than one program, hence the higher than planned actual output. The
EDA Mokattem training institute has focussed more on training engineers, hence the lower than expected output
for technicians and skilled workers.



- 18 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined at
Study                  appraisaVredefined               Status                 Impact of study
Study of the             The sector wide study was        Completed in         The study was used to prepare
manpower and             undertaken to provide the basis  May 1990            longterm training plans for the
training needs of the    for a comprehensive training                          EEA training centers and it was
sector                   policy which would serve all                          also used as a key discussion
Ministry of Electricity and                           document at a donor's seminar
Energy programs.                                      for the electricity sector in May
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 19 9 1 .
NOTE: Besides the above-noted covenanted study, a similar study was completed by French consultants (the EDF team) as part
of the project-project financed technical assistance package in support of EDA training programs.
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Items Financed                        Appraisal Estimate               ActualAlatest Est.
Civil Works/Furniture/Equipment                            30.04                           25.32
Technical Assistance                                        3.15                            9.35
Contingencies                                              16.14
TOTAL                                                      49.33                           34.67
NOTES: 1.  The Bank agreed to the Govemment's request to reallocate funds proposed for project civil works to the equipment
category of the loan. Govemment financed all construction costs for the project institutions.
2.  Project costs were about $1 5.0 million less than anticipated at appraisal, as price and physical contingencies were
incorrectly calculated.
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Appraisal                      Actual/Latest Est.
IBRD                                               19.30                              18.08
Cofinancing Agencies                               4.32                                7.30
Govemment                                         25.71                                9.29
TOTAL                                             49.33                               34.67
NOTES: In addition to the direct cofinancing from Sweden and Germany which was anticipated when the project was designed,
the project-financed centers benefitted from about US$11.9 million in grant assistance from other agencies/countries,
such as Great Britain (ODA); Canada (CIDA), and the USA (USAID) during the project's implementation phase.
Govemmentfs contribution was supplemented by grants from the USA, Gemany, Sweden and Great Britian for
equipment, fumiture and technical assistance.



- 19 -
Table 9: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ Million)
Category                   Allocation                 Disbursed              Undisbursed
Civil Works                            1.36                                                             |
Equipment & Funiture                  11.08                     15.62                    3.18
Technical Assistance                   1.68                      2.46                    0.78
Unallocated                            5.18                                              5.18
TOTAL                                 19.30                     18.08                    1.22
NOTE: No Bank financing was utilized for civil works as these costs were paid for by Govemment. An amount of
USSI,223,910.58 (the unutilized portion of the loan) was cancelled with effect on November 14, 1994.
Actual vs Plan Disbursements
20 
1 5
Co, 10    r-/
5,
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Fiscal years
Legend
Plan    L    Actual



- 20 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Orig       Revised
Fulfill     Fulfill
Section       Class      Status      Date         Date                       Description of Covenant                           Comments
3.01(b)         10         C                                The Borrower, acting through the Ministry, shll cause EEA and    Done
EDA to continue to coordinate their activities under the project
through the ofrice ofthe Project Coordinator which shall be
responsible for all aspects of the project's implementation,
including the preparation, by 06/30/91 of an evaluation of the
training undertaken under the project
3.01(c)         10         C                                The Borrower shall ensure that EEA and EDA will adopt and   Staffung of EEA and EDA
apply a remuneration system adequate to enable EEA and EDA  institutes with adequately
to staff their training institutes, including the institutes referred to   qualified instructors has
in Part A of the project, with adequately qualified instructors.  been achieved.
3.01(d)         10         C                                The Borrower shall cause the Ministry: (i) to undertake the study   Completed.
referred to in Part B of the project under TORs satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank, and to compiete said study by 03/31/87
or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree; and
(ii) to exchange views thereafter with the Bank on the
reconunendations of said study and the measures to implement
them.
4.01(a)          I         C                                The Borrower shall cause EEA and EDA, each in respect of its  Done.
activities under the project, to maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
project.                                                  _
4.01(b)          I         C                                The Borrower shall cause EEA and EDA each to have the       Done.
accounts, including the special account, for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
l______    _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ________   ________   B ank.
Status:    C = Complied with
Class:     I = Accounts/audit
10 = Implementation
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (weeks)
Stage of Proiect Cycle                                Planned                                  Actual
Through Appraisal                                                  n.a.                                    19.1
Appraisal - Board                                                  n.a.                                    40.8
Board - Effectiveness                                              n.a.                                     6.9
Supervision                                                        75.2                                    77.2
Completion                                                          8.0                                     8.5
TOTAL                                                              83.2
NOTE: Supervision missions were fielded from September 1985 and there were approximately fifteen (15) missions during the
projecfs implementation phase. Supervision missions were generally staffed by a Technical Education Specialist, a
Vocational Trainer and an Operations Officer.



- 21 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING (ELECTRICITY) PROJECT
(LOAN 2594-EGT)
ATTACHMENTS
ANNEXES:   1. ICR Mission Aide Memoire
2. End of Project Report - EEA
3. End of Project Report - EDA
MAP No. 18755



- 22 -
Annex I
VOCATIONAL TRAINING (ELECTRICITY) PROJECT
(LOAN 2594-EGT)
COMPLETION MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        An implementation completion mission, composed of Ms. Patricia Maughan, Operations
Officer, MN2HR and Mr. M. Roushdy, Consultant Vocational Training Specialist, visited Egypt from
September 22 through 29, 1994 to review the status of project implementation and collect data for
preparation of the implementation completion report (ICR) for the subject project. The mission liaized with
the project's task manager, Mr. Melhem Salman in Cairo (who was in Egypt under terms of reference for the
preparation of a sector study issues paper), and with Messrs. Shehadch and Gamaleldin of the Cairo Resident
Mission. The mission reviewed all project-financed activities, met with implementation personnel of the
Egypt Electricity Authority (EEA) and the Electricity Development Authority (EDA) to ascertain the status
of project components, loan covenants, and preparation of their respective reviews of the project's
implementation phase (their end-of-project reports).
B. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Basic Data
Board Approval              June 25, 1985
Loan Signing                March 14, 1986
Effectiveness               February 20, 1987
Closing Date                June 30, 1994
Loan Amount                 US$19.3 million
Disbursed (9/1/94)          US$16.46 million
Undisbursed                 US$2.84 million
(of which Committed)        US$2.34 million
Project Components
-      Construction/Extension/Renovation - Seven new training centers: 2 for the Egyptian
Electricity Authority (EEA) and 5 for the Electricity Distribution Authority (EDA); and 3 are
being renovated (1 for EEA and 2 for EDA);
-      Equipment and Furniture for the training centers and the Cairo North Training Center which
was added to the project description;
-      Technical assistance related to the training needs of the EDA (217 mm of expert services and
183 mm of fellowships); and expert services for an electricity sector study on training needs
(12mm).



- 23 -
C. COMPLETION MISSION ACTIVITIES
2.          While in Cairo, the mission visited the Mokattem (EDA) institute and met with the Director,
senior training staff and administrative personnel. Training staff at this institute were trained under the
project in France (at the Electricite de France [EDF] training institute in Soissons) and programs at the
Mokattem institute focus on engineer training. The mission noted that all planned equipment was installed
(since October 1993) and in good working condition. About 384 trainees were expected to be trained each
year in addition to 30 new employees (engineers). The mission also toured the refurbished facilities of the
Dokki Training Center, saw recently received equipment and held discussions with center officials. Mr.
Roushdy also continued the mission's task of gathering data and interviewing management, trainers and
trainees at other centers with a view to evaluating training inputs and trainee attitudes to their training, and
arrangements for inservice training. The mission completed questionnaire and conducted surveys on the
recruitment and employment of instructors; the quality of output and graduates; and on general matters such
as the use of the new buildings, staff satisfaction with the refurbished facilities, career development
opportunities after training, quality of training and trainees and staff turnover rates.
3.          The heads of the training departments at the two project-financed entities (EEA and EDA),
provided up-to-date information on civil works, equipment and furniture procurement, technical assistance
inputs (fellowship training and the use of experts), as well as ongoing support to their programs by other
donors through loans or grant financing. For example, EEA staff noted their ongoing collaboration with the
USAID on the second phase of a Human Resources Development project which began in January 1994
(phase one was completed in 1993 after a two-year implementation period). This project involved
management training, financial and administrative management with some fellowship training in Egypt and in
the USA. Another ongoing grant from the United Kingdom, implemented through the British Council (begun
in April 1994) involved the training of senior managers of the EEA and provided valuable insights for the
Egyptian privatization experience. A USAID-sponsored seminar on the methods of privatization for the
electrical utilities was held in the US in June 1994 and attended by senior management; another such seminar
was planned for October 1994 sponsored by CIDA.
4.          Both entities expressed their appreciation of the opportunity to collaborate with the Bank in
the development and implementation of the Vocational Training (Electricity) project and their desire to
continue our relationship in future training projects for the sector. The specific future training goals of the
two entities was recorded for inclusion in the completion report. The mission also visited the GTZ office to
ascertain their role in past, current and future operations in the electrical power sector. A status of their
activities was provided and the mission agreed to submit its draft completion report for their perusal vis-a-vis
their financial and technical inputs to the Vocational Training (Electricity) project.
D. PROJECT STATUS
5.          The project closed on June 30, 1994 and disbursements are ongoing for commitments made
prior to that date. It is expected that the disbursement period will continue through October 1994. The
mission expressed concern at the amount of equipment committed (about US$2.3 million) for which receipt
of withdrawal applications and loan disbursement is pending. The resident mission staff agreed to assist the
EEA to process remaining applications expeditiously. EDA had completed all project and loan disbursement
activity.



- 24 -
(a)    Civil Works
EDA. The centers were constructed with Government financing and
all have been completed. Altogether six training centers have
been established for the component.
EEA. Construction work (financed by the Government) at the Aswan
and Fayed training centers is expected to be completed by
October 1994.
(b)    Procurement
EDA. All procurement activity for this component has been completed.
EEA. Equipment for the Fayed training center is to be financed by the Government.
All equipment procurement has been finalized.
(c)    Technical Assistance (TA)
EDA.  TA was satisfactorily executed by the Electricite de France
(EDF) who completed their consultant services contract on
November 30, 1992. EDA provided the mission with a copy
of the EDF's final report on its training activities. Progress
reports were submitted at the end of each phase of the training
program.
EEA.  The covenanted sectorwide study on manpower training needs
was completed by an expert from the Irish Electricity Supply
Board (IESB) and some of the study's recommendations have
been adopted successfully by EEA management.
(d)    Legal Covenants. Audit reports for the year ending June 30, 1994 from both EEA and EDA
through the resident mission. A final audit report for the period ending June 30, 1995 should
be submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1995. All covenants were fulfilled and progress
reports were provided to missions on their semi-annual visits.
(e)    Status of Funds. The mission met with both project entities to establish the actual costs of the
project, vis-a-vis Bank, Government and donor inputs. Updated data was provided for the
draft completion report.
E. REMAINING PROJECT COMPLETION ACTIVITIES
6.          The EDA agreed to submit its end-of-project report which had been delayed due to the
retirement of the agency's training director. It was agreed that this would be submitted to the Bank no later
than the end of October 1994. EEA officials provided a copy of their report which had been prepared as
agreed with the last supervision mission. Both entities agreed to liaise with Mr. Roushdy (locally-based Bank
completion mission consultant) to provide statistics on enrollees and graduates of project-financed
institutions for inclusion in the completion report.



- 25 -
7.         It was also agreed that a draft of the implementation completion report would be forwarded to
the Government for comment. The mission expressed its sincere appreciation for the cooperation and
detailed information that was provided during its stay in Cairo.
World Bank Completion Mission
September 1994



- 26 -
Annex 2
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan No. 2594-EGT)
END OF PROJECT REPORT 2
Project Implementation
Planned                                      Actual
A. Training Center
1. Construction & Equipment of (2) T.Cs in  -Procurement of equipment of (2) new T.Cs in
Fayed & Aswan                            Fayed & Aswan
2. Equipping of one existing T.C. in Abu-Qir    -Equipping of (4) existing TCs
- Abu-Qir TC - Simulator
- Cairo North TC - Training equipment
- Cairo South TC - Training equipment
- Attaka Power - Plant Simulator
3. Employment of experts                   -As planned. 12 manmonth expert for the study of
manpower & training of the electricity Sector
B.   These variances could not have been avoided because EEA would like to develop their existing
training centers to cope with the new technology by using available funds of the loan.
C.   The communication between EEA & the World Bank in Washington through faxes and telexes
which delayed the procedure of procurement.
The slow response from the World Bank office in Washington.
The system of tendering (2 envelope systemn, submission of technical proposal first and then
submission of financial proposal).
D.   Financing of not planned activities as equipping of CNTI, CSTI & Attaka TC which resulted in the
use of the project fund efficiently and quickly.
E.   The World Bank decision for not financing bill Nos. 1 & 2 (Tender No.36/9 1) for the supply of
training equipment for Fayed Training Center which caused unexpected delay in Fayed TC project
implementation plan.
2/ Unedited report submitted by the EEA.



- 27 -
Project Results
The project achieved its specific objectives the change during implementation was only in the
number of trainees the yearly rate of growth was approximately 7%. This increase was due to the increase of
electric power demand and accordingly the increase of numbers of engineers and technicians.
The project objectives didn't change during implementation.
The project has had a good impact on the training and manpower development by constructing a
training center in each zone.
Good performance of operation and maintenance of electric power plants and networks by raising the
quality of existing T.C.
Proiect Sustainability
The project is likely to maintain an acceptable level of net benefit throughout its economic life.
The factors may affect the outcomes:
- Delay of implementation of contracts for the supply of equipment;
- The leakage of well trained staff to work outside EEA.
Bank Perfornance
The weaknesses of the Bank performance has been represented as follows:
The difficulty of inter communication between the EEA and the World Bank in Washington.
This difficulty has led to lengthening the time taken by a procedure required for reviewing
bidding terms and conditions until the EEA has got a final approval for bidding.
Lengthening the time period between sending the conclusions of proposal's evaluation to the
Bank for reviewing and getting the final approval from the Bank for contraction.
The Bank persistence on some conditions that clash with the EEA's regulations and where
discussions and view interchange have made through correspondence between the EEA and
the Bank in Washington until both sides have made an agreement upon a view, this has led
to wasting much more time, the matter affecting the implement of project on time.
However during the last year when an efficient role worked by the Bank office
representatives in Cairo, a very good change has been proved towards the overcome of such
drawbacks.
The adequacy of the Bank's performance has been represented as follows:
-     For having a permanent mission in Cairo, The World Bank has lent a hand to overcoming
difficulties and problems and saving much more time where the EEA has accomplished a
number of its projects timely.
-     The Bank's consent to the EEA's order to designate portions of the loan for the procurement
of equipment required for the existing TCs that had been set on the project plan. This
procedure has had good profit of training and developing the EEA's manpower.



- 28 -
-     The Bank's performance has been satisfactory through all phases of the project.
Borrower Performance
We expect the Bank opinion on the EEA performnance during all the phases of the project.
Here attached, a detailed statement of the loan, indicating contractors names, subject of contracts and
respective disbursements for each.
August 15, 1994



- 29 -
Annex 3
ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION AUTHORITY
THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan No. 2594-EGT)
END OF PROJECT REPORT3
Project Implementation
No critical variances between planned and actual project implementation
The only variances occurred which have not been avoided are the following:
Closing date of adjudication was postponed times on request of bidders for best study and to change
the two envelope system to one envelope at the request of the Bank.
The slow response of the World Bank office in Washington
The big number of documentation submitted by twelve companies participated in the adjudication
led to extended time of evaluation.
Project Results
Of course the project achieved its specific objectives
No changes in project objectives during implementation
The project has had a good impact on training and manpower development.
Project Sustainability
The project is likely to maintain an acceptable level of benefit throughout its economic life
The factors may affect the outcomes represented in delay of implernentation of contracts.
Bank Performance
The weakness of the Bank performance as following:
-      The difficulty of communication with the Bank as no specific department or person address
to be contacted leading to extended time of reply to any request or approval.
-      Bureaucratic raised through correspondence for any view interchange
-      We expect no difficulties now after opening the Bank office in Cairo
The Bank performed satisfactorily through all the phases of the project
3/ Unedited report submitted by the EDA.



- 30 -
Borrower Performance
Our performance depends on the opinion of the World Bank during all the phases of the project.
Consulting Services
Good performance in consulting services by EDF leading to good impact to the project.









Abii0,r  A           KAIP A  . .11   _i               ,                     1o
0weAbt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ <                                                                                /, ttIci
s-n,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
L  MIns     NYAs
_28.                                                                                                    A                           
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
*    EDA Tra-ning Insltte                                                     \                   UT
*   EDA Regional Training Centers
A    EEA Regional Training Centers
Nlte EDA (Eteutr-ci-y Dintcibit-on Ac,h-orily)
EEA (Egypl El-ct-,ciy Aulhor-y)
*     National capitalol                                                                                 El B.
o    Selected rowns OEI  ErA-
-76 ~ ~ ~ ______ Main rxids                                                                                                                tJ.f   nn nd
-       Ra-lwlys
R,.,s and .rd.,
Appro-nma.t  g-oernnbate boundaries
- -     intrtaaional Itoondaies                                            ,f%sj
This rap h-an been preira,d by
The Wtild S.nii  stanf -cck-aeit'
tot the c.nnenience lthme
-eaders and a    , e -Pc, y tar ir e
internal une ol The World 8-art
nd thie  -ter -lonai F-nance
Cnrp,ra-on  Thie dnnotnaha
-oed and Etl  cn   s  aho-r
on Iris cap da nal splh. on the
part ol The Wortd Pan. and me
intcrndiifla Fn.-cf  Cnrporation .
- any y,dgtnent an thre iMat Vatac                                                                                                                                                                  01
o      0f any territory r any-
O      endora-tenl or acceptance a,,
c      such bo-ndaries                                                                                                       [1
- I            ----        --U--             -t 









IMAGI NG
Report No:      14647
Type: ICR



