Docmmsua of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
;,<, .2? 9 s- 4t7
R.pgt No. 5481-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
May 3, 1985
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
dr d*mmid e     a rotda iih,udbgIM. m_d  y be =W by  dplem  mdly in tbe pfo,amae of
dw-  ggkW &g It lb          a t neewbe be d.lmd w.beu  we  Bnk au-dti mn.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Currency Equivalents
Official Foreign Exchane Rate
I Egyptian Pound (LE) = US$0.80
I US Dollar C$) = LE 1.25
Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS USED
CZJTI:    Cairo North Training Institnte
CSTI:    Cairo South Training Institute
DC:       Distribution Company
IDA:      Electricity Distribution Authority
EEA:      Egypt Electricity Authority
GTZ:      Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICB:      International Competitive Bidding
ITI:      Instructor Training Institute
LCB:      Local Competitive Bidding
MDELR:    Ministry of Development, Housing and Land Reclamation
ME:       Ministry of Education
MOEE:     Ministry of Electricity and Energy
MOHE:     Ministry of Higher Education
MOIMR:    Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources
MTD:      Manpower and Training Department
SCTC:     Swedish Commission for Technical Cooperation
PPAR:    Project Performance Audit Report
TC:       Training Center
TI:       Training Institute



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBIIC OF EGYPT
THIRD VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORTS
Basic Data (1982/83) 1/
Population
Total population (mid 1981)                                     43.3 million
Current rate of population growth                                  2.8S p.a.
Per capita GNP (1981) 2/                                              US$650
Literacy rate (population over 10 years of age, 1976)                    44Z
Education Enrollments as Percentage of Age Group 3/
Level and Ate Group                                Total    Male      Female
Primary (6-11)                                      75        86        64
Preparatory (lower secondary) (12-14)               59        71        47
Secondary (15-17)                                   45        54        36
Higher (18-22)                                      17        23        11
Education Expenditure (1982/83)
Central Government expenditures on                  Recurrent          10.5S
education as a percentage of total              Capital             4.5S
Government expenditures                         Total               7.9S
Central Government expenditures on education
as a percentage of GNP                                              4.61
1/ See Annex 1, Table 1 for comparative educational data.
2/ World Bank Atlas Methodology.
3/ Gross enrollment rates.
This document has a restricd distnbution and nay be usd by recpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank autboration



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower           Arab Republic of Egypt.
Beneficiaries      Egypt Electricity Authority (EEA) and Electricity
Distribution Authority (EDA)
Amount             US$19.3 million equivalent.
Terms         :    20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Proiect
Description   :   The project aims at strengthening the Government's ability
to meet the trained manpower requirements of the
electricity sector. The project would consist of: (a)
construction and/or furnishing and/or equipment of 10
training institutions; and (b) technical assistance for (i)
instructor training and preparation of curriculum
materials, and (ii) preparation of a sector-wide study of
manpower and training needs that would serve as the basis
for a comprehensive training policy for the Ministry of
Electricity and Energy (MOEE).
Benefits and
Risks         :   The project would enable the beneficiaries to increase
their annual training output by 530 additional skilled
craftsmen, 120 technicians and 9O engineers. The project
would also provide inservice training for upgrading the
skills of 1,500 skilled craftsmen, 500 technicians and 250
engineers each year. No substantive risks are associated
with the project.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:
Local      Forei         Total
---(US$ Million)
Civil Works                                         10.6          4.2        14.8
Equipment                                            1.4         12.4        13.8
Furniture                                            0.9          0.6         1.5
Technical Assistance                                 0.6          2.5         3.1
Total Baseline Costs                                13.5         19.7        33.2
Contingencies:
Physical                                         1.3          1.8         3.1
Price                                            6.6         6.4         13.0
Total Project Costs                                 21.4         27.9        49.3
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign       Total
*    -  (US$ Million)       -
Government                                      21.1         4.6         25.7
Bank                                             -          19.3         19.3_
Bilateral Sources                                0.3         4.0          4.3
Total                                           21.4        27.9         49.3
*   These estimates exclude taxes from which the project agencies are exempted.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal-Year   1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
……              ------US$ Million)                          -
Annual         0.8      1.7     3.6      4.8     4.3     3.1      0.8     0.2
Cumulative     0.8      2.5     6.1    10.9    15.2    18.3    19.1    19.3
Rate of Return: Not Applicable.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.     MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN THE ELECTRICAL POWER SECTOR ..............    .  1
Sector Development        ............................................  1
Organizational Structure and Employment .....      ..................  1
Manpower Training and Development in the Sector .............        2
Major Training Issues ............. ...................              3
Supply of Skilled Manpower 3...                             ..  3
Availability of Instructional Staff.             . .            6
Coordination of Training Activities             .. .            6
Budgetary Support for Training....                                   7
Government Policy and Previous Bank Lending.                         7
Bank Lending Strategy ......             .......................  9
II.    THE PROJECT ..e .... as......... ..* .....                       .     .  l 1
Introduction .     .............        .................... 11
Project Objectives and Scope .................................. 11
Project Description ....... ........................... 11
Skilled Craftsmen Training .................................. 12
Technician Training ................................. 15
Engineering Training      ................................... 15
Technical Assistance       ................................. 17
Bilateral Support ................. ....... 17
III.   PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS .19
Investment Cost Estimates                ..19
Sunmary of Project Costs                  ...                  19
Basis of Cost Estimates           .        .20
Unit Areas and Unit Costs.                        .        . 20
Contingency Allowance           ..21
Foreign Exchange Component   .             .21
Recurrent Costs.............  21
Project Financing ...............  .....G.4621
Project Management ... ........................................ . 22
Implementation .......................22
Administration ..23
Status of Preparation                .....23
Architectural Services    ..23
Sites  ..23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Egypt in
December L984. The appraisal team comprised: Messrs. L.D. Briggs (technical
educator, mission leader), H.K. Go (architect), and B.A. Laporte (economist).



- ii -
Page No.
Furniture and Equipment Lists .... ......................... 23
Technical Assistance .....................***** ............ 24
Procurement ... ............................................ 24
Disbursements ....... ...................................*.....*. 25
Audits and Accounts .......... ..................... ............  26
Project Monitoring and Evaluation ............................. 26
IV.    BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................... *    ..a ............. 27
Benefits .....................* **.********                  ...* 27
Risks *......................................   27
V.     AGREE MENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...................... 29
Annexes:
1.     Charts and Tables:
Chart 1     :   Structure of the Formal School System ............ 31
Table 1     :   Comparative Education Indicators    ..... ..... 32
Table 2     :   Estimated Recurrent Costs for Project
Training Institutions                                34
Table 3     :   Location of Project Institutions ................. 35
Table 4          S-nary Account by Project Component .          ....  36
Table 5     :   Unit Capital Costs and Areas per Student    .. . 37
2.     Schedules:
Schedule I  :   Technical AssistAnce Schedule.             . ....  38
Schedule II :    Implementation Schedule         .    ...39
Schedule III:    Action Plan for Project Implementation ........... 40
Schedule IV:     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .............. 42
3.     Local Competitive Bidding Procedures .................  ............. 43
4.     Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File: .... ..... 46
Reports and Studies Relating to the Country
Reports and Studies Relating to Manpower and Training
Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Map



I. MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT IN THE ELECTRICAL POWER SECTOR
Sector Development
1.01     Egypt's electrical power subsector has witnessed tremendous growth in
both size and complexity over the past ten years.  The rate of growth between
1974 and 1982 (13% per annum) reflects the fast growth of the economy, low and
declining real energy prices, the increasing electrification of the country,
and increased demand from the introduction of large scale aluminum smelting.
By 1982, maximum power demand exceeded supply and load shedding and power
blackouts were common.  Based on past trends, the Egypt Electricity Authority
(EEA) has estimated that peak demand for electricity will rise by 9.9% per
annum between 1984 and 1990.
1.02     The investment program in power generation through 1986/87 is
relatively large; however, the planned 3,800 MW additions for the period
1982-87 are presently on schedule and should eliminate major power shortages
in the short term. Beyond 1987, the EEA investment program aims at
substantially increasing the power generation capacity. Most of the planned
expansion is in steam generating capacity which will be fueled by a
combination of coal, oil and natural gas. In light of the projected rapid
growth in demand, however, even this investment program will leave an
inadequate reserve margin during the period 1987 through 1991 and beyond. The
main tasks now being considered by the power sector, therefore, are to slow
the rate of growth in power demand by encouraging a restructuring of
electricity-intensive industries, revising electricity tariffs, and
introducing load management to shift consumer peak demand to off-peak
periods. Major investment issues in the sector which are currently being
addressed by the Government are: the role of coal in electricity generation,
the availability and the opportunity cost of natural gas for power production,
the role and scope of nuclear power, the role of new hydro projects, and the
Qattara Hydro-Solar Project.
1.03     In order to meet the growing demand for electricity and to provide
adequate service to the consumers, the power sector will have to overcome, in
addition to those items listed above, the constraint of a severe shortage of
skilled manpower.  A concerted effort must be made to implement an effective
and realistic manpower planning and staffing policy.
Organizational Structure and Employment
1.04     Egypt's electrical power sector is controlled by the Ministry of
Electricity and Energy (MOEE) through five administrative entities
(authorities). Among these authorities, the EEA, a publ cly owned enterprise,
is responsible for almost all electricity generation and primary
transmission. The Electricity Distribution Authority (EDA), created in
November 1983, is a holding company for the seven publicly owned Distribution
Companies (DCs) which are responsible for electricity distribution and
customer services throughout the distribution regions of the country (Cairo,
Alexandria, Delta, Canal, Becheira, North Upper Egypt, and South Upper Egypt).



-2-
1.05     Employment in the electricity and public utilities sector is 100%
public and, in 1980, accounted for 0.8X. (83,200) of the total labor force.
This sector has experienced the highest employment growth of the economy,
increasing at an annual rate of about 14Z over the period 1971-1981.
Reorganization of the various electrical power subsector entities under the
MOEE, related redeployment of staff, and fluctuations in the number of staff
actually working, make it difficult to produce consistent data on employment
over time. However, recent surveys reveal that in 1984 the EEA employed about
23,000 persons and that the DCs employed about 25,000.
Manpower Training and Development in the Sector
1.06     The importance of manpower development in the subsector has been
recognized for the past several years; however, the proliferation and relative
independence of public entities within the subsector until recently has
resulted in the absence of an integrated, ministry-wide human resources
development plan. In 1981, the EEA initiated a major program for manpower
training and development aimed at establishing training services for all
levels of its staff (managerial, administrative, financial, engineering,
technician and skilled). This was the beginning of the Cairo North and South
Training Insitutes (CNTI aad CSTI, respectively) with output capacities
equivalent to those proposed for this project (Table 2.02). A manpower and
training department, headed by a managing director, was established to deal
with organization and manpower planning and with the implementation and
evaluation of training. The EEA, with bilateral technical assistance from the
U.K., designed a five-year plan for manpower training and development which
calls for establishing a network of six training institutes to serve the five
electricity zones administered by the Authority (Cairo, Alexandria, Ismailia,
Aswan and Tahlka). The Plan specifies preservice training for skilled workers
and technicians, preservice employment orientation training for engineers, and
refresher courses for all levels. It places special emphasis on inservice
training of existing employees and specifies training for upgradinig one-half
of the current work force over a five-year period -- about 10% per year.
Training in the electrical power subsector will be provided in two types of
institutions: training institutes (TIs), which are multipurpose institutions
providing training for skilled workers, technicians, and engineers, and
training centers (TCs), which are single purpose institutions providing
training only at the skilled worker level.
1.07     The EDA is only now establishing a specific structure for manpower
planning and training, though each of its distribution companies has already
established a manpower training unit. The EDA central training department is
administered by a newly appointed General Manager of Training whose initial
responsibility will be the development of a comprehensive, long-term training
plan for the Authority. A preliminary five-year training plan, developed in
1984, calls for the establishment of a training network, similar to that of
the EEA which would include one traiuing institute and six training centers.
It includes the same provision for upgrading existing employees as the EEA
plan; e.g., one-half the current work force cver a five-year period. The EDA,
at present, however, has no purpose-built training facilities and provides
very little formal training of a classroom or workshop nature. The Cairo
Distribution Company organized a small training program in 1984 for cable
jointers and has established a basic training workshop, though it suffers from



-3-
a lack of materials and equipment. Also, the Cairo DC has made provision for
a limited number of its skilled workers (about 50 per year) to attend courses
a few days per week in the existing EEA institutes. Overall, however, due to
the paucity of suitable buildings, teaching facilities and materials, and
technical instructors, the training impact to date in the EDA has been
negligible. Thus, the need to establish a training capability in the
Authority is critical.
Major Training Issues
1.08     Manpower problems continue to be one of the sector's major
developmental constraints. Recruitment and retention of a sufficient number
of competent and experienced staff are key problems. The attraction of
oil-rich Middle East countries and salary differentials between the public and
private sectors have made recruitment and retention of qualified manpower,
given the relatively limited source of supply, very difficult. A study
completed in 1981 showed that turnover in the power stations for engineers
alone was as high as 9.4%, though in other parts of the subsector it
approximates 3-4% for engineers and technicians and less for skilled workers.
At the same time, public sector agencies have been required to employ new
university graduates and discharged servicemen, many of whom are not
appropriately trained or qualified for the positions they fill. This
unbalanced staff structure has resulted in considerable inefficiency not only
in power generation and distribution but in the critical area of maintenance.
A high proportion of generating plants are out of service at any given time
due in part to inadequate preventive maintenance resulting from poorly skilled
workers and from manpower shortages in general. Also, recent studies
completed within the EDA show that the present level of faults in the cable
and line network is about five times higher than the international average,
due primarily to the dearth of well-trained manpower. And finally, the
relative neglect of manpower training in the electrical power subsector and
the weak coordination of training programs within the sector, especially since
recent proliferation of subsector agencies with different sources of budgetary
support, have resulted in the lack of a comprehensive training policy.
1.09     The main issues in manpower training for the electrical power sector
relate to the following:
(a)  Supply of skilled manpower:  the lack of qualified manpower to
sustain growth in the sector and to improve productivity and
efficiency in electricity generation and distribution;
(b)  Availability of instructional staff:  the shortage of well-trained
and experienced instructors for conducting training activities; and
(c)  Coordination of training activities:  the coordination of training
plans and efforts among the various sector agencies engaged in
training.
1.10     Supply of Skilled Manpower.  The electrical power subsector has
consistently experienced shortages of well-qualified and experienced staff.
This is attributable to the unprecedented growth in the subsector; increased
staff specialization due to advanced technology; the continuing drain of
technical staff, especially engineers and technicians; and, perhaps most
significantly, the lack of a training capability in the sector.



- 4 -
1.11     While much thought and deliberation have gone into the technological
and financial planning aspects of the country's electrification efforts,
insufficient consideration has been given to how the associated manpower
requirements are to be met. Formal training facilities have been limited to
two training institutes within the EEA (para. 1.06) while very little formal
training has been provided within the EDA and its member distribution
companies (para. 1.07) due to its recent formation and to their general lack
of suitable buildings, training facilities and materials, and technical
instructors.
1.12     In 1981, at the Bank's suggestion and with Bank financing (Ln
1886-EGT and Cr 1052-EGT), the EEA counissioned an international consultant
group to quantify its skilled manpower requirements and projected shortfalls
over the next five years to provide the basis for a five-year recruitment and
training plan (para. 1.06). More recently (1984), a similar survey of EDA's
manpower and training needs was conducted as a first step in the development
of a detailed staff training plan in the EDA and its member distribution
companies (para. 1.07). Both studies concluded that the two Authorities face
the tremendous challenge of increased demands for electricity and strong
expectations for improving the reliability of supply. A satisfactory response
to this challenge must necessarily include an organized approach tc manpower
assessment and human resources development. The studies point out a critical
need to adopt more formalized training for correcting present imbalances
between skilled manpower demand and supply, improving the quality and
relevance of job skills among new and existing employees, and increasing the
effectiveness of manpower utilization.
1.13     On the basis of the above mentioned studies and information collected
during appraisal, the Bank has estimated labor demand and supply for key
occupational groups in the EEA and EDA during the period 1985-2000 (Table
1.01). The estimated current employment in both the EEA and EDA was used as a
basis for maxLpuwer projections while the relative proportion of skilled
workers, technicians, and engineers in both Authorities was estimated on the
basis of the prooortion of these occupational groups in the electrical power
sector at the time of the 1976 Census. This proportion of occupational groups
within the sub-sector approximates that in other similar countries.
Table 1.01: CURRENT EEA/EDA TECHNICAL EMPLOYMENT,
LONG-TERM (1985-2000) MANPOWER DEMANDS,
AND ESTIMATED SUPPLY OF NEWLY TRAINED WORKERS
Estimated     Estimated
Technical     Additional       Estimated      Supply
Employment     Demand a/       Supply b/      as X of
Category of Employment          (1984)      (1985-2000)    (1985-2000)    Demand
Skilled Craftsmen               13,680         8,000            5,600         70
Technicians                      4,560         2,700            1,250         46
Engineers                        2,280         1,700            1,400         82
Source: EEA/EDA Manpower Study Reports of 1981 and 1984, respectively.
a/ After 1986/87, considers manpower demand from only attrition and employee
turnover.
b/ Estimated supply includes only those to be trained in the preservice
programs.



1.14     The Second Five-Year Plan estimates have been used to project growth
in GDP, productivity, and employment for the electrical power sector through
1987, at which point technical employment is expected to have increased by
about 101 over the 1984 level. In attempting to be conservative beyond the
end of the current Plan (1986/87), manpower demand due only to attrition and
turnover in the existing system has been taken into consideration. For
purposes of this analysis, it has been assumed, based on consultant *tudies
(para. 1.13' and Bank knowledge of the sector, that attrition and turnover
will be about 42 per annum for engineers and about 3Z per annum for
technicians and skilled workers. Additionally, as there is some movement of
workers between the EDA and EEA, estimated me.npower demand for both groups has
been combined for this analysis. Similarly, the output of the existing formal
training programs in the EEA and the planned output from the proposed project
institutions in both EEA and ED have been combined for inclusion on the
supply side.  As this project is concerned with training of only specialized
technical staff in the EDA and EEA, this analysis focuses on the demand and
supply of only these occupational groups in the sub-sector and does not
include administrative, unskilled and support personnel who are readily
available for employment.
1.15     These manpower demand estimates show, as indicated in Table 1.01,
that over the period 1985-2000, based only on expansion programmed through
1986/87 (para. 1.15), graduates from the existing and all proposed project
training institutions in the EEA and EDA will meet about 821 of the projected
additional need for engineers, 70Z for skilled workers, and 46% for
technicians. Training capacity of existing facilities alone would meet less
than 20% of the projected total need for trained manpower replacements in the
subsector during this time period. As these manpower demand projections
imply, even if there is no employment growth in the EEA and EDA beyond 1987,
the simple replacement of existing staff lost through attrition (death and
retirement) and turnover will be compromised unless both organizations move
quickly to develop their training capabilities.
1.16     In addition to the need for training new workers, as described above,
there is a critical need to upgrade the existing work force by improving the
level of job skills. The EDA, in particular, anticipates that improved worker
skills to be derived from the planned training programs will result, over the
expected 15-year life of the project training equipment, in a gradual
reduction in the number of system faults from the present level of about five
times the international average to a figure approaching the average. The
expected reductions in repair costs and in losses of revenue from undelivered
electricity due to system outages are expected to contribute significantly
during this period toward recovery of training investment costs. The EDA/EEA
training plans call for three weeks of intensive, inservice training for
one-half of the existing work force over a five-year period. Based on the
estimated technical employment at the 1986/87 level-off point (para. 1.15),
this would amount to a need to provide inservice training on an annual basis
for approximately 2.260 technical staff of the EDA and EEA. This proposed
project would meet almost 100l (2,250) of the currently anticipated inservice
training need (Table 2.01). Both the preservice training and skill upgrading
programs are expected to contribute significantly toward the improvement of
manpower productivity and operational efficiency and to have a significant
impact on the ultimate quality of electrical services provided.



- 6 -
1.17     Availability of Instructional Staff.  The shortage of qualified
instructors permeates most segments of vocational and technical education in
Egypt. In addition to the limited supply of well-qualified instructors, high
salaries offered in the private sector and in certain Gulf countries make it
difficult to recruit and retain experienced training personnel. The Bank has
assisted in this regard by financing the development of instructor training
facilities through previous projects, so the situation is gradually
improving. Additionally, expansion of the Instructor Training Institute (ITI)
in the Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources under the First Vocational
Training Project (Ln 2264-EGT), when completed in 1988, will constitute a
major source of supply for industrial training instructors.
1.18     The existing training facilities of the electrical power sector
recruit the majority of their instructional staff from among experienced
employees. These instructors are given special training in technology and
teaching methodology - some in the existing Cairo North Training Institute,
some through fellowships abroad and some through cooperative arrangements with
local agencies; i.e., universities and other ainistries.  These arrangements
are planned to be continued in the future for project institutions and the EEA
and EDA expect no problems in identifying highly qualified employees in
sufficient number to staff the new institutions proposed for this project. An
issue which needs careful attention, however, is the agencies' ability to
retain these and future qualified instructors in their assignment. With the
increasing awareness of the crucial role of instructors in the sector, and the
necessity to develop training activities on a large scale, incentives should
be provided to training officers. Both the EEA and EDA have recently adopted
a formal remuneration bonus policy which makes instructor salaries competitive
with others in the labor market. This remuneration policy is intended to help
discourage instructors from seeking alternative employment while at the same
time increasing motivation and ultimately improving the level of training.
Both Authorities expect to continue this remuneration policy in the future
(para. 2.11) as some positive effects are being derived from it.
1.19     Coordination of Training Activities.  The expansion of training
activities in the electrical power subsector should be carried out in the
context of improved coordination of training efforts among the various public
organizations. The proliferation of agencies within the subsector has caused
some problems in coordination, and, in the absence of an integrated manpower
development plan, individual companies have tended to develop their own
training arrangements independently of the others. It is only recently that a
comprehensive manpower training and development plan has been developed by the
EEA (para. 1.06).
1.20     The EDA, having been created little more than a year ago, is only now
establishing a specific structure within the organization to monitor all
manpower training and development activities, and to provide developmental
leadership in this respect. This function, until now, has been left to
individual distribution companies with the result that only limited resources
have been devoted to preservice and inservice training. Improved coordination
is necessary to ensure coherence in training, avoid duplication and, perhaps
more importantly, set up a trade testing and certification system to help
employers assess and improve the competAnce of staff.



1.21     There still is no Ministry-wide coordination for manpower and
training; however, the proposed project includes a technical assistance
component which would review the training needs and provide the basis for a
comprehensive training policy to serve the entire Ministry of Electricity anld
Energy (para. 2.21).
Budgetary Support for Training
1.22     The EDA/EEA budgets are closely linked with electricity tariffs from
which most of the agencies' capital and operational funds are derived. In
past years, unreasonably low tariffs and high operational costs had caused the
financial situation of the EEA and the DCs to deteriorate. However, the
Government implemented seven increases in electricity tariffs between April
1982 and June 1984, amounting to a total increase of about 40% in real terml5
The Ministry of Electricity and Energy proposes to maintain gradual tariff
increases in the future in order to continually improve the financial positi°n
of the EEA and DCs. Due to the importance now being attached to trained
manpower in the subsector, human resources development is becoming a high
priority for EDAIEEA investment as indicated by the establishment of a
training department in both authorities and two training institutes in the
EEA. During the current decade, therefore, manpower training is expected to
increase substantially with a corresponding increase in recurrent costs.
Budgetary allocations deriving from tariff income are expected to meet this
need (para. 3.07).
Government Policy and Previous Bank Lending
1.23     A major theme of the Government's education and training strategy in
the current Plan is the rapid development of skilled manpower required for the
country's economic development. Emphasis is being placed on: increasing the
provision of industrial training programs; improving the quality and relevance
of the skills of the new and existing labor force; distributing training
opportunities equitably with special attention to the needs of the regions;
and strengthening the institutional base for manpower development, including
the improvement of the quality and provision of basic education. In view of
the Government's objective of rapid economic growth, these objectives are
appropriate.
1.24     The Bank's support for education and training in Egypt has been
consistent with the Government's high priority of training for productive
employment.  In support of this objective, the Bank has lent a total of uS$
million for five education and vocational training projects. The major focus
of these projects has been on expanding and upgrading the training of
managers, technicians, and skilled and semi-skilled workers in industrials
agricultural, construction and commercial trades, and expanding and improving
teacher and instructor training in selected areas. The First Education
Project (Credit 681-EGT, approved in L977 for US$25 million) was
satisfactorily completed in December 1980. The Project included components
with the Ministries of Development, Housing and Land Reclamation (MDHLR);
Higher Education (MOHE); Education (MOE); and Industry and Mineral Resources
(MOIMR). It supported basic vocational training for the construction sector,
apprenticeship training for industry, technician training, skilled worker
training, and vocational instructor training. The Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR) (Report No. 5070, dated May 7, 1984) states that the Project was
"successfully implemented ... and provided the basis for a series of



-8-
interconnected follow-on projects designed to strengthen and expand the
skilled manpower supply in Egypt." The PPAR also noted an inadequate supply
of qualified instructors, and this issue was addressed in the subsequent
education and training projects.
1.25     The Second Education Project (Credit 868-EGT, approved in 1978 for
US$40.0 million equivalent) continued the First Education Project emphasis on
manpower development through skilled worker, technician, and management
training, and included training of primary and secondary teachers plus the
introduction of population education in the formal school system. This
Project, scheduled for completion in March 1985, has been implemented
satisfactorily.
1.26     The Third Education Project (Credit 1069-EGT, approved in 1980 for
US$40.1 million equivalent) included training of qualified workers,
technicians, and managers while also addressing deficiencies in secondary
mathematics and science teacher training and improving the teaching skills of
university staff. In addition, major emphasis has been placed upon programs
directed at low income rural and urban groups. Project implementation
performance is satisfactory.
1.27     The First Vocational Training Project (Loan 2264-EGT, approved in
1983 for US$38 million) includes the MDHLR and the MOIMR, and focuses on
vocational training in the construction and industrial sectors. It also
includes the upgrading and expansion of instructor training, the result of
which will be to increase significantly the supply of instructors for skilled
worker training programs. Project implementation performance is good.
1.28     A proposed Secrnd Vocational Training Project appraised in May 1984
(Loan amount US$23.7 mi.lion) will continue to support the MOIMR in its
efforts to increase the supply and upgrade the quality of skilled and
semi-skilled manpower in the industrial sector.
1.29     The Bank Group has made loans/credits for three power projects in
Egypt. The first project (Ln 1453-EGT, approved in 1977 for US$48 millicn
equivalent) was made in 1977 for a regional electrification project. The
project was successfully completed in December 1982, and a Project Completion
Report prepared in May 1983 concluded that, in addition to helping erect
physical facilities, the Project also contributed to several institutional
changes such as improved power subsector planning and implementation of
various training programs. The Second Power Project (financed in part by Loan
1733-EGT and Credit 935-EGT, amounting to US$139 million equivalent, approved
in June 1979) and the Third Power Project (financed in part by Loan 1886-EGT
and Credit 1052-EGT, amounting to US$127 million, approved in June 1980) were
intended to assist the EEA improve its planning, operations and financial
management, meet the increasing load on the interconnected system, improve
electrical services to a population of about one million, and bring electric
service for the first time to about two million inhabitants. A supplemental
loan to cover the shortfall in foreign cost financing plus related technical
assistance for the Shoubrah El Kheima and Aswan II power stations, components
of the Second and Third Power Projects, was approved in June 1984.



1.30     Under the Third Power Project, the Bank assisted the EEA in taking
initial and essential steps to address the problem of manpower training and
development by financing international consultants to help develop a five-year
training plan. In early 1982 the EEA appointed the same consultants with
Project support to help implement one of the recommendations of the five-year
plan, namely the reorganization and developmenc of the Cairo North Training
Institute. Although the Government has succeeded in attracting substantial
external assistance to implement the training plan, an additional
US$3.7 million has been earmarked in the supplemental loan to finance the
continuation of training activities and the strengthening of the Manpower and
Training Department.
Bank Lending Strategy
1.31     Bank lending strategy is to support the Government initiatives and
priorities for training programs which will improve labor productivity,
particularly in the productive and service sectors. The strategy focuses on
expanding and upgrading skilLs training to meet critical manpower needs in key
industrial sectors such as the mechanical industry, the electric and
electronic industries, and the construction and manufacturing industries. In
addition, the strategy includes skills training for various disadvantaged
groups such as school drop-outs plus skills training leading to self
employment or income supplementing opportunities for low income individuals
and families.



¾~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N  ~~~~~~~~~~~~I
4~/    0



- 11 -
II. THE PROJECT
Introduction
2.01     This project was prepared by the Government subsequent to a Bank
identification mission in July 1984 and a preparation assistance mission in
October 1984. The project was appraised in December 1984.
2.02     The proposed project would focus on strengthening Egypt'n capability
for meeting the trained manpower requirements of its electrical power sector.
It would impact substantially on the Government's nationwide electrification
efforts and would make a major contribution toward improving manpower
productivity and operational efficiency. Additionally, it would help to
broaden the country's training base for the continuing long-term development
of its human resources. The proposed project is consistent with the
Government's investment priorities for economic development and with Bank
strategy for lending ia Egypt.
Proiect Objectives and Scope
2.03     The proposed project objective is to alleviate the shortage of
trained manpower in the electrical power sector and raise the quality of
existing staff by developing a training capability within the Ministry of
Electricity and Energy (MOEE) which would enable it to:
(a) produce each year approximately 530 additional skilled craftsmen and
120 technicians for the electrical power sector;
(b) provide a practical training program for orienting and introducing
approximately 90 newly graduated and employed electrical engineers
per year to employment in the electrical power sector; and
Cc) provide inservice training for upgrading each year about 250
engineers, 500 technicians, and 1,500 skilled craftsmen.
Project Description
2.04     This proposed project would involve two authorities of the MOEE --
the Egypt Electricity Authority (EEA), with responsibility for electricity
generation and primary transmission, and the Electricity Distribution
Authority (EDA), which is responsible for power distribution and subsequent
services to the ultimate consumer. The project would establish four
multipurpose (skilled craftsmen, technician, and engineering) training
institutes - one for the EDA and three for the EEA - and six single purpose
(skilled craftsmen) training centers for the EDA, including the provision of:
(a) construction, equipment, and furniture for seven training
institutions (EEA - Fayid and Aswan; EDA - Cairo, Alexandria, Aswan,
Minya, and Ismailia);
(b) renovation/extension, equipment and furniture for two existing
training institutions (EDA - Tanta and Dokki); and



- 12 -
(c) equipment and furniture only for one existing training institution
(EEA - Abu Qir);
In addition, the project would include technical assistance related to: (a)
the above project items (217 man-months of specialists' services and 183
man-months of fellowship training) and (b) consultative services for a
manpower needs study, a training developmnent and management plan, and
preparation of a possible subsequent project (12 man-months of specialists'
services).
2.05     The number of training places to be established and/or equipped and
the expected annual output is as shown in Table 2.01.
Table 2.01: PROPOSED TRAINING FACILITIES, TRAINING PLACES,
AND ESTIMATZD ANNUAL OUTPUT CAPABILITY
Preservice           Inservice
Traininx Center/Institute               Places    Output a/   Places   Output
Egypt Electricity Authority (EEA)
Training institutes (3)
Skilled workers                          270       150         30       450
Technicians                              180        90         30       370
Engineers                                 60        60         15       180
EEA Totals                               510       300         75    1,000
Electricity Distribution Authority (EDA)
Training Institute (1)
Skilled workers                           60        55         10       150
Technicians                               60        30         10       130
Engineers                                 30        30          5        70
Training Centers (6)
Skilled workers                          360       330         60       900
EDA Totals                               510       445         85    1,250
Project Totals                             1,020       745        160    2,250
a/  Assumes 5% per year dropout in preservice skilled worker training and only
minor dropout in others. As training courses vary in lengths, the ratio
of estimated output to training places differs between EEA skilled worker
preservice training (three-year) and that of the EDA (two-year).
Skilled Craftsmen Training
2.06     This project component would concentrate on improving the skills of
existing power sector workers and on the preparation of new employees to
replace those lost through attrition and turnover. All of the six proposed
training centers and the four proposed training institutes would provide
skilled craftsman training with both inservice and preservice programs.



- 13 -
Special training emphasis would be placed on increasing labor productivity and
quality of work in order to expand electrification efforts and to reduce the
high cost of operation in the sector. Inservice training of existing workers
would be built around the core elements of the preservice program; i.e.,
inservice training would focus primarily on specific items of the preservice
program in which the individuals have manifest skill deficiencies.
2.07     The preservice traininR program would be based on a cooperative
arrangement with the Ministry of Education (MOE) through which trainees would
receive their general education in the local secondary schools and their
technical specialization in the training centers, alternating on a one-half
time basis between the school and center. The six EDA training centers and
the EDA training institute would work with the industrial secondary schools,
accepting applicants who have successfully completed their first year in the
school (school year 10) and thus have developed a minimum level of basic shop
skills. The training programs would build on the trainees' first year in the
industrial schools and would extend over school years 11 and 12. The three
EEA training institutes would work with the general secondary schools,
accepting applicants at the beginning of secondary school (year 10) as the
general schools have no facilities for developing basic shop skills. The EEA
institutes' programs would extend over school years 10, 11, and 12. Upon
satisfactory completion of the specified program requirements, all EDA/EEA
trainees would receive a standard MOE industrial secondary school diploma plus
employment in the respective authority with which they were trained.
Recruitment of new students to the program is not expected to be a problem as
each authority would work with a different group of schools and the potential
source of students (190,000 industrial and 507,000 general secondary) is far
greater than the number of available training places.
2.08     The proposed skilled craftsman training programs would provide job
preparation for installation, operation, and maintenance in the EDA
specializations of overhead lines, cable jointing, meter and equipment repair,
and sub-station installations, and the EEA specializations of mechanics,
electricity, and instrumentation plus inservice courses in welding and machine
mechanics. Curricula for each of these programs, about equally divided
between theory and practice, are satisfactory to the Bank. Detailed syllabi
and instructional aids would be developed under the technical assistance
component (para. 2.21) and would be sent to the Bank for comment.
2.09     The annual intake of trainees for the preservice training programs
would be 60 per center, making a two-year enrollment for the seven EDA
programs of 840 and a three-year enrollment for the three EEA programs of
540. As one-half of the trainees will be in the centers/institutes at any
given time, only 690 training places will be required for these programs as
indicated in Table 2.01. Assuming an annual dropout rate of 5X, the ten
proposed training facilities would have an output capability, upon reaching
full operational status in 1992, of placing about 530 newly trained skilled
craftsmen per year into the EDA/EEA work forces as also indicated in
Table 2.01. Data in Table 2.02 indicate that over the next 15-year period
(1985-2000), the project training institutions, combined with existing
training facilities, would produce approximately 5,600 newly trained skilled
workers (about 70X of the projected 8,000 skilled worker demand) for the
EDA/EEA operations. Unskilled individuals would continue to be recruited and
given on-job training by experienced staff in order to partially meet the
remaining manpower needs.



- 14 -
Table 2.02: ESTIMATED EDA/EEA TECHNICAL EMPLOYEE DEMAND WITH
ANNUAL AND LONG-TERM OUTPUT OF PROPOSED TRAINING CENTERS
AND INSTITUTES
Annual Output        Cummul.      Empl.
Exist-                       Output     Demand    Z  of
ing    Proposed             (1985-     (1985-   Need to
Category of Employment  Insts Ctrs/Insts a/ Total    2000)a/    2000)b/ be  Met
Skilled Craftsmen        100       530        635    5,600        8,000      70
Technicians               20       120        140    1,250        2,700      46
Engineers                 40        90        130    1,400        1,700      82
a/  Output from proposed new centers/institutes would begin in 1992.
b/ Based ou employment growth leveling off after 1986/87.
2.10     The inservice training program would focus on selected skilled
workers who need refresher training and/or skills upgrading. The upgrading of
worker knowledge and skills would contribute significantly toward reducing the
country's electrical fault rate from approximately five times the
international average to a level approaching the average (para. 1.17). This
proposed project would enable the implementing agencies to initiate a
carefully orchestrated training program to reach one-half of the existing work
force over a five-year period - approximately 102 per year. The program,
designed to serve about 1,500 skilled workers annually, would consist of
three-week intensive training courses for each group of trainees.
2.11     Each of the ten training institutions proposed for this project would
introduce four new skilled craftsman training programs (para. 2.08) which
would need one instructor and one teaching assistant per program. The
Ministry anticipates that most of the instructors/assistants required for each
institution would be recruited from among experienced employees in the areas
of specialization needed and that they would be given special training in
technology and teaching methodology (para. 1.18). Instructors for a
particular institution generally will be recruited from the regional company
to be served by the respective facilities. About one-half of the instructors
would be permanent core training staff of the centers while the remainder
would be assigned on a part-time or temporary basis for specific courses or
other teaching activities as required. To ensure retention of quality staff,
both the EEA and EDA have adopted an official remuneration policy which allows
iLstructor salaries to be competitive with those of the market place; thus,
normal full-time instructor salaries are augmented by special pay incentives
for individually assigned activities in the training institutions. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurance that an appropriate
remuneration system for EEA and EDA instructors would De maintained (para.
5.02(a)).



- 15 -
Technician Training
2.12     The training of power sector technicians would be a function of the
proposed multipurpose training institutes of Fayid, Abu Qir, Aswan, and
Cairo. The institutes would provide inservice training to meet the critical
need of upgrading existing staff and preservice training to prepare new
technicians for replacing those lost through attrition and turnover.
Technicians trained by this project component would serve the critically
important function of first-level supervision and be engaged in technical
tasks of medium-level responsibility with a liaison role between the engineer
and skilled craftsman.
2.13     The preservice technician training curricula would be of a
post-secondary nature and implemented as two-year, full-time programs. New
trainees would be recruited primarily from among graduates of the MOEE skilled
craftsman programs and the MOE industrial secondary schools as first and
second priority, respectively, although general secondary school graduates
with appropriate work experience in the sector would also be admissible. It
is expected that the MOE will award a technician diploma to those
satisfactorily completing the prescribed program but arrangements for this
aspect of the program are yet to be finalized.
2.14     Curricula for both the EEA and EDA technician training programs will
be relatively broad-based with advanced study of most topics covered in the
preservice skilled craftsman training program. Each of the two implementing
agencies will have one curriculum for its respective technician training
program and each curriculum will be of generally the same level with the same
distribution between theory and practical content. The EEA program will place
greater emphasis on generation and high-voltage sub-station installation,
operation, and maintenance, with the Aswan center concentrating more heavily
on hydropower, while the EDA curriculum will emphasize electrical testing,
inspection, and other aspects of quality control. Curricula for these
programs, with content about equally distributed between theory and practice,
are acceptable to the Bank. Detailed syllabi and training materials would be
developed with support from the project technical assistance component
(para. 2.21) and would be sent to the Bank for comment.
2.15     The proposed preservice technician training program would accept 30
new trainees per year for a total two-year enrollment of 60 trainees per
institute - 240 for the four institutes. As competition for acceptance into
this program is expected to be keen and the prestige of completion great,
dropout is expected to be minimal. Thus, in projecting annual output of
trained technicians, no allowance is made for dropouts. The four training
institutes, therefore, would have a capability for producing approximately 120
newly trained technicians per year. During the period 1985-2000, as indicated
in Table 2.02, these institutes combined with existing training facilities,
would produce approximately 1,250 new technicians (about 46% of the projected
2,700 technician demand) for the EDA/EEA work forces. The projected deficit,
in this case, is expected to be met partially through promotion of the more
capable skilled workers.



- 16 -
2.16     The inservice technician training program would focus on upgrading
existing technicians in the sector. Low worker productivity and poor quality
work are serious and extremely costly impediments to the country's
electrification development efforts. This program would concentrate on
alleviating both of these problems. As is the case for skilled craftsmen in
the sector (para. 2.10), the training development plan for technicians calls
for one-half of the existing staff, over a five-year period, to receive three
weeks of intensive refresher and/or upgrade training. This would amount to
about 10% per year of existing staff or approximately 500 technicians annually.
2.17     Each of the proposed technician training programs would require three
regular instructors and three teaching assistants. The recruitment and
remuneration of instructors for the program would be handled as described for
the skilled craftsman training program (para. 2.11).
Engineering Training
2.18     The practical training program for orienting and introducing newly
graduated engineers to the electrical power sector would be conducted by the
four multipurpose training institutes. This proposed preservice traininR
program would be a one-year, full-time program consisting of institutional
instruction in the theory and practice of operations in the respective
authority plus supervised field work with experienced engineers. The need for
this program results from the theoretical, non-operationally oriented
university engineering faculties whose graduates, without this specialized
training, are of limited value, initially, to the sector. In addition to its
practical orientation, the program would focus on improving the quality of
work and operational efficiency in the sector.
2.19     Each of the three EEA institutes would accept 20 newly graduated
engineers per year, while the EDA institute would accept 30. Thus, the four
multipurpose training institutes would have a capability for preparing 90 new
specially trained engineers per year for job entry into the sector. As
indicated in Table 2.02, these four institutes combined with existing training
facilities would produce, over the period 1985-1999, approximately 1,400 newly
prepared engineers (about 82% of the projected 1,700 new engineer demand) for
the EDA/EEA operations. The remaining need would be met by placing new
recruits on the job immediately after university graduation and providing
on-the-job orientation to employment in the traditional manner. Curricula for
these already operating programs are acceptable to the Bank. Instructional
materials for the program and detailed syllabi would be developed with project
technical assistance (para. 2.21) and would be sent to the Bank for comment.
2.20     In the broad-based effort to upgrade all levels of employees in the
two agencies, inservice training would be provided for engineers on the same
basis as for skilled craftsmen and technicians (para. 2.10) - about 10% per
year of existing staff, or about 250 engineers annually. Three instructors
and three assistants per institute will be required for both the inservice and
preservice programs and the instructor provisions described previously for
skilled craftsman and technician training (para. 2.11) would apply to this
project component as well.



- 17 -
Technical Assistance
2.21     The proposed project would include technical assistance in support
of: (a) consultative services for the development of instructional materials
and course syllabi and for the development of institutional management
policies and planning procedures (217 man-months); (b) fellowship training
abroad for EDA's training center administrators and staff (183 man-months);
and (c) consultative services (12 man-months) for a sector-wide study of
manpower and training needs to provide the basis for a comprehensive training
policy which would serve the entire Ministry of Electricity and Energy
(Annex 2. Schedule I). Item (a) above includes 96 man-months of consultative
services to be obtained through bilateral support (para. 2.22). Terms of
reference for the proposed project consultants and a preliminary plan and
schedule for the fellowship program have been prepared and are acceptable to
the Bank.
Bilateral Support
2.22     The foreign assistance office Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusawmenarbeit (GTZ) of the Federal Republic of Germany, through a previously
established protocol agreement with the Government of Egypt, has provided and
continues to provide technical assistance specialists (48 man-months) for
planning the EEA Fayid TI facilities and programs, and would provide
instructional equipment as required and specified in the project
(approximately US$3.1 million equivalent, including contingencies) for this
institution. In addition, the Swedish Commission for Technical Cooperation
(SCTC) has provided technical assistance for the EEA Aswan TI feasibility
study and preliminary d'%igns, and is continuing to provide technical
assistance specialists (a total of 48 man-months) for preparation of
construction designs and documents for the proposed institute. In the event
that the planned GTZ provision of equipment for the Fayid II fails to
materialize, the Governmeut would finance the equipment costs from local
budgets.



I-
1)Ico



- 19 -
III. PROJECT COST. FINANCING. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Investment Cost Estimates
3.01     Summary of Proiect Costs.  The total cost of the project is estimated
to be LE 61.7 million or US$49.3 million equivalent, of which US$27.9 million
would be foreign exchange.  The distribution by local and foreign costs for
groups of project items is suimmarized in Table 3.01 below.
Table 3.01: PROJECT COSTS BY PROJECT ITEM
S of
LE Million          US$ Million  _  Baseline
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign To.al    Cost
Construction, furniture
and equiPment for:
Two EEA training institutes   5.11   6.62  11.73   4.08   5.31   9.39        28.0
Four EDA training centers
and one institute            9.74  10.10  19.84   7.79   8.08  15.87       48.0
Extension/remodeling
furniture and equipment
for:
Two EDA training centers       0.90   2.31   3.21   0.73   1.84   2.57        7.7
Furniture and equipment
only for:
One EEA training institute    0.35   2.44   2.79   0.28   1.95   2.23         6.8
Technical Assistance:
EDA fellowships                0.16   0.64   0.80   0.13   0.51   0.64        1.9
Specialistslconsultants:
- for EDA training centers    0.33   1.33   1.66   0.26   1.06   1.32         4.0
- for EEA training centers    0.27   1.05   1.32   0.21   0.84   1.05         3.2
Manpower study                 0.03   0.13   0.16   0.03   0.11   0.14        0.4
Subtotal                     0.79   3.15   3.94   0.63   2.52   3.15        9.5
Baseline Cost                 16.89  24.62  41.51  13.51  19.70  33.21    100.0
Contingencies;
Physical                     1.65   2.30   3.95   1.32   1.84   3.16        9.6
Price                        8.26   7.96  16.22   6.61   6.37  12.98       39.0
Subtotal                     9.91  10.26  20.17   7.93   8.21  16.14      48.6
Total Proiect Cost            26.80  34.89  61.69  21.44  27.91  49.35
3.02     The distribution of estimated local and foreign costs oy categories
of expenditure is summarized in Table 3.02 below.



- 20 -
Table 3.02: PROJECT COST BY CAIECORY OF EXPENDITURE
X of
LE Million          US$ Million      Baseline
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total    Cost
Construction:
Academic and communal          9.41   4.03  13.44   7.53   3.22  10.75    32.4
Boarding                       1.58   0.67   2.25   1.27   0.54   1.81       5.5
Staff housing                  1.27   0.55   1.82   1.01   0.44   1.45       4.4
ArLhitect's fees               1.04   0.00   1.04   0.83   0.00   0.83       2.5
Subtotal                    13.30   5.25  18.55  10.64   4.20  14.84    44.8
Equipment                      1.72  15.50  17.22   1.38  12.40  13.78    41.5
Furniture                      1.08   0.72   1.80   0.86   0.58   1.44       4.3
Technical Assistance           0.79   3.15   3.94   0.63   2.52   3.15       9.5
Baseline cost                 16.89  24.62  41.51  13.51  19.70  33.21   100.0
Contingencies                  9.91  10.26  20.17   7.93   8.21  16.14    48.6
Total Project Cost            26.80  34.89  61.69  21.44  27.91  49.35
3.03     Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimated civil works costs for the project
are based on unit prices from current contracts for similar institutions of
the Third Education and First Vocational Training Projects and Bank
information on construction costs in general and have been adjusted for -
regional cost differences. Furniture and equipment costs are based on current
c.i.f. prices and on standard costs per student place in similar institutions
and are adjusted upward to include local transportation and installation costs
(Annex 1, Table 4). Project cost estimates do not include any identifiable
import duties or taxes as goods imported for use by Government agencies are
not subject to these taxes.  Costs for architectural s-rvices are based on
current rates being charged by local architectural/engineering firms. The
estimate of TA costs is based upon average costs per staff month of US$11,000
for expatriate specialist's services (consisting of salaries, fees, overhead,
international travel and subsistence) and about US$3,500 for overseas
fellowships, inclusive of international travel. Baseline cost estimates have
been adjusted to reflect prices at negotiations (April 1985). The variable
commercial bank rate (currently LE 1.25 per US dollar) has been used in the
calculation of currency equivalents.
3.04     Unit Areas and Unit Costs.  Area allocations and costs per student
are shown in Annex 1, Table 5. Gross area per student place for the training
centers for academic, boarding and staff housing are in conformity with
present standards. Total capital costs (civil works, furniture and equipment)
per student place for academic and boarding facilities for the training
centers are comparable to the high average cost of similar Bank-financed
institutions. Cost estimates for selected equipment items in the training



- 21 -
centers; e.g_9 electrical substations, instrumentation systems, and system
simulators, ar  based on market prices and, as specialized equipment, cause
the unit capital cost to be somewhat higher than for a con;entional vocational
training center.
3.05     ContinRencY Allowance.  The project costs include a contingency
allowance for uuforeseen physical conditions equal to 10X of the estimated
costs of Civil works, furniture and equipment, and 57 of the estimated costs
of TA. The project cost also includes a price escalation contingency
calculated for the period beginning at negotiations (April 1985) and in
accordance witll an agreed schedule of implementation (Annex 2, Schedule II).
Estimated annaal rates of price increases are indicated below.
Table 3.03: PROJECTED ANNUAL PRICE ESCALATION
Annual Price Escalation (Z)
Type of CostS                     1985      1986     1987     1988-90      1991-93
Local Costs                       16.0      14.0     13.0        12.0        12.0
Foreign Costs                      5.0       7.5      8.0         8.0         5.0
As it is difficult to differentiate between price trends for manufactured
goods, civil works and TA, the above estimates are applicable to expected
price escalation of all expenditures. Prices are expected to increase during
the project implementation period by a total of 38.4X for civil works, 45.1%
for furniture, 33.17 for equipment, 37.92 for TA specialists, and 21.0% for
fellowships.  Accordingly, aggregated price iacreases are estimated at about
35.7% of the baseline cost plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies
are estimated to be about 48.6% of the baseline cost.
3.06     FOr iJ_n Exchange Comonent.  The estimated foreign exchange component
is US$27.9 million equivalent, or about 57X of the total project cost.
Calculation 0f the foreign exchange coo'ponent is based on the assumption that:
(a) all civil works and related architectural/engineering services will be
awarded to local firms as has been the case in previous projects in Egypt; (b)
some furniture materials (i.e., hardwood, metals, finishes, and hardware) are
directly imported, and all furniture contracts are expected to be awarded to
local suppliers; and (c) all equipment will be directly imported. The
resulting foreign exchange content of each category of expenditure is as
follows: (1) civil works, 30%; (2) furniture, 40Z; (3) equipment, 90%; and
(4) technical assistance, 80X.
3.07     Recurrent Costs.  It is anticipated that when fully operational in
1992, recurrent costs for the project components would represent about 0.59
percent and 0.56 percent, respectively, of the EDA and EEA recurrent budgets
(Annex 1, Table 2). In view of the high priority of the proposed training
components within the Ministry of Electricity and the two implementing
agencies (EEA and EDA), the Government can be expected to meet these
expenditures through marginal tariff increases and from anticipated savings in
maintenance coSts due to increased employee efficiency axnd decreased down-time
of the electrical power system.



- 22 -
Proiect Financing
3.08     The proposed loan of US$19.3 million would finance 69X of the total
estimated foreign exchange cost of the project. About 16% of the foreign
exchange costs (US$4.6 million) would be financed by the Government. The;
balance of the foreign exchange cost (US$4.0 million) and 2% of the local
costs (US$0.3 million) is the estimated cost of equipment, experts, and
architectural services for the Fayid and Aswan EEA training institutions which
is expected to be met by GTZ and SCTC. The Government would finance the
balance of the estimated local costs, which amounts to US$21.1 million
equivalent (98'* of the local cost or 43% of the total project cost). The
proposed financial plan is summarized below.
Table 3.04: FINANCIAL PLAN
US$ Million
Government   IBRD    Bilateral Sources a/    Total
Civil works                     12.65       1.36            0.00            14.01
Equipment                        1.38     10.50             1.90            13.78
Furniture                        0.86      0.58             0.00             1.44
Technical Assistance             0.63       1.68            0.84             3.15
Architectural fees               0.55       0.00            0.28             0.83
Baseline Cost               16.07     14.12             3.02           33.21
Contingencies
Physical                     1.33      1.56             0.27            3.16
Price                        8.31      3.64             1.03            12.98
Subtotal                     9.64      5.20             1.30           16.14
Total Project Cost              25.71     19.32             4.32           49.35
a/  Based on agreements between the Government, GTZ (Federal Republic of
Germany), and SCTC (Sweden).
Proiect Management
3.09     Implementation.  The proposed project would have an implementation
period of eight years. As this would be a training project in a power sector,
implementation scehdules were based on the average of eight years required for
all projects in Egypt. Consideration was given also to the average of seven
years for power projects in the region with an added year allowed for this
being the first training project in the sector. Though project authorities
have had experiencc with Bank procedures through ongoing power projects, this
would be their first experience in executing a training project. The
construction, furnishing and equipping of all institutions and the TA
component is expected to be completed by December 1992 (Annex 2, Schedules II
and III). To allow sufficient time for submission of the final withdrawal
applications, the closing date would be June 30, 1993.



- 23-
3.10     Administration.  Both the EEA and EDA have training departments, each
of which has a formally appointed project implementation unit to handle
day-to-day operations of project implementation. Due to his past experience
with Bank projects, the MOEE has designated the EEA Managing Director of
Manpower and Training as Project Coordinator with overall responsibility for
managing implementation of both the EEA and EDA project components, including
the sector-wide manpower reeds study. The Project Coordinator would be the
main point of contact with the Bank for all project-related matters. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurance that the Coordinator, in close
collaboration with the EDA General Manager of Training, would have specific
responsibilities for: (a) ensuring that necessary annual budget appropriations
are requested for the project; (b) liaising with the bilateral agencies
supporting the EEA components; (c) overseeing the development of architectural
designs and procurement of equipment and furniture with the assistance of his
staff; (d) maintaining financial records and preparing withdrawal applications
for disbursements of loan proceeds; and (e) timely recruiting of staff,
nomination of fellowship candidates and selection of expatriate specialists
and/or consultants (para. 5.02 (b)).
Status of Preparation
3.11     Architectural Services.  Preliminary drawings for the EEA training
institute in Aswan are completed and final designs and construction drawings
for this institute and the EEA institute of Fayid are being prepared under a
bilateral assistance agreement with the Government of Sweden and by local
architects, respectively (para. 2.22). Architectural service's for the EDA
training centers will be provided by local firms. Preliminary plans for these
EDA centers, and construction drawings for the EDA center in Dokki, were
discussed and agreed during negotiations (para. 5.Ol(a)).
3.12     Sites.  All sites for the proposed new training institutions have
been acqcuired by the respective implementing authorities (EDA and EEA) and are
acceptable to the Bank.
3.13     Furniture and Equipment Lists.  Preliminary lists and outline
specifications of furniture and equipment have been prepared. Detailed lists
for all project items were reviewed and agreed during negotiations in April
1985 (para. 5.01(b)). The contracts for major equipment packages will include
installation and maintenance training by the manufacturer and/or supplier.
The GTZ, through a previously established protocol agreement between the
Federal Republic of Germany and the Government of Egypt, would provide the
required instructional equipment (about US$3.1 million equivalent, including
contingencies) for the EEA Fayid TI (para. 2.22).



- 24 -
3.14     Technical Assistance.  Draft job descriptions for the specialists,
draft outlines for the fellowship program, and draft terms of reference for
the manpower study and the training and development plan were confirmed at
negotiations (para. 5.01(c)). During negotiations the Government provided
assurance that the MOEE manpower study report and training plan would be
completed no later than March 31, 1987 and that the MOE would exchange veiws
thereafter with the Bank on the study recommendations and the measures, if
any, to be taken for their implementation. (para. 5.02(c)).
Procurement
3.15     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.05.
Table 3.05: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Method
(US$ Million)
Project Element               ICB          LCB         Other     Total
Civil works construction             20.40         0.93         -         21.33
( 1.86)       (0.00)        -        ( 1.86)
Architect's services                  -            -             1.01      1.01
(0.0)    ( 0.00)
Equipment                            16.77         -             3.40     20.17
(14.82)                    (0.00)   (14.82)
Furniture                             2.30         -            -          2.30
C 0.83)        -            -        ( 0.83)
Technical assistance                  -            -             4.54      4.54
(1.79)   ( 1.79)
Total                                39.47         0.93         8.95      49.35
(17.51)       (0.00)       (1.79)   (19.30)
Note:    Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
the proposed Bank loan.
Civil works contracts for the new training institutions, estimated to cost
US$20.4 million equivalent (averaging US$2.9 million each), would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB). Minor extension and
remodeling works for the EDA training centers at Tanta and Dokki, estimated at
US$0.9 million total, would be conducted on the basis of local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures which would be acceptable to the Bank. As the local
construction industry is well-developed and very competitive, it is expected
that all civil works contracts would be awarded to local contracting firms.
The furniture manufacturing industry is also well developed and competitive
and it is expected that all furniture contracts would be awarded to local
suppliers. Furniture and equipment items (amounting to US$19.38 million
equivalent, including contingencies) would be grouped to the extent possible
in large packages to permit bulk procurement. Contracts for furniture and
equipment in excess of US$100,000 would be awarded in accordance with the



- 25 -
Bank's guidelines for ICB. Small items or groups of items estimated to cost
less than the above figure, or items of a specialized nature for which ICB
would not be practical, or items which might be compatible with other
equipment procured under ICB, would be procured under normal Government
procedures which would be acceptable to the Bank and would include, to the
extent possible, quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppliers.
The total value of furniture and equipment so procured would not exceed US$3.0
million equivalent, which would represent about 15% of the estimated total
furniture and equipment costs including contingencies.
3.16     Local competitive bidding procedures are generally consistent with
the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the project. There
are, however, a few procedures which are inconsistent with Bank procurement
guidelines and others which require clarification. These procedures and
proposals to improve them are detailed in Annex 3. During negotiations,
agreement was reached regarding the changes needed to make LCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.01(d)).
3.17     For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids under ICB, local
manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of
preference equal to the existing rate of customs duties applicable to
competing imports or 15 of the c.i.f. price, whichever is lower. Draft bid
and contract documents for furniture, equipment and civil works would, upon
completion, be forwarded to the Bank for its review and approval. Bank
approval of bid evaluation documents would be required prior to the award of
all contracts for furniture and equipment under ICB and for all civil works
contracts financed under the loan. Technical assistance financed by the Loan
would be obtained in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (August 1981).
Disbursements
3.18     Disbursements (Annex 2, Schedule III) would be on the basis of:
(a) Civil Works: 27% of total expenditures;
(b) Furniture and Equipment: 1002 of the foreign cost of directly
imported items and 100X of ex-factory costs of locally manufactured
goods procured through ICB; 80Z of costs of goods procured through
local shopping or local bidding; and
(c) Technical Assistance: 100% of foreign expenditures for fellowships
and specialists.
3.19     Withdrawal applications for the proposed project's loan-financed
contracts in excess of US$20,000 equivalent would be fully documented.
Disbursements on contracts of less than US$20,000 would be made against
statements of expenditure: supporting documentation would be maintained by
the Egypt Electricity Authority project implementation unit and would be
subject to review during project supervision missions. To facilitate timely
withdrawal of the proceeds of the loan, the borrower would open, maintain and
operate a Special Project Account with the Central Bank of Egypt on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Based on the estimated disbursement
schedule, and on the assumption that payment for major equipment contracts



- 26 -
would be made directly from the Bank, the initial amount would be
US$1.0 million equivalent. For this purpose, at the time of negotiations the
Government    provided assurance that a Special Project Account would be
opened on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.02(d)).
3.20     Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1993,
amounting to an implementation period of about eight years. The estimated
Schedule of Disbursements (Annex 2, Schedule IV) has been calculated on the
assumption that withdrawal applications would be submitted six months after
the incurring of the expenditures and on the basis of implementation schedules
(Annex 2, Schedule II). In a comparison with the country-wide disbursement
profile for all projects in Egypt (IDA credits and IBRD loans), the end of the
implementation period falls at the point where about 96S of the average
credit/loan has been disbursed.
Audits and Accounts
3.21     The EEA and EDA will maintain separate budget accounts for their
respective components of the proposed project. Accounts for previous EEA power
projects have been kept in an orderly, systematic manner and recommendations
for contract awards, copies of contracts and withdrawal applications have been
submitted to the Bank in a timely and complete manner. It is expected that
these procedures will continue to be followed under the proposed project. No
additional accounting personnel are necessary.
3.22     Project accounts including the Special Account (para 3.19) would be
audited by Egypt's Central Accounting Agency in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles as outlined in the Bank's March 1982 Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurance that, within six months
of the end of each fiscal year, an audit report of such scope and detail as
the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor
on disbursements against a certified statement of expenses would be submitted
to the Bank (para. 5.02(e)).
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
3.23     To assist in determining the effectiveness of project implementation
procedures and the ultimate success of project training programs, the Project
Coordinator would appoint an evaluation committee with representation from
both the EDA and EEA. The committee would make a mid-term assessment of
project implementation performance and, subsequently, would evaluate the
project institutions and programs and the extent to which they are achieving
their training objectives. As project institutions would be completed on a
phased basis, some are expected to have outputs from the engineering
orientation program and from inservice training as early as 1989 and 1990.
Thus, both formative and summative evaluation would begin at that stage of
institutional development. During negotiations, therefore, the Government
provided assurance that no later than June 30, 1991, the two Authorities (EDA
and EEA) would complete a mid-term assessment and a preliminary evaluation of
their respective implementation procedures and training components, including
a follow-up study of graduates from both the preservice and inservice training
programs (para. 5.02(f)).



- 27 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.01     Benefits.  This project would provide needed impetus to Egypt's
manpower training effort in support of the electrical power sector. It would
impact substantially on the Government's nationwide electrification efforts
and would make a major contribution toward decreasing operational costs in the
sector by improving manpower productivity and operational efficiency. The
project would enable the MOEE to train about 740 new employees per year as
replacements for those lost through attrition and employee turnover and to
upgrade annually about 2,250 existing staff. And finally, it would help to
establish a training base for the continuing long-term development of manpower
for the electrical power sector.
4.02     Risks.  This proposed project is fully consistent with Government
investment priorities for economic development. It has firm Government
support and thus strong potential for success. Overall coordination of
project implementation will be handled by the Egypt Electricity Authority
which, through previous experience with Bank projects, has established a
record of effective project implementation performance. No substantial risks,
therefore, are associated with the project.



- 28 -
/4%'         C0t' e.^ /,



- 29 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on:
(a) preliminary drawings, including site plans and cost estimates, for
all proposed new construction and construction drawings for
renovating the EDA training center in Dokki (para. 3.11);
(b) detailed furniture and equipment lists for all project items (para.
3.13);
(c) terms of reference for project consultants and the fellowship
training plan (para. 3.14); and
(d)  the changes needed to make LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.16).
5.02     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) an appropriate remuneration system for EEA and EDA instructors would
be maintained (para. 2.11);
Cb) the coordinator, in closed collaboration with the EDA General Manager
of Training, would have specific responsibilities for: (a) ensuring
that necessary annual budget appropriations are requested for the
project; (b) liaising with the bilateral agencies supporting the EEA
components; (c) overseeing the development of architectural designs
and procurement of equipment and furniture with the assistanc- of his
staff; (d) maintaining financial records and preparing withdrawal
applications for disbursements of loan proceeds; and selection of
expatriate specialists and/or consultants (para. 3.10);
(c) the MOEE manpower study report and training plan would be completed
no later than March 31, 1987, and that the MOEE would exchange views
thereafter with the Bank on the study recommendations and the
measures, if any, to be taken for their implementation. (para. 3.14);
(d) a Special Project Account would be opened on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.19);
(e) within six months of the end of each fiscal year, an audit report, of
such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a
separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against a certified
statement of expenses, would be submitted to the Bank (para. 3.22);
and



- 30 -
(f)  no later than June 30, 1991, the two Authorities (EDA and EEA) would
complete a mid-term assessment and a preliminary evaluation of their
respective implementation procedures and training components,
including a follow-up study of graduates from both the preservice and
inservice training programs (para. 3.23).
5.03     Subject to the above stated conditions, the project provides a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$19.3 million to the Arab Republic of
Egypt.
1992V



iii                          _ -i                                              1U
._j _d                                                  it Ijillill3   @E3
It
-                               ii            ii                   bEj§m
- cm     _C
woo, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ BO
~~~~  C                      C~~~~~~~~~~o o



AmKi Kg     t5   =W                                a         -     .19l       :   -   -   -          weUt       £1.1    oec  ret   SL             vfolas
&~It        -     mq9              A%"                       -      miiio     96   -   -   -         qVo          riz    marE   0z    it             Uso
aWrc       a       IC         Go        ro,       cc                is        as   or  fir  Cs       rV          Vt    ama'   rot   0                 am
us'       at       ii        9t       arc         a        K        co       II   at   519           rci       aVI       pt Iw  Vt    at          ZYnY
AqWfl    Aq£E    a"1          .9         lrut    sqE               4q50       *3    1K wC   ,s    SqVrTE    5.qC'5   qOKg'h   WI    ML               vwfli
-      qox     Nor        -           -        vC               aRe             -   -   -         qrVi      "WErt       1   QKs, '   Et        SNYSIm
Wu@       £3       fi        93        CC         GO       ii      es        Es   at  et  9t        mLtC        C'O    cart'  t'59    os            maIm
Ora       AZ     we         WEI         VST       it       at      06       43r   I   0   c9   AsrI            Atc    ii   qi    as                  fi
sari wh - A""                                      *1       -      Awl"          -    -   -         AqWrCt      LqIrl   .Wii    raO    eg            1011011
Ws5'     cecI   LaSIK        09                 SC         -      aqfl       -    -      -          ec'tl      A.Ist'    fIuI1  VrS    IL          Tav
Awl'   'qW3   Ai.qt            IV                   Ci       El   Ants         ae   It  a    n       qm'at    Aqc        ate    re    au         uauiu m
WUE       93      £9         S         VEt        St      -         c0m      is   I t   It  ST       ret       ae    otiil 4eE        an           lieu.
WrI[      Cl      K          90        Cs         IS       it      of       R9      U !   £          Vtt o       ': 19  Kl   CIE'tON ci    ss Yh1iitumt
nAqrsl      to   40tt          st         -       AqRM       so   AqEti        cc  -   -   -           Via        cr.    -       rIG    at             VW=
areK      it      eV         t*        rC         cc       It      so        mc   ccamtO,            :'tc       ru    q@i5'tqE'i    ON          Om5Tam
5SVOK       S9      It        -          IvS        Ke       et      11t      ql   AC   t  SC          ViEt       Ct   en' I qest   on              vZKwS
SqW0 Kt  aARM    Seqi         -           -       Aqet      -      aet1i      -    -   -   -          qVCI      AMn      003'   VIiT  9t               Ell
EVE3l  JMFet    as:g        ORe        q',      Aa        -       Act&       It   et         I C     rip         rt     OWE,   ret:l  6t       
Awn       -       a,         -           -        atC      -       A1         £9  -   -   -          35'Ot     Awl'9   fitS    Vst   ofmur
-      SE   t All           '6      me's,      sll      a"      AsOI      qcO   me  sac act       SM9    Ass',    is,':  ro          at         aumva
-       &I       Et        £0         -         IE       Ad       03      qE    it  I  C           I'S16      I's    ott!z  r0       St           UU
Writ      3        it        t3         -         It       Xi       Is      egO  Sot etc mCO         c's:       t'ZKUR
iqAVI      qa,   Amqic         xc        VsN    ss           09      n1        ot  si: Wur  VWc       sc:       .0r9     00      in     a              am
aqwoO       U9     mt1         60        WE        it       -        sit      elK       -   -         qV9t       el'9    NEz   Vle t IL         ma  9U1
aqorg       It      a:         a           -      S         -      AptK        of   C at  it          ora         ri9    an      'S    it
jilt'     q9l      I          0t       .s.c       ORO      VW        tt       S   wS  Wet .fl    sse'ei        SCt    OaK    ric    at               Imam
£t'i       t                 at        ra        ii        ma     i9        qtli   St  ct   ac       VO-T       rC    qef    qC'i    UL        flhiISlme
sAMMW       K:t       I        II9Al09                                 t       DI   I II Kg           maLt       cwv    a:   qV-t    to                rte
WE'       or      a          9it       wa         SC       cc       KS      KC    ma        itL      rot        m'y    as       'T    ao           TM -n
sari        e r   &..Ct        £9        VEz        it       et      of       qoc   CT  99  cc         Vit        Vot  qg'Tt  CaI    KU          31IC1 own
mars       a9      ci         SW      uuit        K   K             95   at   a :se  on  Oa           -        dmV9   d.85      CIC    GI            VIM
-        tt   A"oK         -           -       4q51      -      smqti       -                      qrC5       WVl    00t    rut   et                'tur
-        tt   aqtl          09       at,"      LeSt      .06    AqOt       qdl39mt so9anqL'9                FaCt       an     VA0    IL            1mm
'mOVE    £qOl      -          -           -       £9V                                                 AV`-    5  Aq'i   OW9*    ri    it               mIm
SeW?      Acit     -           K          -       Aq95                                               A    - - -  m'tt   hAVE  059    i*K    EkL        O=
sAra       it.   AK                      -         EL      -       AgE        St        --           qOKEt    A.qiE    OcK    rV        It            01
-             -          -          -       as"c           -             -     -       -       s'u        Aerc      mt    Ptr                   'r:rNI
or I       or     Atl        wag         Vli      ABi      .59      At       -    m0t up  sic        LV9K       art    uss    ra        at         meilx3
srot      it       33        K          rig       99       a        Kt       qK    et  K!  Ct        VICt       r.'   qOEC   qt(    ct             VMiam
JWO       Et       is         K3        VUE'      K         i        IV     qtl    9    Kz  El       Cot       Prt   SAL    qt't    KU             95xU1
ura       cc      ci        to         a'::      a,        me       so     qfl   EI  CE  99          K'tt      it   qoi    q,tC    to5             '1319
or&      a:       et        09         ViE       K         it      9L      qil    01  -             V9t         et   qOtE   qa'0E    Ko             am
PoO       SE      £          St         -         Kx       to      ei        9   qt etC qEX        Al'ti        -     qoac   q9eK    as            lUll
Wuc    Do         a          so        art:ii  ZI          A      410      $11    St   I a       &   VOlf    qWC    qie    qt'O    aE            319
..          O          t3 99     Vt        IC        5     sKIS       it    "' 9E-  qof    qroS    a                                           WV=
Wt        tt     qat       qVW        qV5       qat       qi      qIK      $1   q69  qt"  qil       ret         5'T   ea       sIt    le           Win..
-  -  -        -           -        5:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c  -  -  -    gal MCC mc c       WEE        1.1        I55    VS   GI       3UKiTClU
oraI      a        DI        cot       rct        It       El       Co     qS    I   Ii  99          WV           9    RossKt qVK      El        EaLtUUIVM
two       it                 It        vi        ie        a       to      qit    Stlo   K           Vit        %IC   jUKt   qI'C      K     to      raH
5q3'tC      it       91        K         VSe       qf        ia    motb      0K      0   et  ic        Vtir      Mirt    Kic    rae    It         majm.
"I   II       3         Pt        Vtt        K9       if      Itt    q 56         Z   Kt5     qC95         %I'   qAti   qVtI   El                AN
sc'      of       91        cc0        rti       c        at        i Es    ii    a     t  so        ets       artg   t93    q1eEt   to             VAd
Oro       03      asK        0,        Vset       99 9               v      DI  "...      it         SK WI      VIr    aan     VIo   VI           SIaM
"'It      DC     tiE         Ks        VI         co,      ge      .a      -       91 qK   St        ViEz      sure    U      qVrO    OR           MinUS
ira  sm    .s           It        rz         a9       a       St       mao   at  =   it        ro        .E        Cc    qr.    ziE           IWUI
saOCK    sue I      os          O   001            elK t             003 10    qM    i a      it Kg    rut        Vso    lw isttK'l    It         swi
.w'ti    it         to                  nirt       it       am       94     qUO61    Ct  as  os       nit        CILS  qi9 qrTi   me            mnINERma
wellt:    -        mu6       mooK        -        -        Go5t    .0       $0"    -   -   -         .O'0        rt      inE'EK  Lne    IL     `rs inns
NWrrt      El      ago        ecu      sa'ot       it       at1I    K" scot    qac   Sd: s se aN    Ssgt        all't   qROS   qit'f    to           Y19U1
50603     ii I               40         -         it       a K     1140K                             rtm       art      wil's qrVtt %
(let)   (t)j(t)            (33)       (0)        (a)      (a)      Is(      9)()                   (9)         (C)      it)    (K)
C)      (EaC)               (3)     iawas  IEam           CE)       (ER (50)C)                         mit    xsai     Vat) (051)
01493      lii    SEll   LNIUU             39 SW    4      W132if    GZA111   CE)   zu  ma  xis   i t        Ot. miss   (amn  'gnuWu
'SE ElS           I 'TE   SL SEOUL  SIam    Iaa               m   -vs          m  mGLat.wwaw nais wina     a in    vAit   am'   1391i
axa  ISSOWF ulemar   urns man    atoms    -     ~~~MOLLincsjntw  ut 5              So4aKEmiS  ummauum a u
5303 '9 WaNL
j~~~~~~~~~~~~glI  -



-33-                                                     Annex I
Table 1
Mr.   em    MRIAA`    AIN       ow&.INSINIAa   muu.                                             r~      WWA&
( 09)  (397a) I     mi.  maim                ()      I(a93I (3)          (61)      ()        (0           A)       tx         2) C
*   .6     3344 3           1.3                       344   i            1        25        *                               1       411
16.34.  I.3     7           11        31 ma.   31    aD         a        41       43       33.0         14         a                3.30
3m.                3.34~64  b1.0430    7A.3Wm'                      Iv    O 333or                    4a       139.0                  .4       33      33.
79 43.3b   a9go    Z.pa       14.0       66  36  -       774       G       4          s         .                     s        6      ii
MM~        10   23.4  4.430    2.7            O        S 4. 194314      es       a                  s                   94,6                          4
a   J4    Game    SAM"        ,..3      43  34  239   is           3      s9        21       30.3         de         an       Is      2.56
i9auJm       39~~8   4734    MAN4  3.4        3.9             131a 3      so      69       -         3?        9.3         VP        ay       n3       4.36
rnZII     ~~~~7    gajb             lip 3      aja       is.317 5 312     Mb      42       -         53        5.4         -          4       IS       SAS
60  1.2  693.    11.0   - --   30  12                                              -    -              -                -    -   -
tau1             71499*         216    3.90,?         "                 -937  2        75      -         41       -            -           3      -        a.336?
mLA              32   13.6b   I1SO      1.4       -            -39                     76      -          3       -            -           I      21       3.713M
P433333          62     ra 37*43b    3.0            7.       n 33  32         22       is      43        39        Si9         is         31      Is       3.66
M  O M MhIJII rRn.IM!~   1.1                     3.7      a7  It  Is    a3          5347    O          374     -            a2          a       234,    A.
&Lamm        79   10.3  1.73  30 3A           12J3       34- 3*0 218   24         VW?      49        31        A.01        359       3?       as       3.13.
now9             AX   433*    416    4.0           7.9       374  359 364   414        nu3       "a       34*       AP8       6as         459      SON     SAO
MUm         ~~~~79  9.3  4.140    2.59        36.k       27  3   a1       -       9711F    -         20b       *.JF       -           ro      27k'  317.01w?
nom              79    3.4.     -      5.716?     3e*36?    -   -   -         so      343*     -         313*     -            -          "mn    36        4.69.
333              79  13.42.730   4.36              *.9W    -  --    -    1low    -                       3    -                -          434   259   6.35
RURAM3              3.44  4.469    4.36       33.3.      -   -   -       U        91       94        19       -           66         DI       34      18.66
Jim              63     2.24  3.43b   S.59         36.2      39  64  33    iO         low.      as        3        1.2         91         eV*     23      36.3
3.33         76~~~P    2.3    -    -          36.4*6             -                96 -               19"   -                         4to  -           21o.4wim
M11011011    30"   10.3    740    4.3010    17.311    24  44   3D    u            146      is        39       361.7       43         IV       33      46.311
Sw               a2    0.90, 5.939b   235          32.716    -   -   -        30?      736     45        2        -            a9         13      14      ..
POMUIL           79    gift2.040        3.4        22.        1331 A          73       w7       a         Ise     iAS          an         &Sp      374     6.3
69332*      ~~~73   22.3  2,169    3*94?       4.2       -   -   -        m       Maw4     -         no~   -              GO         eon*    n4       16.60
arm2             76    37.*4,911    2.31           1.ir               -                964? lo  -        20       -             -          19     -       2&.16bv
31924        76~~~l  6.61.13,   4.45          30.3       32  324          16      374?    s6         25       -                       "IV34   Rib    32.411
1981214          7.     4.4  3.124    1.9          360.3     42  39  AS    434    3low         3         364      333          36         3*       in      GAN
TINIEST63    41i .3323             3.3        14.2       1  32234         74     S30       17        it        4.0        55         m-       is       G."6
TimmmAA.          m0    4A      413    S.3*        12*0      94    I   7    334        21       139       33.     41.0         as          2       30      3.10
ANO  F.3.3.      et    3.01'   434b   7A           9.7       G"*  34*  es   5         61       24        as       nip0        44l        17       3        2.13
..V ser    ma                    4            9            so647       413      92       SS       95       a5           73         i3      a9      as
%men                                  C~~~~1.-  3.1-  (23- (11-  (3-   (3-    (12-  (32-     (Si-    (3.4-         C14-      (3-      (41-   (0.A3-
10D0)        14.3) 94)  46) 33    99)    139)t 9)                71)      41.03        1on        up)    433    29.0)
om*tuIIIa.upm                         3.4          21.7     533622          el       91      a3        43       as           OF         A        6      1.
3683*63                    4.0          13.3     43339a    52             43       es        35      33           45         24       22      3.7
Liven              ~~3.0         H1.4     3 28 33         25       43      23        23        9           43         34       is       8.0
40stU. bov3*elma                      1.3           5.4   4.5  7.3  4.5  23.0    19*.    22.9          7.0     3.4         231.5      34.3      3.5      5..
MimI                                  1. 7.0               44353 is         53       14.59             34       3o           43        33       23       4.9
33r43mlg24                            1.9          6.      12  10    7    39          I      24        It       Is           27        n3        7       1.4
modi~~~al ~4.                            14.3     43319t    53             33       d3        35       13          a5         13       2        3.1
- DAMn 633*254U                                         A - 3*A1 POSMO63V Map TM3                        3 - ma31336! w. ImliUm  too3 saw
Ilnml NU. OR MIAMI=                                   a - nwa Mm mini am ur WM                          -   aiMe mm   in ~ Ow
*    (    63D ovrmLamID                                v-                                               I - #ma  3633NJM  GMni
v -~
Classe  3 to Ads 231 almS.m.. .........s... sml1. vessel k*6t6metel    i*4.gk.
sumaions. smallea m 36*  bmm   of1. am Peentm.6dotal.    .561-etlmm .64owI  .sam   Ab  ogo dg            om  somelaws. .*1in*66**   653  **4*1 6463on  00ao   eu  
4mtm mll  m*4  2833.114 &*    1sm. to  9m Me 3gomw o  On* Sam. fwrnS       o.g  one almom Aw63nmmt& owte to4*6* k   ea   ep. 33 m    d 4*on Iam  to
dm1*1U       muv&y-m  Om* 13*32*4*. 6   ofmwUs  semsmi dmm. 3mw   ... as        4*1 or   .6112 6m.,9*theCO  3*& qaafetw..  uambo l m beba   is a    t
1.em    m=.em 1 m           .*mm A  au  ta 6* .AsgmlmOn    m ib.ag   am tvwwmee A4m&fm L dm. 64* I*L1mI  1633*34   4.4*436**
(*4.,. pmo41. twme*41. .1afuwmZ).
(3) -Lftmm     rmats  (SOL. G) am .ftm ekasimS tm. mu. sepn. 4* ama  Iommim 3w ammmliaf avw                    3bu    ml It to km631% 64*6*4 mmaif..
6491*163*4 O1 31t*iMGu kw Oman 1"mdJ coinmm*1.
(.O  I3433a  gmmam  so s*m1.at   (Om"*. 4 a"3) Normal to *12 314*3 ml tion,in ompl16.sm devte go .6d.614 4 p.4U11.                         m1--e21a
(3) 3*dlam ,*6t.. Cools. 7. 312 ml 14) eda. to aphas1 yaw od mm O mm91womeoe ~*1 .33*441.ro 434346*U32* 9531-abm to 64. 9gpwa3*f ukm3.
aMbil.  d Pella". by ZawZ. 1y mm seem  0.smm  to4a *164anon at aw  to 64* 64lsm3    inintlmo ODIN6 6. inI*6summ so 6do i mm o  bde
3mm (1.... a43-43p49n  593p3.61*4 on.2mfolmmm. 3*116mUs flmgm fm.Am*IV mm Nighr 6m 6On   1b of sesion  annully go make". Omor4Wi
smlie  wo *4 me 1 m          go m3*43*b 1*i1es479*46366*4*2 n3mm  1 e1*614  63ess.



-34 -
Ta1e 2
AMIB Inv= cr mm
Th1XE M TMWGM PEWZB
Euimted awiet Oam" fo PijeCt Trg Tnsifl*iui
Fiiitd Rommmot Trinir Co         98 - 94 Price    hAtb  s TotaL   Traini
WV         Oa3/ eo Totl   3 to-    /                             ae       t of
MM      rty    -- -                         L--I                                   Total Budgt
EM               0.595        1.228         0.400      2.2          377.53      O.59
EU                0.705       LOM          0.300      2.007        356.73             0.56
a/ "tlme' cost are based a estiuntad costs for utilitis (uter,, gas. elecicity, to]  an,d
vb            fuel      h        
1993V 



- 35 -
Ann-x I
Table 3
ARM ROPUfLIC OP jYP
ThD wVOCrATMONAL TWVAIMrG PROJEr
STAFF APPEATSAL REPORT
Location af Praelet  nstitutitons
Tyne oPImitt nLoainCtar
Eovut EleCtricitY Authority
Training Institute             Aswan           New institution - construction. equipping. furniture
Training Institute             Fay1d           New institution - construction and furniture
Training Znstitute             Abu Qir         New institution - equipping
E sactrieitv D0%trikbution Autoerity
Training Institute             Cairo           New institution - construction. equipping. furniture
Training Center                Alexandria      Now Center - construction. equipping. furniture
Training Cantor                Minya           New center - construction. equipping. furniture
Training Canter                Aswan           New center - construction. equipping. furniture
Training Canter                Isnailia        New center - construction. equipping. furniture
Training Canter                Tanta           Extension - construction,  quipping. furniture
Training Center                Ookki           Renovation - construction. eouipping. furniture
1 93V



Axine i
Table 4                                                            -36 -
m   m 11111.    mm.L -IMM
110111111. 111MI                                                                                               -
313313 (~  E I   US 11 4 T~. cm  T.C. 3131 11.C 11.. 31  am lUl .8 e        13.4  mm
311g C,1121N   =MC T)          2    Om2    (1332i           mIRMMV   TX.C.  I3 ImlTX.  .uu               tai
1. iMmiwi cm2
i. cam. IM                          2.066   21.43.          -   2,197    2"2.0  1.14.   2=.23.        1,75.       56.       B6.          - VMS"I  3.6 1ILl
3hia1 Ov3rg1m                      35.4    35.4           -  ~33            .3L   176.     75.9      17463       14        26.         -  17261.   0.0   6.
Prim 3ntimld                      1,132.6  1,193          -   153U1      114.3L   75.      1L6.      753       23.6       32.3         -  7.337    9.1  A2.I
MTda I  1u636131                    4.23.4  4m.36.          -    ,12.   3.53.2  2,3.6   2.61.2    2.634           256        4.            2bWJ   3. 2024J
Focib Exht                        1.15.    1.215.1        -   1.14       9313.4   71.3    9134       711.      22.2       Ina          -  7v=2   9.1  31.
ILIMI                               2M53.   2,53.      2,5L3   b.0 2.3.   111.   1,1.Wh   1,1.3    1,121.0    1,11.6    1,111.           -  U,za   I"01l73.
h"micla amhfm                      32.9 2    0.32IL    21.      32.9     am.    1114        11.1    111.1. 11.1 I            A         -  1.722   LO6  6.3
Prim                               V 16.    536.1      Mm3.      36.1    436.2    4fL.2    4362      40662     61.        0462         -  132.L4   9.1  2134
Fmrim                    2.42.~~~~~~3A     1.42.3    3.42.    2,412.3   2611.2  I.41.2  1.431.2    1.4V.2    1.61.2    1.61.2  - 2.3VI7   9.1 2.=31
C.                                    21L75.   Mm.       IN.A      m7..    aul    5.         2a.       126.3       4L4      126.         -  1.31.   3.0  33.
rim1c em4nsim                       Z64      Z.2        11.      V'3      2.1      5.4     23.1       22.        4.3      ..4          -   33.   6Le   6.
PrIM                                U&i 116    12*4    74.6     17.       9.7    7AA       13.7       71,4      13.        N6.         -   VIA4  9.1  61.2
~~.ruta1 35mm 5¶125         12.13m   121       23.4      462.1    Rm.    26.3    1.           Nu.        a.8       26.         -  2,136.   9.1, 513
FM~                                          MA1 13    13.      V.3    11SA        IL4    1nu         13.       3.6         W          -  164 31 3.
3.                                                               _                                                                          Iinm  TuN
Phbeg inm. mum-                                 -          -        -                                                         - 23.   29.    . 197.1 V  I L
prim Cw*kmn                                                                                                                       USIB-- -      -- 1.5   2.35.   4.3  72
Finsjm 1  -    -         -         -        -       -        -          -         -          -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,313.1  4,334   4.3  23.1
L. mCIi3Mm. - MINZM   M1251           176.    173.          -      196.    753L     15.U    75.3      2I.6        23.6         -            166.  I3.  I34.4
rAinin  CMIoi                       11.6     U&.          -      23.0    12        1 1.2    25        1.         2.le67      -         - 24.6  3.    6.6
him. Cin1jeca.                      26.5    263.          -       7.6    16.3    12.7    113          22.7       24-                        1234   3.1  21.4
Mk-rda IN5566I                        WJ - 23.  2937.              22.6    164.    123   - 164.8        13.2      1NA                       -13k -.  I42 4-
Td1.1.1~1    53F1                      same.  2,633.    2,33.    &AILC.  2.3L    2112.   3.716.          .16       1,637lo.#    1.11    .9.  4.2163   93.22,54.2
lRmd1 Cmhisd                          3AL      S".       13.3     53.      3.64    311.3    106.       311.3      113       13t4      1-34  3w953   u.    ea6
Prim C tL.2.23.2   2.30.2    1.66.2   2,43.3  1.44   1.72    1.04.5    1.724                                      6645     3INS    1.75.  16.1.   LI7 1,46
Tota   13E      1E5                     .7.    3,4.3    4,31.4   3.24.  2.31.   4.W3.   2,52.1    4.13.            2,2.2    2P2466    2W97.3 61191.4  3Si 2,223
- -    -    - ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~--;-0-    --I-  S S
Tom 111172.111.11NE.6. cm;4.61.7   2,3                                               d 22.6  2,02.2    2.26       190.673   201       431.   61        73. 20.95.
ftm2k CMinUndb                         ml.   31.3         73.      62.2    VIA4    311.3    VL3.        311.3     163.       221.     1971  3.953   LI3  6.6
mno m bthmue                         2.36.2  W.2.2    16O.2   2,423.3   104743   1,724   1,04.3    1.72           664        3143    1,23.  16,26.4   LI7 14111.0
Tota .L   am351                        3,P74.0   3.76.0    4.11.4   3.2.1    Z,11   -4,62.3  S.32.       4.65.     2,222.     2,2466    297.3 61,131.6   LI7 2.312
Fmi E                                4,721.1  4,71.1   23-31.1   4,316.7   2.43.2   2,2434   2.423.2    2,2643   1.9237    2.624    4,.334 36.332    3S 2.33.2
bill Ila _5  13227



- 37 -
Annex 1
Table 5
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD VOCATIONAL TRAINrNG PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Unit Capital Costs and Areas per Student a/
Gross Areas per Student      -
Medians
FY78-80 Projects
This              Bank-     Cost Per Student Place
Type of          Project   EMENA   wide   Constr Furn  Equip   Total
rnstitution            _    2                                    _____
Electrical distribution
training centers
Academic and communal
facilities           18.6      19.0   18.0   5,000   400   3,200   8,600
Boarding                18.0      18.0   15.0   4,800   400         -   5,200
Staff housing b/        62.5      96.0   86.0  17,000 1,400         -  L8,400
a/ Excluding professional fees and contingencies.
b/ Per staff.
1993V



TUsOR VATIO AL tRAIhING PDJE?
STAFF APPRAISAL REPflET
Technical Atmistanca  ehadul&
Man-Months         Total          Be"gninn                      Ma-Months           Total          Beginning
Ohimetivya  oF Technieal Assist  ne        Muba rach                      Mni-onktha          oate          Number    _       aeh         HMn-months            DatA
M  fr nancd:
CurriculLa and Staff Oavalobmnt
Cable Jointing                                 1             24               24        September 1986        11                5                C6         July 1986
Electrical Fitting                             1             24               24        September 1986        11                5                55         July 1986
Overhead Lines                                 1             24               24        September 196t        11                4                44         July 1936
Training Center Directors                                                                                      7                4                28         Dec 1985
D1rector of Instr. Staff Development                                                                          I                 1                  I        April 1986
ProiaetiProuran Manaae"nt
Senior Training Advisor                        1             36               36        July 1936
Training Center Advisor                        1             13               13        August 1986
Hanmower Study and Plannino
Manpower Specialist (Study)                    1              6                6        December 1985
Training Specialist (Study)                    1              6                6        January 1986
oDSub-Total                                          2                              Iii                              41                                III
Financed by Bilateral Sourees:
Institutional Management Advisor                   1             30                30       September 1937
Training Specialist                                5             12                60       September 1985
Equipeent Specialist                              IA                                        January 1986
Sub-Total                                                                        _
PROJECT TOTAL                                     14                             222                              41                                 181
1993V
0
la0



ARAP KIPLULC I F ItGY T
STAFF APPRAIAtL KPOIT
Iinlinntattnn Srhaul4
2 1       4         1   2 1 a                           2   1 2 1 A   I    4                       4 1 s2 '11-
SItt acquisition
Preliminary drawings                                _a
Construction drawings.
lid doctuants
Sidding and contract awards                                      . _    9                                                -   I ---                             I                                 l
Construction aN   liability period
VurnjtUrffEGjlpAnt:
Preliminary lists
Final lists and specificatiors
Sid documents
Bidding end contract awards                                       -    -- - ...     
manufacture and delivery                       1   I
Installation                                                                                                             - a = _
T.rMe.lalAeitn:
Fellowships                                                  a                                         -   -                                               a
upoerts/speciallsts                                                                             ~.....                                                                                    -
Man     er studi                                                                                                                  1  2       4   1   2  e1 s4  -        2 1 3   a I '                          1  a
.                        I                                                                                                                                             I~.tvn~
L&S Sai-n&ffi Ausust, 105 _
Lasn rfftetiwer-ss   ,                                                                                         e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~plOsna DateI
* Bank review/approvll,
1993V
141
I.



-40 -                              Ane   2
Schedule III
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
T1IRD VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL RPORT
Action Plan for Project Implementation
Item                                      Completion Date
Technical Assistance
Kaniower Study and Pln
1.  T  package sent for Bank raview and coe_nt            September 30, 1985
2.   If TA is obtained through open selection
procedures the following actions will apply:
2(a) Short list of selected bidders sent
for Bank approval                                October 30, 1985
2(b) Invitation to submit proposals from
approved firms                                  November 30, 1985
2(c) Draft TA contract sent for Bank approval          January 31. 1986
3.  Contract award                                            March 31. 1986
4.  Manpower study completed and final report with
recom_endations sent for Bank review and
comment                                                  March 31, 1987
Training Institution Development
1.   T& package sent for Bank review and comment            October 31, 1985
2.   Short list of selected bidders sent for
Bank approval                                        November 30. 1985
3.   Invitation of proposals  from approved
organizations                                          January 31. 1986
4.   Draft TA contract sent for Bank approval                 April 30, 1986
5.   Contract award                                             Kay 31. 1986
6.   Target completion date for all TA                     December 31. 1992
..2,



-41-                               Annex  2
Schedule III
Page 2 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Action Plan for Proiect Implementation
Item                                            Completion Date
Equipment a/
1.   Equipment lists of specifications sent for
Bank review and comment                                 April 30, 1986
2.  Bid documents sent for Bank review and comment             May 31, 1986
3.  Announcement of invitation to submit bids                 July 31, 1986
4.   Completion of bidding and bid evaluation             December 31. 1986
5.  Award of contracts                                    February 28, 1987
6.  Manufacture and delivery of equipment                 February 29, 1988
7.   Installation of equipment                              August 31, 1988
S.   Completion of installation of all equipment          February 28, 1991
Renovation and Extension of Existing Facilities
Expected completion date                                April 30, 1988
Construction of New Facilities
1.  Construction drawings finalized                       December 31, 1985
2.   Bid documents sent for Bank review
and comment                                           January 31, 1986
3.  Announcement of bid invitations                          March 31, 1986
4.   Completion of bidding and bid evaluations                July 31, 1986
5.  Award of contracts                                   September 30, 1986
6.   Target completion date for all construction             April 30, 1990
a/ These action dates refer to first tranche of equipment. Remaining
equipment procurement is expected to extend over several tranches at
subsequent dates.
1993V



- 42 -
Annex 2
Schedule IV
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ Million)
Disbursement Profile
Disbursements          Loan        This      Regional
IBRD Fiscal Year      Semester    Cumulative    Balance    Project a/ Average b/
and Semester                    US$ Million        --
1986
1                   -             -             19.3        -            -
2                   0.8          - 0.8          18.5         4.1         2.0
1987
1                   0.7           1.5           17.8        8.2          7.0
2                    1.0          2.5           16.8        13.2        13.0
1988
1                    1.4          3.9           15.4       20.3         23.0
2                    2.2          6.1           13.2       31.5         31.0
1989
1                    2.5          8.6           10.7       44.7         41.0
2                    2.3         10.9            8.4       56.5         51.0
1990
1                    2.2         13.1            6.2       68.0         60.0
2                    2.1         15.2            4.1        78.5        69.0
1991
1                    1.7         16.9            2.4       87.5         76.0
2                    1.4         18.3            1.0        94.8        82.0
1992
1                   0.5          18.8            0.5       97.2         87.0
2                   0.3          19.1            0.2       98.9         91.0
1993
1                   0.1          19.2            0.1       99.6         94.0
2                    0.1         19.3            0.0      100.0         97.0
a/  This profile shows cumulative disbursement percentage estimates for the
proposed project.
b/ This profile was constructed using historical data from 65 projects
representing all loans and credits in Egypt during the period FY74-83.
1993V



AtAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TIlIRU VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAI. REPORT
Local Competitive Bidding Procedures
Category 1.  UIACLfAU^LE PIOVIS5IS
With re%pect to Lse following articles. they would be taken care of by way of particular waiver or method of
adninistiatioii without specific Chialses ln the Law and Regulations.  This would be ensured through
appropriate provisions In the SAR and Loan docutentation to make existing local procedures acceptable for
procureumaent of coltracts f(iaticed by the Hank Gioup.
Acceptable
eulL   ea      ArLICluC               hbi,2a                        Ciu             ecsc
I        8a      I        Local preference of 1St is   Margins of preference do    No local preference should
applicable to goods. works   not apply to methods of          apply in procurement under
aiid s%rvices unless decided  procurement other than          LCB (B.G. 3.1.1. Hinisterial                      w
otherwise by Hinister.         ICS (B.C. 3.1).                exemption would be sought
for Bank financed contracts.
3                11 2     Pubitc organizations and        Ilt Is not fair competi-      All eligible Bidders should
sector companies uay he        tion to allow exemptot.s.   provide bid and Performance
ekempL from Supplyin2 bid    Bid and Performance Secu-   ;;urity or differentatton
anld Performance Hooids.       rity should be required        factored evaluation process
from all bidders              would be used in bid evalu-
(B.C. 2.14 and 2.34).         ation.
11      12       21       Bid received after bid ope-  lids received after bid          Bid received after the time
ning deadline, but during    opening time specified           stipulated shiould not be
bid opening session may        should not be considered    considered and be returned
be accepted If delay           (Q.G. 2.46).  Exceptions    unopened. Provision under
beyofld bidder's control       would adversely affect         Art. I1 to apply.
and if tile bid iS oil         competitive bidding
favor of Treasury (Note        process and may lead to
Article 21 is not ccii-        abuses.
sIstelnL witli Art. 61).
11      27       oal      Provisoun of Credit            Bank policy does not           If clarificatLion confirms                      'K!
factlities shall be con        permit for consideration    that credit facilities may
sidered in bid evalua-         of credit offers In bid        be requested in connection
tIon.                          evaluation where Sink          with iCS. credit offers
loan proceeds are *x-         should not be considered
pected to be used for         in the evaluation of bids
financing contract            where lank financing of
(Part 11 para 6. OPM          contract is contesplated.
oa.081.



Category 11.  e sRDyI5S mnQUIRII1G SePClAL IVIMITODI
Clarifications and/or uederslanding Will be so5Uhl on procedures to be followed for procurment of Dank
financed Contracts witl respect to the following provisions.
Procedures to be
Included in
earl   eAsm   &r.Lc1                  1ueLl                      COMiil.                      Dozemntat Ln
I        3  4, 40 1 43  Local bidding required for   This is considered accep-   SAR and Loan documentation
conlracts valued at IC.        table as amount is small    should specify cut-oft
40,000 or less restricted    and foreion supplier can    thresMhold where off-the-
to local suppliers and         bid thru local agent,         shelf and local shopping
bidders whichi adminsitra-    Also this ^ount can be         procedures will apply.
Live entity decides Lo         purchased thru local
dmral with.                    shopping or off-the-shielf.
I        I       lb      Evaluation Coamittee aay       Practice to negotiate to    Evaluation Coiettee can
negotuate with lQwoQs          reduce price can be abused  negotiate with the lowest
bidder to reduce bid to       aud it mist be made clear   evaluated bidder when the
murket level price%.           unider what circLastances    bid exceeds owner's esti-
this can be permitted        Mated Cost by a substantial
(B.G. 2.60).                 a mout.
11      21    14(63      No ddjubtLea) is allowed       lhis is Inequitable.          Actions Laken by Government
if fluctuations occtr         Action by Govt. after bid   which result in cost changes
after bid opening date         apening Wiich will affect   after bid opening should be
In currecKy. cusltOM  duty,   cost to contractor should   subjuct to adjustment upward
eAcise Aases or Otiler        be subject to equitable       or downward as provided
dues,                          adjustmenit.   his how-       in Article 64D.
ever is provided for in
Article 640 which should
override Article S416).
11      26       ?a      Civil workt. contractor to    This is acceptable for         Bank Guidelines Art. 2.16
veriry souldness of speci s-mal works or turnkey             emwhaslies need for clarity
ficatiuius anid designs as    contracts in which the        of bidding documents inclu-
lloughi tIley were sbilmiitted   coiitractor Is responsible   ding setting forth clearly
by liim.elf.                   fur balh design and cons-   the work and flSponsibl-
truction.  However for        lities of all parties inclu-
other large works design    ding design/Engineer and
and specificaLions are       contractor.  The bid doc-
generally the responsi-      ments should Include proce-
bility of the Engineer.      dures to reflect the above
In SuCh Cases verification  referenced provisions of
of designs and design crl-  the Bank guidelines.
letr would result in
duplication of Ensineer's
responsibility. Increase
cosl and caCse delay and
possible legal implications.                                                P[



CaLegory l1l    P60g15IQNS RIIUIRIII.WrOVIfEaS
The Burtowelr will be gincouragsd 1o make im1roMIeeilS in the following provisions to enisure better
cowpettion and fdir treat.QstI of all btddefb.
Improved
ead   Riufi   ALLcIC               C>;u                                                     Lrcsedurnl
11      10      24       failure to provide Perfor    This discourages competi-   failure to provide Perfor-
miate Boiid may result in     tion.  Bid Bond only          munce Security should be
forfeiture of Bid Bond        could be forfeited (B..C   limited to the forfeiture
anld e4ecution of work        2,141.                        of only the Did Security.
wiloillf or in part at tne
eAPe2IiJ of the bidder.
11      21    14111      Foreign bidders  .sy bid %it  This provision is unclear   fidding docuientS should
foreigis currenty bul uujl    Bidders are oat Informed    specify the procedure for
give value in Iglypti.sni     of which of the two prices  applying exchange rates
POWuf%.                       are binding and how bids    for bid evaluation and
will be evaluated            payment (B.C. 2.2e to 2.26).
(8.G. 2.24).
It      2b   57 * Sb    Withdrawal of bid before       Bidder should be allo-        Bidders should be allowed to
bid opening results iii       wed to withdraw, or           withdraw bid prior to bid
loss of bid bond.  Bids       modify bid prior to bid      opening time (without loss
may not be withdrawn          opening time withlout         of bid Security).
once suw itted.               loss of Bid Security
*               {@~~~(.C. 2.4k). 
11      2b      So      Olue vdlidilty of bid boild   Bank Guidelines Art. 2.59   Extension of bid validity                           Vn
e&pi%rv. if not withdr,awi    requires that an extension  in exceptlon41 circunstances
bidder remaiiss conmlitted    of bid validity should be   should be requested in
without aill acknowledge-     requested in writing fram   writing from all bidders
went.                         all bidders before eXpire-  (S.C. 2.59).
tion date and bidders
should be required to pro-
vide suitable extension of
bid Security.
LaW



- 46 -
Annex 4
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A. Reports and Studies Relating to the Country:
Some Issues in Population and Human Resources Development in Egypt, IBRD,
May 1981, Report No. 3175-EGT.
High Dam Hydro-Electric Power Station, Ministry of Electricity and Energy.
Arab Republic of Egypt: Current Economic Situation and Growth Prospects,
IBRD, October 1983, Report No. 4498-EGT.
Arab Republic of Egypt, Ministry of Planning, The Detailed Frame of the
Five-Year Plan for Social and Economic Deelopment, 1982/83-1986/87, Parts I,
II, and III, December 1982.
B. Reports and Studies Relating to Manpower and Training:
Manpower and Training Plan for Egypt Electricity Authority.
Survey of Electricity Distribution Authority Training Needs.
The Egypt Electricity Authority, 1984/85 Training Plan.
Training Equipment Lists for Cairo North and Abu Qir.
Development of Hydropower Training in Upper Egypt: A Feasibility Study.
International Labor Office, A Study of Industrial Training in Egypt
(Cairo, June 1984).
C. Reports and Studies Relating to the Project:
Selected Staff Working Papers
Description of the Project
Manpower Projections
Enrollments and Graduates
Training Curricula
Instructor Requirements
Education Worksheets
Architectural Worksheets
Project Cost Estimates
Recurrent Cost Estimates
Cost Benefit Assessment of EDA Training Centers
Technical Assistance Terms of Reference
Bilateral Assistance to Ministry of Electricity and Energy (MOEE)
1993V



-'---ARA FDtREPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD VOC0ATINALAA TRAINN   RJC
A  EEA----- RRna TanC
..  A51  .. Aaift''qJ
it~~~~s   .. -  , !a  rb. 
S Me aio  Me~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o1
uSa           S   a.                                                                      . ... .
ARAB3 REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                         1.: 
THIRD VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT                 
*  EDA Train. g btdiie
*  ED- RegI. alTraning CI.m
r   EEA Rgenl Traini Con|                                                            -
Ah_ FDA dro--o-.W                               / 11                  ,'  i  '    i                _
C wa MebaSn.
-24- ~~-                                                              XI               1 o
ooodm                                                                                          <* 41 emo. N O
_wen                                              ....."__  w..                                                 .
j en_a _vw                                                                                                     -':
____._*t .pS e                                                                                                _
_r who-moo       _S o:-



