Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10986
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1981-UNI)
JULY 31, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  -     Naira (N)
Appraisal Exchange Rate              -     US$1.00 - NO.55
Average 1984 Exchange Rate           -     US$1.00 - NO.80
Average 1986 Exchange Rate           -     US$1.00 - N1.20
Average 1988 Exchange Rate           -     US$1.00 - N4.00
Average 1989 Exchange Rate           -     US$1.00 - N7.50
Average 1990 Exchange Rate           -     US$1.00 - N8.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (mt)              -     2,205 pounds (lbs) or
0.9842 long ton
1 hectare (ha)                       -     2.4711 acres (ac)
1 acre (ac)                   -      0.4047 hectare (ha)
1 kilometer (km)               -     0.6214 miles (mi)
1 mile (mi)                   -      1.6093 kilometers (km)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADP         Agricultural Development Project
APMEU       Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
BASAC       Bauchi State Agricultural Services Company
BASIRDA     Bauchi State Integrated Rural Development Authority
BSADP       Bauchi State Agricultural Development Project
BSADPEC     Bauchi State Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee
BSARDC      Bauchi State Agricultural and Rural Development Committee
BSG         Bauchi State Government
CFA         Bauchi State Cooperative Financing Agency
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FACU        Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FGN         Federal Republic of Nigeria
FSC         Farm Service Centers
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
KNSG        State Government
LG          Local Government
LGC         Local Government Council
OFAR        On-Farm Adaptive Research
PCR         Project Completion Report
SAP         Structural Adjustment Program
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
T&V         Training and Visit
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Nigeria   -      January 1 to December 31
World Bank               -     July 1 to June 30



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
July 31, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nigeria
Bauchi State Agricultural Development Proiect (Loan 1981-UNI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Nigeria - Bauchi State Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 1981-UNI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office vith Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offidal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1981-UNI)     _
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE                                        . .      . .     . .     ... ......... ............................. 
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .        ii
PART I:     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . 1
1.  Project Identity  . .         .. . . . .-1
2.  Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . 1  . . . .
3.  Project Objectives and Description  .   . . . . . . . . 2
4.  Project Design and Organization . . . .  .  . . . . . .b
5.  Project Implementation ...... . . . . . . . 4
6.  Project Results . . . .    . . . . . .   . . . . . ...   6
7.  Sustainability..                      . . . . . . .      ..... 7
8.  Bank Performance  . . . . . .8.  .        ... ... .8
9.  Borrower's Performance  .   .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
10.  Project Relationship  . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .. 9
11.  Consulting Services . . . . . .    .. . . . . 9
12.  Project Documentation and Data  . . .   . .  . .  . . . . 9
13.  Findings and Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
PART II:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE 1  . . . .  11
PART III:   STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Tables
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits   . . . . . . . . .  15
2.  Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
3.  Loan Disbursement   ... ................   16
4.  Project Implementation  .   . . . .  . . . . . . . ..   17
5.  Project Costs and Financing . ... . . . . . . .  18
6.  Status of Covenants .. . . . .. ..... ... .   19
7.  Use of Bank Resources. .  . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  20
May: IBRD No. 15109R
1/ Contains the Borrower's comments on Part I of the Draft PCR.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1981-UNI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Bauchi State
Agricultural Development Project in Nigeria, for which Loan 1981-UNI in
the amount of US$132 million was approved on April 30, 1981. The loan
and project agreements are dated September 2, 1981. The loan was closed
on December 31, 1989, after three yearly extensions and the final
disbursement was made on July 5, 1990. US$130.7 million (99 percent of
the loan) was disbursed and US$1.2 million was canceled.
This report (Parts I and III) is based on the work of a joint
mission of the Bank and the Agricultural Projects Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (APMEU) of the Federal Department of Agriculture during
the month of March 1991. The Borrower's comments (see Part II) were
submitted in response to a draft of the PCR.
It is also based on a review of the Bank Staff Appraisal Report,
the Loan and Project Agreements, the World Bank President's Report,
Project Supervision Reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower %nd internal Bank memoranda.



- ili -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1981-UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMA.RY
Objectives
1.    The Bauchi State Agricultural Development Project (BSADP) was the
third of the four State-wide agricultural development projects financed
by the World Bank between 1981 and 1984 to support food production in
northern Nigeria, many parts of which have low and unreliable rainfall.
2.    BSADP had two primary objectives:  (a) to increase food produc-
tion and farm incomes of some 280,000 farm families; and (b) to alle-
viate the State's shortage of trained and experienced personnel for
agricultural development.
3.    The project included several components targeted at increasing
agricultural and livestock production; improving economic and social
infrastructure and enhancing institutional capacity.
4.    The agricultural production component included activities to
increase the production of cereals (millet, sorghum, maize and rice),
groundnut and cowpea, a pilot sub-project in the Northern Zone to
improve 'fadama' small-scale irrigation agriculture, and a livestock
scheme for cattle fattening and training of draft animals. Activities
designed to achieve output increases included an applied research
program; dissemination of technical packages for improved cultivation
practices through a Training and Visit (T&V) system of extension;
establishment of Bauchi State Agricultural Services Company (BASAC) for
timely and adequate supply of inputs; strengthening of the Cooperative
Financing Agency (CFA) to facilitate adequate crop production credit;
ana the establishment of a farm management advisory service to assist
the more advanced farmers.
5.    The major activities intended for improving the economic and
social infrastructure were the establishment of a network of rural
feeder roads and the provision of village water supplies. Other
activities included improved land-use planning/soil conservation
measures, establishment of farm development centers and facilities for
staff training, staff housing, offices and workshops.
6.    Strengthening of institutional capacity was to be achieved
through activities that included the establishment of BASAC, support to
CFA, integration of local governments into project activity and provi-



- iv -
ai.or of tochnical assititarce for improving managerial and training
components of the project.
Implementation Experience
7.    The delayed and slow implementation of the project resulted in
the extension of the project by three years. In spite of the extension
of project life, total real expenditures amounted to only US$235.6
million while the planned total cost was US$350.6 million. The Bank
disbursed US$130.7 million (99 percent of its commitment), representing
55 percent of the actual total cost, although the Bank's planned share
was 37 percent.
8.    While the total contributions by FGN and BSG were close to or
exceeded the targeted amounts in Naira terms, these were we;'L short of
the expected levels in dollar values. The major factor contributing to
the lower level of total expenditures relative to the expected dollar
equivalent amount was the sharp decline in the Naira value (from US$1.00
- Naira 0.55 in 1981 to US$1.00 - Naira 8.00 in 1990). FGN and BSG
counterpart funding was consequently much lower reflecting an inability
to enlarge their revenue base and/or trim low-priority expenditures.
The growth in the public expenditures in the agricultural sector was
also slow during this period reflecting, perhaps, a lower commitment to
the sector.
9.    Project implementation was also adversely affected by FGN fertil-
izer policy which allowed monopoly distribution rights to the public
sector. Fertilizer supplies were marked by scarcities and other inef-
ficiencies. The observed performance on the demand side indicates that
larger agricultural production benefits could have been derived if
fertilizer supplies had been orderly and adequate.
10.   The key implementation agencies required for the project were
established but unfortunately the associated main policy-making bodies -
BSARDC and BSADDTC - were not very effective. The integration of the
ADP into BASIRDA, led to conflicts of interest over priorities and use
of resources since BASIRDA undertook a very wide range of activities.
11.   Project implementation was most successful in the area of infra-
structure development. The project did not implement the component
related to livestock development as it was expected that the newly-
formed National Livestock Project Department would undertake that
activity.
Project Results
12.   The project was able to reach the expected proportion of the
total farm families through its extension activities using a lower-than-
expected number of agricultural extension personnel. According to
project data on crop production, the output of all the crops except
sorghum registered an upward trend during the project period. The
impact of new technology and the extension service on crop yields
cannot, however, be accurately ascertained because of data problems.



V
- v -
13.   The project reached or exceeded the SAR targets for fadama smail-
scale irrigation development (reaching 400 percent of t3rget), construc-
tion of rural f5eder roadG and the estsblishment of village water sup-
plies.  In the area of institutional development, an efficient project
organization was put in place, as envisaged in the project design, but
this later was integrated with by an over-ambitious program managed by,
BASIRDA, a new parastatal. The CPA was successful in extending produc-
tion credit and had a good loan recovery record.
14.   The economic rate of return (ERR) estimated fo: the agricultural
components at appraisal was 18 percent. At project completion, data
available is insufficient to carry out a meaningful assesbnent of
project impact on the financial returns for producers.  The cpu,.tc.Lion
of the ERR has been omitted for the same reasons.
Sustainability
15.   BSADP is now an established institution in the agriculture
sector; it has been accepted by the Bauchi State Government as the
implementing arm of the State Ministry of Agriculture, an endorsement
that enhances sustainability.  The following actions taken by the ADP
augur well for project sustainability:
(a) the establishment of a program of on-farm adaptive research
with strong linkages between the national research insti-
tutes and the extension services emphasizing farming systems
research;
(b) the unification and strengthening of agricultural extension
services for more effective coverage of smallholders and to
improve cost effectiveness;
(c) the increased dependence on the private sector for retail
sales of inputs through encouragement of private traders and
farmers' cooperatives and on progressive withdrawal of
BASAC; and
(d) the assistance of BSADP to local governments to develop the
capacity for routine maintenance of rural infrastructure
while emphasizing increased use of private sector capacity
for rehabilitation, new construction and periodic major
maintenance.
The State Government has made BSADP a part of BASIRDA, which, although a
more permanent institution, has too wide a span of activities which
could strain both managerial and financial resources. BASIRDA should
review whether it should continue to be involved in rural electrifi-
cation, community development and construction of health facilities.
16.   The sustainability of the maintenance of infrastructural
facilities--feeder roads and water supply--will continue to depend on
the availability of adequate maintenance funds which can hardly be
guaranteed un0er the present financial situation of FGN and BSG. There



- vi -
is a need to seriously explore the introduction of user fees to at least
meet part of the expense.
Findings and Lessons Learned
17.   The main lesMons which could be relevant to the Bank and the
Borrower are:
(a) experience has shown that complex multi-component projects
are difficult to implement and it may be desirable to have
projects with fewer components;
(b) risks of insufficient counterpart funding need to be assess-
ed more carefully at time of project preparation or at least
at appraisal;
(c) public sector participation in input distribution, particu-
larly in fertilizer distribution, should be avoided; the
Bank, thus, should not finance state-owned commercial
companies and should instead emphasize the role of the
private sector;
(d) strategies for technology development and dissemination need
to give serious consideration to on-going farming practices,
farmer objectives and agro-ecological conditions; addi-
tionally, the scale and scope of projects involving techno-
logy development and dissemination need to make allowance
for the relatively long time and resources required to yield
results; further, technology promotion cannot function
independently of pricing policies as demonstrated in the
case of maize where cheap fertilizers favored production at
the expense of the less fertilizer-responsive sorghum - a
result not envisaged in the SAR; and
(e) as a measure of progress evaluation and control, project
documents such as SAR should include key indicators and
targets to be achieved not only at project completion but
also at different stages of project implementation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1981-UNI)       _
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW YROM BAN'S PERSPECTIVE
l.    Pro1ect Identitv
Project Name:     Bauchi State Agricultural Development Project (BSADP)
Loan Number:      1981-UNI
RVP Unit:         Africa
Country:          Nigeria
Sector:           Agriculture and Rural Development
Sub-Sector:       Area Development
2.    Beckaround
2.1  This project formed an important element in a strategy developed
by FGN to revitalize the agricultural sector, especially its role as a
key provider of food supplies and a major source of rural incomes in the
Nigerian economy. During the 1970-1982 oil boom, the performance of the
agricultural sector was dismal; its output grew not more than 1 percent
per year, far below the 3 percent per year rate of growth of the popula-
tion. This minimal growth largely contributed to the drastic decline in
the sector's share in GDP from 45 percent to 27 percent and in exports
from 70 percent to 2 percent during this period. Some of the economic
repercussions of the oil boom such as (a) the appreciation of the
exchange rate, (b) the enhanced profitability of investments in the
non-tradable sector, and (c) rising wages in the public sector that
drained labor from rural areas, interacted to undermine profitability in
the agricultural sector. Although in the late 1970s the government
provided input subsidies and purchased selected commodities at higher
nominal prices to offset higher farm costs, these were insufficient to
encourage farmers to invest in increasing production.
2.2   In the early 1980s, FGN launched a more concerted effort to
revitalize the agricultural sector to achieve food self-sufficiency in
the eighties. It planned for increasing the country's food production
by 3.5 percent during the first half of the decade. The satisfactory
results of Bank-assisted enclave ADPs 1/ launched in the mid to late
1970s, prompted FGN to adopt the ADP concept on a statewide basis.
Hence, the launching of BSADP with a mandate to promote agricultural
development in Bauchi State. 2/
VI Thle sub-ate level ADPn wer tnulti-facted agriculural developmen effos which began in Gombe, Ouau
and Funtua in 1974 and sprad to swvod other places in tho second-half of 1970s.
Z/ During the same penod PON launched two other ADPn in the states of Sokoto and Kano, with Bank assistnce.



-2-
2.3   During the first few years of operation of the state-wide ADPs, a
highly over-valued Naira and administered prices of agricultural commo-
ditiss served to severely disadvantage agricultura' production through
cheep food imports and unremunerative prices. However, in September
1986 FGN took measures to launch a Structural Adjustment Program (SAP)
which introduced market-determined exchange rates and eliminated commo-
dity marketing boards. These reforms, together with a ban on the impor-
tation of major cereals (wheat, rice and maize), were expected to
provide a better incentive structure for agricultural production. There
was an immediate positive impact on agricultural export commodities.
However, producer prices for food crops showed a 2-year lag in adjusting
to the changed economic incentives structure. Thus, for most of the
project period the incentive environment was quite unfavorable for the
major crops targeted for production increases.
3.    Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.1  Obiectives:  BSADP was designed to achieve the following primary
objectives:
(a)   To increase food production and farm incomes of some 280,000
farm families most of whom were small-holders engaged in
upland crop cultivation on about 330,000 ha.
(b)   To strengthen a number of state institutions and to
alleviate the state's severe shortage of trained and
experienced technical staff and development administrators.
3.2   Proiect Description:  The project included the following
components and activities:
(a)   Crop and Livestock Development
This component included a number of activities aimed at
increasing the production of major rainfed food crops and
livestock, amongst these were the promotion of improved farm
practices; development of an input supply organization;
support for seed multiplication and applied research; and a
cattle fattening scheme. Also included was a pilot scheme
to introduce low-cost intermediate technology 'fadama' 3/
irrigation.
(b)   Civil Works
The project planned for the construction of about 1200 km of
rural feeder roads; drilling of about 1,300 boreholes and
rehabilitation of about 200 wells for rural water supply;
construction of 25 dams and 50 small reservoirs to improve
cattle watering points; and the construction of project
Y/ Time am tkaditionally irnigated lands in river basins.



-3-
officea: workshops, stores, staff houses and Parm Service
Centers (USC.).
(a)   Institutional Support
Provision for a management structure for efficient project
implementation, enhancement of state training institutions,
strengthening of the Cooperative Financing Agency (CPA) and
*stablishment of the Bauchi State Agricultural Servicoe
Company (BASAC), assistance in marketing and on-farm storage
and integration of local governments into the project
constituted the major activities planned in this project
component.
(d)   Technical Assistance
The project provided for the recruitment of suitable
international and local staff and consultancy services to
assist in the implementation of technical, training and
planning components of the project.
4.   Proiect Desitn and Oraanizatlon
4.1   The project preparation was initiated by the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture through its Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit (APNEU) with the assistance of Gombe ADP staff and was finalized in
collaboration with Bank staff. BSADP, for the most part, was to be the
state-wide replication of the successfully implemented Gombe ADP.
Hence, its conceptual foundation was clear and shared and understood by
all relevant parties. A key consideration in project design was to
include proper tools for ensuring increased productivity in farming.
Towards this, two technical packages were introduced, one beinr a
'basic' package 4/ and the other an 'advanced' package. 5/ TI -
strategy for inducing a shift away from traditional farming, however,
was constrained by the absence of technical packages proven and tested
under smallholder farming conditions. On-Farm Adaptive Research (OFAR)
was included in the project design to cope with the lack of farmer-
tested technology. The design, however, did not allow for the time
required for research to generate the required technical packages and
introduce them at the farm level; in that sense, the design was
ambitious and led to high expectations in terms of input use.
Additionally, the project design lacked clear criteria for evaluating
effectiveness of extension work.
I/ This relatively simplo production package applicable to existing farmning systems was intended for wide coverage;
incrasd fetitizer use was the major ingredicnt.
I/ This package supplemented the 'basic' package and was designed for use by more enterprising farmer who have
the aptitude to handle more sophistieated tc¢hniques and cropping systems, including pest and weed control, higher
ferilizer use and use of hybrid seed.



-4
4.2   The project design included a comprehensive organizational set-up
with reasonable clarity on policy making and operational responsibi-
lities required for proper implementation of the project. Some imple-
mentation failures were largely externally determined rather than the
result of poor design. For example, the inability of Bauchi State
Agricultural Supply Company (BASAC) to run as a viable commercial
enterprise arose mainly from FGN's fertilizer marketing policy. The
Federal, State and Local Governments, in addition to BSADP and BASAC,
had clear roles and responsibilities defined and understood by all
parties.  However, the Bauchi State Integrate. Rural Development
Authority (BASIRDA) which was created in 1986 was not envisaged in the
project, and had a conflicting mandate with that of BSADP. This created
confusion and overlapping of the two management structures.
5.    Proiect Implementation
5.1   Project commencement was delayed and implementation was
characterized by slow execution resulting in the extension of the
project closing date by three years. The total project period thus
became eight years instead of the planned five years.
5.2 Although the project life was extended, a substantial part of the
planned level of project expenditures in dollar terms was not achieved.
The planned total project cost was US$350.6 million but when the project
closed total cost amounted to only US$235.6 million. Thu Bank's total
disbursement of US$130.7 million accounted fcr 55 percent of the actual
project cost (and 99 percent of its commitment) while the intended share
at appraisal had been only 37 percent. Although the contributions by
the Bauchi State Government (BSG) and the Federal Government of Nigeria
(FGN) were not deficient in nominal terms, they were well below the
targets in dollar terms. The inadequacy and the irregularity of these
contributions adversely affected the project's progress. This critical
problem of inadequate counterpart-funding arose mainly because of the
sharp devaluation of the Naira (from US$1.00 - Naira 0.55 in 1981 to
US$1.00 - Naira 8.0 in 1990). FGN and BSG were unable to enlarge their
revenue base or trim lower priority expenditures to support the much
larger contributions in Naira terms.
5.3 Another factor that proved to be a serious constraint on project
activity was the involvement of FGN and BSG in fertilizer distribution.
The public sector monopoly of fertilizer distribution at heavily
subsidized prices resulted in inefficiencies in distribution and use.
Scarcities became comlonp'ace and rent-seeking in parallel markets
common. Demand for fertilizer, however, was high. According to BSADP's
Planning and Evaluation Department the total fertilizer use in the state
exceeded the official distribution of BASAC, implying some fertilizer
had been purchased from other states. Higher levels of fertilizer use,
and hence, higher productivity of crops, may have been possible if
fertilizer had been more regularly available. The average annual
distribution of fertilizer was 44,666 tons compared to a target of
50,640 tons.



-5
5.4   The key institutions to provide policy direction project manage-
ment, i.e., BSARDC and BSADPTC, were established as planned but did not
play their roles fully.  These policy making bodies met only a few times
and had little impact on BSADP operations.  Integration of Local Govern-
ment Councils (LGCs) into project operations also did not live up to
project expectations firstly because of the proliferation of local
governments, and secondly because of inadequacy of LGC financial
resources.  When BASIRDA was established in 1986 its wide range of acti-
vities in the rural sector included those undertaken by BSADP and
created the problem of BSADP management having two masters, that is
BSADPEC and the Managing Director and the Board of BASIRDA. Worse
still, the non-agricultural aspects of BSADP with their high profile
tended to attract involvement from the BASIRDA management.  There was no
representative of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture on the BASIRDA
Board unlike BSADPEC. BSADP management became considerably weakened
over time as BASIRDA exerted its authority.
5.5   Project components related to livestock development, i.e., cattle
fattening and training of draft animals, were not implemented on the
expectation that the newly-formed National Livestock Project Department
would undertake these activities in a separate project. A Bank-assisted
project, Livestock II (Loan No. 2737-UNI) was approved in July 1986 and
until about 1989 did not deliver much to this subsector.
5.6   The research component included several activities meant to
provide suitable solutions to local farming problems. Their imple-
mentation, however, fell short of expectations in several areas.
Research on animal traction, crop processing and farm mechanization were
not systematically conducted. The usefulness of on-farm research on
mixed farming would have been largely enhanced if comparative experi-
ments had been conducted over several seasons.  Research on individual
crops was implemented with reasonable effectiveness yielding several
important results. However, introduction of hybrid seeds had to contend
with farming systems dominated by mixed cropping practices which empha-
size compatibility. Moreover, farmers were reluctant to crop improved
sorghum varieties because of taste, short stems which cannot be used in
shelter construction, and higher loss to birds through earlier maturity.
5.7 In terms of specific quantitative targets for the different
activities at appraisal, a large member of these had been achieved at
the end of project implementation (see table 4). In the crop devel-
opment component the SAR expected project extension activities to reach
280,000 families (i.e. about 60 percent of the total farm families).
The number of farm families covered at the end of the project, as
estimated by APMEU, was 318,000 representing about 60 percent of the
total farm families estimated then at 514,000. This coverage, however,
had been achieved with only about one-third of the estimated requirement
of extension agents. No criteria were developed to assess the effec-
tiveness of the coverage and evaluation of the success achieved is,
therefore, difficult.
5.8 Implementation has been most successful in the components related
to infrastructure development. The project well-exceeded SAR targets



-6-
associated with the fadama small lift-pump irrigation schemes, the rural
feeder roads program and the rural water supply component. The area
brought under small lift-pump irrigation was 10,000 ha against a target
of 2,500 ha. Feeder roads constructed reached 1,578 km versus a target
of 1,200 km. The number of boreholes drilled for village water supplies
was 1,480 against a target of 1,300.
6.    Proiect Results
6.1   Notwithstanding numerous operational difficulties experienced
during project implementation, BSADP's performance on the whole has been
satisfactory. It has been able to achieve the basic project objective.
of having a positive impact on overall agricultural production and
building up the institutional capacity for agricultural development
activities. The estimated number of farm families reached through
project extension activity exceeded the number anticipated in SAR. The
project has been very successful in developing fadama agriculture, where
10,000 ha of land have been developed relative to 2,500 ha planned in
SAR.
6.2   Incremental outputs of crops varied considerably from year to year
due to a combination of factors including variations in rainfall, farmer
response to price changes and differences in returns to fertilizer use
among substitutable crops. There has been a marked shift from sorghum
to maize which may have been due to higher response of maize to fertil-
izer use as well as differential water requirements. The output of
major food crops--millet, maize and cowpea--increased by a reasonable
degree, while sorghum output declined. A comprehensive analysis of
yield changes during the project period is not possible due to data
problems.
6.3   The establishment and strengthening of BSADP were major achieve-
ments of the project in terms of institutional development. BSADP has
progressed to diversify its extension activities beyond food crops to
include all major crops such as groundnut, cotton and vegetables, in the
farming systems. Engagement in these supportive activities has been
timely considering the new incentives to commercial crops resulting from
the economic reforms in 1986. The project accelerated low-cost and
privately managed small-scale irrigation development by using inex-
pensive technology and private contractors for drilling. BSADP has
increasingly contracted out seed production while progressively closing
down its seed farms. The project has moved toward sustaining its
trading activities in non-fertilizer items by the selling inputs such as
chemicals and implements at prices to recover their full costs. It has
involved beneficiaries in rural water supply by obtaining their contri-
bution to capital and maintenance costs. Finally, BSADP changed the
role of technical assistance from an executive to an advisory one, thus
building local capacity for project management.
6.4   The Bauchi Cooperative Financing Agency has been touted as one of
the most successful operations in a country where successes in this area
are not easy to find. The technical assistance provided under the
project, the strong support from the Bauchi State Government, and the



-7-
effective utilization of local management resources have combined to
bring this about. Linking collection of input credit to marketing of
farm produce led to a high recovery rate. The liberalization of
interest rates following SAP has caused a very substantial increase in
interest rates and constrained the CFA's credit op'rations especially
with the prices of non-export crops responding only slowly to SAP
reforms.
6.5   The ERR of the project was calculated based on data collected by
APMEU, BSADP and the Federal Agriculture Coordinating Unit (FACU). At
appraisal, the ERR of the project was computed as 18 percent and it took
into account only the benefits of the agricultural component. Inconsis-
tencies in the project management records and reporting, and question-
able data on agricultural output do not allow a meaningful estimation,
at completion, of the farmer's actual financial gains or the economic
returns to the overall investment. (The draft PCR prepared together
with the Government had worked out a 10 percent ERR, but this could not
be accepted after subsequent review of data and analysis.)
6.6 Several aspects of the project are expected to have in the long-
run positive impacts on the agricultural economy. Major gains should
arise from the improvement of soil conservation and agroforestry prac-
tices and the adoption of proven techniques of extension and research
for which the institutional basis has been put in place. Finally, BSADP
has contributed to the development of human resources by enhancing
managerial skills of project staff and by offering training to a large
number of rural dwellers.
7.    Sustainability
7.1 BSADP, whose institutional structure was put in place as proposed
during the project period, has now become the implementing arm of the
State Ministry of Agriculture. This development and the core activities
that have been established provide strong support for the sustainability
of BSADP in the long-run. The forthcoming Bank-assisted projects such
as the National Padama Development Project and the National Agriculture
Technology Support Project will also be implemented by BSADP in Bauchi
State. These projects would have to ensure that the core activities of
agricultural extension and OPAR are not marginalized by BASIRDA under
whose aegis BSADP is nominally operating. However, despite the proven
overall economic viability of project activities, the continued decline
of the Naira since the SAP of 1986 has resulted in higher recurrent
costs for the project. In fact, since 1986, FGN and BSG have been
experiencing difficulty in funding BSADP. A serious effort in
introducing actions towards sustainability of project investments and
institutions began in 1988 reflecting, in part, the findings of the Bank
PPARs on Lafia and Ayangba ADPs. 6/
7.2 The actions taken by the ADP towards improving sustainability
were:
61 Sec PPAR Report No. 5972 on Lafi ADP (Loan 1454 - UNI) and Ayangba ADP (Loan 1455 - UNI).



-     Establishment of a program of on-farm adaptive research with
strong linkages to the national research institutes and the
extension services.
Unification and strengthening of agricultural extension for
more effective coverage of smallholders and to improve its
cost effectiveness.
Increasing the dependence on the private sector for retail
sales of inputs, and encouraging private traders and farmers
cooperatives with the progressive withdrawal of BASAC.
-     Assistance to LGCs to develop the capacity for routine
maintenance, while emphasizing increased dependence on the
private sector for rehabilitation, construction and major
annual maintenance work.
-     An adequate supply of quality planting material to extend
new technologies using contract growers with technical
inputs from the National Seed Service which is being
assisted by the Bank under a National Program.
7.3   Funding problems related to recurrent expenditures appear to have
affected infrastructure maintenance programs. The infrastructure
component of the project could be sustained with a minimum of
supervision or administrative involvement. Given the low maintenance
cost of the hand pumps for rural water supply, user groups may be
willing to contribute to maintain these pumps. The estimated
maintenance cost of ranges from N400 to N600 per year. On average, this
will represent a financial burden of less than N1.00 per family per
month. A similar scheme can be developed for the project's feeder
roads. According to BSADP engineering staff, the annual maintenance
cost of one kilometer of feeder road varies between N2,500 and N5,000.
Based on the traffic recorded a tax of N1.00 per use each way should
suffice to meet the maintenance costs. The active involvement of LGCs
in such processes especially the organization of user groups and the
training of LGC staff would be important to develop a sustainable
infrastructure maintenance arrangement.
7.4   BASAC is unsustainable as a state-owned operation where
profitability is seriously affected by non-commercial considerations.
BASAC should progressively withdraw from its activities and cease
operations in favor of private operations.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1   The Bank had an intensive involvement throughout the project
cycle. The Bank monitoring was extended over the project period, with a
total staff input of 241 man-days in the field for a total of 13
supervision missions. In addition, after 1988 key components such as
On-Farm Adaptive Research, Extension, Rural Infrastructure and
Commercial Services were each supervised by a specialist group visiting
for an intensive review of each component of the ongoing ADPs.



-9-
9.    Borrower's Performance
9.1 Borrower's performance, though satisfactory in general, was marked
by frequent delays in the fulfillment of the conditions stipulated in
the loan agreement, particularly in the areas of providing adequate
counterpart funding and recruitment of personnel. Part of the inade-
quacies were the impect of, initially, falling petroleum prices and,
subsequently, economic reforms on the Federal and State government
budgets. However, the Borrower was supportive of supervision missions
and open to suggestions for improvement.
10. Project Relationship
10.1 The Bank - Borrower relationship was in general satisfactory.
Only after the takeover of the military government in 1983 did some
tension occur, and project implementation stagnated for about IS months.
Nonetheless, decisions regarding loan closing date extension and
reallocation of proceeds amongst disbursement categories were conducted
in an atmosphere of mutual cooperation.
11. Consulting Services
11.1 Several consulting services were contracted to obtain technical
assistance. According to BSADP staff, these services were satisfac-
torily performed. 244 staff years went to internationally recruited
long-term consultants while 501 staff months were used for short-term
consultants. The comparative SAR estimates were 290 and 71, respec-
tively. 68 staff months provided for a special road study were not used
at all in preference of use of in-house resources.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1 The project covenants were clearly stipulated. The SR provided
an adequate framework for the Bank and the Borrower to implement the
project. BSADP's Monitoring and Evaluation Department was able to
provide relevant data for the preparation of this PCR.
13. Findings and Lessons Learned
13.1 The main lesson learned from this project experience, similar to
that of other ADPs, is that the Bank should be more cautious in
designing multi-faceted projects for agricultural development. When
projects are complex, involving wide administrative responsibilities,
project implementation becomes problematic and week. A sharp focus on a
given aspect of agricultural development may be more desirable in
project design.
13.2 The inefficiencies and the serious repercussions of public sector
managed fertilizer distribution provides strong reasons why Bank
projects should not encourage direct public sector involvement in
trading activities. It should also, therefore, refrain from providing
finance to state-owned companies for undertaking operations better done
by the private sector.



- 10 -
13.3 Given the poor record of counterpart funding Bank, staff should at
appraisal develop more stringent mechanisms of ensuring timely and
adequate counterpart funding and tailor project scope to the Borrower's
funding capabilities.
13.4 Strategies for technology development and dissemination have to
give serious consideration to on-going farming practices and farmer
objectives, as well as to the prevailing agro-ecological conditions.
Additionally, the scale and the scope of projects involving technology
development and dissemination need to consider the relatively long time
required for the development and adaptation of technology.
13.5 The project experience also has revealed how important it is to
consider the inter-linkages between technology development, technology
dissemination, and pricing policies. For example, there was a substan-
tial switch from sorghum, a basic food crop, to maize because of
subsidized fertilizer prices and higher responsiveness to fertilizer.
This has implications for both technology development related to food
crops suitable for low-rainfall areas and for fertilizer pricing
policies.
13.6 As a measure of progress evaluation and control, project documents
such as SAR should include key indicators and targets to be achieved not
only at project completion but also at different stages of project
implementation.



- il -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Introductlon
1.1   The information contained in Parts I and Part III of this Draft
Report submitted to us has been carefully studied. Both the write up
and data are to a very large extent factual, adequate and accurate. We
however feel it is pertinent to make the following observations on Part
III of the Draft Report.
2.    Adequacy and Accuracy of Part III
2.1   In table 2 of page 12 labelled Project Timetable we observe that
since the project was further extended to 1989, the correct Project
Completion date should therefore be 31st of December 1989, and the Loan
Closing date be 30th June 1990. (See Table 2 of Part III.)
2.2   Table 3 of the same page with the title Disbursement gives the
Actual Disbursement as $128.4 million which according to our record
should be $130.7 million. The percentage of the actual disbursement
should therefore read 99 percent while the Final Disbursement date
should be July 12, 1990. (See Table 3 of Part III.)
2.3   We also observe that the Project Implementation figures of table 4
do not contain the figures on consultancy. We want them reflected in
the final report as follows:
(a)  Internationally recruited Consultants       244 Man/Years
(b)  Short Term Consultants                      501 Man/Months
(c) Special Studies by Consultants
were not carried out
3.    Bank and Borrower Performance
3.1 As we have explained in our comments on other PCRs, delays in
start-up and the slow execution of Projects is common with all ADPs in
the country. The delay in start-up is mainly due to difficulties in
fulfilling the various conditionalities for loan effectiveness. More
than one Ministry, both at Federal and State levels are involved, and to
bring all of them to comply with the conditionalities is time-consuming.
Slow project execution is mainly attributed to the procurement procedure
in use. Recently the Bank has taken a positive step in this regard by
approving the Standardized Bidding Document drafted by FACU for use of
ADPs in an attempt to make the procurement procedure less cumbersome.
3.2   Bauchi State ADP, like all others in the country, was tripartitely
funded by the World Bank, Federal Government and State Government. The
PCR in paragraph 5.2 failed to acknowledge Federal Government



- 12 -
contributions to the Project. Although on an annual basis, counterpart
funding by the Federal Government often fell short of SAR targets,
cumulatively, the Federal Government's contribution to ADPs was
generally higher than the SAR provision. This is so, because the
Federal Government maintained its level of funding during periods of
project extension. One lesson to be learnt is the need to design
projects with longer term frame, which would make counterpart
contribution less burdensome on the annual budget of the borrower.
3.3   The SARs provide the representation of FMANR on the Project
Executive Committees of all ADPs. The functions of BSADPEC were
performed by the Board of BASIRDA on which FMANR was not represented.
The PCR is silent on this issue.
3.4   The PCR in paragraph 6.2 attributed the decline in sorghum
production to rainfall. When considered against the impressive increase
in maize production in the State at the time, this explanation would not
be tenable, as sorghum is more tolerant of moisture stress than maize.
The plausible explanation appears to be the shifting of resources to
maize production by farmers. Maize is more responsive to fertilizer,
yields higher, has large industrial uses and has higher returns on the
farmers' investments. Government is in agreement with overall assess-
ment.  Bauchi State ADP's performance is satisfactory.
4.   Comments on the Analysis in Part I
4.1 We generally agree with the analysis in Part I. However, we point
out and add the following:
(a)   The preparation report of the BSADP was initiated by APMEU
and was carried out by the staff of Gombe ADP for and on
behalf of Bauchi State Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources.
(b)   In addition to items listed in 7.2, the ADP also established
a viable Cooperative Finance Agency (CFA).
(c)   We also agree with the analysis on paragraph 8.2 and
emphasize that one of the problems encountered during the
project implementation was the complexity of the project.
Had the Management of the BSADP not been flexible enough,
there could have been a lot more problems.
(d)   The inclusion of benefits from rural water, rural road and
fadama components which increased the ERR for the project
from 10 percent - 22 percent was commendable. However, we
believe that inclusion of quantifiable social benefit
indicators earlier in the appraisal report would be
beneficial in arriving at realistic ERR. Projects should
therefore be designed to show benefits from both economic
and social activities, clearly setting out key indicators.



13 -
(e)   The World Bank supervision mission visited BSADP about twice
a year. Most of the visits, especially the earlier ones,
were highly supportive, combining advice with constructive
criticisms which we found very useful. We would, however,
suggest that future missions should spend more time and be
accompanied by relevant (Federal Agencies) FACU and APMEU
who are usually better informed about ADPs in the country.
5.    Bank and Borrower Relationship
5.1   The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower has been very
cordial with mutual respect and appreciation of each other's role and
problems. The borrower tried to fulfil the covenants of the loan
agreement despite the difficulties.  The Bank has always been under-
standing and helpful towards efforts made by the borrower to arrive at a
workable solution to the problems. Constructive criticisms and useful
advice on how best to achieve success in the implementation of the
project was always readily available from the Bank. Efforts at
effecting corrective measures were also promptly implemented by the
borrower.
Department of Agriculture
Federal Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources
28th June. 1991



- 15 -
PART mI: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
| LOSS NO,                         Prect Name                           Lean Amount           Year or            Year of
_            _        ______                                                    wr    II           A___                        _O
1092-UNI        Funtua Agcultural Development                               29.0               1974               1982
1099-UNI         (luau Agricultural Development                             19.0               1974                1982
1164-UNI        Gombe Agricultural Development                              21.0               1974                1982
1454-UNI        Lafia Agrcultural Development                               27.0               1977                1984
14SS-UNI        Ayangba Agricultural Development                            35.0               1977                1983
1667-UNM         Bida Agricultural Development                              23.0                1979               1986
1668-UNI          orin Agncultual Development                               27.0               1979                1988
1838-UNI        Oyo North Agricultural Development                          28.0                1980               1988
18S4-UNI        Ekiti Akoko Agricultural rkvelopmcnt                        32.S                1980               1985
2029-UNM         Agdoultural Technical Assistance                           47.0                1981               1989
1982-UNI        Kano State Agricultural Development                        142.0               1981                1989
2185-UNI         Sokoto State Agriultural Development                       147.0               1982               1990
2436-UNI         Kaduna State Agricultural Development                      122.0               1984             on-going
2736-UNI         Multi-State Agricultuml Development I                      162.0               1986             on-going
2741-UNI         South Borno Agricultural Development                       25.0                1986             on-going
2988-UNI         Multi-State Agricultural Developmemt H                     85.2                1989             on-going
2035-UN!         Multi-State Agrcultural Development m                      100.9               1989             on-going



_ 16 -
Table : Project Timetable
ldantlfloatioo                                          _______________                1978
Prepctation                                                                            1978 Field Studies,
September 1979 Report
Appraisl Minion                                                                        January 1980
Staff Appraial Report                                                                  July 7 1980
Loan Credit                                                                            NoverAber 17, 1980
Negotiations 
Board Approval               May 5, 1981                 April 30,1981                 April 30, 1981
Loan Signture                                                                     _    September 2, 1981
Loan Effectivenso             December 2, 1981           December 23, 1981             December 23, 1981
Implenentation Period
Compledon                     June 30, 1986              December 31, 1989 I/          December 31, 1989
Final Disbursement            December 31, 1986          February 22, 1990             July 5, 1990
Takle 3: Loan Disbursement
Cumuative Estimated and Actual Dsbwursanm
USS Moions
EY8¶I   FY82   IFY83         Y4 FY845f      I      FY8,    87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Appraial Estimats             Z.3      34.8     68.6     94.6    120.0    132.0
Actual                        0.0      15.4     38.9     70.0      89.5    106.3    112.9    123.9    126.3    130.7
Actual S  % of Etimate        0        44       57       74        75        81       86        94       96       99
Date of Final Dsbursbete July 5, 1990
/]      Completion date was postponed thde. tinms.



- 17 -
Table 4: Project hnplementation
Indicators                    praisal Estimale      PCR Estimate
No. of Smailholder Families Reached              280,000_/              317,800
Area of Rainfed Agriculture Covered sha)         330,000                900,000
No. of Hectares "Fadama" Irrigation                2,500                 10,000
Kilometers of Agriculture Feeder Roads             1,200                  1,578
No. of Working Village Boreheles Sunk              1,300                  1,480
No. of Hand Pumps Supplied                               _                1,670
No. of Wells Rehabilitated                          200                      0 b/
No. of Dams Constructed                             251          _
No. of Small Reservoirs Constructed                 561                     63
No. of Extension Agents (Average)                   960                     347
No. of Farm Service Centers                          58                    126 Q/
No. of Irrigation Washbores Drilled                _         _            2,827
No. of Pumps Supplied by BASAC                                _          13,036
No. of Ox-Ploughs Supplied                                _              12,156
Quantity of Fertilizers Delivered (tons) d/       50,640                 44,666
Quantity of Herbicides/Pesticides d/                750 m.t.            289,232 (iters)
No. of Mechanical Workshops                           8                     15
No. of Staff Houses                                 290                   293 e/
Internationally Recruited Consultants (man-years)   290                    244
Short-Term Consultants (man-months)                  71                    501
Special Road Study Consultants                       68                                |
No. of Other Buildings Constructed                                        136
ai/   Appraisal estimate was 60 percent of estimated total rural farms.
hi   The PMU of BSADP came to the conclusion that is was more cost-effective to sink boreholes.
c/   The figure of 126 includes stores which are not full-service centers.
d/   Average per year; SAR estimate is for 5 years; PCR estimate is for 8 years.
e/   Of which number of: senior (33); intermediate (73); and other (187).



- 18 -
Sable   Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(US$ Million)
AupraI_al_Estimat           Al                                         X
Local Costs  Foreign Costs   Total Costs    Local Costs  Foreign Costs   Total Costs
199.6        151.0         350.6          107.2         130.7        237.9
(57%)        (43%)         (100%)         (45%)         (55%)        (100%)
B. Project Financing
(US$ Million)
_   Estimated   {Percent)    Actual   (Percent
Federal Government        94.0      (26%)       43.9      (19.9%)
State Government         97.8       (29%)       63.3       (27%)
World Bank               132.0      (37%)       128.4      (54%)
Farmers                   26.8       (8%)        (-)*       (-)*
TOTAL                    350.6      (100%)     235.6    _(100%)
* Data not available.
C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(Disbursements in US$ Million)
ApprAisal Estimate   Re=isd         Actual
Categzory Item           Amount Percentage  Amount  Amount  Percentage
1. Building, Civil Works                22.7       17        18.0     18.5        14
2. Vehicles, Equipment, Tractors, Spares  50.4     38        48.0     48.9        37
3. Borehole Drilling                    13.6       10        24.0     23.5        18
4. International Consultants, Staff Salaries,
Overseas Training                     30.3       23        23.5     21.8        17
5. Farm Inputs                          14.9       11        18.5     17.9        13
TOTAL                                132.0      100       132.0    130.7       100
Note: Figures may not add up because of rounding.



- 1' -
Table : Status of Covenants
L.A.         P.A.                                                       Covenant                                                      Status
1. Loaw Effetovm
.          6.01 a                      Borru)wer to ratify/authorize Subsidibry Loan Agmeement
6.01 b           2.03 (i)   Borrower to esublish for BAPMU overdRaft facilities of N5 million with a commercial bnk.
6.01                                                                                                                            _
6.01 f                     Bortower to appoint Progam Manager and Fmancial Conttoller for BAPMU                                      Complied
with delay
6.01 8                     BS3   will provide IBRI) with a shost list of conultants and dmft contracta for project recuitment agency, ascounting    Auditors
enrvice and managing epaecy.                                                                             not
satisfactory
6.01 h                     BS3  to send IBRD first action plan.                                                                     Not
satisfactory
6.02                       BS3  to satisfy project agreement.
2. Funding
2.01 (b)   BSO will implement projecta in conformity with administrative, financial, engineering and agiicultural practice and  Not
provide promapt/dequate funds/resources required by the project.                                         satisfactory
3.02          2.03 (a)(tin)   FGN and BSO will pay quarterly contributions three months in advance, totaling, respectively, N44.1 million nd  Not
_______ __   tl57.7 million over project period,                                                                 utisfactory
2.03 (a)(iv)   BSO to maintain annual curmnt levels of expenditure of N3.4 million.                                   Satisfactory
2.03 (b)   BSG to aend annual action plan to Bank by September 30 Lach year.                                       Satisfctory
2.06 (e)   Bs3 to provide BASAC N4 million equity, over two years.                                                 Not
satisfactory
3.04             2.06 (b)   Bs3 to teview cost recovery policies/practice of BASAC                                                   Not
udsfactory
2.08   BSO to provide CPA it6 million equity over four year.                                                    Not
satiactory
2.09 (b)   BS0 to ensure a*U agetnie kesp proper accounts.                                                         Not
dastifctory
2.12   FUN to deduct BS3   quaterly conibution to BSADP to the exte  contributions are outsanding.              Not
uatisfctory
3. Pfrcemet_
3.04                      FPN to ensure BSG reeeives adequate supplies of feniizer.                                                  Not
Satisfctory
2.06 (a)   Procurement of loan finalned goods and civil works to be governed by BDnk accepted procedures.          Satifactory
2.07 (a)   BSG to provide insumanee of loan financed Inpoted goods.                                                Satisfactory
2.07 (b)   380 to eause loan financed goods nd ervices to be sued exclusivel for the project.                      Sauhetoty



- 2n -
4. Staffing and Consultants
2.04 (a)  BSo to employ a manment agecy acceptable to the Ban to supply BASAC key stff.                          Satisfactory
2.04 (b)   BSO to ro uit project Key tAff eatiafactory to the Bank.                                              Satisfactory
2.05 (a)  38O to employ coultae   wbo qualifications ad corAditioa of employment are acceptable to th  eank.     Satisfctory
3.02 (i   Auditors acceptable to the Bank hal be appoited for BSADP and related agencies.                        Auditors
hired wlo Bk
_,___________                                                                     approval
Otbers           2.09 (c)    SO after project completion to prepare report.                                                       Report
_____________                                                prepared
________                                                                                                                Satissfctory
Not done
,    ,                                                           _                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Not done
Table 7: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
8NIRPA045   L19810
BAUCHI AGRI. DEVT              1979            3.0                         .4                                3.4
1980            4.5       98.2              .1                     2.6    105.4
1981                      10.4            10.6           3.7       8.4      33.1
1982                                                    25.8                25.8
1983                                                    20.3                20.3
1984                                                    21.0                21.0
1985                                                   23.7                 23.7
1986                                                    19.3        .2      19.5
1987                                                    18.9                18.9
1988                                                    16.9                16.9
1989                                                    10.7                10.7
1990                                                    15.7                15.7
1991                                                     2.2                 2.2
1992                                                     .1                   .1
___   s          0sns      -     1.S         17        -         3w16.
Total for the ProJect Id 3NIRPAC45                                       7.5       108.6           11.1         178.4      11.2     316.8        



-21 -
B. Mission
State of            Date           No of     Staff Days    Specializations   Performance     Rating      Type of
Project Cycle       Month/Year    Persons   in Field       Represented If    Rating 2/       Trend _/    Problems 4/
Identification      iom            1         3             a
Preapprasal I/      01/80          10        270           a,b.c,d,e,f,g
Supervision 1       09/81          3         IS            a,b,d             1               I
Supervision 2       11/81          5         20            a,b,d             I               I
Supervision 3       05t82         4          28            a,b,d,f           3               3           F
Supervision 4       10/82          2          10           a,b               3               3           P
Supervision 5      01/83          2          2             a,b               -               -
Supervision 6       04/83          1         4             d                 2               2           P
Supervision 7       03184          3          15           a,b               2               1            F
Supervidion 8       10/84         3          15            a,b,d             3               3            F,T
Supervision 9      07/85           3          10           a,b               3 _/            3
Supervision 10      06/86          3         21            a,b,d             3 5/            3
Supervision 11      10/86          2         8             a,b               2 5/            3
Supervision 12      07/88          1         4             c                 2 5/            2
Supervision 136/    11/89          1         4             c                 3               2
I/       a - Agriculturist; b = Fiancial Analyst; c = Agrieultural iconomist; d = Engineer e = Credit Specialist;
f - Training Specialist; g = Marketing Specialist; h = Roads Engineer.
2t       1 = problem free or minor problems; 2 = moderate problems; 3 = major problems; 4 = critial situation.
3t       1 - improving; 2 - stationary; 3 - deteriorating.
_I       P = Financial; M = Management; T - Technical; P = Political; 0 = Other.
51       New Form 590 in use that shows rating for overall status.
61       Since 1988, several thematic wpervisions took place, in addition to regular project supervision nissions.



IBRD 15109R
_,N I G E R                dST. 'A    hSupo V pooob                                                                                         IEI
*1  \~~~~~~-~~~  Chad       0                                                                               N~~~~~~~~~IGERIA
end S e.cJuhseW fo he ,n'enno9 oHhends.e"onh lol  ,BAUCHI STATE  AGRICULTURAL
Th.d._W |do heG.,
zBAUCI \  4ld,                                                         / 7                                             DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CHWI    E R I A\CH AD                     1                                                                     BSADP headquarters/ State capital
~~~~~Iu ,  ? ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*   Zone headquarters
I  S   i  ,  !A X f6GamawaS                                      U .     Possible farm service center sites
X   CAMEROON ki.A.R.  12'                                 GA A   WA   48/ty                                             0  Local governmentheadquarters
SvSmpa \d < . -t2*  v0, a---- 1-.vg -Locol government boundaries
... . ... .- -"Zone boundaries
_   rof(sTer o~ Kan                         2      _-/-rAf-jGUM.\,/                ,,o' \1        \                            *State boundaries
"a     ,              -         '            afug -                 Existing federal roads
N                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed federal roads
Proposed project roads
_Rivers
Gombe Agricultural Development
Project area
Game reserves
"'NAL SEt ECTfON TO 6E tRADE ODER EE4 tMLEAfENAro77
KILOMTR          20     40      60      80     100
MILESO           20          4b           60
AS...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -.I
71IbMM urdi                                                                                                                                                                       FERUR 992t/   l   



