Document of
The World Bank    F     COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 304f)a-UNI
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 6, 1981
West Africa Projects Department
Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      Naira (N)
US$1                =      Naira 0.55
Ni                  =      US$1.818
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures used in this report are metric:
1 metric ton               0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)       =     2.47 acre
1 kilometer (km)    =      0.62 mile
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADPs      -    Agricultural Development Projects
APMU      -    Agricultural Projects Management Unit for West Africa
APMEPU    -    Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
(Kaduna)
ARMTI     -    Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
ASC       -    Agro Service Center
ASP       -    Advanced Service Package
BASAC     -    Bauchi State Agricultural Services Company Ltd.
BSA       -    Bauchi,School of Agriculture
BSACD     -    Bauchi School of Agricultural and Cooperative Development
BSADP     -    Bauchi State Agricultural Development Project
BSAPTC    -    Bauchi State Agricultural Development Project Technical Committee
BSARDC    -    Bauchi State Agricultural and Rural Development Council
BSG       -    Bauchi State Government
BSP       -    Basic Service Package
CFA       -    Bauchi State Cooperative Financing Agency Ltd.
CFU       -    Central Fertilizer Unit
CRCS      -    Chief Registrar of Cooperative Societies
CSDT      -    Central Staff Development and Training Division
DOC       -    Department of Cooperatives
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
FASU      -    Federal Agricultural Support Unit
FDA       -    Federal Department of Agriculture
FGN       -    Federal Government of Nigeria
FMA       -    Federal Ministry of Agriculture
FO        -    Field Overseer
FSC       -    Farm Service Center
IAR       -    Institute of Agricultural Research
ICA       -    Intensive Conservation Area
GADP      -    Gombe Agricultural Development Project
LEA       -    Licensed Buying Agent
LGA       -    Local Government Area
LGC       -    Local Government Council
MA        -    Managing Agent
MANR      -    Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (Bauchi State)
MRDC      -    Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperatives (Bauchi State)
MWT       -    Ministry of Works and Transport (Bauchi State)
NACB      -    National Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
NCB       -    National Cotton Board
NEPA      -    National Electric Power Authority
NFMC      -    National Fertilizer Marketing Company
NPV       -    Net Present Value
RTDD      -    Research and Technical Development Division
SLAR      -    Side-Looking Airborne Radar
UPC       -    Universal Primary Education
ZDC       -    Zonal Development Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BAUCHI STATE
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND    ...........................................                       1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  .........                .....................          2
III. THE PROJECT AREA (Bauchi State) ......................                           5
A.   Physical Features  .........              ......................          5
B.  Infrastructure and Social Services.                                        6
C.    Socio-Economic Features ......................                           8
D.   Land Use, Farm  Structure  and Farm Enterprise    ....                    9
E.    State Institutions  ........             ......................         12
IV.  THE PROJECT  ..........................................                         13
A.    Summary Description  ........              .....................        13
B.   Detailed Features  .........              ......................         15
C.   Cost Estimates  ...........             .......................          23
D.   Proposed Financing  .........              .....................         24
E.   Procurement ...............             ......................           26
F.   Disbursements ............             .......................           27
G.   Accounts and Audits  ........              .....................         27
H.   Programming and Budgeting  .......................                       27
V.  TECHNOLOGICAL AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS .28
A.  Crop and Livestock Development .28
B. Feeder Roads .30
C. Water Supply .32
VI.  DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES  ............. ............                        33
A.   Demand ..........................................                        33
B.  Marketing ........................................    34
C.    Prices  ..........................................                      35
This Report is based on the findings of an IBRD mission consisting
of Messrs. van de Poll, Ody, des Bouvrie, Ostenc, Majtenyi (Bank), Kelly,
Bibby, Bahl, Pathmanathan, Basrai (Consultants), who visited Nigeria from
January 14 to February  10, 1980 to appraise the project.
f This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of I
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
VII.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION ......       ...........................   36
A.   Project Coordination and Management ....     .........   36
B.   Staffing   ........................................    38
C.   Input Distribution ..............................   40
D.   Cooperatives and Credit .........................   41
E.   Post-Project Development ........................   43
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ............... ..     ..................   44
A.   Financial Implications for Farmers ....      ..........   44
B.   Financial Implications to Government ....     ........   47
IX.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .................. ..................   48
A.   Project Benefits ................................   48
B.   Economic Rate of Return .........................   50
C.   Sensitivity and Risk Analysis ....       ...............   50
X.   AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH BORROWER, AND RECOMMEN-
DATION ............    ..................................    51
TABLE IN TEXT
Table 1   Summary of Project Costs .........................   24
Table 2   Summary Financing Plan ...........................   25
Table 3   Sole Crop Models: Summary of Net Revenues .........    44
ANNEX 1
Table la Rainfed Crop Development - Inputs and Yields
Eastern Zone                                           55
Table lb Rainfed Crop Development - Inputs and Yields
Central Zone                                           56
Table lc Rainfed Crop Development - Inputs and Yields
Northern Zone                                          57
Table ld Rainfed Crop Development - Inputs and Yields
Western Zone                                           58
Table le  Fadama Crop Development - Inputs and Yields              59
Table 2   Rainfed Crop Development Projections                     60
Table 3   Fadama Crop Development Projections                      61
Table 4   Total Input Requirements                                 62
Table 5a  Rainfed and Fadama Crop Production Projections           63
Table 5b  Comparison in Yield and Rainfed Crop Production          64
Table 6   Cattle Fattening Costs and Benefits                      65
Table 7   Farmgate Prices of Principal Commodities                 66
Table 8   Bank Lending for Agriculture in Nigeria                  67



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
ANNEX 2
Table 1    Summary of Project Costs                                 68
Table 2    Summary of Financing Categories                          69
Table 3    Detailed Financing Plan                                  70
Table 4    Total Input Requirements in Current Terms               71
Table 5    Incremental Inputs and Detailed Costs                    72
Table 6    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                      73
Table 7    BASAC - Profit and Loss Statement                        74
Table 8    BASAC - Sources and Uses of Funds, Cash Flow
Statements                                            75
Table 9    BASAC - Balance Sheet                                    76
Table 10   CFA - Cash Flow Projections                             77
Table 11   CFA - Projected Income and Expenditure and
Appropriation Accounts                                78
ANNEX 3
Table 1    Physical Parameters for Typical Rainfed Farms            79
Table 2    Farm Income from Rainfed Farm Systems                    80
ANNEX 4
Table I    Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits                  81
Table 2    Calculation of Economic Benefits                         82
ANNEX 5
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File               83
Charts
21728/9 - Project Organization
MAPS
IBRD 15065 - IBRD assisted Agricultural Projects
IBRD 15109 - Bauchi State Agricultural Project Zones






NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) has requested World Bank
assistance for a statewide agricultural development project in Bauchi State.
This report appraises a project designed to increase the productivity,
incomes and standards of living of some of the 425,000 rural families in the
State by providing a range of farm support services in association with
physical infrastructural improvements and institutional modifications.
1.02      During the mid-term review of the Gombe Agricultural Development
project (GADP), the Bauchi State Government (BSG) and the Bank concluded
that extending GADP concepts on a statewide basis would provide the main
basis for BSG-s agricultural development drive during the fourth Five-Year
Development Plan (1981-1986). The GADP (Loan 1164-UNI; US$21 million) has
nearly completed its five-year development phase, with 95% of the loan
disbursed. Covering 10% of Bauchi State, this integrated rural development
project introduced a package of improved farming practices, including
improved and more timely farming operations, better seeds and modest use of
fertilizer and pesticides. A network of 45 Farm Service Centers (FSCs) was
built up to provide inputs and extension service to about 58,000 farm
families, of whom an estimated 60% have adopted some of the improved farm
practices. The project has constructed 370 km of all-weather feeder roads
and 34 small dams as well as numerous buildings, such as offices, houses and
workshop facilities. With a successfully run training program, project
management in the GADP has been transferred progressively to Nigerian
personnel.
1.03      Average project farmer yields have increased by about 20% between
1977 and 1980. The annual growth rate in food production, particularly for
sorghum and maize, has been considerable. The substantial increase in
sorghum production has mainly resulted from the introduction of an improved
variety and greater use of fertilizer by farmers. The increase in maize
production stems largely from a combination of the farmers acceptance of
application of improved farm practices and cultivation of the maize crop as a
substitute for other traditional cash crops. Improved varieties for cowpeas
and groundnuts have also become available and acceptable to farmers, so that
significant production increases of these crops can also be expected in
future. The area and total production of cotton have failed to increase as
anticipated at appraisal, due to inefficient marketing and unattractive
producer prices, although average cotton yields per ha, due to project
intervention, have increased by about 25%. Future increases in cotton
production can only be expected if marketing and the official pricing policy
for cotton improve. Despite delays and short supplies, fertilizer consump-
tion rose from about 300 tons (1976) to over 10,000 tons (1979). A project
completion report is being prepared.
I



- 2 -
1.04      Staff of GADP prepared the preparation report on behalf of and in
consultation with the Bauchi State Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources (MANR). Field studies were conducted in 1978 and a final report
was submitted in September 1979.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
2.01      Nigeria.  The Federal Republic of Nigeria comprises 19 States
and covers a total land area of 924,000 km2. Total 1979 population is
estimated at roughly 83 million, which is nearly 20% of the total for the
African continent. Average GDP per capita, estimated at around US$670 in
1979, is low and unevenly distributed; income in rural areas is considerably
less, possibly one third of the urban per capita incomes.
2.02      Economic Trends.  The Nigerian economy is dominated by the oil
sector, which accounts for about 23% of GDP, over 90% of export earnings and
80% of government revenue. Increases in oil prices since 1973/74 have
enabled the government to embark on massive investment programs which
contributed to GNP growth, averaging 7% per annum between 1973 and 1977.
However, growth has been concentrated in those sectors that benefitted in
particular from the rapid expansion in government expenditure, i.e., infra-
structure, education and large-scale manufacturing, and performance of the
productive sectors, notably agriculture, has been disappointing. Further-
more, the economy has been unable to generate goods and services at the rate
demanded, and consequently the domestic price level rose by an average of
20% per annum between 1974 and 1979. The combination of a high level of oil
output and a doubling of the price of oil during 1979 has temporarily
removed financial constraints. The price of oil is expected to continue to
rise gradually in real terms through 1990, and, although oil production may
not exceed the present level of 2.15 million barrels per day, the resource
position over the next four years is likely to be comfortable. Whereas the
overall growth prospects for the medium term are good, the longer run
outlook depends on the success of the effort to diversify the economy, and
in particular, to improve performance in the agricultural sector.
2.03      Agricultural Sector. 1/ Agriculture is the leading non-oil sector
in Nigeria, supporting 60% of the population directly, and providing about 23%
of GDP, nearly 5% of total exports and 70% of non-oil exports. Production
is overwhelmingly by smallholders, using traditional, manual technology. In
the north annual crops predominate (grains, cotton and groundnuts), while in
the south cash income is largely from tree crops (cocoa, oil palm and
rubber) with subsistence support from root crops and grains.
2.04      Since 1970 agricultural production has stagnated, with annual
growth rates (below 1%) less than half population growth. Domestic food
prices have risen, agricultural exports have declined, and imports of food
rose fifteenfold between 1970 and 1978. Imports of food represented
6.8% of gross calorie supply in 1976, and are estimated to rise to 15% in
1/ A full description and policy analysis is given in Report 2181-UNI (1979).



- 3 -
1980. If present trends continue, imports will contribute 24% of gross supply
by 1985. Inflation for food commodities has been running at about 25% per
year--significantly higher than for the economy as a whole.
2.05      Development Strategy.  Successive governments have emphasized the
importance of improving agricultural performance. The revised Third Five
Year Development Plan (1975-80) allocated N3.0 billion for agricultural
development--partly for direct production projects (mechanized agriculture,
capital-intensive irrigation schemes) and partly for support to smallholders.
However, the direct production schemes have proved expensive and have achieved
little development impact, while past national smallholder programs (Operation
Feed the Nation, National Accelerated Food Production Program) lacked the
institutional capability effectively to deliver services to farmers. More
recently, however, experience from Bank-supported Agricultural Development
Projects has indicated the shape that an effective national smallholder
program could take, and such a program is incorporated in the new government's
National Food Production Plan (para. 2.09).
2.06      Development Constraints.  There are three main sets of constraints
to agricultural development: (a) the generation and diffusion of information
on improved technology, (b) the supply of productive inputs, and (c) feeder
road links from farm to market. Agricultural research has been underfinanced,
and in some parts of the country non-existent, and has often failed to address
farmers most pressing problems. Links between research and the extension
services have been weak, and the extension services in turn (divided between
States and Local Government Councils) have been short of trained manpower and
often lacking in vigorous direction and coordination.
2.07      Application of improved technology requires access to supplies of
improved inputs such as inorganic fertilizer, pesticides and simple farm
machinery. The structure of government subsidies on inputs, especially
fertilizer, has been such as largely to preclude commercial involvement by the
private sector in distributing such inputs, while the public sector has lacked
both the physical infrastructure and the effectively managed institutions
required to accomplish this task. At the same time, the limited budgetary
resources available for subsidy have imposed artificial ceilings on total
input availability. Meanwhile, responsibility for construction and mainte-
nance of rural roads has been transferred to Local Government Councils (LGCs,
established in 1976). Although the LGCs have important long-term potential in
furthering rural development, they are, in the short run, critically short of
both administrative and technical expertise.
2.08      Bank Role, Key Sector Issues and Future Strategy.  Between 1971 and
1980 the Bank has committed US$443.2 million in loans for 19 projects in
Nigeria's agricultural sector. The projects are listed at Annex 1, Table 8.
They include loans, primarily for smallholder development, in oil palm, cocoa,
livestock and irrigated rice, as well as a forestry plantation project. There
is also one loan designed to address manpower constraints in agricultural
services, by assisting the establishment of an Agricultural and Rural Manage-
ment Training Institute (ARMTI).  In addition, the Bank has now approved a
total of nine area-specific Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs), mostly
in the North or Middle Belt. Within the ADP project areas, semi-autonomous



- 4 -
project management units have provided strong direction to upgraded and
expanded extension services, undertaken local, adaptive field trials, estab-
lished input distribution networks of Farm Service Centers (FSCs), and con-
structed and upgraded rural feeder roads on force account. The first three
ADPs have nearly completed their development period, and while analysis of
field data is still under way, 1/ evaluation studies show that the projects
achieved significant farmer impact and production increases.
2.09      The success of the early ADPs on a relatively small scale has
encouraged the Nigerian authorities and the Bank to explore ways of bringing
a similar package of extension, inputs and feeder roads to much larger numbers
of farmers. With Bank assistance, the Government has prepared and published
a National Food Production Plan which sets a five-year target for bringing
ADPs, or similar, but simplified service packages to be known as Accelerated
Development Areas (ADAs), to the whole Nigerian rural population. The Bank
will be ready to assist in implementing such a program. At the same time, it
must be recognized that not all sectoral issues can be resolved through an
expanded farmer service program.
2.10      Under Loans 1092-UNI and 1455-UNI, the Bank helped establish the
Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit (APMEPU) at
Kaduna. In its five years of existence, APMEPU has steadily grown into an
important Nigerian institution which provides the Federal Government the
means to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the ADP program.  APMEPU
has also played an important role in improving training programs at project
level. Because of the wide coverage of existing and proposed ADPs, and the
need to initiate the ADA program as an integral part of Nigeria's food
strategy, the Bank has recently negotiated a proposed Agricultural Technical
Assistance project (report 3207a-UNI). This project would not only expand
APMEPU's capabilities but would also establish four new Federal Agricultural
Support Units (FASUs) that would, on an ecological zone basis, provide addi-
tional technical support and management information services, parti,ularly in
training, agronomy and rural engineering, to both ADPs and ADAs. It would
thus significantly redress the current manpower constraints affecting the
Federal Department of Rural Development, and would provide significant pro-
fessional support for Government agricultural policy and strategy planning.
2.11      Issues that need to be approached on a sector-wide basis include:
(a) research, (b) supply of trained manpower, (c) marketing institutions
and pricing policy, (d) procurement, subsidization and distribution of farm
inputs, and (e) development of agricultural credit policies and institu-
tions. In the areas of research, credit and marketing, Bank assistance may
take the form of national projects, and identification work in these areas
is under way. In developing credit structures, it is regarded as important
that interest rate spreads be adequate to support viable credit institutions:
this issue will be dealt with in the forthcoming Third Cocoa Project. Sec-
tor work is being undertaken on pricing policy, and will shortly be ini-
1/ Results of the projects are to be reviewed under Bank-sponsored research
projects RPO 671-30 and RPO 671-88.



-5-
tiated in the manpower planning sector, where it will supplement Bank efforts
through the establishment of ARMTI (para. 2.08) and through the large train-
ing components included in ADPs and other projects. The present project
and the other statewide ADPs have provided an opportunity for FGN to address
the needs for the improvement of fertilizer procurement and distribution (para
2.12). These projects should also lead to satisfactory mechanisms for supply of
government funds to agricultural support services, in view of the sometimes
irregular financing experience in the past (para 4.34).
2.12      To meet the fertilizer demand of Nigeria's expanding agricultural
sector and to ensure adequate and timely supply of fertilizer to farmers
(including those under the Bank assisted ADPs), the Federal Executive Council
has recently authorized the establishment, under the Companies Act of 1968, of
the National Fertilizer Marketing Company, (NFMC), which would shortly
replace the present Federally-operated Central Fertilizer Unit. Reporting to
the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, NFMC would operate along commercial
lines. It would be responsible for the procurement of Nigeria's total ferti-
lizer requirements and for wholesale distribution to sales agents throughout
Nigeria. NFMC would hold and manage buffer stocks and sell fertilizer at
prices determined and agreed from time to time by FGN and the States. To
ensure that the company would operate on sound commercial principles, satisfac-
tory arrangements would be made for the employment of qualified and experienced
staff. Although federal cabinet approval to establish NFMC has already been
obtained, the incorporation of the company including the calling up of the
issued capital and the recruitment of staff will take some time. The company
is expected to become operational in time to deliver fertilizer for the 1982
season. The quantity of fertilizer and the arrangements for its distribution
in 1981 are satisfactory.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Features
3.01      General.  The project area (Map IBRD 15065) covers some 66,000
km2, or 7% of Nigeria and is divided in 16 Local Government Areas.  To
facilitate the management and implementation of the project, the area will
be divided into four zones, of which the Eastern Zone (40% of the State)
would be the largest (Map IBRD 15109).
3.02      Topography and Soils.  The topography of the state varies from the
flat dunelands in the north at an altitude of 370 m to the alluvial plains in
the southeast and the rocky hills in the southwest which rise to over 1,000 m.
Of the three principal river basins in the state, the Hadejia-Jamare flows
northeast into Lake Chad, and the Gongola and Pai, which drain the central
project area, flow into the Benue River. The western part of the state is
underlain by crystalline rocks of the basement complex, with relatively
shallow coarse textured soils. The Central and Eastern Zones and part of the
Northern Zone consist mainly of coarse sandstones with leached ferruginous



- 6 -
tropical soils.  The extreme northern part consists of very sandy aeolian
soils overlying the Chad formation. Most soils are low in organic matter,
nitrogen and phosphate, have a low cation exchange capacity, are weakly acid
and have a low potential for continuous cropping. Agricultural potential is
therefore only fair; however, with moderate care, relatively high yields can
be obtained with inorganic fertilizers alone.
3.03      Climate.  The climate of the state is related to the position of the
inter-tropical convergence zone, representing the interface between the
dry tropical air from the northeast (the Harmattan) and the moist equatorial
air from the Atlantic Ocean. In general, the climatic variation in the
state is a function of distance from the ocean, and the mean annual rainfall
therefore shows a marked decrease from south to north (1,300 mm to 600 mm).
Equally, the length of the rainy season varies from 95 days in the north to
170 days in the south. Most rain falls July through September. Radiation is
adequate throughout the year, rising to a maximum in November through February
and falling to a minimum in August. Likewise, temperature rises to a mean
maximum of about 360 in March and drops to about 280 in August.
3.04      Vegetation.  Except for the extreme north in the Sudan Zone and the
southwest in the Northern Guinea Zone, most of the state lies in the sub-Sudan
Savannah Zone. In the far north the area is dominated by Acacia trees and
shrub savannah. Immediately south of this area and in other densely settled
areas in the state, parkland has developed, with tree species of Acacia and
Combretum. In the central part of the state where population density and cul-
tivation intensity is relatively low, tree and shrub savannah have developed.
The Guinea Zone in the southwest is typified by an Isoberlina doka woodland
and extends to the uninhabited Lame Burra Forest and Game Reserve.
B. Infrastructure and Social Services
3.05      Roads and Communication.  The trunk road system in the state is
relatively well developed, comprising 1,680 km of federal and 1,480 km
of state roads. Of this total, about 1,200 km have already been paved,
and with a recent FGN grant of N92 million, an additional 400 km of paved
roads will be constructed within the next 3 to 5 years. However, failure to
develop all-weather feeder roads and farm tracks is a major constraint to
improving agricultural development in the state. While there are about
1,200 km of all-weather roads (including 368 km built by GADP), a large
network of farm tracks are not passable during the rainy season. Construc-
tion and maintenance of feeder roads and farm tracks are the responsibility
of LGCs, which presently have little capability in these fields. Virtually
none of the LGCs has any significant construction capacity, though each has
a routine maintenance capacity of about 150 km using labor intensive tech-
niques. With respect to periodic road maintenance, only a few LGCs have the
capacity to undertake resurfacing, and they contract out specific tasks such
as quarry exploitation, laterite transportation and culvert construction,
and carry out the remaining tasks on force account. The State Ministry of
Works and Transport (MWT), which is responsible for the construction and



- 7 -
maintenance of federal and state roads, is severely understaffed and hence
unable to provide assistance to LGC road programs. The railway system
connects the central and southern part of the state (Bauchi and Gombe) with
Port Harcourt, and has significance for input delivery and crop evacuation.
There is no scheduled air service, but there are airstrips in Gombe, Bauchi
and Azare.
3.06      Power and Water Supplies.  Electricity to the major towns is sup-
plied by NEPA (National Electric Power Authority), while the rural electrifi-
cation program is implemented by the Bauchi State Development Board. Towns
and large villages have piped water supply mainly drawn from boreholes. The
increasing demand of the state capital is expected to be met mostly from the
Gubi dam which should be completed in 1982. Rural water supply programs for
the larger villages, which are carried out by the State Water Board, are
making gradual progress, but water supplies for most of the rural population
living in small communities will remain inadequate for some time. Small
village water supplies are drawn mainly from seasonal streams and open wells,
which are often contaminated. The sinking of wells and their maintenance is
the responsibility of the LGCs, which presently have very limited capabilities
for carrying out these functions satisfactorily.
3.07      Health and Nutrition.  The State Government is pursuing a policy of
upgrading the larger existing rural health centers to general hospital level,
while constructing additional health centers and clinics in rural areas. In
late 1979 the State reported seven general hospitals, with a total of 1,246
beds. Five health centers and 19 clinics were reported as under construction.
The state employed a total of 110 doctors, the great majority of them expatri-
ates. Facilities exist in the state capital for training nurses, midwives and
health technicians and auxiliaries.
3.08      Health problems in rural areas derive in large measure from lack
of satisfactory water supplies and sanitation, poor nutrition among mothers
and infants and reliance (in the absence of adequate health care coverage)
upon doubtful "traditional" medicines. Infant mortality rates are very
high (a recent survey of urban population in the state found infant morta-
lity of 170/1,000 live births). Surviving children are weaned at 18-20
months, or even older, onto a gruel of millet or sorghum, and protein defi-
ciency is widespread. The Ministry of Health maintains a small "Nutrition
Rehabilitation Unit" which is intended to provide emergency assistance to
the chronically malnourished, but the unit is seriously understaffed and not
well placed to move into preventive nutrition education. Scope however
exists to upgrade the educational work of the Home Economics section of the
Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperatives (MRDC) (para 3.24).
3.09      Education.  Formal western-style education has a shorter history
in the north of Nigeria than in the south, and this, combined with the fact
that Bauchi is a recently created state, makes for particular difficulties
in the supply of educated and experienced staff. In 1978/79, primary school
enrollment in the State was estimated at 356,000 (of which 61% were boys).
In another three years, primary enrollment is expected to increase to
550,000 as a result of the Universal Primary Education Program. In 1977/78
there were 25 secondary schools and 9 teacher colleges, with enrollments of



-8-
8,400 and 7,500 respectively. This secondary education tier is critically
dependent upon out-of-state personnel. Out of 480 secondary school teachers
and 310 teacher training college teachers, about 40% are expatriates and a
comparable proportion are National Youth Service participants; other teachers
are recruited on contract from southern or middle-belt states.
3.10      The Gombe ADP Baseline Survey, conducted in 1976, found that of
the rural project area population aged between 11 and 50, 45% had no educa-
tion, 47% had only Islamic education, 5% had primary education, 2% adult
education and less than 1% had secondary education. Taking the whole rural
population, of all age groups, 40% of males and 63% of females had no
education, 48% of males and 30% of females had only Islamic education, and
12% of males and 4% of females had formal schooling at primary, adult or
secondary level. Of those who gave their main occupation as farmer, 39% had
no education, 55% only Islamic education and 6% primary or adult education.
C. Socio-Economic Features
3.11      Demography.  Population statistics for Nigeria are unreliable.  The
1973 census was formally abandoned by FGN, and official estimates are derived
from the 1963 census. For planning purposes a compound annual growth rate of
2.5% is assumed for rural areas, and 5.0% for urban areas (defined as towns or
villages with a 1963 population over 20,000). On these assumptions and defi-
nitions, the-total state 1980 population may be estimated at 4.0 million, of
which 1.0 million would be urban. In 1985, on the same assumptions, total
population would be 4.7 million (urban 1.3 million). Survey evidence indi-
cates that 85% of rural families are primarily involved in farming, which
suggests a farming population of 2.55 million in 1980. Estimates of farm
family size vary but if a figure of 6.0 is used for planning purposes, the
project area would comprise approximately 425,000 farm families. Typical
family composition might be 1.4 adult males, 1.7 adult females and 3.0 chil-
dren, where adults are those aged 15 or older. Most families are Muslim and
practice purdah, so that adult females are generally not available for farm
work. The basic residential unit is the compound, grouped into villages
known as ungwa or gari depending upon size: an ungwa might range from 80 to
800 persons, a gari would be a larger settlement.
3.12      Land Tenure.  Traditionally, the allocation of uncultivated land
has been made by village heads, with usufructuary rights continuing as long
as the land was cultivated, and recognized as inheritable. In practice,
sale of land has also occurred. The Land Use Decree of 1978 vested control
of rural land with the LGCs, acting through Land Allocation Advisory Commit-
tees, but the decree made it clear that these provisions were not intended
to interfere with existing rights to cultivation. Only in cases of quite
large allocations is it likely that the LGC will be involved and formal
Certificates of Occupancy issued.



-9-
D.  Land Use, Farm Structure and Farm Enterprise
3.13      Land Use.  The most recent land use survey of the State was
carried out by the Land Resources Division of the U.K. Ministry of Overseas
Development in 1972 and 1974/76. Out of a total area of 6.6 million ha in
Bauchi State, some 1.9 million ha (29%) is cultivated, mainly under upland
rainfed crops. An estimated 50,000 ha is river valley or bottomland wet-
land (known as fadama land), some of which is irrigated by shadoof (a
traditional, manually operated, water-lifting device). The eastern and
northern zones, with about 75% of the state population, have relatively the
best potential for arable farming, with the eastern zone having about 25%
and the northern zone 50% presently under cultivation. On the other hand,
large tracts of sparsely populated land in the central and western part of
the state seem to be better suited to livestock development.
3.14      Farming Systems.  Cultivation is overwhelmingly carried out by
hand, though recent years have seen some introduction of work-oxen and a few
tractors. Fadama areas are worked intensively to produce high value cash
crops, but the great majority of farm enterprises are entirely rainfed.
Very little family farmland is left fallow (5.6% in the 1976 GADP baseline
survey). Average cultivated area per farm family in the Bauchi-Gombe area
is 3.9 hectares. Land holdings are usually fragmented into several parcels;
the GADP baseline survey found an average of 3 plots per family. Access to
land appears relatively egalitarian; research in three Bauchi area villages
produced Gini coefficients for cultivated land per family in the range 0.29
to 0.35. 1/
3.15      Farm Labor.  Of the total on-farm labor input on an average tradi-
tional farm, excluding livestock activities, about 84% is provided by family
members (on an unweighted hourly basis). Non-family labor is provided mostly
by hired laborers (12%) but also on a traditional, reciprocal basis (4%).
Most hired labor is now paid on piece-rate rather than an hourly rate, and is
provided as a part-time occupation by local men with farms of their own rather
than by a distinct landless or migrant class. On a daily equivalent basis,
typical cash labor costs (1980) are probably about N3 per day, often with a
meal in addition. Family labor input to on-farm activities comes primarily
from adult males (53% of total) since the adult female input (11%) is limited
by religious and social restrictions. In recent years, children have provided
20% of on-farm labor time, but this share may be expected to fall with the
increasing coverage of both primary and secondary education. On-farm activi-
ties on the traditional farm are highly seasonal. According to data from the
GADP, the most intensive quarter for family on-farm labor was from late July
to late October, accounting for 41% of total annual on-farm family labor use;
this would include post-harvest operations. The slackest quarter (February-
1/   Norman, D.W. et al.  "Technical Change and the Small Farmer in Hausa-
land, Northern Nigeria" (1979). Note: the Gini coefficient is a number
between 0 and 1 used as a statistical measure of inequality; the lower
the figure the more equal the distribution.



- 10 -
*tril) accounted for less than 9% of the annual total. The extreme seasonality
'on-farm work is only partly offset by the compensating slack season inten-
sJty of off-farm work. The most intensive off-farm quarter (February-May)
abDsorls 30% of the annual family off-farm labor input (32% for adult males)
and the least intensive (July/August-October/November) absorbs 22% of the
total (17% for adult males). Building activities are especially intensive in
the off-season, and work in services and retailing shows a similar pattern,
though less marked.
3.16      Farm Incomes.  Bauchi State encompases a range of ecological zones
comparable to those in several other northern Nigerian states. Its farmers
are perhaps less well-placed than some others to exploit the larger urban
markets, but on the other hand population pressure on land is less intensive
than in the more favorably located areas. A comparative study 1/ of the
Bauchi, Sokoto and Zaria areas in the late 1960s found farm incomes lowest in
the Bauchi area, but this was largely explained by the area's lower prices for
staple grains. Monitoring and evaluation studies in connection with the Gombe
ADP permit estimation of average farm incomes in the GADP project area in
1977/78. An average farm family (5.6 persons) enjoyed consumption of own
produce of N424, net farm cash receipts of N138 and net off-farm receipts of
N146, totalling N708, or N126 per head. These figures may be compared with
1978 estimates of Nigeria's per capita GNP (N350), the relative rural poverty
level (N84) and the absolute rural poverty level (N113). The only data cur-
rently available on income distribution is from the previously cited research
study, which estimated Gini coefficients for net farm income in the range
0.36-0.39.
3.17      Crop Production.  The bulk of agricultural production, primarily for
home consumption, is derived from manually cultivated rainfed crops, and a
marginal amount from crops grown on residual moisture. Sorghum and millet are
the predominant grain crops, as between them they are planted on over 60% of
the total cultivated area. Other minor grain crops are maize, which is becom-
ing more important in the Eastern Zone, and rice in the Western Zone. The
main legumes, cowpeas and groundnuts, are grown over 25% of the cultivated
area. Cotton is grown as a cash crop and is mainly limited to the Eastern
Zone. It has been estimated that over 65% of the crops are grown as crop,
mixtures, predominantly sorghum/millet and cowpea/sorghum/millet, with cotton/
maize also in the Eastern Zone. This prevalence of intercropping is highest
in the Northern Zone, where rainfall is lowest. Of the total cropped area,
sorghum as a sole crop accounts for about 20% and cotton 4%. Crop rotation is
not common and is confined mainly to cash crops.  Although crop production is
largely by hand, oxen are used mainly for plowing in the Eastern and Northern
Zones.  The use of inorganic fertilizer has until recently been rare, and
cattle manure (para 3.19) has played an important role in maintaining soil
fertility. Pesticides and herbicides are hardly used at all, and use of farm
implements is limited. The present cropping system seems to indicate that
intercropping under the present climatic and socio-economic conditions has so
far best satisfied farmers subsistence security and profit motives. Similarly,
1/   Norman, D.W., et al., op. cit.



- 11 -
it is clear that under the present farming systems, productivity per unit area
has remained low and that soil fertility levels on farmers' fields are gradu-
lly declining. The potential for increasing crop production is, however,
considerable and could best be realized by making available to farmers simple
improved technology, together with basic farm support services and improved
input supplies.
3.18      Research.  There is currently no research of any importance in the
state.   However, results on crop agronomy, and to some extent on intercrop-
ping farm systems, from the Institute for Agricultural Research (IAR) in
Samaru, can be usefully employed in Bauchi State, since trial results come from
the same ecological belt. Furthermore, the agronomy program carried out by
GADP has followed up on IAR's recommendations for the main crops grown in the
state. However, since the majority of crops grown in the state are still
grown as mixed crops, high priority must now be given to providing farmers
with improved intercropping/rotation packages. Unfortunately, except for a
few recommendations, no comprehensive, tested intercropping/rotation package
can as yet be released to farmers.
3.19      Livestock Production.  Livestock has always played an important
part in northern Nigeria, and the present cattle population of the state has
been estimated at over 1 million. In 1975 the number of cattle estimated in
the Northern Zone alone was 450,000. Most cattle are of the Zebu (humped)
type and are herded by Fulani who lead a largely nomadic life, moving through
Bauchi State (and into Gongola State) with the seasonal availability of water
and grazing. Formerly, nomadic cattle owners had a most useful symbiotic
relationship with arable farmers, whereby in return for grazing the farmer's
crop residues in the dry season, the cattle would manure the fields. More
recently, however, due to greatly increased arable farming and the Sahelian
drought, massive over-grazing, especially in the Northern Zone, may force the
herds further south where land pressure is less but where tryponosomiasis is
more prevalent. Planning and development of the mostly undemarcated and
ungazetted grazing and forest reserves in the Central, Western and Eastern
Zones should therefore be given more emphasis, particularly as there is a
tendency for some Fulani to lead a more settled life where all-season grazing
is available. Mixed farming is gradully on the increase, particularly the use
of draft oxen. Small stock are also relatively important and seem to be well
adapted to the local environment. As grazing land becomes more difficult for
the larger stock, small stock and poultry may become more important, particu-
larly in the Northern Zone.
3.20      Diet.  Cereals provide the bulk of the calorific intake in Bauchi
State, and it is likely that, as research elsewhere in northern Nigeria has
shown, they are also the principal source of protein. 1/ Sorghum is the most
popular grain for local consumption, followed by millet. Maize is also con-
sumed but in much smaller quantities. Cowpeas are an additional significant
1/   In rural Zaria (1969-71) millet and sorghum provided 70% of calories
and nearly 70% of protein. Hays, H.M. "Marketing and Storage of
Food Grains in Northern Nigeria", 1975.



- 12 -
source of vegetable protein. Monitoring and evaluation surveys in connection
with GADP found mean expenditure by rural families on meat, fish, dairy
products and eggs as high as N96.6 per annum (plus about N2 consumption of
own production of such foods). However, as detailed in para 3.08 above,
protein deficiency among infants and nursing mothers is a serious problem in
the project area. Further research is needed to clarify whether this reflects
unequal access to protein foods within families or between families.
3.21      Marketing.  Of the six national commodity boards, three deal with
crops produced in the project area: the Nigerian Grains Board, the Nigerian
Cotton Board and the Nigerian Groundnut Board. Purchase prices of these
boards are set by the Head of State on the advice of a Technical Committee
on Producer Prices. However, at present official prices, the Groundnut Board
is virtually unable to purchase any of the crop, while the Grains Board has
seldom made purchases at the statutory floor price, although it has on an
irregular basis purchased grain at higher prices for the Strategic Grains
Reserve. Thus in practice the only one of the boards whose activities are
continuously relevant to local market conditions is the Nigerian Cotton Board
(NCB). NCB acts as a monopsony purchaser of cotton, which is purchased in the
first instance by Licensed Buying Agents (LBAs), following inspection by the
produce inspectors of MANR, and transported by the LBAs to ginneries operated
by Cotton and Agricultural Processers Limited (CAP) a semi-public company,
which ginns on contract for NCB. Cooperative unions or societies have been
amongst the LBAs appointed by NCB, and because of the guaranteed cotton price,
cooperatives have extended considerable amounts of credit against cotton,
since risks have been less in this field than for other crops without a guar-
anteed price or market. Most trading in grains has been undertaken by the
private sector, apparently reasonably, efficiently, operating out of bulking
markets in Gombe and Bauchi. There has also been some involvement of coop-
eratives and state government bodies, and some ad hoc arrangements have at
times been made to sell grain in bulk to potential consumers in the south,
either state governments or feedmills. However, at present prices internal
markets in grain suffer from the disruptive effects of cheap competitive
imports at the prevailing exchange rate.
E. State Institutions
3.22      MANR comprises a general administration section and five operational
divisions: agricultural services (including fisheries and mechanical sections),
produce inspection, livestock services, forestry (including game reserves) and
irrigation. The Ministry also supervises the work of the Bauchi School of
Agriculture and Animal Husbandry (BSA). In addition to agricultural extension,
the Ministry has been responsible for the distribution of input supplies
(except for a brief, ill-planned episode when cooperatives were supposed to
distribute inputs) and for agricultural credit and tractor hire schemes, al-
though the State has now decided to phase out the latter operation. There is
no agricultural credit bank at the state level. Agricultural extension is one
area in which responsibilities of state governments and LGCs potentially over-
lap, and the local governments in Bauchi State have begun to recruit agricul-
tural extension staff, although it is reported that in many cases these staff
are underqualified for the positions they now hold.



- 13 -
3.23      The Ministry of Local Government is responsible for disbursement
of state and federal grants to the sixteen LGCs within the state. The
Ministry also operates a local government inspectorate, which is responsible
for supervision of LGC operations, especially in the financial area. The
Ministry is also charged with coordination of training for members of LGCs
and their staff. Under the edict establishing local governments they are
vested with a wide variety of responsibilities many of which are exercised
concurrently with state governments, including such spheres as health centers
and clinics, primary education, rural and semi-urban water supply, road con-
struction and maintenance (other than trunk roads), and operation of agricul-
tural and animal health extension services and veterinary clinics. The local
government system in northern Nigeria is discussed in detail in Working Paper
C8 of the Project File for Kaduna State ADP.
3.24      The MRDC is mainly responsible for cooperatives and community
development (including Home Economics) promotion and supervision of coopera-
tive institutions is vested in the Department of Cooperatives (DOC), headed
by the Chief Registrar of Cooperative Societies (CRCS). This Ministry also
is responsible for home economic education work. The DOC is severely under-
staffed at all levels. Societies and unions are also seriously understaffed
and frequently unable to maintain satisfactory financial records without the
assistance of civil servants from DOC. There are currently 245 primary market-
ing and credit cooperative societies with average membership estimated at
100-200 farmers. There are 16 secondary unions, one for each LGA. At state
level there are 3 apex organizations the Cooperative Federation Ltd, the
Cooperative Wholesale Ltd. and the Cooperative Financing Agency (CFA). Acting
through the unions and societies, the CFA has advanced loans both for crop
purchasing and as pre-season production credits. Rates of recovery have been
between 85-95%.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description
4.01      Project objectives, in full accord with Federal and State Government
policies, are to increase food production and farm incomes of some 280,000
farm families, most of whom cultivate less than 4 ha. A second important goal
is to strengthen a number of state institutions and to alleviate Bauchi
State's severe constraints in the supply of trained and experienced manpower.
The project, to be implemented during the five-year period 1981 through 1985,
would include:
(a)  Crop and Livestock Development
-    increasing production of the major rainfed crops through
the introduction of simple improved farm practices with a
parallel improvement in extension work, farm input supply,
access roads and marketing;



- 14 -
introducing on a pilot basis simple intermediate technology and
low capital investment to increase production of horticultural
crops on fadama land;
developing a cattle fattening scheme using crop residues,
establishing a training and distribution scheme for draft
animals and assisting in the surveying and planning of grazing
and forest reserves for livestock development;
establishing a farm input organization to supply the necessary
inputs to farmers in the area;
improving existing seed multiplication facilities, enabling
farmers to replace seed every fourth year;
establishing a farm management advisory service to assist more
advanced group and individual farmers in their operations, and
assisting in land use planning capability;
carrying out an applied research program to test crop varieties,
farm systems, farm implements and crop processing equipment.
(b) Civil Works
-    constructing about 1,200 km of feeder roads and training of LG
staff in routine and periodic road maintenance;
-    improving rural water supplies by establishing 1,300 boreholes
and constructing or rehabilitating 200 wells;
-    improving cattle watering points through the construction of 25
dams and 50 small reservoirs (tapkis);
-    constructing project offices, workshops, stores, staff houses
and Farm Service Centers (FSCs).
(c) Institutional Support
-    providing for a management structure with the required technical
and administrative staff, logistical support and funds to
implement the project, evaluate project progress and provide
guidelines for future projects;
-    strengthening the Bauchi School of Agriculture, including estab-
lishment of a faculty to train cooperative staff;
-    providing pre- and in-service training for project staff and
training for farmers;
-    strengthening the Cooperative Financing Agency to enable it to
administer an expanded credit program for cooperative unions
and societies;



- 15 -
strengthening the field services of the Department of Coopera-
tives and providing management and technical assistance to the
primary societies;
establishing the Bauchi State Agricultural Services Company
(BASAC) to undertake the commercial activities of the project,
including the procurement and distribution of farm inputs and
the management of the commercial operations of the Agro and
Farm Service Centers;
-    assisting through marketing expertise and central and on-farm
storage in stabilizing the marketing of grains in the State;
-    integrating LGCs into the operations of the project through
technical and advisory committees, providing local government
training programs, promoting the establishment of joint boards
to undertake the maintenance of feeder roads and rural water
supply facilities and assisting LGCs to improve their planning
and budgeting capability.
(d) Technical Assistance
-    recruiting suitable staff, largely through consultant firms, to
assist in program execution, and training of managerial and
technical staff for MANR, MRDC, BASAC, CFA and the Bauchi
School of Agricultural and Cooperative Development (BSACD);
-    consultant services to improve the home economics (Nutrition)
program, to assist in the implementation of the adaptive
research program, the training program and the rural water
supply and fadama irrigation components of the project; and
-    assistance, through consultant services, in planning future
state strategy for road construction and maintenance, including
detailed engineering design work.
B. Detailed Features
Crop and Livestock Development
4.02      On the basis of GADP experience, where some 60 - 70  of the rural
population benefited from project actions, it is expected that under BSADP
some 280,000 smallholders would improve their incomes by appling simple and
improved farm technology backed by basic farm support services on about
330,000 ha of rainfed and fadama lands.
4.03      The Rainfed Crop Production Packages are relatively simple and are
directed towards increasing yields (and income) per hectare and per unit of
labor input. By using high-yielding varieties with adequate fertilizer,



- 16 -
suitable plant populations and appropriate crop protection measures, combined
with timely sowing and weeding practices, there is scope for large increases
in food and cash crop production without unduly changing existing farming
methods. The proposed Basic Service Package (BSP), which is expected to have
the widest coverage, would only use very moderate levels of farm inputs, with
slightly improved farm practices. Under the BSP, farmers would be expected to
apply improved practices to both sole and intercropping farm systems. The
more innovative farmers, including the larger farmers, would be offered an
Advanced Service Package (ASP). The latter is expected to involve higher
levels of farm inputs, including pesticides and insecticides, in combination
with improved land preparation and more efficient weeding practices. The ASP
farmer utilizing tractor and oxen to overcome labor constraints in land prepa-
ration and weeding, is expected to depend increasingly on sole cropping.
Details of inputs and estimated yields for the rainfed packages are given in
Annex 1, Tables la-ld.
4.04      An effective extension service operating under the training and
visit system would convince the farmer of the value of the new crop production
packages. BSADP would absorb the entire agricultural extension service of
MANR and would increase its intensity from an average extension worker:farmer
ratio of 1:2000 to about 1:700. Selected farmers would be contacted and
advised by the field overseer (FO). Each farmer and farmer group would be
visited fortnightly. In each two week period, FOs would spend eight days
contacting farmers and two days receiving training by subject-matter specia-
lists. The Training Division would be responsible for mobile teaching units
and would supplement general extension activities with training both for
farmers and for extension staff.  The exact method of extension and the FOI
farmer ratio must be approached with considerable flexibility until the project
unit itself has developed experience of farmers needs and requirements.
4.05      It is expected that BSP and ASP would by the end of five years have
improved crop production on up to 20% of the total cultivated area, including
160,000 ha of sorghum, 65,000 ha of millet, 40,000 ha of cowpeas, 26,000 ha of
groundnuts, 19,000 ha of maize, 10,000 ha of cotton and 6,000 ha of rice.
Details are at Annex 1, Table 2. Net production increases are estimated at an
annual compounded production growth rate of about 4% during the five-year
project period.
4.06      Pilot Fadama Package.  A fadama crop production package as part of
ASP would be extended to a selected number of farmers who practice traditional
irrigation on fadama land. Under this scheme, some 4,000 to 5,000 farmers
would be assisted to improve cultivation on 2,500 ha of vegetables. The package
would promote improved water management techniques through the introduction of
modern water lifting devices and improved plot layout and land leveling, and
would also introduce more sophisticated seedbed preparation and timely planting
(para. 5.07). Details of inputs and estimated yields are given in Annex 1,
Table l(e). The introduction of this package would need very close supervi-
sion by extension staff, and the average extension worker: farmer ratio for
this component would therefore be 1:100. An irrigation agronomist would be
attached to the extension unit as subject matter specialist and would assist
both FOs and farmers in the implementation of the fadama subproject.



- 17 -
4.07      Applied Research.  Since the State has no agricultural research
program of any importance (para 3.18), an applied research program would be
established under the project. The program would continue to test varieties
and agronomic packages as is done under GADP, but would also investigate
intercropping/ rotation systems, crop storage and processing, animal traction
and improved mechanized husbandry. At BSADP headquarters, a Research and
Technical Development Division (RTDD) would be created as the coordinating and
advisory body, headed by a chief research officer. RTDD would act as a major
link with outside research organizations such as IAR and would provide for a
two-way assimilation and dissemination of information with the zonal units.
At zonal level, the respective senior research officer would direct the
adaptive research and trials program as advised by the RTDD. In addition,
under research assistants responsible for trial plots, each of the 16 Agro-
Service Centers (ASCs) would use demonstrations of improved varieties and
cropping systems to provide training for extension staff.
4.08       Seeds and Planting Material.  The GADP Bima Hills Seed Farm at
Dadin Kowa would be expanded and, together with some outgrowers assistance,
would supply the BSADP seed requirements. The GADP seed processing unit at
Bogo would also be expanded to handle the extra throughput, and a small
laboratory would be established for seed testing. Seed production has been
based on replacement rates of once in four years for all recommended crops
grown with improved husbandry. Replacement seed for farmers would be sold
through BASAC at ASCs and FSCs. The project would assist in importing disease-
free stocks of potatoes for further multiplication to supply fadama farmers.
4.09      Livestock Development.  Currently a small beef fattening scheme,
whereby cattle are drawn from the trade stream for subsequent fattening, is
being implemented by the Federal Department of Livestock under Loan 1091-UNI.
Although quite successful, it is constrained by the scarcity of federal and
state technicians to expand the program. Under the BSADP, a livestock deve-
lopment unit would be established within the Livestock Department of MANR to
improve state-level coordination and expand the scope and size of the program.
The program would be modified to place more emphasis on the integration of
arable farming with cattle-rearing on individual holdings, both for meat
production and for draft animals. BSADP would also strengthen the Range
Management Division, and through the project's Land Use Planning Unit would
assist in the stock-taking, planning and demarcation of grazing reserves with
the ultimate aim of improving extensive livestock management throughout the
state. BSADP would also provide stock watering points for formally approved
and gazetted grazing areas (para 4.15).
4.10      Farm Input Supplies and Credit.  Through the project-established
Bauchi State Agricultural Services Company Ltd (BASAC), and its retail outlets
at ASCs, FSCs and cooperatives, the project would supply a range of farm
inputs that would include in Year 5 about 77,000 tons of fertilizer, 750 tons
of various plant protection chemicals and 2,600 tons of seeds of different
crops. The inputs would be sold primarily for cash, but in some cases on a
deferred payment basis (Annex 1, Table 4).
4.11      Related to BASAC, BSADP would also provide advice on farm planning
and mechanization, together with training and preventive maintenance for
simple farm equipment, and the ASCs would stock and sell oxen equipment



- 18 -
and other farm equipment, including fast-moving spare parts, ana the zonal
workshops would, to a limited extent, take up repairs of tractors and pumps
on a commercial basis, along the lines successfully introduced in the GADP.
4.12      Crop production credit and crop purchasing loans would be made
available to cooperative unions and societies through a strengthened GFA,
which would draw its short- and medium-term funding from NACB. BSADP's
farm management section would assist in the preparation of farm plans for
medium-scale individual or group farmers requesting commercial bank loans
under the Agricultural Credit Guarantee Scheme. Procurement of tractor
and farm equipment purchased under these loans would be effected through
BSADP submitting invoices plus cover charges on behalf of the farmer direct
to the commercial bank.
4.13      Soil Conservation and Land Use Planning.  Localized population
pressure, combined with poor land use planning and over-grazing, is leading
to a gradual degradation of farm land within the State. The problem is
largely social and economic, and can only be solved over a long period of
time by (among other things) creating widespread awareness of the causes and
effects of erosion and environmental abuse. Every effort would be made to
provide proper land use and conservation advice to farmers. In addition, at
suitable locations in each of the LGAs model intensive conservation areas
(ICA) would be developed in full coordination and cooperation with the selec-
ted communities. In the development of these ICA's, project plant equipment
mainly used for road and dam building would be used to a limited extent. As
an incentive to participants, the selected communities could be granted
priority access to extension services and input supplies.
Civil Works
4.14      Roads.  The objective of the project's road component is to provide
basic access to community markets and farming areas and to assist in setting
up an institutional framework, which would provide for the continuation of the
LGCs road construction and maintenance program. The project road construc-
tion program (1,200 km) is much less intensive (18 km per 1000 sq. km) than
those of the ongoing ADPs and is based on the construction of about 90 km per
zone per annum. In view of the continuing shortage of dependable contractors
able to undertake these relatively small annual road construction programs,
including road maintenance and training, it would be an advantage to continue
as part of the 4 zonal projects the efforts so successfully employed in this
area by GADP. Road construction and maintenance equipment (40% of road con-
struction costs) would be procured by the project under ICB. The execution of
the road program would be carried out by project engineers (recruited through
a consultant firm), with petty contractors undertaking such tasks as delivery
of laterite and construction of culverts. The annual feeder road development
program including justification, length and location would be carefully con-
sidered with MWT and the various LGCs, and would be subject to an annual action
plan to be agreed with the Bank prior to the beginning of each calendar year.
4.15      Water Supply.  The project would construct water supply facilities
for an estimated 25% of the rural population, and would construct a number of
cattle-watering points (para 4.09). The annual construction programs would



- 19 -
be prepared in close collaboration with state agencies, such as the Bauchi
State Water Board, and with the LGCs, and would form part of the annual action
plan to be agreed with the Bank at the beginning of each calendar year.
4.16      The major component of this program would be the drilling of some
1,300 boreholes throughout the four zones. Boreholes would be equipped with
hand pumps for which a maintenance program would be established. For areas
where geological conditions are not suitable for borehole drilling, about 200
shallow wells would be constructed. A dam construction program comprising 25
medium-size reservoirs and 50 "tapkis" (hillside dams 20,000 m3 max.) would be
undertaken to cater for the stock-watering needs of the Northern and Eastern
Zones. Dam construction would be carried out by the Project and would be
integrated into the road construction program, as the equipment is appropriate
for both purposes.
4.17      Buildings.  The project would include the construction of about 290
staff houses, 8 workshops, headquaters office complex, field offices, 58 Farm
Service Centers, and other minor ancilliary building (detailed in Project
File). Designs for most project buildings are available from GADP and would
be modified where necessary. A small civil works division would be established
at BSADP headquarters to prepare new designs and plans, prepare and evaluate
tender documents, and maintain quality control. Site and service work would
be carried out by project plant or by contractors as appropriate. Due to the
scattered nature of the works, they would be undertaken by local contractors,
supervised by the zonal civil engineer.
Institutional Support
4.18      As far as possible, the project is designed to strengthen the perma-
nent institutions that will continue to be responsible, after the project per-
iod, for such functions as extension (MANR), input supplies (BASAC), credit
(CFA), cooperative development (MRDC), training (BSACD) and maintenance of
feeder roads and rural water supply facilities (LGCs). It is probably not
realistic to assume that all of these institutions will be able to function
without outside expertise at the termination of the project period, any more
than the educational or health systems do now (para 3.07/10), but the project
would seek to establish sound institutional structures and develop maximum
indigenous capability in technical and managerial fields. Institutional
development features of the project are discussed in detail in Chapter VII of
this report.
4.19      Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would establish, on the
basis of GADP and APNEPU experience, a state monitoring and evaluation unit
to provide management with information to aid implementation and ongoing plan-
ning and to allow for impartial evaluation of the BSADP. BSADP's operating
divisions would use improved cost accounting and data collection systems to
facilitate the M and E tasks. The initial task of the M and E would be to
collect baseline data, particularly in the northern, western and central
zones, on population, cropping patterns, farm systems, yields, crop marketing,
and farm incomes as an aid for modifying crop packages, cropping systems, and
scheduling of extension activities in each of the four project zones. There-
after, it would conduct on a continuing basis specialized technical studies



- 20 -
and data retrieval to analyze changes due to project intervention and other
exogenous factors. M and E conclusions would enhance the development of a
suitable process for planning agricultural strategy and policy and allow
modifications in project design as necessary.
4.20      Staff Development and Training.  Bauchi State faces unusually severe
constraints in the supply of trained and experienced manpower (paras 3.09/3.10).
This fact has been taken into account when planning both staff recruitment and
phasing of project implementation. At senior managerial and experienced tech-
nical levels, BSG will be obliged to employ staff through international
recruitment. At lower technical and supervisory levels, including foremen,
mechanics and equipment operators, the project can expect (like the GADP before
it) to employ a substantial number of Nigerians from other, principally south-
ern, states. Nonetheless, it is both desirable and necessary that staff indig-
enous to the state be employed to the maximum degree possible in implementation
of the project, and to achieve this the project will support an exceptionally
intensive program of staff development and training. Full details of the staff
development and training program are contained in Project File, Working Paper 2.
4.21      Project staff would be trained in agriculture, vehicle, and equipment
operation and maintenance, and in accounts, management, and administration.
The project would also provide cooperative training both for cooperative
inspectors from DOC and also for staff of primary societies and unions staff.
There would also be a program to train LGC staff in administration and plan-
ning. Extension work would be supplemented by a program of formal training
for farmers and their families, using BSADP mobile training units. The train-
ing program would be implemented by two organizations: (1) BSADP's Central
Staff Development and Training Division (CSDT) headed by the chief training
officer, reporting directly to the project manager, would provide training for
field overseers, operators and mechanics and Local Government staff as well as
taking responsibility for farmer training; and (2) the existing BSA, under a
principal reporting to a strengthened board of governors, would be responsible
for the more formal training of agricultural and livestock assistants and
cooperative inspectors.
4.22      In-service training of project unit staff at junior and intermediate
levels would be conducted either at a central training institute to be estab-
lished within CSDT, or at one of four training centers, one in each zone for
training field overseers, cooperative secretaries and other miscellaneous
lower level staff. The present GADP curriculum for field overseer training
would be formalized and further developed to meet statewide needs. Three
existing centers would be taken over and one new one established. Under the
chief training officer there would be five sections: agriculture, mechanical,
finance and management, local government and the media section. Direction and
coordination of cooperative training would be provided by an Assistant Chief
Registrar (Planning and Training) appointed within DOC. Given the large
quantities of vehicles, plant and equipment to be used in the project, and the
extreme shortage of experienced drivers, operators and mechanics, a high
priority would be given to training in these areas. Training courses for
light vehicle and heavy plant equipment operators to establish trade certifi-
cate standard would be conducted by a senior training officer (mechanics) and
a training officer (light vehicles). In the case of road construction units,



- 21 -
each zonal roads engineer would be appointed approximately one half year
before construction in his zone commenced, and during that period he would
first recruit staff within his zone and then join them periodically at the
central training workshops to participate with the training officers in their
initial instruction.
4.23      The media section, under a senior media officer, would be responsible
for production of media to be used both in staff training and also in the
training of farmers and their families. Emphasis would be given to improving
and expanding the existing radio programs established by GADP, and a principal
radio officer at project headquarters would liaise with radio officers in each
zone. The project would also have its own capability in the graphics field,
and could produce slide shows. Short films would be commissioned from outside,
possibly from the Educational Technology Center in Kaduna. A total of 16
mobile training units would operate within the zones to conduct farmer training
using a multi-media approach and supported by the media section. Design and
direction of farmer training courses would be the responsibility of the
senior training officer (agriculture) at headquarters and by zonal training
superintendents and with technical advice from the four zonal chief technical
officers. The agricultural training staff in the mobile training units would
be joined by the home economics officers from the MRDC who would conduct
courses for rural women in nutrition, sanitation and child care, while agricul-
tural courses were being conducted for farmers. The media unit would provide
support for this home economics training effort. The project would not
support further expansion of residential farmer training, due to high unit
cost, poor staff utilization and low impact.
4.24      BSA, which provides training for agricultural assistants and live-
stock assistants, at present suffers from a chronic shortage of teaching staff.
Staffing would be strengthened under the project by both international and
local recruitment, and physical facilities would also be expanded. The
school, to be renamed Bauchi School of Agriculture and Cooperative Development
(BSACD), would include a new nine-month course for cooperative inspectors,
using the standard inspectorate curriculum as taught elsewhere in Nigeria.
Throughput of the agricultural assistants would be doubled to 60 students each
year and total annual enrollment would expand to 150.
4.25      The chief training officer would take overall responsibility for
organizing management training of project staff; and maximum use would be made
of courses at Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute (ARMTI)
which is currently being established at Ilorin. Consultancy is also provided
for specialized short-term management courses. The Local Government Advisor
and Principal Local Government Training Officer would be assisted by consul-
tants in evaluating training needs and developing curricula for LGC training.
Technical Assistance
4.26      The project would provide for about 240 man-years of internationally
recruited staff, mainly through consultant firms, to assist in the execution
of the project (para 7.10-7.13). It would also provide short-term consultant
services (totalling 71 man-months) to assist in areas where specialized skills
were not available locally or where short-term supplementation was required



- 22 -
and a further 68 man-months for special road studies. Consultant services
have been costed at an average of N6,200 (US$11,000) per man-month. Specific
areas where the need for consultant input is anticipated are as follows:
(a) Nutrition. On an initial three-month visit, a specialist nutrition-
ist would briefly assess the status of nutrition among the rural
population of the project area and would then review with the
project management and agricultural staff the nutritional implica-
tions of proposed project recommendations in areas such as cropping
patterns and agricultural processing. The consultant would also
assist the Home Economics section of MRDC to draw up a medium-term
action plan to improve its effectiveness in rural nutrition and
child care education, including staffing, training, and cooperation
with the media and mobile training sections of the project. On
subsequent shorter visits, the consultant would monitor progress and
provide further assistance in the above-mentioned fields, and
explore with the monitoring and evaluation section the possibility
of incorporating monitoring of nutrition data in their survey work
(six man-months);
(b) Adaptive Research. The project's research effort would at times
require assistance for short periods from specialists in particular
apsects of innovative on-farm technology. Among the areas where
this need is expected would be: on-farm and other low-level crop
storage, crop processing, mixed cropping systems, animal traction
and small-scale mechanization (nine man-months);
(c) Water Supply. Specialized skills would be required in the hydrogeo-
logical field to assist in planning the water supply component, in
particular in the interpretation of SLAR. A lump sum allowance of
N100,000 (US$182,000) has been made, equivalent to about 16 man-
months;
(d) Fadama development. At present, technology used in fadama farming
(e.g., the shadoof) is unduly labor-intensive and inefficient, and
serves to limit the exploitation of this valuable resource. Altern-
ative, more efficient solutions exist at low to intermediate levels
of technology, ranging from more efficient types of human- or animal-
powered water-lifting devices (as developed in parts of South Asia)
to simple, low-maintenance diesel pumps that might be suitable for
cooperative operation. To assist in introducing and adapting these
and other similar technological innovations to the area a lump sum
allowance of N80,000 (US$145,000) has been made, equivalent to about
13 man-months;
(e) Training. Assistance in needs evaluation, curriculum development and
short-term courses, principally in areas such as local government and
management where in-project expertise requires supplementation (27
man-months).
(f) Roads. Bauchi State has just started an extensive program of state
road construction. The roads are selected on the basis of simple,



- 23 -
qualitative criteria and quasi-uniform standards are used irrespec-
tive of anticipated traffic levels. At the same time, due mainly to
an acute shortage of skilled manpower, road maintenance is inade-
quate. A state-wide road sector survey is thus needed to determine
economic priorities for the development and maintenance of the road
network in Bauchi State for the medium-term and possibly to prepare
a Bauchi State Highway Project. This survey is included in the pro-
posed project. It would require about 26 man-months of consultancy
services for a total cost of about N165,000 (US$300,000) and would
last eight months. The survey would, in particular, identify road
sections whose improvement (i) is of high priority and (ii) would
assist the agricultural development of the State. The project also
includes about 42 man-months for the detailed engineering of about
100 km of such road sections, at an estimated cost of N260,000
(US$470,000).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that BSADP would be responsible for
preparing detailed terms of reference for the consultants for review by the
Bank and FGN, and that the consultants would be properly qualified and experi-
enced, and would be employed on conditions and terms satisfactory to the Bank
and FGN.
C. Cost Estimates
4.27      Project costs during the five-year development period mid-1981 to
mid-1986 are estimated at N192.8 mn (US$350.6 mn), of which foreign costs
would account for N72.6 mn (US$132.0 mn), or 37% of the total. If taxes
and duties are excluded, total costs would be N184.7 mn (US$335.8 mn).
4.28      Project base costs are calculated using prices obtained during
appraisal, and updated to levels expected to prevail in January 1981. Physical
contingencies are at 5% for most costs, where the level of uncertainty is
fairly low, but at higher rates for certain physical construction components:
25% for rural water supply and 10% for civil works except for buildings 5%
(routine structures, generally a repetition of those built in other projects).
Price contingencies are calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies
and are compounded annually using the following annual rates: local salaries
and allowances 10%, all other local costs 15%; foreign costs 1981 9%, 1982 8%
and 1983-5 7%. Total contingencies are equivalent to 28% of total costs, or
38% of base costs. Detailed project costs are at Annex 2, tables 1 and 2 and
WP1O of the Project File and are summarized in Text Table 1.
4.29      The costs summarized in Table 1 are incremental, covering those
investments and operational costs over and above present expenditures by MANR
in comparable areas, estimated at N3.4 mn a year in base price terms (January
1981), and N23.9 mn over the five-year project period in current prices. An
assurance was obtained during negotiations that BSG would maintain that real
level of expenditure throughout the project period, in addition to its contri-
bution to incremental costs. For annual farm inputs (fertilizers and chemi-
cals) the cost table includes the annual quantities that are incremental to the
preceding year-s estimated consumption, these are fully costed at unsubsidized
rates.



- 24 -
D. Proposed Financing
4.30      Of the total project cost of N192.8 mn (US$350.6 mn) the Bank would
finance N72.6 million (US$132.0 mn) at the lending rate of interest current
at the time of loan approval and for a period of 20 years, including a
five-year grace period.  The Bank loan would represent 37% of project costs,
or 39% of costs net of taxes, and would be approximately equal to the foreign
exchange component, exclusive of fertilizer costs.
Table 1: Summary of Project Costs
% of
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Base Costs Total Costs
----(N million)----  --(US$ million)---
Management Services         5.9   4.6   10.5    10.7   8.4    19.1          8            5
Monitoring & Evaluation   2.0   1.0    3.0         3.7   1.7      5.4       2            2
Staff Training              7.0   4.2   11.2    12.8   7.6    20.4         8            6
Bauchi School of Agri-
culture                    2.8   1.7    4.5       5.2   3.1      8.3      3            2
Local Government Support  0.2   0.2    0.4         0.3   0.5      0.8      -            -
Extension                  16.5   3.3   19.8    30.0   6.0    36.0        14           10
Planning & Farm Manage-
inent                      1.5   1.0    2.5       2.8   1.7      4.5      2             1
Research                    3.5   2.1    5.6       6.2   3.9    10.1       4            3
Seed Multiplication         1.7   1.0    2.7      3.1   1.9       5.0      2            1
Irrigation                  1.0   0.7    1.7       1.8   1.3      3.1      1            1
Livestock                   0.9   0.4    1.3       1.6   0.7      2.3       1            1
Road Construction          10.8  13.5   24.3    19.6  24.5    44.1        17           13
Road Studies                0.1   0.3    0.4       0.3   0.5      0.8      -            -
Mechanical Workshops        3.8   2.8    6.6       7.0   5.0    12.0        5            3
Building Unit               0.8   0.5    1.3       1.5   0.8      2.3      1            1
Rural Water Supply          7.0   8.6   15.6    12.7  15.7    28.4        11            8
Agricultural Supply Co.
(BASAC):
Investment & Operating 11.9   5.6   17.5    21.6  10.2    31.8          13            9
Farm Inputs
(incremental)           6.4  12.3   18.7    11.6  22.4    34.0         14           10
Co-operative Financing
Agency (CFA)               1.5   0.7    2.2       2.8   1.3      4.1       2            1
Co-operative Development  5.0   1.0    6.0         9.0   1.8    10.8       4            3
Less Preproject Expendi-
ture                     (15.4) (1.7) (17.1)  (28.1) (3.0)  (31.1)   (12)             (9)
TOTAL BASE COSTS           74.9  63.8  138.7   136.2 116.0   252.2    100              72
Physical contingencies    4.7   4.8    9.5         8.6   8.7    17.3        7            5
Price contingencies        30.2  14.4   44.6    54.8  26.3    81.1        32           23
TOTAL ESTIMATED
PROJECr COSTS            109.8  83.0  192.8   199.6 151.0   350.6                    100



- 25 -
4.31      FGN would provide 25% of project costs, exclusive of farm inputs and
BASAC equity. In addition, it is assumed that FGN would maintain the present
proportionate rate of subsidy on fertilizer. As table 2 below shows, this
would result in project financing by FGN of N51.7 mn (26% of the total), while
BSG finances N53.7 mn (29%) and farmers, through incremental input purchases,
N14.8 mn (8%).
Table 2: Summary Financing Plan
(N million)
IBRD    FGN    BSG    Farmers    Total
Buildings                         12.5    5.4    7.0         -        24.9
Borehole drilling                  7.5    1.4    1.7         -        10.6
Construction materials              -      4.7    6.2        -        10.9
Plant, vehicles, equipment        27.7    2.2    2.7         -        32.6
Staff costs, local                  -    20.7   26.7         -        47.4
Staff costs, international        15.2      -      -         -        15.2
Overseas training                  0.4      -       -        -         0.4
Consultants & studies              1.1      -       -        -         1.1
Fertilizer                          -      7.6    5.0       3.8       16.4
Chemicals, farm implements 1/    8.2        -    (8.2)    11.0        11.0
Operating costs & general           -      9.7   12.6        -        22.3
services
TOTAL                         72.6    51.7   53.7   14.8         192.8
X                             37       26     29       8         100
US$ mn                            132.0   94.0   97.8   26.8         350.6
4.32      Under the project, annual consumption of fertilizer would rise from
28,000 tons in the pre-project year to 77,100 tons in year 5; total consumption
throughout the project period would be 253,300 tons, of which 113,300 tons
(Annex 3) would be additional to pre-project consumption levels. Under current
subsidy practices, FGN subsidizes 50% of the cost delivered to Bauchi, the
farmer pays a fixed price (approximately equal to 25% of the cost to Bauchi)
and BSG pays the remaining costs, including all costs of distribution within
the state. Continuing current subsidy practices, the total cost to FGN and
BSG of fertilizer subsidies over the project period would be N63.5 mn (FGN
N38.3 mn; BSG N25.2 mn).  The Bank would not finance the foreign cost of
incremental fertilizer requirements, as the Government is able to finance the
unduly heavy subsidies to the rural sector from the oil revenues. A comprehen-
sive financing plan including these amounts is given in Annex 2, Table 3.
4.33      At state level, BASAC (paras. 7.14-7.18) would be established to
distribute fertilizer. If, as under the current subsidy policy, BASAC were
unable to recoup operating and handling charges from the buyers, BSG would be
1/ The Bank originally disburses against chemicals and farm implements, which
are subsequently sold to farmers. Therefore, BSG has a reduction of N8.2 mn
in its net contribution.



- 26 -
liged to cover any deficits.  At negotiations BSG agreed to provide BASAC in
<ance on April 15 of each year with an equity payment totalling N4.0 mn for
the first two years (Annex 2, Table 3 and para. 7.15). It was also agreed that
the Bank would review annually and agree with BSG BASAC's cost recovery poli-
cies and practices to ensure that the cost of any input or service is fully
recovered.
4.34      The Bank loan of US$132.0 mn would be made to the Federal Government
who would onlend on the same terms and conditions to BSG under a subsidiary
loan agreement drawn up between FGN and BSG. Ongoing projects are suffering
from inadequate inflows of funds from Government sources, and to address this
problem assurances were obtained during negotiations that: the management of
BSADP would submit at least four months prior to each fiscal year the project's
proposed annual budget, as approved by the Bauchi State Agricultural and Rural
Development Council (BSARDC) (para 7.02), to FMA and the Bank; Bank reimburse-
ment would be made directly to BSADP commercial bank account; BSADP would be
authorized to establish overdraft facilities up to N5 million and the overdraft
would be guaranteed by BSG; and BSG and FGN would pay their share of project
costs quarterly and in advance into the project's bank account, in accordance
with the approved annual budget. It was agreed at negotiations that if BSG
were delinquent in paying its share of costs, FGN would pay BSG's share
directly from BSG's statutory allocation. A condition of effectiveness would
require BSG to provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank that guaranteed
overdraft facilities had been established with a commercial bank.
E. Procurement
4.35      Chemicals and agricultural implements valued at N18.8 million
(US$34.1 million), of which N11.0 million (US$19.9 million) is incremental;
vehicles, road construction equipment, tractors and other equipment and spare
parts valued at N32.6 million (US$59.3 million); and civil works (including
buildings, boreholes, and materials for road and dam construction) valued at
N46.4 million (US$84.4 million) would be procured through international compet-
itive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Services of consultants and
internationally recruited staff (including road studies), and provision of
overseas training, valued at N16.7 million (US$30.4 million) would be obtained
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for civil
works valued at less than US$2 million and other contracts for less than
US$200,000 would be awarded following local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank. For contracts of less than US$60,000 direct competi-
tive shopping would be employed. Items for procurement would be bulked to
permit optimum used competitive bidding. Domestically manufactured goods
would be allowed a 15% preference, or the applicable import duty, whichever is
lower, when comparing bids with those of foreign manufacturers in procurement
under ICB. Fertilizer valued at N82.6 million (US$150.2 million) would be
procured through NFMC and would not be reimburseable under the loan.



- 27 -
F. Disbursements
4.36      The Bank loan would be disbursed from 1981 to 1986 as follows:
Category I    50% of the cost of buildings, totalling US$20.5 million;
Category II   100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported
vehicles, tractors, heavy plant, road-making equipment and
spare parts or if locally procured off the shelf 85% of
total expenditures, totalling US$45.4 million;
Category III  100% of the foreign costs or 70% of the total costs of
expenditures on borehole drilling for rural water supply,
totalling US$12.2 million;
Category IV   100% of the cost of salaries and allowances of interna-
tionally recruited staff, and cost of consultant services,
studies and overseas training; totalling US$27.3 million;
Category V    100% of the foreign expenditures on directly imported farm
implements and incremental agricultural chemicals other
than fertilizer (or if locally procured 75% of total
expenditures), totalling US$13.6 million;
Category VI   an unallocated amount of US$13.0 million.
All expenditures would be fully documented, and disbursements for all cate-
gories would be made only against authorized contracts. Provision has been
made for up to US$600,000 of retroactive financing for key internationally-
recruited staff to begin work after negotiations to assist in project start-up
activities. A schedule of Bank loan disbursements is given in Annex 2, Table 6.
G. Accounts and Audits
4.37      BSADP, BASAC, CFA, DOC and BSACD would keep financial records in
accordance with sound accounting practices to reflect their operations and
financial positions and would have these audited by independent external audi-
tors acceptable to the Bank. The audited accounts and the auditors' reports,
including statements as to whether Bank funds had been used for their intended
purpose, would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the end of the
fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
H. Programming and Budgeting
4.38      Annual budgets would be prepared by BSADP management based on
appraisal estimates amended, where necessary, to reflect changes in costs and
project development policies. These would be submitted to BSARDC for approval.
BSADP would prepare quarterly cash flow statements which would be submitted to



- 28 -
Bauchi State Agricultural Development Project Technical Committee (BSADPTC)
and the project would operate on the basis of these statements. BSADP would
prepare, for prompt submission to the Bank, quarterly and annual progress
reports, including summaries of expenditures and use of funds. On the basis
of the approved annual budgets, BSG would make budgetary allocations and
thereafter would make available to BSADP all necessary funds quarterly and in
advance. Separate bank accounts for BSADP and BASAC would be opened with
commercial banks, and BSG and FGN would each make initial deposits of N2.0 mn
(for BSADP), and BSG, N1.O mn for BASAC (as part payment of BSG equity).
Establishment of the two accounts and the respective initial deposits would be
a condition of effectiveness.
4.39      At negotiations, BSG agreed to include its share of project costs in
the Fourth National Development Plan, currently under preparation, covering
the period 1981/85. It would prepare and submit to the Bank by September 30
of each year an Action Plan detailing the specific investments and project
activities proposed for execution during the following fiscal year (Jan.1-
Dec.31). Submission to the Bank for approval of the first Action Plan for the
Year 1981/82 would be a condition of effectiveness. The yearly plans should
include a budget for the following year, the annual report for BSADP's previous
year's operations, and a report on BASAC's operations and finances. The Action
Plan and the audited financial statements for the previous year would be
reviewed by BSG and the Bank at an implementation review, to be held in October
of each year. To ensure that resources are available in a timely fashion, BSG
and FGN would deposit their contributions to the project quarterly and in
advance, into a special project account. If BSG were delinquent in paying its
share of costs, FGN would be authorized to pay BSG's share directly from BSG's
statutory allocation. This arrangement was agreed at negotiations and will be
specified in the subsidiary loan agreement between FGN and BSG. The signature
of this subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of effectiveness. The
implementation review and agreed Action Plan would form the the basis for
Bank supervision of the project. Supervision would also be supported by the
project's management information system and by ongoing monitoring and evalua-
tion data collected by APMEPU.
V. TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
A. Crop and Livestock Development
5.01      Crop development proposals for the rainfed program have been
based on the project area's agro-ecological conditions and on the analysis
of GADP Survey data and other research findings related to socioeconomic and
cropping systems prevalent primarily in the Eastern Zone of the project area
detailed at Annex 1, Tables a-d. The technology proposed is simple and
relatively inexpensive. Farm size and tenure arrangements would not change
to any degree.
5.02      The proposed technology for the BSP and ASP would involve the
use of improved planting material (including cleaned, dressed and certified



- 29 -
seed), appropriate fertilizer use, pest and disease control using controlled
droplet applicators, improved and more timely cultivation and sound post-
harvest practices. Fertilizer recommendations are based on proven soil defi-
ciencies in nitrogen, phosphorus and sulfur, experienced throughout the State.
However, if, on the basis of adaptive research trials, deficiencies of potas-
sium are found, fertilizer recommendations would be modified during project
implementation. In general, pest and disease problems are relatively mild at
present, except in the cases of cowpeas and cotton. Pest control recommenda-
tions for cereals and groundnuts would include seed treatment, whilst those
for cowpeas and cotton would also include ultra-low volume spraying with
endosulphan and/or pyrethroids for field pest control. Farmers would be
encouraged to grow improved varieties of medium-duration sorghum and millet,
respectively SL 187 and Ex-Borno or Nigerian composite, and the high-yielding
variety TZB for maize. Ife Brown and Vita 5 are presently the recommended
cowpea varieties; S77 for cotton and G153 for groundnuts would be introduced.
The seed multiplication farm at Bima Hills would multiply seed provided
through the National Seed Service as Stage I, and supply part of this seed to
outgrowers for bulking-up. These improved practices are likely to be applied
by farmers to mixed cropping systems, and therefore crop varietal recommenda-
tions are tentative, since fertilizer and crop protection requirements for
sole crops may be different from those appropriate to mixtures. As part of
its adaptive research program, the project would continue to carry out field
trials, not only to determine suitable varieties for the different zones, but
also to attempt to produce suitable intercropping packages.
5.03      More sophisticated technology would be introduced to advanced farmers
or farmer groups. Apart from higher levels of fertilizer use and emphasis on
field crop protection and weed control by controlled droplet applications of
chemicals, farmers would also make use of oxen and tractor-drawn implements,
mainly to reduce labor peaks in land preparation, weeding and harvesting.
Special attention would be given to increasing plant population (mainly for
sole cropping) and improving crop storage.
5.04      The exact percentage composition of crops, including sole and inter-
cropping, can only be a matter of estimation and can be expected to change
with economic factors and technical advances. Projected production increases
are all converted to a sole crop basis and are shown in Annex 1, Table 5 a and
b. Cereal production is expected to increase from 563,000 tons to 692,000
tons, a total increase of 23%, equal to an annual compound growth rate of 4%.
Cowpea, groundnut and cotton production are expected to increase at compound
annual growth rates of 10%, 5.5% and 2%, respectively. Vegetable production is
projected to increase by 29,000 tons.
5.05      BSADP would on a fairly large pilot basis integrate animal-rearing
with arable farming. The substantial increased quantities of crop residues
could profitably be converted into meat under smallholder fattening schemes or
used for draft animals. The fattening scheme would be based on a well-tried
and proven program developed under the Federal Livestock Project (IBRD Loan
1091-UNI). The BSADP Land Use Planning and Farm Management section would
assist the more innovative farmers in farm planning and would provide advice
on farm management, credit requirements and local processing. BSADP would
help farmers, through the NACB fattening credit scheme (financed under Loan



- 30 -
1091-UNI) and other lending agencies, to borrow for purchase of 4-10 cattle.
Cost per animal would be about N250 and the project would provide the
necessary extension advice for feeding and management. The animals would be
fed on crop residues, supplemented with small quantities of concentrates,
and would be sold for slaughter after a period of four to six months. The
project would also introduce a program to assist farmers obtain NACB credit
for the training and distribution of draft animals, and short-term credits
for the feeding and maintenance of draft animals before and during the crop
season. The scheme would be run by a Livestock Deveilopment Unit to be
established in MANR, with initial technical assistance (two years) provided
by the Federal Livestock Production Unit. It is expected that by the end of
the project, some 500 loans would have been advanced    the NACB and commer-
cial banks to individuals and cooperative societies. Initially, both the
federal and the state livestock unit would be responsible for the technical
approval of individual loans. If the pilot scheme is successful and there
are no serious problems of loan recovery, the program would be expanded.
The value of incremental meat per fattened animal is estimated at N73.0 of
which N44.0 represents net value added (Annex 1, Table 6).
5.06      The project's pilot fadama development component would cover some
2,500 ha (Annex 1, Table 3) and would promote improved use of fadama areas
to optimize scarce dry season water resources. The fadama development would
be supported by trials conducted on farmers- fields to test new small-scale
irrigation equipment, techniques and practices. The proposed technology
would be simple, relatively inexpensive and easy to implement.
5.07      It is expected that on about half of the pilot area (1,200 ha), more
efficient use of runoff would be made through bunding and ridging. An addi-
tional benefit would be an increase in residual moisture which would allow
planting of a dry season crop at the end of the rains. Use of improved seed
and fertilizer, improved seed bed preparation and timely planting would also
be promoted. On another 500 ha the project would introduce the use of 3"
pumps (driven by 4.5 H.P. diesel engines, with a capacity of 5 liters/second),
each capable of irrigating about 2 to 5 ha. Elsewhere, low-lift hand pumps,
irrigating 0.4 ha each, would be introduced on about 750 ha to replace some of
the traditional shadoof manual water lifting devices. Currently, most farmers
do not irrigate more than 0.1 - 0.2 ha under traditional systems. However,
individual farmers who purchased low-lift hand pumps and members of groups of
4 to 6 farmers, who jointly purchased 3" pumps, would each be able to expand
their irrigated areas under culvitation to about 0.4 ha. The layout of the
traditional shadoof gardens would have to be adpated to the new rate of
water supply. Project staff would survey, mark and supervise the new works,
and farmers would supply the labor for the simple construction.
B. Feeder Roads
5.08      The tentative work program for the construction of 1,200 km of
feeder roads is shown in the Project File, Working Paper 3. The project would
build 390 km in the Eastern Zone, 290 km in the Northern Zone, 310 km in the
Central Zone and 210 km in the Western Zone. This phasing, agreed with BSG,



- 31 -
is dictated by staffing constraints. A team of internationally recruited
engineers would assist in the execution of the feeder road program. Each of
the four zonal road construction units would be managed by an experienced
roads engineer and would also include a mechanical engineer. To overcome
the shortage of experienced road construction operators and mechanics, the
program would be phased to allow for pre-construction training (para 4.26).
The composition of heavy plant vehicles and equipment for each zonal unit is
based on the construction of about 90 km per annum.
5.09      On the basis of GADP experience, the feeder roads would be all-
weather roads designed to carry up to 100 vehicles per day, including about 20
trucks a day of up to 10 ton payload. The design speed of the roads would not
exceed 50 km per hour, and the carriageway would be 6m wide, with a base
course of 20 to 30 cm, depending on the quality of the subgrade, and a riding
course of 10 cm of laterite. The road alignment would follow the watershed as
closely as possible to limit the average number of culverts to about 2 per km.
Culverts would be corrugated metal pipe and concrete and would be sited to
provide proper drainage for the roads and adjacent fields.
5.10      Road Maintenance.  Routine and periodic maintenance for the 1,200 km
BSADP and 400 km GADP roads would be the responsibility of the LGCs. Since
LGC capability to carry out their responsibilities for routine and periodic
maintenance of rural roads is presently very limited (para 3.05), BSADP would
train LGC staff on the job in the zonal construction units. Prior to handing
over the project-built roads to the LGCs, the project-s road construction units
would maintain newly built roads for at least one year after construction, but
would have sufficient excess capability to maintain these roads for the entire
project period if necessary. However, in view of LGC-s long-term responsi-
bility for feeder road maintenance, at negotiations BSG agreed that LGCs would
provide funds and personnel for this road maintenance program upon completion
of construction of these roads. Post-construction maintenance may be divided
into three categories, with different levels of cost, frequency and complexity:
(a) routine manual maintenance (yearly); (b) routine mechanical maintenance
(yearly); and (c) periodic maintenance (every 4-5 years). Since manual
routine maintenance tasks, consisting of pothole repair, drainage and ditch
clearing, are relatively simple operations to control, they would preferably
be carried out by the individual LGCs on force account and would commence
immediately after completion of roads by the project. The yearly manual
maintenance cost would be about N100 per km and would be included in the LGCs
budgets (para 4.15). The mechanical routine maintenance, consisting of a few
gradings per year (N50-100 per km), depending on the traffic level, would be
carried out during the project period by either the zonal construction units
or the LGCs, depending on their road work capability. Periodic maintenance
would consist of re-graveling a 15 cm laterite riding course (every 4-5 years)
at a cost of about N4,000 per km. Although most periodic maintenance would
be required after project completion, most roads constructed under the GADP
would have to be re-graveled before the end of the present project.
5.11      Local government staff would be trained under the project in road
construction, maintenance, budgeting, and planning, but individual LGCs
would be discouraged from establishing their own road construction/mainte-
nance units. Instead, in respect of both road construction and mechanical



- 32 -
routine/periodic maintenance, LGCs would be encouraged to make full use of
potential economies of scale, so that road construction, resurfacing, grading
and major drainage repairs could be carried out by BSADP and/or joint boards
on a zonal basis under LGC funding. It is envisaged therefore that, by the
end of the project, the four zonal road construction units might be integrated
into four joint boards, each executing road construction and maintenance
requirements and providing common planning and budgeting services for the LGCs
in its zone (para 7.06, 7.07). The residual work life of the BSADP plant and
equipment at the end of the project period would be sufficient for the four
joint board road units to launch their initial periodic and routine maintenance
operations. In their road construction and maintenance operations, the boards
could contract out many specific tasks such as exploitation of quarries,
hauling of gravel and construction of culverts.
C. Water Supply
5.12      The object of the BSADP rural water supply component would be to
make potable water available to rural communities of fewer than 1,500 inhabi-
tants that are not likely in the forseeable future to be served by the Bauchi
State Water Board (para 3.06). Watering points would also be established in
strategically located livestock grazing areas. The statewide rural water
supply strategy and program would be prepared jointly by the BSADP planning
team, LGCs and the Livestock Development Unit, and would take into account any
rural water supply plans of the Water Board and MRDC. The strategy would
establish an appropriately balanced program of boreholes, shallow wells and
storage reservoirs of different capacities, taking into account user require-
ments, availability of existing water resources and the relative cost-
effectiveness of the alternative systems. The program given below, therefore,
indicates only an approximate order of magnitude and would be subject to
amendment during implementation. Under the GADP water program, based on small
dams, there has been no evidence of increased bilharzia. However, as improved
technology for the siting of boreholes is now available (para 5.13), these
would be used extensively for village water supplies under the present project.
5.13      Boreholes.  Over 1,300 boreholes would be drilled, with fairly equal
distribution over the four zones, on the basis of a hydrogeological survey
undertaken by specialist consultants using SLAR interpretation techniques and
electric resistivity depth probes. The success rate in siting boreholes,
particularly in the master joints and large lineaments of the hardrock forma-
tion, can be increased from 50% to over 90% by using these techniques. The
drilling unit would be equipped with a powerful pneumatic percussion rig,
which would be equipped for conventional rotary mud/bush drilling as well. As
a rule, 4" to 6" boreholes would be drilled to depths of maximum 50m and
equipped with hand pumps (maximum capacity lOm3/hr). Drilling would be
undertaken as a single responsibility contract by a qualified drilling firm.
5.14      Wells.  In areas where geological conditions or accessibility would
cause problems for a borehole program, an estimated 200 standard hand-dug,
reinforced concrete wells would be constructed instead of boreholes. The aim
would be to reach well yields of 2m3/hr adequate to serve 600 villagers at



- 33 -
25 liters per person per day. Each of the 4 well construction units would be
capable of sinking 10 new wells and rehabilitating 20 existing wells per year.
5.15      Dams.  A total of 25 medium-size dams with maximum ca acity of
50,000 m3 and 50 minor reservoirs or "tapkis" of up to 15,000 m3 would be
constructed, mainly in the Eastern and Northern Zones, to cater for local
and migratory cattle watering needs. To allow time for dams and tapkis to
settle, they would be maintained by the project for the first two years
after construction. They would then be officially commissioned and handed
over to individual LGCs for maintenance, which would mainly consist of
earthwork repairs.
5.16      BSADP would train and assist individual LGCs in establishing rural
water supply maintenance units to carry out routine pump maintenance and
minor pump, well and concrete repair. Zonal BSADP workshops, which could be
integrated into the service operations of the joint boards at the end of the
project period, would carry out major maintenance and repair of the rural
water supply facilities. At negotiations BSG agreed that LGCs would provide
funds and personnel for the annual water supply maintenance program. The
implementation schedule for all water supply structures is given in Project
File, Working Paper 4.
VI. DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Demand
6.01      Nigeria is a net importer of food, and the 1978 Nigerian Agricul-
tural Sector Review (Report 2181-UNI), in common with other serious studies,
projects the gap to continue widening. In the absence of fundamental policy
change, the report projects a deficit of 11 million tons of cereal equivalent
per annum by 1990, representing an import bill of N1.3 billion at 1978
prices. In aggregate, therefore, there should be no lack of demand for domes-
tically produced foodstuff. In individual sectors, however, problems may be
created by competition from imports brought into Nigeria at an exchange rate
which is sustained only by the oil sector and which does not correspond to
cost structures in the other productive sectors of the economy.
6.02      Estimates of the food balance sheet within the project area must
be regarded as highly speculative since all the variables--population, culti-
vated area, yields and consumption per head--are subject to wide margins of
error. At an aggregate level, the State appears capable, in a typical year,
of feeding itself and perhaps generating a modest export surplus of food over
its own requirements. The imputed production of food crops (excluding minor
vegetables) in 1980, based on estimated farming population and surveyed crop-
ping patterns, may be set at from 680,000 to 730,000 tons grain equivalent.
Imputed consumption, based on estimated total population and a per capita
consumption of 170 kg grain equivalent per annum (consistent with survey
results elsewhere in Northern Nigeria) would be 680,000 tons, leaving a theo-
retical net production somewhere between an even balance and a surplus of



- 34 -
000 tons. Extending the analysis to 1985, population growth can be expected
L dd about 120,000 tons to gross consumption (800,000 tons), while improved
techtnology introduced under the project should increase production by about
154,000 tons. If allowance is made for natural production growth as a result
of population growth, formation of new farming households and extension of
cultivation, then some additional production could result, over and above the
direct project impact. Thus, the project period is likely to see the project
emerging as a modest net exporter of grain to the rest of Nigeria (or increas-
ing an existing export surplus).
B. Marketing
6.03      Studies of the foodgrain marketing system in northern Nigeria suggest
it to be broadly competitive and non-exploitative. Spatial differences to
prices usually correspond to transport costs (although marketing intelligence,
entirely informal, has its imperfections and low-level markets tend to be
thin, unspecialized and imperfectly integrated into the system). Research in
the Zaria area 1/ found seasonal price rises on average exceeding storage
costs, which creates a rationale for assisting the improvement of on-farm
storage under the project. Within the project area it has been shown 2/ that
differences in access to motorable roads lead to wide variations in prices for
farm produce (and for outside goods purchased by farmers), which points to the
prime importance of improving the feeder road network. Most of the incremental
grain output from the project would be consumed within the State, although at
times quantities of millet and sorghum might be transported to urban centers
such as Kaduna or Kano. Maize has less of a tradition in human consumption in
the region, though there is scope for an increase in its place in the diet.
Northern Nigeria as a whole sends maize south, both for human consumption and
for processing as animal feed. In these markets, however, maize competes with
relatively low cost imports. The project may therefore under current trade
policies need to exercise caution in encouraging the spread of maize cultiva-
tion, in spite of its agronomic attractions, while careful attention is paid
to marketing considerations with this crop. Recently, however, the Bank has
assisted the Nigerian Grains Board to recruit some specialist staff with the
objective of improving the operations of the Board. Special priority would be
given to the provision of improved buying services to enable the Board to buy
in those project areas where surpluses cannot be immediately absorbed by
private sector traders. Futher BASAC would be empowered to improve grain
storage facilities at zonal and state level, and an assurance was obtained at
negotiations that BASAC would be authorized to negotiate contracts for grain
supply to domestic users such as feed mills (para 7.14).
1/  Hays, H.M. "The Marketing and Storage of Food Grains in Northern
Nigeria." 1975.
2/  Tiffen, M. "The Enterprising Peasant, Economic Development in Gombe
Emirate, 1900-1968." 1976.



- 35 -
6.04      The impact of statutory marketing arrangements on foodgrains and
legumes has to date been minimal. However, in the field of cotton, the
NCB acts as a monopsony buyer, supplying the commercial ginneries. Cotton
marketing is unsatisfactory. Prices have recently been increased, but are
still too low, buying is inefficient and open to malpractices and the margin
for ginning is inadequate. The Bank will shortly identify an Agricultural
Marketing Project, among whose objects will be improvement in statutory
marketing arrangements for crops such as cotton. Until improvement in prices
and efficiency can be achieved, it would be inappropriate for the project to
promote an expansion in cotton cultivation. On the contrary, some further
contraction in area is expected, and the project extension service would
concentrate on improving standards of cultivation and productivity among
existing producers. At the same time, BASAC would, like the GADP, be gazetted
as a cotton Licensed Buying Agent, and work with the NCB to improve local
cotton marketing practices. 1/ Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.  Sale of groundnuts for processing is impeded by present statu-
tory pricing policies, and it must be assumed that most of present production
is for direct consumption (although some smuggling is thought to occur). The
re-emergence of groundnut as a major commercial crop cannot be expected in the
absence of marketing reforms, and even with such reforms, competition from
other edible fats and oils could, at the present exchange rate, lead to a
vulnerable market situation. Here, too, the project would exercise caution in
linking its extension recommendations to marketing realities.
C. Prices
6.05      Future market prices for foodstuffs in Nigeria will be heavily influ-
enced by FGN policy towards importation. At present maize and sorghum are
mostly imported for use as animal feedstuff; these imports, and those of wheat
and rice for human consumption, can be expected to exercise some moderating
influence on the price levels of locally produced foodstuffs. However,
shortage of port facilities can impose a bottleneck upon importation, and in
any case, Bauchi State enjoys a fair measure of natural protection by reason
of its geographical position--over 1,000 km by road from seaports. In view of
the fact that the State seems to be largely a self-contained market, recent
local prices, adjusted for inflation, have been taken as the basic guide for
financial prices of locally consumed items. More conservative assumptions
were made for maize, however, since a surplus over local demand could develop
(this appears already to have happened within GADP), exercising downward
pressure on prices and necessitating disposal outside the immediate project
area. The financial price for cotton also reflects recent experience adjusted
for inflation: in this case the actual price will depend on future government
pricing policy for the Nigerian Cotton Board. Groundnuts are assumed to be
marketed privately. Calculation of economic prices for potentially traded
goods has been based on import parity assumptions using IBRD forecast world
prices for maize, sorghum, rice, groundnuts and cotton. The economic price
1/ Specific recommendations are contained in "Cotton Marketing in GADP,
Bauchi State" AMEX Consultants, 1978.



- 36 -
for millet (which is not extensively traded internationally) is based on that
for sorghum, since the two are near-substitutes. In view of the difficulty of
predicting the precise food balance sheet for the State (whether a net exporter
or not), the reference market for economic analysis has been assumed to be
internal to the State. Annex 1, Table 7, summarizes financial and economic
prices used in project analysis.
VII. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
A. Project Coordination and Management
7.01      The project comprises a range of activities which are at present the
responsibility of different ministries and institutions. Many of these activ-
ities are interdependent, and successful implementation, particularly during
the intensive investment period, will require very close liaison or direction
by a single management unit with a large degree of autonomy, according to
policies and guidelines established by a state government coordinating and
policy-making body. Just as important in the design of project organization
is to ensure that, by the end of the development period, the key institutions
and agencies, particularly the LGCs, the cooperative movement, and extension
and input supply services, have been so strengthened as to allow for long-term
continuity of operations.
7.02      Policy Coordination.  As BSADP is to be the springboard for long-term
agricultural and rural development in Bauchi State, a state committee would be
established to define and control rural development policy and assess its
financial requirements. This body, the Bauchi State Agricultural and Rural
Development Council (BSARDC) would consist of the commissioners of relevant
ministries and co-opted representatives from institutions and agencies,
including the BSADP program manager. (Appropriate representation of FGN in
project policy formulation would be subject to discussion at negotiations.)
BSARDC, chaired by the State Governor or his representative, would meet once
or twice per year and would establish guidelines for agricultural and rural
development within the State and formulate and periodically review the roles
of the various participating ministries and agencies in BSADP. It would also
approve the annual BSADP budget and ensure that adequate funds were available
from the various participating ministries to implement the agreed program.
7.03      To coordinate the operational aspects of the project, BSG would
establish BSADPTC (Technical Committee). This committee, chaired by the Com-
missioner of MANR, would consist of the Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries
of Rural Development and Cooperatives, Economic Planning, Finance, Local
Government and Works and Transport, the program manager and financial control-
ler, the four zonal managers, the general managers of BASAC and CFA, the CRCS,
and representatives of other ministries and agencies when necessary. Its
responsibilities would include: (a) advise on the implementation of agricul-
tural and rural development policies, coordinate relevant activities between
ministries (both state and federal), and liaise with parastatals and federal
bodies (Water Board and State Development Board, the River Basin Development



- 37 -
authorities and NEPA); (b) draw up a budget for approval by BSARDC; (c)
formulate and approve training policies, and coordinate approved training
programs; (d) appoint senior staff; and (e) approve contracts over N100,000.
Contracts valued at less than N100,000 would be the responsibility of BAPMU.
The establishment of BSARDC and BSADPEC through publication in the official
gazette would be a condition of effectiveness.
7.04      BSADP operations would be organized into four zones:
Eastern Zone (including GADP)   -  Gombe, Alkaleri, Dukku, Akko,
Tangale-Waja LGAs
Northern Zone                    -  Jama'are, Shira, Misau, Katagum
and Gamawa LGAs
Western Zone                     -  Bauchi, Dass, Tafawa-Balewa
and Toro LGAs
Central Zone                     -  Ningi and Darazo LGAs
7.05      Coordination at the zonal level would be achieved through the
Zonal Development Committee (ZDC), consisting of the chairmen and/or secre-
taries of the zonal LGCs, a representative of the traditional council
in the area, and the zonal project manager and chief technical officer.
Heads of the Zonal BSADP departments would be in attendance. Divisional
staff for other services not included in the program would attend the
meetings when requested.
7.06      Each zonal area would establish a ZDC under Section 45 of the
Local Government Edict, 1976, which provides for local governments, from
among their respective members, to appoint a joint committee for any
purpose the councils are jointly interested in. The ZDC would have the
following role:
(a)  coordinating and consulting with BSADP and the LGCs concerning all
project-related activities in the zone;
(b)  coordinating technical functions such as siting of feeder roads,
FSCs and other civil works, establishing guidelines for land alloca-
tion and reviewing project-related disputes;
(c)  reviewing budgetary, staffing and training requirements, particularly
those related to feeder road and rural water supply maintenance;
(d)  agreeing on annual LGC funding allocations for BSADP-related activi-
ties (para 4.15); and
(e)  setting guidelines for the establishment of joint boards for supply
of common services to LGCs as per Section 52 of the Local Government
Edict.



- 38 -
7.07      Each LGC has already established committees on finance and general
purposes, agriculture, health, etc. These committees would allow close opera-
tional coordination between the BSADP and individual LGCs, including consul-
tation on LGC plans and budgets, and project implementation within each LGA.
Steps would be taken to ensure representation of BSADP zonal staff on such
committees through the BSADP Local Government Advisor attached to the Ministry
of Local Government. LGCs would be assisted in drawing up plans and budgets
providing for their participation in the project over the five-year implemen-
tation period and for the post-project period. In addition, the Local Govern-
ment Advisor would draft, in the first two project years, terms of reference
for proposed joint boards to provide common services to LGCs in project-related
areas such as road and water supply maintenance, which could eventually lead
to joint board agreements for the various zones.
7.08      Management.  The project organization is shown in World Bank Chart
Nos. 21728/9. The apex of operational management would be the program
manager s office, which would include the key financial, administrative and
training divisions. This office would take over the responsibilities of the
present agricultural services division of MANR, together with all existing
staff and establishment posts, and would be fully integrated in the ministry's
structure. Centralized technical services to assist in overall planning and
procurement and to support zonal subprojects would be given in the fields of
civil engineering, water supplies, research, land use planning, and farm
management. The Evaluation Unit would report directly to the Commissioner
of MANR, but would liaise closely with the program manager. The managers of
CFA and BASAC and CRCS would work through BSADPTC but would also maintain
close contact with the program manager.
7.09      Reporting to the program manager would be four zonal managers.
With a large degree of autonomy, they would be responsible for the implemen-
tation of the project within their respective zones and for initiating
annual work programs and budgets, following consultation with ZDC and after
obtaining authority from BSADPTC. In particular, they would ensure establish-
ment of zonal workshops for maintenance of plant and transport and supervision
of zonal civil works and would assess zonal financial requirements.  The
zonal managers would control agricultural development and would liaise with
BASAC, CFA, DOC, and the Evaluation Unit.
B. Staffing
7.10      Nigeria is generally short of trained and experienced staff
with the capability of initiating and implementing a development program as
proposed in the present report. Experience from ongoing projects indicates
that the shortage is particularly evident at senior and middle levels of
management. The problem is further aggravated by the disparity between
salary levels in the public and private sectors, and by some state govern-
ments reluctance to employ Nigerian personnel non-indigenous to their
state. Since Bauchi State faces relatively severe constraints in the supply
of trained and experienced manpower, much consideration has been given to
phasing zonal project activities, particularly for the extension and road



- 39 -
construction programs, to allow deployment of trained staff from the very
intensive BSADP training program (para 4.23) to occur in phase with the
start of the various project activities. In addition, a relatively large
number of experienced technical and managerial staff will still have to be
recruited from outside the state on short- to medium-term assignments until
internal and external training makes it possible to fill most of these posts
with staff from Bauchi State itself.
7.11      With the exception of GADP, the effectiveness of present staff
deployments is limited by a shortage of extension workers in the state
(about 1:2,000 farmers), poor roads, lack of transport, and the absence of
defined work programs. There is a shortfall of staff in all grades, but it
would appear that intensive agricultural development services could at least
start in two zones simultaneously, with some redeployment of staff. The
other two zones would be phased to commence respectively in Years 2 and 3 of
the BSADP, or as soon as training is effected to fill the shortfall in staff
required.  In the seven ongoing ADPs, the Bank has encouraged state govern-
ments to identify and recruit suitable Nigerians for key positions, but in
nearly every instance this has proven extremely difficult. The project has
therefore provided funds for about 240 man-years (about US$94,000 per
man-year) 1/ for international recruitment of key staff through consulting
firms. These firms would supply backup administrative services to the
technical staff they provide, and would assist BSADP in progress reporting
and training of Nigerian staff.
7.12      At central technical and management level, internationally recruited
staff would include the program manager, chief engineer, building manager,
chief training officer, senior training officer (agriculture), four technical
training staff in mechanical engineering and communications media, financial
controller and chief accountant, chief land use planning officer, farm manage-
ment specialist, principal evaluation officer and senior programmer, irrigation
agronomist, senior rural water supply engineer and three specialists in hydro-
geology, dam and well construction, chief applied research officer, with two
regional applied research officers (Sudan and Guinea Savannah regions), and
two officers for statewide seed multiplication. In addition, at central
level, but not directly under the program manager's office (para 7.08), com-
mercial and technical management staff would include the general manager of
BASAC, and three other operational managers for BASAC, financial and coopera-
tive services managers for CFA, CRCS, an assistant CRCS for planning and
training, a local government advisor at the Ministry of Local Government,
and a principal and four senior lecturers for BSACD. At zonal level, technical
and management staff would include four zonal project managers, four zonal
project accountants, four chief technical officers, four mechanical engineers
and four roads engineers.
7.13      Where possible, the consultant firms would be Nigerian based and
would thus be able to recruit expatriate as well as Nigerians from the private
sector. For a few key posts, where recruitment through firms may prove diffi-
cult or inappropriate, the Bank-s Agricultural Projects Management Unit for
1/   Includes salary, allowances, gratuity, medical, education, settlement
costs, international travel, company overheads and fees.



- 40 -
Western Africa (APMU) would provide recruitment assistance. Expatriate and
local staff from GADP are obvious candidates for some of the posts. Recruit-
ment procedures were agreed during negotiations to ensure that persons with
satisfactory qualifications and experience would be appointed on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. A condition of effectiveness would be
that BSG had provided the Bank with proposals from shortlisted consultants for
the supply of staff and services for the project, and that draft contracts
for the recruitment and servicing agency, accounting services and a managing
agency for BASAC had been agreed by the Bank. A condition of effectiveness
would be the appointment of BSADP's program manager (already in post) and
financial controller.
C. Input Distribution
7.14      The establishment of efficient and dependable mechanisms for the
procurement and distribution of farm inputs throughout the project area is
fundamental to the success of the project. Consideration was given to using
the cooperative movement to implement the input distribution program, but it
was concluded that to combine these demands with those of an expanded credit
program would impose an excessive strain on managerial resources and institu-
tional and financial structures of the cooperatives. In the longer term,
increased involvement of cooperatives in this sector could certainly be planned
for, but within the project period the cooperatives would only operate at the
lowest level of the distribution pyramid through village level stores serving
their members directly.
7.15      At State level, the project would support BSG in the establishment
of a Bauchi State Agricultural Services Company Ltd (BASAC) to implement the
farm input distribution component of the project.  BASAC would be registered
as a limited liability company under the Companies Act of 1968 with authorized
share capital of N4 million; the major shareholder would be BSG, but NACB
would also be invited to take up equity, and it is proposed that the managing
agent (para 7.16) would also be encouraged to take up a minority holding.  The
major objectives of BASAC would be:
(a)  the efficient and timely procurement of farm inputs (except for
fertilizer) required to support the State ADP, and the distribution
of all farm inputs throughout the State;
(b)  the management of a chain of Agro-Service Centers (ASCs) and Farm
Service Centers (FSCs) to provide a retail input service to indivi-
dual farmers (and, where required, a wholesale service to cooperative
organizations) for the provision of fertilizers, chemicals, simple
implements and spare parts for farm equipment (including irrigation
pump s);
(c)  establishment of a trial grain marketing program, involving the
upgrading of zonal and state-level storage, investigation of the
scope for profitable bulk grain supply contracts, and if such scope
exists, entering into and executing contracts for grain supply.



- 41 -
7.16      The proposed organization of BASAC is discussed in Working Paper 7
of the Project File. The Board of Directors would be chaired by the State
Commissioner for Finance, and in addition to State appointees, would
contain at least three non-State directors, including one representative
each from the Federal Ministry of Finance and from NACB. Internally, the
company would be divided into an Administration Division, headed by the
chief accountant, who would also act as company secretary, and an Operations
Division, which would direct the field services (supported by headquarters
departments for procurement, distribution and transport) and the proposed
Marketing Unit.
7.17      The senior managerial and commercial staff required to establish
and operate BASAC would be provided under a management contract (originally
for five years with an option to extend) with an established commercial
concern. To provide an incentive to effective management, it is proposed
that the managing agent (MA) would take up equity in BASAC and that a portion
of the management fee would be tied to the actual level of sales achieved by
the company each year. The contract would also specify MA's responsibilities
in the training of indigenous staff at all levels. It would be a condition
of effectiveness that a draft management contract had been prepared and that
its terms and conditions were acceptable to the Bank. It is intended that
as far as possible BASAC would be run on commercial lines, with strict
control over costs, and accountability of each operating unit. To the
extent that government input pricing policies may continue to make certain
operations non-viable financially, satisfactory arrangements for the payment
of specific subsidies to BASAC will need to be agreed (para 4.33). Profit
and loss projections and cash flow for BASAC are at Annex 2, Tables 7 and 8.
See also Project File, Working Paper 7.
7.18      One large ASC has been established, in line with national policy,
in each Local Government area, giving 16 for the state as a whole. ASC
coverage is too thin, however, to provide a full retail service to farmers,
and the project would continue the GADP policy of supplementing the ASCs with
a denser network of smaller FSCs. The ultimate state network would comprise
98 FSCs, of which 53 would be constructed under the present project. In the
early ADPs some FSCs were inappropriately designed or sited in locations where
they attracted little business, and it is therefore proposed that under the
present project the design and location of FSCs would be jointly considered by
project management and the management of BASAC. The ASCs and FSCs would be
the property of BSG, but would be leased at purely nominal rent to BASAC,
which would be responsible for their operation, staffing and maintenance. All
sales from ASC/FSC would normally be made on a cash basis, but in some cases
on a deferred payment basis (para 7.23). Where credit was required, this
would generally be available through one of the anticipated 360 primary
cooperative societies and financed by CFA (para 7.22).
D. Cooperatives and Credit
7.19      The growth of the cooperative movement in Bauchi State has been
principally in the development of marketing and credit cooperatives. At



- 42 -
present, there are 245 such societies, each with a membership of 100 to 200
farmers, which are grouped into 16 unions, one for each LGA. Although deve-
lopment of the cooperative movement in the state has been encouraging, there
are a number of structural and technical constraints to the development of
existing cooperatives and the establishment of new societies. Lack of profes-
sional and technical trained staff in DOC has resulted in relatively too much
attention being given to the unions and too little to the primary societies,
and to a lack of emphasis on marketing development at the primary level.
7.20      Under the BSADP, DOC would be assisted to strengthen its internal
organization, to provide the support services required by existing and newly
established project area societies, and to improve the professional capability
of the department to carry out its statutory duties, under cooperative law,
of audit, inspection and inquiry. The Field Services Division would be
reorganized to cover the four zones of the project. Each zonal office would
be headed by a principal assistant registrar, with a cooperative officer
posted to each cooperative union. The ratio of field staff (cooperative
inspectors) would be one inspector per 8 to 10 credit and marketing societies.
Provision for cooperative staff training within BSACD (para 4.27) has been
made within the project and training of cooperative secretaries and union
committee members at zonal level is also provided for. A specific feature
of the program would be the introduction of a standardized system of book-
keeping throughout the primary credit and marketing societies. Together
with simple financial reporting procedures, the system would enable the
unions to maintain and audit primary societies accounts.
7.21      Apart from traditional rural credit and some credit in kind
provided by GADP, the CFA is still the main source of agricultural produc-
tion credit for cooperative smallholders in Bauchi State. In the absence of
the general manager who is on a long-term training course, CFA is still
effectively controlled by CRCS. The small nucleus staff of CFA, with sub-
stantial assistance of DOC personnel, increased production loans to coopera-
tive members from NO.4 million in 1976/77 to N1.4 million in 1978/79 to
about 27,000 members. Loan recovery has been successful, at rates of over
90%. Loan approvals and borrowing applications are made by a CFA commmittee
under the guidance of DOC. BSG's long-term objective for CFA is to turn it
ultimately into a state cooperative bank.
7.22      Since the projected increase in agricultural production under
BSADP could generate a substantial increase in demand for credit, BSADP
would support development of CFA and the cooperative movement as the princi-
pal instrument for project credit distribution. CFA would be strengthened
with competent technical staff at managerial and field level to enable it to
undertake the expanded program (para 7.12). CFA would be refinanced by BSG
with an equity contribution of N6.0 million, subscribed over four years.
This substantial equity funding would be required to provide internal
liquidity to back the proposed production credit and to generate sufficient
income to cover CFA operating costs in the early years. CFA-s principal
sources of funds, for both crop purchasing loans and production loans, would
continue to be BSG equity and NACB and commercial bank loans. An assurance
was obtained at negotiations that BSG would provide CFA, by April 1 of
each year, equity payments cumulatively totalling N6 million over the



- 43 -
first four years of the project period. Projected income and expenditure
and cash flow statements are given in Annex 2, Tables 9 and 10, and full
details of existing and proposed CFA operations, including balance sheets,
are provided in Project File, Working Paper 6.
7.23      To stimulate development in new areas where cooperative facilities
are not immediately available, the ASC/FSC would be permitted to make inputs
available to individual farmers on a deferred payment basis. This would be
on a seasonal basis only and a markup of 10% would be applied. For longer-
term development loans, experience on GADP has indicated that, where farmers'
applications are correctly prepared with an accompanying professional
assessment of agricultural potential, such as the farm plans prepared by
GADP, certain commercial banks will be willing to advance medium-term loans
to individual farmers or groups. The project would, therefore, through the
Land Use and Farm Management Division, assist larger farmers or groups in
requesting medium-term loans from commercial banks under the agricultural
credit guarantee scheme.
E. Post-Project Development
7.24      The development proposals contained in this report are expected to
have a substantial impact on agricultural production and family incomes
during the five years of intensive development. Such achievements, however,
will be worthwhile only if accompanied by sufficient institutional reform to
ensure that progress is sustained in the future.
7.25      The project, which has the role of an intensive developer in the
early years, is structured (paras 7.02 to 7.09 and World Bank Chart 21728/9)
to allow for a streamlined organization at ministry level, with delegation
of authority to zonal organizations. The latter would be linked with the
LGCs, which during the course of the project are expected to improve their
operational effectiveness. The project provides a sound mechanism to
improve coordination, planning and implementation capabilities at LGC
levels, and to promote the development of joint boards providing common
services to groups of LGCs (paras 7.06 - 7.07). Thus by completion of the
project, the initial intensive and specialized role of BSADP would have been
completed and LGCs and/or joint boards would take over responsibility for
aspects of rural infrastructure including the maintenance of roads and water
supply facilities. BSADP in the post-project period would become the
agricultural technical services arm of MANR. As such, the program manager
might be replaced by a director of agriculture, whose initial main task
would be to integrate fully the livestock, forestry and fisheries services
into the agricultural services of MANR. BSADP junior agricultural staff
might be transferred to LGCs, leaving a smaller group of higher level
professional agriculturalists in MANR to meet the increasing demand for
advice on farm planning and farm technology. As regards the cooperative
movement in the state, it is expected that by the end of the project, the
institutional strengthening of CFA and DOC would have improved cooperative
performance at all levels, and would justify the upgrading of CFA into a
state cooperative bank.



- 44 -
7.26      To ensure that progress in this direction is sustained, at nego-
tiations FGN and BSG agreed to review with the Bank, not later than the
end of the fourth year of the project, plans for future programs in the
project area, recommendations for the future of project activities, and the
resulting budgetary implications. Assurances were also obtained that BSG
would prepare, not later than December 31, 1984, detailed plans for the
long-term maintenance of feeder roads and rural water supplies in the
project area, including the division of responsibility between BSG and LGCs
(para 7.07).
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Financial Implications for Farmers
8.01      Farm models for rainfed cultivation have been constructed to
represent typical cropping patterns on an average family farm at the three
levels of unimproved, improved (BSP) and advanced (ASP). Sources for farm
size, cropping areas, yields and overall labor requirements were survey data
from the Gombe ADP in the east of the project area. Conservative agronomic
judgment has been used in constructing the improved and advanced variants.
Probably the main difference between Gombe and the rest of the state is the
larger cropped area of cotton around Gombe; elsewhere more grain is likely
to be grown. As explained in para 3.17, typical farms comprise some pure
crop stands, but also significant areas of multiple cropping, with dozens of
different combinations actually observed. In many cases, the agronomy of
these combinations, and their likely response to improved inputs, are not as
yet fully understood. The sole cropping models, by contrast, lend themselves
to fairly accurate projection, and below are summarized the essential pro-
ject parameters for each single crop enterprise using financial prices to
farmers. Supporting tables are in Project File, Working Paper 1.
Table 3: Sole Crop Models: Summary of Net Revenues (N)
(Values without input subsidies in parenthesis)
Unimproved               Improved (BSP)             Advanced (ASP)
Per       Per          Per          Per             Per           Per
Hectare   Laborday    Hectare       Laborday        Hectare       Laborday
Sorghum        154.4     2.66    296.6 (266.2) 4.24 (3.80)  444.8 (391.3)  5.56 (4.89)
Millet         120.2     2.27    186.6 (160.0) 3.11 (2.67)  259.9 (224.1)  3.71 (3.20)
Maize          149.4     2.41    346.4 (311.0) 4.44 (3.99)  549.0 (396.5)  5.66 (4.46)
Cotton         146.0     2.09    209.7 (183.3) 2.47 (2.16)  358.6 (314.6)  2.87 (2.52)
Groundnuts    101.8      1.36    289.5 (277.4) 3.05 (2.92)  452.7 (435.4)  4.31 (4.15)
Cowpeas       (not grown sole)         (not grown sole)        231.7 (214.4)  2.57 (2.38)



- 45 -
8.02      In addition to the sole crop parameters, typical composite farm
models have been put together for the three levels of technology (Annex 3,
Tables 1 and 2). A small contraction of area cultivated is allowed for, in
view of the intensification of operations, and some relatively minor changes
in crop combinations are also assumed. The BSP assumes essentially no
increase in overall labor input. The ASP assumes a small increase in labor
input (7-8%), which might be met partly from increased use of hired labor,
or partly from oxenization and low-level mechanization. It may be recalled
that the implementation of the rural water supply component of the project
should increase overall labor availability to agriculture, primarily directly
through a reduction of the labor required to transport water manually, and
possibly indirectly, to the extent that sanitation standards improve, by
reducing time away from work due to illness.
8.03      In view of the limited agronomic data available on mixed cropping
systems, it is assumed for the present analysis that only the sole cropped
portion of the typical farm would benefit from improved and advanced techno-
logy. In practice, this will significantly understate project benefits, and
allowance is made in project costs for increased input use on mixed crop
areas also. The results are given in detail in Annex 3, Table 2. In
summary they are given below. It should be emphasized that the "improved"
values are averages for a farm on which 37% of the area is, in fact, improved
and the remainder unimproved, while on the "advanced" farm 47% is advanced
and the remainder unimproved.
Unimproved      Improved       Advanced
Gross Revenues (N)            752.8          899.4         1,252.2
Purchased Inputs               -              21.8            79.5
Net Revenues                  752.8          877.6         1,172.7
Labor Days (L.D.)             332            335             358
Net Revenue per
Labor Day (N)                2.27           2.62            3.28
% Increase over Unimproved                    15              44
8.04      While income from crop enterprises forms the majority of rural
family income in the project area, other income sources are also signifi-
cant. As discussed in para 3.16, GADP surveys in 1977-78 found non-farm
income accounting for 20.6% of average family net income. The same survey
found income in cash and kind from livestock enterprises to represent 11.7%
of the total, and firewood collection 4.2%. If it is assumed that, in the
interim, average returns from non-crop activities have moved in parallel
with those from crop enterprises, these relative shares should be approxi-
mately unchanged. Treatment of hired labor presents a problem on both sides
of the income equation. The GADP survey found average hired labor use of
195 hours, equivalent to 39 days, at an average rate of N1.54 per day. If
current reported labor rates of N3.00/day upwards are accurate, then hired
labor costs appear to have risen faster than farm incomes, and farmers will
have had an incentive to cut down hired labor utilization. If, as assumed,



- 46 -
wages have been pulled up by non-farming sectors, it is possible that
on-farm hired labor use may have declined, while non-farm wage employment
and use of family labor on farms may have intensified.   This, however, is
speculative. If physical quantities of hired labor used on farms are assumed
constant, then net unimproved farm income (1981 prices) would be about
Nl,OOO or N179 per head, compared to 1979 GDP per head of N367 (US$670),
relative rural poverty level, N98 (US$162) and absolute rural poverty level,
N125 (US$207).
8.05      Since the project introduces improved cropping technology on a
wide base, while its livestock component is only a pilot basis, and off-farm
activities are not affected directly, it would be misleading to assume
income shares from different enterprises constant in future. A conservative
assumption is that real incomes from other sources stay constant and so does
labor input to agriculture. In practice this may understate income rises,
since some switching of family labor into agriculture may result from
changed relative returns. On this conservative assumption, the farmer who
used "improved" technology only on sole crops would raise family income to
about N1,125. If "improved" technology on all cropped areas produced a
comparable proportionate increase in returns per labor day as on sole
cropped areas, then with farm labor supply unchanged an "improved" farm
familys income could reach about N1,348. The "advanced" model is less
straightforward, since it assumes some increased labor input, and the effect
on family income will depend upon the source of the additional income. To
take the two extremes, and using initially a model in which only sole
cropped areas use "advanced" techniques; with all incremental labor hired,
family income would be N1,352, and with all incremental labor from family
sources (previously unemployed), family income would be N1,421. If, now,
the advanced model is adjusted (a) to show no increased labor input (i.e., a
compensating fall in cropped area), and (b) to show a comparable rise in
returns to labor on mixed crop enterprises, then advanced farm family income
could be about N1,562. In both this and the improved case, scope exists
for further increases to the extent that farmers adjust cropping patterns
in response to relative profitability of different enterprises. These
figures also take no account of the benefits from project infrastructure
subcomponents - the improved ratio of farmgate to market price resulting
from feeder road improvement, and increased labor supply resulting from
rural water supply programs (and reduced need to carry water manually). In
summary, risks are low and income incentives adequate to make adoption of
improved packages attractive to farmers.
8.06      No detailed farm model has been prepared for the fadama component.
Fadama land is used to grow a very wide variety of vegetables and off-season
crops, especially to exploit the large urban markets, including those out-
side Bauchi State. Farmers and middlemen appear well attuned to seasonal
price variations in such markets, and small fadama areas, intensively farmed,
can yield very high returns. Improved water control introduced under the
project should reduce risks of such enterprises and improve farmers- ability
to maximize returns (see Project File, Working Paper 1).



- 47 -
B. Financial Implications to Government
8.07      There are no formal cesses or taxes on farmers- produce, and while
marketing boards have at times generated surplus revenue for the Federal
Government, it is believed that at present the Cotton Board loses money on
each ton of cotton handled, while the Groundnuts Board and the Grains Board
are not active purchasers at present price levels. Some indirect public
revenue generation can be expected, however, as project beneficiaries will
spend part of their increased incomes on consumer goods and services offered
by the private sector, some of which will carry a tax element, mostly in
the form of import duties. As such, the increased tax revenue will accrue to
FGN for the most part, rather than BSG. Precise quantification of such
increased tax revenue is not possible, but an upper limit may be suggested.
If 50% of incremental benefits enter the cash economy, and are spent on goods
carrying an average tax rate of 15%, then (in 1981 constant base terms) the
additional public reven.ue would be in the region of N4.3 million per annum
at full development. In practice, it is expected that a higher proportion of
benefits will be taken in the form of non-taxed local produce. Small
amounts of additional revenue might be generated at the State or Local
Government level through increased payments for market fees, etc.
8.08      Financial costs to the State Government during the project period
may be divided into three categories: (a) the State share of incremental
project costs, which in current price terms would be about N52.8 mn over
the five-year period, excluding input subsidies, but including N4.0 mn
equity contribution to BASAC (b) the State-s responsibility to maintain
existing non-incremental services, estimated at N3.4 mn a year in constant
base terms, or N23.9 mn in current terms over the five-year period, and
(c) the State share of farm input subsidies, for which the total cost to the
State is estimated at N25.2 mn (current prices) over the project period,
of which N5.0 million corresponds to the annual increment of fertilizer
included in project costs. There would, in addition, be a responsibility
for N6.0 mn in equity for CFA. Total State expenditure in current price
terms thus comes to N107.9 mn, an average of N21.6 mn per annum. In
addition, the State would be obliged to pre-finance expenditures eligible
for IBRD reimbursement in the early stages of project implementation, though
the precise amounts involved would depend upon the speed and efficiency with
which the State submits disbursement applications, and much of this re-
financing can be taken care of through the project's overdraft facility.
8.09      A Bank review of the future budgetary resources of Bauchi State has
been undertaken, and it was confirmed that sufficient state funds are avail-
able. Under the Fourth National Development Plan BSG has been allocated a
capital budget of N1,300 million. The states contribution to the project
would represent 7% of this allocation. At negotiations, BSG confirmed the
prime importance attached to agricultural development, and its intention to
raise the share of agriculture in State budgets from about 5% to 10%. In the
post-project period (1985 prices) State annual expenditures would be about
N9.5 mn for input subsidies; incremental MANR expenditures are estimated to
fall from N9 mn in Year 6 to N 1.5 mn in Year 9 (base prices).



- 48 -
8.10      Under the FGN policy of providing a 25% contribution to ADP costs,
the direct FGN input would amount to N44.1 mn (current prices), or an average
N8.8 mn per annum. In addition,assuming the continuation of existing
policies, Federal fertilizer subsidies would total N38.3 mn, of which total,
the annual increment in project costs accounts for N7.6 mn. In 1985 prices,
Federal subsidies in the post-project period would be about N13.4 mn a year.
Details of financial implications to FGN and BSG are at Annex 2, Table 3.
8.11      Cost of servicing the IBRD loan would depend on the lending rate
current at time of approval. Assuming 9.6% interest, and 20-year term (with
5 years grace), initially commitment fees would run at US$990,000 per annum,
but interest would build up to a maximum of about US$12.7 mn. Thus, with
principal repayments at US$8.8 mn per annum, peak total debt service would
approach US$21.5 mn in Year 6.
8.12      Cost Recovery.  BASAC would recover all costs for procurement and
distribution of seeds, chemicals, sprayers and agricultural implements
through adequate markups. The only exceptions would be any inputs where
general and explicit subsidies are publicly announced by FGN or BSG--at
present essentially limited to fertilizer. In this case, FGN and BSG would
compensate BASAC for the difference between the fixed sales price and actual
procurement and distribution costs. BASAC's cost recovery practices would
be reviewed annually by BSG and the Bank in the light of BASAC's annual
report and audited accounts. In the case of irrigation (fadama) develop-
ment, the project would provide technical advice, including basic surveying,
to farmers. These services would not be charged for, but actual land
development, including land levelling and field bunding, would be the
farmers own responsibility, while water-lifting equipment would be sold by
the project on a full-cost basis. Consultancy provisions under the Kaduna
State ADP (Report No. 2718-UNI) would explore the scope for development of
viable tax systems at Local Government level, and the results of this work
should have relevance for the Bauchi State LGCs as well, and could contri-
bute to placing maintenance of rural infrastructure, including roads and
water supply, on a sound financial basis.
IX. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   Project Benefits
9.01      The project's two main benefits are closely related.  Improving
the management and staffing, and hence the effectiveness of the State
Ministry of Agriculture, of cooperative institutions and the LGCs, and the
establishment of the new BASAC, will enable a large number of Bauchi State's
425,000 farm families to raise their productivity and incomes. The effects
of project packages on farm incomes are quantified in Chapter VIII.
9.02      As one of the first of a proposed series of Bank-assisted state-
wide agricultural development projects, the project will attempt to intro-
duce, on a larger scale, many of the successful management and organizational



- 49 -
techniques adopted in the limited area ADPs already in progress. This
strategy has been adopted by the Government in its efforts to meet Nigeria's
projected food deficit and channel more resources, more efficiently, to the
rural sector. The project cannot be regarded as experimental - its agrono-
mic features are tried; the four zonal units are each not much larger than
ongoing ADPs; the project organization integrates and strengthens mostly
existing institutions, and the project cost, while meeting State and Federal
intentions to increase the share of revenues directed to agricultural
development, is regarded as realistic within the overall fiscal resources
likely to be available to the State. Staff development and training figure
prominently in project design, not only for agricultural staff, but also for
staff in the cooperative, LGC and rural infrastructure sectors.
9.03      There are an estimated 425,000 farm-families in the project area,
and assuming (on experience from existing ADPs) that 60 to 70% of farmers
adopt some of the project recommendations, then some 280,000 famiies (1.7
million individuals) will benefit directly from the project-s agricultural
components. Others will benefit from infrastructural components (rural
roads and water supplies, para. 9.04). The project is not designed pri-
marily to increase the number of persons employed in agriculture, and there
is nothing in the technological packages to inhibit their adoption within
the present labor supply, although economic analysis assumes an increased
labor input of some 6 million labor days per annum at full development. In
view of the present highly uneven seasonal pattern of labor utilization,
emphasis will be placed on eliminating bottlenecks and raising productivity
of off-season labor. The adaptive research program, simple on-farm mechani-
zation and oxenization, fadama upgrading and the water supply program are
all among project components which would help realize this aim.
9.04      Formal analysis of the economic return on the rural water supply
program would not be meaningful because of the practical impossibility of
quantifying and then internalizing the different forms of benefits into an
indicator like the rate of return. Further, a substantial but uncertain
amount of benefits will be qualitative, due to an improvement in the safety
of water supply. Also, additional labor will be released for other produc-
tive tasks. The subcomponent was thus designed on a cost-minimization
basis, as the lowest cost means of bringing safe perennial water supplies to
a substantial number of rural people in a reasonable time. Once the cost
advantages of a large competitive borehole tendering approach have been
demonstrated, the state might well choose to replicate the program for other
communities. However, in view of non-quantifiability of benefits, the
subcomponent is excluded from the calculation of project rate of return.
Benefits from the road subcomponent are only partially quantifiable. In
some cases poor communications may otherwise impede participation in the
project altogether; on the other hand, no specific benefits are imputed to
reduced transport costs and ensuing improvements in farmers terms of trade.
A survey of locally produced food prices in the project area (1968) found
differences, in the extreme, of up to 1000% depending upon accessibility,
while differences of 100% were typical.



- 50 -
B.   Economic Rate of Return
9.05      The project's economic rate of return (ERR) is about 18%, and its
net present value (NPV) discounted at 11%, the estimated opportunity cost of
capital in Nigeria, is about N33 million.
9.06      The ERR was calculated on the basis of incremental costs and incre-
mental output. Project life was assumed to be 25 years, including a five-year
investment period during which statewide development activities would be
substantially completed. For the calculation of project costs, farm inputs
were costed at full, unsubsidized economic cost; on-farm labor was costed at
Nl.75 per day in border naira, representing the average daily productivity
in unimproved agriculture when all outputs are valued in economic (border
naira) terms; other local costs were converted to border naira using a
standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.83. This adjustment allows for
distortions to local costs resulting from import duties, quotas etc. Local
costs used base period prices, on the grounds that continued disparity
between domestic inflation will at some stage result in either an exchange
rate adjustment or increased trade restrictions (hence a fall in the SCF)
while a delay in such adjustment would represent a political choice to apply
oil "rent" to consumption. A portion of project costs consists either of
long-term institution building, not directly related to the agricultural
productivity benefits attributed to the project, or of rural infrastructure
(para. 9.04) for which quantification of benefits is problematic. Adjust-
ments were made to project costs to allow for these elements; full details
are in the Project File WP 9. Project benefits comprise the value of
incremental crop production, priced at border farmgate prices derived from
import parity for internationally traded goods and their immediate substi-
tutes, and from domestic retail prices for non-traded outputs. To calculate
the naira landed value, import parity prices were calculated, based on IBRD
forecasts for 1981-1990, in constant 1981 dollars, converted at the official
exchange rate.
- C. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
9.07      The sensitivity of the ERR to changes in cost or benefit streams
was tested, and switching values calculated (the percentage change in a
stream or streams that would reduce the ERR to its minimum acceptable value
of 11%). The switching value for all benefits is -12.1%, for all costs
+13.8%. For rainfed crop benefits (either price or yield) the switching
value is -13.3%; for project unit costs the value is +43.1%, for purchased
farm inputs +34.4% and for on-farm labor +49.7% (i.e. the economic opportu-
nity cost of labor could rise from N1.75 to N2.61). Sensitivity of the
project to adoption rates was also tested. A fall in adoption rates of 20%
would reduce the ERR to 14.4%, and the NPV would fall by 53%, and they would
have to fall by 38.3% to reduce the ERR to 11%. A delay of one year in
benefits alone (with no delay in costs) would reduce the ERR to 11.5%, and
the NPV would fall by 91%. A delay in farmers- adoption of one year would
reduce the rate of return to 15.6% (NPV down by 29%), a two-year delay to
13.7% (NPV down by 55%), and a three-year delay to ls.3% (NPV down by 79%).



- 51 -
9.08      The sensitivity analysis indicates that while the project can
tolerate a certain amount of latitude in actual values from those projected,
it is important that major divergences in costs, yields or timing be avoided
(divergences in economic prices are regarded as outside project control).
Crucial to success will be (a) sound initial management, (b) regular and
timely financing, and (c) efficient and dependable procurement and distribu-
tion of farm inputs: failure in any of these areas could have very serious
implications, and safeguards to be sought in each area are listed in Chapter X.
The project-s BSP and ASP are fairly simple and well tested, both at research
station and farm level, and refinements to improve the mixed cropping recommen-
dations should result from the project research component.
9.09      The financial viability of various crop enterprises will depend
upon Government policies affecting producer prices (international trade policy
towards farm produce, activities of marketing boards) - the example of cotton
indicates possible risks here, and the Bank will need to maintain a continuing
dialogue with FGN over such national policy issues. This dialogue has made an
excellent start with close Bank involvement in assisting FGN to draw up a
national Food Plan. The drilling program for rural water supply runs the risk
that contractors- quotes may exceed cost estimates (unit contract costs for
much smaller drilling programs in the area are substantially above project
unit costs). The appraisal costs are based on an efficient, large-scale
contract operation (with additional allowance at the physical contingency
stage) and procurement arrangements have been designed to ensure a genuinely
competitive response.
X. AGREEMENTS REACHED, AND RECOMMENDATION
10.01     During negotiations, the following main assurances were obtained;
Financial Conditions
(a) BSADP would submit the annual budget as approved by BSARDC at
least four months prior to each fiscal year to FMA and the Bank
(para 3.43);
(b) FGN and BSG would each pay their share of project costs quarterly
and in advance into the project's bank account, in accordance with
the approved annual budget (para 4.34);
(c) inthe event that BSG were delinquent in paying its quarterly share
of project costs into the project account, FGN would be authorized
to pay BSG-s contribution directly from the State-s statutory
allocation (para 4.34);
(d)  Bank reimbursements would be made directly to the BSADP commercial
bank account (para 4.34);
(e)  BSADP would be authorized to establish overdraft facilities of up to
N5 million and the overdraft would be guaranteed by BSG (para 4.34);



- 52 -
(f) since project operating expenses are incremental to estimated
existing government recurrent expenditures of N3.4 million
per annum (constant prices), BSG would continue disbursing these
funds to the project in addition to the incremental requirements
shown in the financing plan (para 4.29);
(g) BSG would provide BASAC, in advance on April 1 of each year, equity
payments as working capital, totalling N4 million during the first
two years of the project period, and would annually review and agree
with the Bank, BASAC's cost recovery policies and practices to
ensure that the cost of any service or input is fully recovered
(paras. 4.33 and 8.12);
(h) audited accounts of BSADP, BASAC, CFA, DOC and BSACD, including
statements as to whether Bank funds had been used for their intended
purposes, would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the
end of the fiscal year (para 4.37);
(i)  BSG would provide CFA by April 1 of each year in advance, equity
payments as working capital, totalling N6 million during the first
four years of the project period (para 7.22);
Project Administration Conditions
(j) BSG would review annually with LGCs, MWS, the State Water Board and
BSADP, the annual road construction action plan and water supply
strategy, and on the basis of this review LGCs would provide suffi-
cient funds and personnel for yearly road and rural water supply
maintenance (paras 4.14, 4.16, 5.10 and 5.16);
(k) short-term consultancy services would be appointed with conditions
of employment, qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank and FGN (para 4.26);
(1) according to agreed recruitment procedures, key staff (listed at para
7.12) would be appointed on terms and conditions and with qualifica-
tions and experience satisfactory to the Bank (para 7.13);
(m)  BASAC would be appointed LBA for the Nigerian Commodity Board
operating in Bauchi State (para 6.04), and authorized to negotiate
contracts for grain supply (para 6.03);
(n)  no later than the end of the fourth year of the project, FGN and BSG
would review with the Bank recommendations.for the-future of project
activities and resulting budgetary implications, including division
of responsibility between BSG and LGCs for long-term maintenance of
feeder roads and rural water supplies in the project area (para 7.26).



- 53 -
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
(o)  BSG had provided evidence satisfactory to the Bank that guaranteed
overdraft facilities for BSADP had been established with a commercial
bank (para 4.34);
(p) two separate bank accounts for BSADP and BASAC had been opened with
commercial banks, with initial deposits of N2.0 million each by
FGN and BSG for BSADP and and N1.O million for BASAC, paid by BSG
(para 4.38);
(q) an action plan for the first year acceptable to the Bank had been
drawn up (para 4.39);
(r) a subsidiary loan agreement had been signed between FGN and BSG
(para 4.39);
(s) BSARDC and BSADPTC had been established through publication in the
official gazette, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank
(para 7.03);
(t) proposals from short-listed consultants for the supply of staff
and services for the project had been given to the Bank and draft
contracts for a project recruitment agency, accounting services and
a managing agency for BASAC had been agreed by the Bank (paras. 7.13
and 7.17);
(u) the program manager and financial controller had been appointed
(para 7.13).
10.02     On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$132.0 million.



- 54 -
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEXES
1. Crops & Production
2. Project Cost and Finances
3. Farm Model
4. Economic Analysis



-55-                       AINNE  1
Table 1.
NIGERIA
8AUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INPUTS AND YIELDS - EASTERN ZONE
R.i.f.d Crop D-vfl.p.t
FERTILIZER /1                                  INSECTICIDE
BASAL         TOP DRESSING           SEED DRESSING/2 FIELD SPRAY /3          STORAGE
VARIETY                       SEED RATE    SSP    CAN              CAN                     Kg            Litres        Lindane/4  AcreElm  /5    PRODUCT    YIELD
Kg         Kg      Kg             Kg                  Aldrex T       Pyrethroids       Kg         Litres                       Kg
Unimprovrd             Local .-10                                     -       -                                 -                               -                           Grain        500
Improved               SL 187                            10          75      75              -                  0.03              -             2            -                         1,1000
Advanced               SL 187                            I          E 100     100          100                 0103               _             -            0.15             "        1,500
Millet
Unimproved             Local                             6            -                      -                  -                 -             -            -                '          400
Improved               E.-BSo-  or Nig-Couposite         3           75     75               -                  0.01             _              1.3          -                "          650
Advanced              EI-BDeo or Nig-Co-ponite           3          100    100               _                  0.01              -             -            0.095            "          900
Copea
Uninproved             Local                             15           -      -               -                  -                 -             -            -                           125
Advenced               IG eBown or VITA 5                15         100       -              -                  0.05              7.5           -            0109             '          650
Groundnut
Unimproved             Local                             40           -       -              -                  -                 -             -            -               Kerel       225
leproved               G 153                             50                  -               -                  0.15              -             _            -                0          600
Advanced               G 153                             50         100       -              -                  0.15              -             -            -                "          900
Unimproved             Local                             10           -       -                                 -                                            -              Grain        500
Improved               TZB                               15         IOU    100               -                  0.05            --              -           0.09                      1,200
Advanced               TZB                               15         200    200             200                 0105               -             -            0.15                      1,800
Cotton
Unimproved             S72 or 77                         40           -       -              -                  -                 -             -            -           SDrd Cotton    400
Improved               S77                               20         100      -              50                  -                -              -            -                "          600
Advanced                S77                              20         150       -            100                  -                 7.5           _            -                         1,200
1/ SSP and GAN could be substitutud for N:P:X compound fertilixer for c-rv-al  end cotton, an potassium may be requred.
2/ Aldrex I could be sobstitnied for Fe- nasac  in similar copaund.
3/ An alternative insecticide nay be required should resistance build up.
4/ Lindane, which has been withdrawn from qe-eral reco-e-dation because of toxicity problems, has bern included because it in
lready being .s.d on a large-scale by farmers in B-uchi State  Actellic  should be recormended by etees-ion staff as bring
more effective, safer and cheaper.
5/ IC.1. aill supply I flit gun applicator with each I litre of actellic (pirimyphos methyl) purchased.
April 1, 1980



Table lb
NIGERIA
BAUCNI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INPUTS AND YIELDS - CENTRAL Z0NE
Rainfed Crop Develmpe-nt
FERTILIZER                                        INSECTICIDE
DADAL         TOP DRESSING          SEED DRESSING    FIELD SPRAY              STORAGE
VARIETY                        SEED RATE    SSP    CAN              CAN                   Kg             Litres         Lindane    Actellic         PRODUCT      YIELD
Kg         KR      Kg             Kg                Aldrex T         Pyrethroids       Kg         Litree                        Kg
Sorazho
npr-d                 Loca I                             10                                                                       _             _ -                         Grain        400
Improved              DIce lr NP3                        10          75     75               -                 0.03                             1.5          -                ,          800
Advanced              SSF60 or NP3                       10         100 17   0             100                 0.03                             -            0.1                       1,200
Millet
Unimproved            Local                               3           -      -              ---                                                              -                           30
I.proved.             En-Do.na or Ria-Conposite           3          75     75               -0.01                               -I                          -                "550
Advanced               x--orno or Nig-Composite           3         100    100                                 0.01                             -            0.075                       750
CowNecm__                                                                                                                                                       _                 r6
Coinpr-vd             Loca                               15           -          -            -                         -                -                   -                            60
AdVanced              Ifo  Bron  or VITA 5               15         100                      -                 0.05               7.5           -            0.065            "          550
Unimproved            Local                              40                      -                             -                  -                                         e- Kr        175
Inpr-md               0 153                              5C          70      --0.15                                              ---"                                                    450
Advanced              0 153                              50         100      -               _                 0.15                                                                      7 -  "  750
Unimprovd             Local                              10           -      --                                                   --                         -              GroIn        300
Inproved              TZB                                15         100    100              -                  0.00 5                                       0.05                      1,000
Advanced              TCR                                15         200    200            200                  0.05              -              -            0.14                      1,600
April 1, 1980



-57-                        ANNEX I
Table ic
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INPUTS AND YIELDS - NORTHERN ZONE
Rainfed Crop Development
FERTI LI ZER                                         INSECTIC IDE
EASAL           TOP DRESSING             SEED DRESSING   FIELD SPRAY               STORAGE
CROP                 VARIETY                         SEED RATE    SSP    CAN                  CAN                       Kg            Lretos         Lindane   Actellic       PRODUCT    YIELD
Kg          Kg      Kg               Kg                   Aldrex T        Pyretbroids         Kg        Litres                     Kg
Sorqhum
Unimproved        Local                               10                                  -            -                          -                      -                  Grain        350
Improved          YG 5760 or HP3                      10          75      75                 -                   0.03                              1 .2        -                         750
Advanced          YG 57b0 or HP3                      10         100     100              100                    0.03               -             -            0.09           ''       1,000
millet
Unimproved        Local                                3           -       -                -                    -                  --                         -                         275
Improved          En-Burno or Nig-Composite           3           75      75                -                    0.01              -              1.1          -                         500
Advanced          Ex-Borno or Nig-Composite            3         lOG     100                 -                   0.01               -             -            0.07                      700
Cowoca
Unimproved        Local                               15           -       -                                     -                                             _ -                        60
- Advanced         'Ife Brown or VITA 5                 15         100       -                 -                   0.05              7.5             -           0.075                     550
Groundnut
Unimproved        Local                              40                                   -                               -                -                   -            Kernel        175
Improved          0 153                              50           70       --0.15                                                  ---450
Advanced          G 153                               50         lO                                              0.15                                                                    750
April I, 1980



ANNEX I
Table Id
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INPUTS AND YIELDS - WESTERN ZONE
Rainfed Crop DeveloPmnt
FERTILIZER                                    INSECTICIDE
BASAL      TOP DRESSING           SEED DRESSING    FIELD SPRAY           STORAGE
CROP                 VARIETY                                     SEES RATE   SUP    CAN           CAR                    Kg            Litres        Liodame   Actellic    PRODUCT    YDELD
Kg         Kg      Kg          Kg                Aidrex T        Pyrethroids       Kg        Litres                     Kg
Sorghum
Unimproved        Local                                          10----- -                                                           -             -           -           Grain         450
Improved          FFBL or S1 5912 or SL 187                      10         75      75           -                 0.03              -             1.6         -                         g 900
Advanced          FFdL or SK 5912 or SL 187                      10        300    1D0          100                 0.03              -             -           0,12           "300
millet
Unimproe ed       Loca1                                           3          -       -           _                 _                 -             -           -           Grain         350
Dnprvov          Ex-Brorn  or Ex-Benue or Rig-Composite           3         75      75           -0.01                               -1.3                      -                         600
Advanced          Ex-Bornm  or Ex-6enue or Nig-Composite          3        100     1, 0.01                                                         -           o.085         8'50
Cowpea
Unimproved        Local                                           S                                                                  7 5                                     rain        60
Advanced          Ife Brown or VITA 5                            15       O1                                       0.55              7.5                        .09                      6oo
Groundnut
Unimproved        Local                                         40           -                                     -                 -                         -           Kernel        200
Onpreved         G 153                                           50         70       --0.15                                          ---550
Advanced         G 153                                           50        100       -           -                 0.15 
Unimproved        Local                                          10          -                                                                                             G -  -  -  -  -  Urain  450
Improved         TZB                                             15        100    100            -                 0.05              -             -           0.o65                   1,100
Advanced          TUB                                            15        200    200          .200                0.05                                        0.13                    1,750
Rice and Acha5
Unimproved        Local                     75                               -       -           --                                -                           -           P.ddy         400
Improved         06 or Makalioks                                70          75     75            -                 0.21              -             -           0.09                      B 1oo
Advanced         06 or Makalioka                                 70        100    100          105                 0.21                                        0.15                    1.200
April 1, 1980



ANNEX 1
59-                             Table le
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INPUTS AND YIELDS
Fadma Croo Development
(Ha)
FERTILIZER Kg/Ha _
CROP               VARIETY     YIELD      SEED          BASAL       TOP DRESSING      PYRETHROIDS      NEMATICIDE      LABOR
Kg/Ha    Kg/Ha       SSP      CAN        CAN               L           (Seed Bed)    Mandays
Tomato
Improved                   15,000          5      100     100         150               -              -
Advanced                   30,000          5      150     150         150               7.5            1.8
Pepper (green/dry chillies lt)
Improved                    5.000          2      100     100         150               -              -               _
Advanced                    10,000         2      150      150        250               5.0 
Onions
Improved                    12,000         5      150       -         150               --                             -
Advanced                   25,000          5      250       _         250               -              -               -
Potatoes
Improved                   12,000      1,500      150       -         150               -
Advanced                    15,000     2,000      250      50         150               2.5            _               _
1/ 75% chillies and 25% green pepper.
April 1, 1980



ANNEX 1
Table 2
-60-
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rainfed Crop Development Projections
(ha)
Crop                     Year 0       Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
Sorghum
Unimproved           670,026      655,766    627,800    591,399    546,264    500,354
Improved              78,022       91,262    111,643    147,805    179,985    205,841
Advanced                 297        1,317       3,902       9,141      17,996      31,397
Total             748,345      748,345    748,345    748,345    744,245    737,592
Millet
Unimproved           245,947      241,880    229,395    215,667    199,040    181,707
Improved              29,231       32,998      44,597      56,443      69,686      81,634
Advanced                  89          389       1,275       3,157       6,541      11,926
Total             275,267      275,267    275,267    275,267    275,.67    275,267
Cowpea
Unimproved           377,054      375,723    370,089    360,756    350,601    336,988
Advanced                 782        1,596       7,707      17,080      27,235      40,848
Total             3774836      377,836    377.836    377,836    377,836    377,836
Groundnut
Unimproved           142,948      140,763    137,150    129,608    121,636    112,186
Improved               8,943       10,639      13,250      18,633      24,511      30,567
Advanced                  15          101         353       1,012       2,306       4.503
Total             151,906      151,503    150,753    149,253    148,453    147,256
Maize
Unimproved            15,037       14,244      13,264      12,417      11,045       9,960
Improved              12,685       14,042      16,035      18,843      24,229      31,591
Advanced                  25          114         351         890       2,076       4,349
Total              27,747       28,400      29,650      32,150      37,350      45,900
Cotton
Unimproved            80,588       79,485      78,161      75,545      72,714      67,877
Improved               S,938        7,625       8,164       9,271      10,907      13,405
Advanced                   70          236        52J1      1,030       1925        3-564
Total              87,596       87,596      86,846      85,846      85,546      84,846
Rice & Acha
UnimDroved            31,814        31,814      31,814     30,430      28,356      26,281
Improved               2,766         2,766       2,766      4,109        6,037      7,801
Advanced                  -            -            -                      187         449
Total              34,580       34,580      34,580      34,580      34,580      34,580
March 25, 1980



-61-                              ANNEX 1
Table 3
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fadama Crop Development Projections
(ha)
Crop /1                           Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
Tomato
Improved                           30.0     79.0    162.0    277.0    412.0
Advanced                           3.0     20.0      69.0    185.0    413.0
Total                         33.0      99.0    231.0    462.0    825.0
Pepper
Improved                           30.0     79.0    162.0    277.0    412.0
Advanced                           3.0     20.0      69.0    185.0    413.0
Total                         33.0      99.0    231.0    462.0    825.0
Onion
Improved                          20.0      53.0    108.0    185.0    275.0
Advanced                           2.0     13.0      46.0    123.0    275.0
Total                         22.0      66.0    154.0    308.0    550.0
Potato
Improved                          20.0      53.0    108.0    185.0    275.0
Advanced                          2.0      13.0      46.0    123.0    275.0
Total                         22.0      66.0    154.0    308.0    550.0
11 Cropping intensity assumed at 110%, so that net area
developed is 2,500 ha.
August 11, 1980



.62-                                    ANNEX 1
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STAE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPWi PROJECT
Unit           YEAR 0              YEAR 1               YEAR 2               YERR 3                YEAR 4               YEAR 5
U.nits    Price      Q-tity   Cost        Quantitv   Cost      Quantity   Cost      Quantity   Cost       Qu-ntity   Cost    Q-antity       Cost
F-rtilicor
SSE                                       1000 Tons       111,0        15.4    1709.4       16.9    1875.9       19.7    2186.7      25.0      2775.0      32.0      3552.0     40.1       4451.1
CAN                                       1000 Tots       122.0        12.6    1537.2       14.3    1744.6       17.3    2110.6      22.1      2694.2      28.9      3525.8     37.0        4514.0
Sob-Total                                                    28.0  3246           3.2      620.5     377.       4297.3     7.1      547.2T 60.9           7077.8      77.1       8965.7
Port Charg.s                                               13.9        13.9     389.2                433.7                514.3                 654.7                 846.5                 1071.7
Transport to B.o.hi                                        84.0                 2352.0              2620.8               3108.0                3956.4                5115.6                 6476.4
Sub-Total                                                            5987.8               1675.0               7919.6              10082.3               13039.9                16513.2
Annuel Inorsent                                                                                      687.2               1244.6                2162.7                2957.6                 3473.3
Chesioels
Aldr  T                                        TonS    12000.0                               2.81     33.7        5.94     71.3       10.50     126.0       14.23     170.8     18.42        221.0
Antellic                                  1000 Litre    9000.0                               0.79       7.1       1.83     16.5        4.11      37.0        7.06      63.5     11.27        101.4
Lind.nt Dust                                   Tun-       820.0                            114.45     93.8      211.26    173.2     302.89      248.4     364.77      299.1    413.70        339.2
Synthetic Pyrethroids                     1000 Litres   8500.0                              18.05    153.4       63.01    535.6     138.82    1180.0      224.66    1909.6    343.73        2921.7
N-ti.ides                                      Kg           7.8                             54.0       0.4      162.0       1.2     378.0         2.8     756.0         5.7   1350.0          10.1
Sub-Total                                                                                  288.4                797.8                1594.2               2448.7                 3593.4
Annul Innre-nt                                                                                                            509.4                 796.4                 854.5                 1144.7
Rarusulturl Isnients
U1V Sprayers                                   Each        16.0                           1624        26.0    7473        119.6    7902         126.4   11922         190.8   21467          343.5
Batteries                                      1000       200.0                             25.98      5.2      119.57     23.9     126.43       25.3     190.75       38.2     343.47        68.7
On Pl1ubhs                                     Each       138.0                            342        47.2    1050        144.9    1851         255.4    2813         388.2    3966          547.3
Or Cultivators                                 Each       500.0                              -    -              61        30.5     208         104.0     404         202.0     644          322.0
N.izs Shellers                                 Each       130.0                              3         0.4       10         1.3       28          3.6       73          9.5     201           26.1
Grouddnut htorticaters                         Each        70.0                              3         0.2        7         0.5       28          2.0      69           4.8     168           11.8
3' Notoriced Irr-Pump                          Each     3000.0                               4        12.0        8        24.0      16          48.0      28          84.0      44          132.0
Lov Lift hand Puep                             Each       200.0                             60        12.0      140        28.0    260           52.0     540         108.0     875          175.0
Irrigation equipnt at 12.5% of previou  2 itsu                                                         3.0                  6.5                  12.5                  24.0                   38.4
Sub-Total                                                                                  106.0                37S.2                629.2                1049.5                 1664.8
Total Bass Cust                                                                                     1081.6               2133.2                3588.3                4861.6                 6282.8
June 5, 1980



-63-                                    ANNEX 1
Table 5a
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rainfed & Fadama Crop Production Projections
('000 tons)
Crop                           Year 0      Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
Sorghum
Gross Production             353.4       360.8       374.1       392.0       411.7       430.3
Storage Losses  /1            35.3        36.1        37.4        39.2        30.8        32.3
Seed Retention  74             6.7         6.6         6.3         5.9         5.5         5.0
Net Production               311.4       318.1       330.4       346.9       375.4       393.0
Incremental Production         -           6.7        19.0        35.5        64.0        81.6
Millet
Gross Production              93.1        94.2        97.4       101.0       105.7       110.6
Storage Losses  /1             9.3         9.4         9.7        10.1         8.0         8.3
Seed Retention  75             1.5         1.5         1.4         1.3         1.2         1.1
Net Production                82.3        83.3        86.3        89.6        96.5       101.2
Incremental Production         -           1.0         4.0         7.3        14.2        18.9
Cowpea
Gross Production               28.1        28.8        31.5        36.4        41.5        48.4
Storage Losses  /1             2.8         2.9         3.2         3.6         3.1         3.6
Seed Retention  74             5.7         5.6         5.6         5.4         5.3         5.1
Net Production                19.6        20.3        22.7        27.4        33.1        39.7
Incremental Production         -           0.7         3.1         7.8        13.5        20.1
Groundnut
Gross Production              32.1        32.7        33.3        35.3        37.8        40.5
Storage & Picking Losses /1  3.2           3.3         3.3         3.5         2.8         3.0
Seed Retention  /4             5.7         5.6         5.5         5.2         4.9         4.5
Net Production                23.2        23.8        24.5        26.6        30.1        33.0
Incremental Production         -           0.6         1.3         3.4         6.9         9.8
Maize
Gross Production              21.7        23.2        25.5        29.4        36.8        48.8
Storage Losses  /1             2.2         2.3         2.6         2.9         3.7         4.9
Seed Retention  74             0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1
Net Production                19.3        20.7        22.7        26.4        33.0        43.8
Incremental Production         -           1.4         3.4         7.1        13.7        24.5
Cotton
Gross Production              36.5        36.7        36.8        36.9        37.9        39.5
Storage & Picking Losses /3  1.6           1.6         1.6         1.5         1.5         1.4
Seed Retention /4              -           -           -           -           -
Net Production                34.9        35.1        35.2        35.4        36.4        38.1
Incremental Production         -           0.2         0.3         0.5         1.5         3.2
Rice and Acha
Gross Production              14.9        14.9        14.9        15.6        16.3        17.3
Storage Losses  /1             1.5         1.5         1.5         1.6         1.2         1.3
Seed Retention  74             1.6         1.6         1.6         1.5         1.4         1.3
Net Production                11.8        11.8        11.8        12.5        13.7        14.7
Incremental Production         -           -           -           0.7         1.9         2.9
Vegetables  /2
Gross Production               -           1.2         3.7         9.4        20.1    28.0
Storage Losses  /5             -           0.3         0.9         2.4         5.0      9.5
Seed Retention                 -           -           -           -           _        _
Net Production                 -           0.9         2.8         7.0        15.1    28.5
Others  /6                     -
1/ 10% Years 0-3; 7% Years 4-5.
2/ Includes tomatoes, peppers, onions and potatoes.
3/ 5% unimproved area.
4/ See Annex 1, Tables la-c.
5/ 25%.
6/ Estimated crop production of main food crops derived from common crop mixtures,
sorghum (90.0), millet (50.0), maize(18.0), cowpeas (19.0), groundnuts (15.0).
Crop production from minor crops has not been estimated.
March 25, 1980



-64-                                   ANNEX 1
Table 5b
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparison in Yield and Rainfed Crop Production
Without Project                           With Project
Incremental
Net Yield    Net Production            Net Yield    Net Production
(kg/ha)       ('000 ton)               (kg/ha)        ('000 ton)
Sorghum             400              390                   490              82
Millet              290              126                   330              19
Maize               375               35                   540              25
Cowpea               55               33                    82              20
Groundnut
(Kernel)            140               33                   185              10
Rice                350               12                   425               3
Cotton              400               35                   450               3



-65-                              ANNEX 1
Table 6
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Smallholder - Cattle Fattening - Costs and Benefits
Inputs                                       No. of Animals             Price
Capital
Purchase of Animals                             6                  1,500.00
Variable Costs
Feed Cost for Four                              -108.00
Months  /1
Medicine and Salt Lick  /2                      -                     13.00
Interest on Capital for Four Months             -                     50.00
Total Variable Costs                            -                    171.00
Output
Weight Increase  /3                                     360 kg       436.00
Total Margin Over Variable Costs                                        265.00
1/ 1 kg groundnut haulms and 1 kg cottonseed cake daily per animal
@ 5 kobos/10 kobos per kg, respectively.
2/ @ N2.12 per animal.
3/ @ 0.5 kg per day.
4/ @ N1.21 per kg liveweight.



-66-                              ANNEX 1
Table 7
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmgate Prices of Principal Commodities
(1981 constant N/ton)
Financial                      Economic
1981     1985                 1981       1985
Maize                             305       285                  204       223
Sorghum  1/                       315       315                  192       219
Millet                            305       305                  187       209
Cotton                            365       365                  392       492
Groundnuts  2/                    365       335                  305       298
Cowpeas                           570       520                  375       350
Paddy Rice  3/                    286       286                  202       222
1/ Includes N10 for value of stalks for traditional sorghum.
2/ Unshelled. Includes N20 for value of haulms.
3/ Includes N20 for value of bran.



-67-                      ANNEX 1
Table 8
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Lending for Agriculture in Nigeria
Loan Number      Year      <:Project                      Loan amount US$ mn.
764          1971     Western State Cocoa                    7.2
1045         1974     Second Cocoa                          20.0
1091         1975     Livestock                             21.0
1092         1975     Funtua ADP                            29.0
1099         1975     Gusau ADP                             19.0
1103         1975     Rice                                  17.5
1164         1975     Gombe ADP                             21.0
1183         1975     Mid-West Oil Palm                     29.5
(Bendel State, Nucleus Estate/
Smallholder)
1191         1976     East-Central Oil Palm                 19.0
(Imo State, Smallholder)
1192         1976     Western Oil Palm                      17.0
(Ondo State, Nucleus Estate/
Smallholder)
1454         1977     Lafia ADP                             27.0
1455         1977     Ayangba AD?                           35.0
1591         1978     Rivers Oil Palm                       30.0
(Nucleus Estate/Smallholder)
1667         1979     Bida ADP                              23.0
1668         1979     Ilorin ADP                            27.0
1679         1979     Forestry                              31.0
1719         1979     Agricultural and Rural Management
Institute                              9.0
1838         1980     Oyo North ADP                         28.5
1854         1980     Ekiti-Akoko ADP                       32.5
443.2
NOTE: For location of existing and proposed projects see Map IBRD 15065.



-68-                                                    -ANNEX  2
Table 1
NIGERIA
SAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PrROJECT CuoSTS
(NAIRA THOUSANDI
i           2            3            4            5      ,O T-LS     F. E.
MANAGEMENT oSERVICES           2122.0       2310.3       2548.7       1846.9       i702.o      10530,S       4621.7
HONITOIRING & EVALUATION       io6i.1        508+0        456.0        51A,A        4`9.3       3011.2        757.0
STAFF TRAINING                 43765.3      1917.4          81715.3                19/o7.S     11163,        4193. 1
BAUCHI SCHOOL OF Abf'T'.        1897.6       71B.?        706.1        7i1.7         c3i        4537.4        tO'7Y1
LOCAL GOVT. SUPPORT              129.3        83.6         74, 0        74,0         74tO        434.r        266.97
EXTENSION                      2940. 0      3538.0       4416^ .5     4252.8       4622.7      19772.0       32Q73.4
PLANNING I FAIRM MGMT,           575.3       62,83       46t7,9       466.4        357.4       2497.3        95550
RESSEARCH & TEC. iEV.           iO88,6      1293.o8       31 1         79706        901.        5566.4       2132.9
SEED' MULTIPLiCATIO             754.6        445.4        511.8"       5i7.6        502.'      2731.8        1027.4
FAiADMA IRRIGATION             6o,1ii        273.4        269.4        353.9        216..       17f 720,0      724,3
LIVESTOCK i38.6                              164.9        162.2        227.2,162         6      ;255+         357.7
ROAD CONSTRUCTION              3235.2       6264.1       5714-.       4495.2       454.0    2242553.4       13493.1
ROAD STUDIES                     175.5        125.0       125.0          0.; 0)         d        425.3         290.5
MECHANICAL SERVICES             1353.1      1436.3       1650.2       1247.8        925^;i     6613.1         2764.8
BUILDING uNIT                   4417.3       '2,.o       196 .6       231.5        196.0       1263,5:        449,1
AG,SERVICES CO.(11S1C)         4i11.7       3209.0       4045,3       3382.4       2727        1747> o        3595.4
COOPERATIVE DiEVELOPMENT        1452.7       919.9        982.60      1282.3       1315.3       3953.0       1004.6
CO-OF FINANCING AGENCY           504.7        416.4       519.7        4371         354.4       22.3it        712.
RURAL WATER SOUPPLY            2 622.4      31071.       30.504.0       I 776.6    297603.9:58  
FERTILIZER(INCREMENTAL)         736.4       1337.-       2324.3       3178.4       3732.5     11311.0        7682,
IMPLEMENTS3INC.CHEMICALS        394.4        888.6       1425.6       1904.0       2809.5      7422.1        4650.7
SUB-TOTAL                  31285,1      29305.3      32712+5      31530.5     30446'.9    155780,3       65452+4
LESS:+ PRE-PROJECT COSTS       3426.0       3426-.0      342.+0       3426.0       3426,0     17130.0         1674.0
INCREMENTAL BASE COSTS        27/859+1     26379+3      2928M65      28104,5     27020.      1386650.3       &3771e. 4
OF WHICH FOREIGN           13995.8      13089,4      13324,5      12356+9     1ioii.o      63776.4
OF WHICH LOCAL             13863.3      13289+9      1592.0       15747.6      16009+1     74871,5
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY            1534,5      1986.0       2106o7       ;19914       1940.0      9558+5        4798.7
PRICE CONTINGENCY              1674.5       4779,8       9147.3      12620.3      16417.3     44639,2       14471.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           31068+0      33145.1      40540.5      42716.2      45378,1    192848.0       83048.3
OF WHICH FOREIGN           15470.0      16080.0      17538.7      17356.3      16603.3     33048.3
OF WHICH LOCAL             15598.0      17065+2      23001.      25360.0    218774.9    109799,8
09/17/80



- 69 -
NIGERIA
'ANNEX  2
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELLPIENT PROJECT                                   Table 2
PROJECT COSTS -- SUHMARY OF FINANCING CATEGORIES
(NAIRA THOUSAND)
1           2            3           4            5      TOTALS      r .E.
BUILDINGS                     11927.2       5222.5      5524.2       1786.7        462.1     24922.6        9450.8
BOREHOLE DRILL. CONTRACT           --       2275.7      2517.7       2782.6       3078.7     10654.8        5870.9
CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS
FOR ROADS,DAMIS,FADANA          260.4       1427.7      2435.2       3193,4       3548.1     10864.7        5307.5
PLANT.VEHICLES,EQUIPHT.        9030.4       7903.2      6381.7       5858.5       3476.6     32650.4       23766.4
SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES
LOCAL STAFF /1               3765.7       6732.0      9914.2      12234.1      14784.1     47430.2
INTERNATIONAL STAFF          2534.0      32289       3664.2       3340.7      2475.6      15243.3       13482.9
OVERSEAS TRAINING               143.7        112.2        63.7         27.4         18.5       365.5         345.5
CONSULTANT SERVICES             228.9        131.7        83.1         46.2         50.3       540.2         422.3
ROAD STUDIES                    198.1        162.2       186.6           ---                   546.9         374.5
FERTILIZER(INCRENENTAL)         817.7       1638.0      3132.2       4705.5       6076.8     16370.2       10318.6
IMPLEMENTSIINC.CHERICALS        437.8       1092.0      1936.6       2857.7      4645.0      10969,1        6289.5
OPERATING COSTS AND
GENERAL SERVICES /1          1724.3       3219.1      4701.2       5883.3       6762.3     22290.3        2321.2
TOTAL FOREIGN COSTS         15470.0      16080.0     17538.7      17356.3     16603.3      83048.3
TOTAL LOCAL COSTS           15598.0      17065.2     23001.8      25360.0     28774.9    109799,8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           31068.0      33145.1     40540,5      42716.2      45378.1    192848.0       83048.3
/1 EXCLUSIVE OF EXISTING (PRE-PROJECT) COSTS.



_70-                                                ANSEX 2
Table 3
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Financing Plan (current terms)
(N'000)
Bank loan
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Total    US$ mn    As per disbursement
_ ______  _______    _______    _______   _______         schedule
Bank Loan   Buildings                        5,965     2,610      2,760       885        230    12,460      22.6            20.5
Boreholes                         -        1,590     1,760      1,950     2,155      7,455      13.5           12.2
Plant, vehicles, equipment      7,675      6,720     5,425      4,980     2,955    27,755       50.4           45.4
Int'l salaries & consultants   3,105       3,635     4,000      3,415     2,545    16,700      30.3            27.3
Farm inputs                       330        820     1,455      2,145     3,480      8,239      15.2           13.6
Total                                   17,075    15,375    15,400    13,385    11,365    72,600    132.0              119.0
Unallocated   13.0
132.0
FGN Subsidy on fertilizer                      380       760      1,450      2,180     2,810      7,580
(annual increments)
FGN 25% subvention                           7,560     7,880      9,350     9,505      9,825    44,120
Farmers Input purchases                        630     1,470      2,660     3,950      6,050    14,760
(annual increments)
BSG                                          8,425     8,660    11,680    13,695    15,330    57,790
Incremental Project Costs                   34,070    34,145    40,540    42,715    45,380   196,850
Additional Financing
BSG for ongoing expenditure    3,810       4,240     4,720      5,250     5,850    23,870
for CFA equity              2,000      2,000     1,000      1,000       -        6,000
For Remaining Farm Inputs
FGN subsidy                     3,310      4,080     5,320      7,430    10,550    30,690
BSG subsidy                     1,660      2,040     2,660      3,710     5,270    15,340
BSG transport                     500        630       830      1,190     1,730      4,880
Farmers' purchases              1,660      2,400     3,740      6,080     9,260    23,140
Total FGN                                   11,250    12,720    16,120    19,115    23,185    82,390
Total BSG                                   16,395    17,570    20,890    24,845    28,180   107,880
July 28, 1980



-71-                                     ANNEX 2
TABLE 4
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRIWCLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOTAL INPUT REQUIREMENTS
COST IN CURRENT TERMS (N'O00)
1           2            3            4           5       TOTALS
FERTILIZER
____________
DELIVERED BAUCHI
____________________
BASE COST                   6675.00      7919.60    10082.30    13039.80    16513.20    54229.90
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY         333.75      395.98       504.12       651.99      825.66      2711.50
PRICE CONTINGENCY            378.59     1386.76      2955.59      5519.96     9373.28    19594.16
TOTAL CURRENT COST          7387.34      9692.34    13542.00    19211.75    26712.14    76535.58
FERTILIZER
TRANSPORT BAUCHI-FSC
________________________
BASE COST                    499.20       592.00      753.50       974.40     1233.60      4052.70
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY          24.96        29.60       37.67        48,72        61.68      202.64
PRICE CONTINGENCY             33.02       121.24      269.17       514.02       888.69     1826.14
TOTAL CURRENT COST           557.18       742.84     1060.35      1537.14      2163.97     6081.47
CHEMICALS
BASE COST                    288.40       797.80     1594.20      2448.70     3593.40      6722.50
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY          14.42        39.89       79.71       122.43       179.67      436.13
PRICE CONTINGENCY             17.30       142.56      478.16      1050.96      2047.60     3736.59
TOTAL CURRENT COST           a20.12       980.25     2152.07      3622.09      5820.67    12895.21
IMPLEMENTS
____________
BASE COST                    106.00       379.20      629.20      1049.50      1664.80     3828.70
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY           5.30        18.96       31.46        52.48        83.24      191.44
PRICE CONTINGENCY              6.34        69.39      205.15       500.06      1058.56     1839.51
TOTAL CURRENT COST           117.64       487.55      865.81      1602.04      2806.60     5859.65
TOTAL FARM INPUTS
BASE COST                   7568.60      9685.60    13059.20    17512.40    23005.00    70833.80
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY         378.43       484.43      652.96       875.62      1150.25     3541.69
PRICE CONTINGENCY            435.26      1699.94     3908.08      7585.00    13368.14    26996.42
TOTAL CURRENT COST          8382.29    11872.97    17620.24    25973.02    37523.39   101371.91
NOTE A: FERTILIZER FINANCING
FGN:          50% COST DELIVERED BAUCHI
FARI4ER:      25% COST DELIVERED BAUCHI
BSG:          25% COST DELIVERED BAUCHI
PLUS 100% TRANSPORT BAUCHI-FSC



-72-                                       ANNEX 2
TABLE 5
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCREMENTAL FARM INPUTS
DETAILED COST AND DISTRIBUTION (N'OOO)
1           2            3            4            5      TOTALS
FERTILIZER
DELIVERED BAUCHI
____________________
BASE COST                    S87.20      1244.60      2162.70      2957.60     3473.30    10525.40
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY          34.36        62.23       108.14       147.88      173.67       526.27
PRICE CONTINGENCY             38.95       214.69       633.94      1251.70     1971.00      4110.28
TOTAL CURRENT COST           760.51      1521.52      2904.77      4357.18     5617.97    15161.95
FERTILIZER
TRANSPORT BAUCHI-FSC
________________________
BASE COST                     51.20        92.80       161.60       220.80      259.20       785.60
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY           2.56         4.64         8.08        11.04       12.96        39.28
PRICE CONTINGENCY              3.39        19.01        57.74       116.49      186.71       383.33
TOTAL CURRENT COST            57.15       116.45       227.42       348.33      458.87      1208.21
CHEMICALS
BASE COST                    288.40       509.40       796.40       854.50-    1144.70      3593.40
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY          14.42        25.47        39.82        42.73       57.24       179.67
PRICE CONTINGENCY             17.30        89.55       234.59       359.45      636.48      1336.38
TOTAL CURRENT COST           320.12       624.42      1070.81      1255.68     1839.42      5109.45
IMPLEMENTS
BASE COST                    106.00       379.20       629.20      1049.50     1664.80      3829.70
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY           5.30        18.96        31.46        52.48       83.24       191.44
PRICE CONTINGENCY              6.34        69.39       205.15       500.06     1058.56      1639.51
TOTAL CURRENT COST           117.64       467.55       865.81      1602.04     2806.60      5859.65
TOTAL INCREMENTAL
____________________
BASE COST                   1132.80      2226.00      3749.90      5082.40     6542.00    18733.10
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY          56.64       111.30       187.49       254.12      327.10       936.66
PRICE CONTINGENCY             65.99       392.63      1131.42      2226.71     3852.76      7669.51
TOTAL CURRENT COST          1255.43      2729.93      5068.81      7563.23    10721.86    27339.26
NOTE A:  FERTILIZER AND CHEMICAL QUANTITIES ARE ANNUAL INCREMENTS
OVER PREVIOUS YEAR'S ESTIMATED USE.
NOTE 8:  FERTILIZER FINANCING
FGN:           50% COST DELIVERED BAUCHI
FARMER:       25% COST DELIVERED BAUCHI
BSG:           25% COST DELIVERED BAUCHI
PLUS 100% TRANSPORT BAUCHI-FSC



-73-                                ANNEX 2
Table 6
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan
(US$ mn.)
Current Quarter        Cumulative
1981
3.1                  3.1
3.2                  6.3
1982                                        3.8                  10.1
6.1                 16.2
9.3                 25.5
9.3                 34.8
1983                                        8.7                  43.5
5.8                 49.3
11.7                 61.0
7.6                 68.6
1984                                        7.3                  75.9
5.0                 80.9
8.0                 88.9
5.7                 94.6
1985                                        7.0-               101.6
5.3                106.9
10.2                117.1
2.9                120.0
1986                                        4.0                124.0
2.4                126.4
3.7                130.1
1.9                132.0
Closing date December 31, 1986



-74-                                   ANNEX 2
Table 7
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPENT PROJECT
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL SUPPLY COMPANY
Profit and Loss Statement
(N 000)
Year 1       Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year 5
REVENUE
SALES:
Fertilizer                       3,497.4       4,978.9       6,942.2      9,850.1      13,735.2
Chemicals                          288.2         914.2      2,039.4       3,476.1       5,600.8
Farm Implements                    105.8         432.8         826.4      1,528.8       2,685.8
Storage Cribs                        8.0          20.0         40.0         120.0         160.0
Grains                               -         1,500.0      3.708.0       4,266.0       9,810.0
3,899.4      7,845.9      13,566.0      19,241.0      31,991.8
GOVERNMENT SUBSIDY                    5,829.1       8,298.2      11,570.2      16,416.7      22,891.9
(Fertilizer only)
CREDIT CHARGES:
Fertilizer                          38.4          54.7          76.3         108.3        151.0
Chemicals                            3.1          10.0          22.4          38.2         62.2
41.5         64.7          98.7         146.5         213.2
TRUCK RENTAL                            129.0         222.5         341.3         392.4         451.2
TOTAL REVENUE                      9.899.0      16,431.3     25.566.2      36,196.6      55.548.1
COST OF SALES
Fertilizer                       7,772.1     11,064.3      15,427.0      21,889.0      30,522.6
Chemicals                          240.2         761.9      1,699.5       2,896.8       4,667.4
Farm Implements                     88.2         360.7         688.7      1,274.0       2,238.2
Storage Cribs                        7.0          17.5          35.0        105.0         140.0
Grains                               -         1,250.0       3,090.0      3,555.0       8,175.0
8,107.5     13,454.4      20,940.2      29,719.8      45,743.2
GROSS PROFIT                       1,791.5       2,976.9       4,626.0      6,476.8       9,804.9
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries & Wages                 1,305.6      1,701.2       2,201.4       2,522.0       3,081.1
Vehicle Operating                  119.6         189.5         272.3         305.1        342.4
General Services                   331.1         333.7         624.3         755.6        941.4
Vehicle Hire                        26.4           -            98.0         284.0        622.5
Bad Debts                           21.0          32.6          49.8          73.8        107.6
1,803.7      2,257.0       3,245.8       3,940.5       5,095.0
MANAGING AGENTS FEES                    200.0         230.0         270.0         300.0         350.0
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES              2,003.7       2,487.0       3,515.8       4,240.5       5,445.0
OPERATING PROFIT                       (212.2)        489.9       1,110.2       2,236.3       4,359.9
INTEREST ON SHORT-TERM LOANS              -            43.7         108.1         124.4         286.1
DEPRECIATION                            231.5         321.2         427.2         494.1         518.0
PROFIT (LOSS) BEFORE TAXES             (443.7)        125.0         574.9       1,617.8       3,555.8
CUMULATIVE PROFIT (LOSS)               (443.7)       (318.7)        256.2       1,874.0       5,429.8
NOTE:  If the Federal Government does not permit increase in fertilizer
prices to cover in-project transportation costs, handling and
administration charges, it will be necessary for Bauchi State to
finance further as per working below:
Margin on Fertilizer           1,554.4       2,212.8      3,085.4       4,377.8       6,104.5
Less Profit (loss) as shown
above                        (443.7)       125.0         574.9       1,617.8       3,555.8
1,998.1      2,087.8       2,510.5       2,760.0       2,548.7



-75.                                    ANNEX 2
Table 8
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL SUPPLY COMPANY
Sources and Uses of Funds, Cash Flow Statements
Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5
SOURCES
Net Profit                      -              125.0            574.9          1,617.8          3,555.8
Depreciation                   231.5            321.2           427.2            494.1             518.0
Capital                     3,000.0          1,000.0              -
TOTAL SOURCES               3,231.5          1X446.2          1,002.1          2,111.9          4,073.8
USES
Net Loss                      443.7
Purchases of fixed assets  1,175.5             440.8            603.1            921.6            432.2
1,619.2            440.8-           603.1            921.6            432.2
Net Changes in
Working Capital           1,612.3          la005.4            399.0          1.190.3          3.641.6
TOTAL USLS                  3,231.5          1,446.2          1,002.1          2,111.9          4.073.8
CAS!I FLOW
Depreciation                  231.5            321.2            427.2           -494.1            518.0
Net Profit (Loss)            (443.7)           i>%-o            574.9          1,617.8          3.555.8
TOTAL                    (212.2)           446.2          1.002.1          2,111.9          4,073.8



-76-                                ANEX 2
Table 9
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL SUPPLY COMPANY
Balance Sheet
Year 1           Year 2            Year 3          Year 4           Year 5
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash & Banlc                    670.5          1,293.4           1,077.1         1,3.68.3         3,773.9
Accounts Receivable             41.9              65.3              99.6           147.8            215.2
Inventory                    2.149.9          4,L344 0          5,395.0        10,865.9          13,259.5
Total Current Assets           2,862.3          5,707.7           6,571.7        12,382.0         17,248.6
Current Liabilities
Short-term Loan               1,250.0          3,090.0           3,555.0         8,175.0          9,400.0
Net Current Assets            1,612.3          2,617.7           3,016.7         4,207.0          7,848.6
Fixi-d Assetn                                          - 
V'ei  ics 1 LS560.3                              867.6           1,219.7         2,009.9          2,438.6
Equipment                       615.2            748.7             999.7         1,131.1          1 l34.6
1,175.5          1,616.3           2,219.4         3,141.0          3,573.2
Less Depreciation               231.5            552.7             979.9         1,474.0          1.992.0
Net Fixed Assets                944.0          1.063.6           1       .239.5  1,667.           1,581.2
TOTAL NET ASSETS           2,556.3           3681.3           4,256.2         58_74 0          9 4 9u8
Represented by:
Equltv
Capital                       3,000.0          4,000.0           4,000.0         4,000.0          4,000.0
Capital Reserve
(undistributed profits)      (443.7)           (318.7)            256.2.        1,874.0          5,A29.8
NET WORTH                  2.556.3           3.681.3           4.256.2         5.874.0          91429.8



ANNEX 2
Table 10
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COOPERATIVE FINANCING AGENCY LIMITED
Cash Flow Projections
1981       1982        1983       1984        1985
Source of Funds
1.  Funds Provided by Operations:
a)  Gross interest and commitment fees               190         267         338         378        378
b)  Depreciation                                       25         28          32          32         32
c)  Sale of assets                                     -          -           -          -           -
d)  Accounts receivable                                56         68          89         112        126
e)  Extraordinary items -                             119        119         119          63         -
Sub-total                                      390         482        578         585         536
2.  Share Capital                                       2,000      2,000       1,000       1,000         -
3.  Funds Borrowed from NACB:
Pre-season                                         2,130         360          -           -          -
Crop purchase                                      5,700       6,200                  6,500       6,500
Sub-total                                    7,830       6,560      6,700       6,500       6,500
4.  Loans Repaid by Cooperatives: 2-
Pre-season                                         2,400       4,514       4,910      5,306       5,702
Crop purchase                                      5,700       6,200       6,700      7,200       7,200
Sub-total                                    8,100      10,714     11,610      12,506      12,902
5.  Recovery of previous outstanding loans/grants         500        500         500         430         -
6.  Previous year's cash balance                          330         220        505       1,180      2,240
Total                                       19.150      20.-476    20.893      2=221       22,178
Use of Funds
7.  Operating Expenses                                    336        418         499         455        405
8.  Purchase of fixed assets                              234         63          94          46         -
9.  Loans to Cooperatives:
Pre-season                                         4,560       4,960       5,360      5,760       5,760
Crop purchase                                      5,700       6,200                  7,200       7,200
Sub-total                                   10,260      11,160     12,060      12,960      12,960
10.  Loan Repayments to NACB:
Pre-season                                         2,400       2,130         360                     -
Crop purchase                                      5,700       6,200       6,700      6,50        6,500
Sub-total                                    8,100       8,330      7,060       6,500       6,500
Total                                       18=930      19a971     19a_713     19=961      19,865
Cash and short-term investment balances                   220        505       1,180       2,240      2,313
1/ Technical assistance costs: see income and expenditure account.
2/ Adjusted for bad debts.
February 21, 1980



-78-                                            ANNEX 2
Table 11
NIGERIA
BAUChI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COOPERATIVE FINANCING AGENCY LIMITED
Projected Income and Expenditure and Appropriation Accounts for Financial Year Ended 30 September
1981     1982      1983      1984      1985
A.  Income
1.  Interest on Internal Funds (Production Loans) 1/           129.6    245.4    285.9    307.2    307.2
2.  Net Interest on NACB Funds (Production Loans) 2/            28.4       4.8       -        -         -
3.  Net Interest on NACB Funds (Crop Purchase Loans) 3/    28.5           30.1     33.5      32.5      32.5
4.  Commitment Fees (0.5% on all loans)                         51.3      55.8      60.3     64.8      64.8
5.  Interest on Short-Term Investments                          20.0      20.0      70.0    100.0    100.0
6.  Costs of Technical Assistance                              119.0    119.0    119.0       63.0       -
376.8    475.1    568.7    567.5    504.5
B.  Expenditure
1. General Services
a) Salaries  Wages and Allowances 4/                       226.5    290.5    356.5    310.5    258.5
b) Office Expenses and Utilities 5/                           5.0       7.2      9.4       9.4       9.4
c) Equipment Operating Costs 6/                              14.4     14.4      14.4      14.4      14.4
d) Stationery and Communications 7/                           7.0       7.0      7.0      10.0      14.0
e) Audit and General                                         14.0     14.0      14.0      14.0      14.0
Sub-total             266.9    333.1    401.3    358.3    310.3
2. Vehicle Operating Costs 8/
a) Saloon  (4)                                               11.6     11.6      11.6      11.6      11.6
b) 4 W D   (1)                                                3.9       3.9      3.9       3.9       3.9
c) Pick-up (4)                                                7.2       7.2      7.2       7.2       7.2
d) Motor cycles                                               2.4      4.8       9.6       9.6       9.6
Sub-total               25.1     27.5      32.3      32.3      32.3
3. Maintenance 9/
a) Buildings                                                  2.0       3.8      4.9       6.3       6.3
b) Equipment                                                  2.0       6.5      6.5       6.5       6.5
Sub-total                4.0     10.3      11.4      12.8      12.8
Sub-total (1+2+3)                      296.0    370.9    445.0    403.4    355.4
Physical Contingencies 5%               14.8      18.5      22.3     20.1      17.8
Sub-total Operating Expense            310.8    389.4    467.3    423.5    373.2
4. Depreciation
i).Buildings  -  5% p.a.                                      9.2      12.2     15.7      15.7      15.7
ii) Vehicles   - 25% p.a.                                     15.9      15.9     15.9      15.9      15.9
Sub-total              25.1      28.1      31.6      31.6      31.6
Total Operating Expenditure            335.9    417.5    498.9    455.1    404.8
and Financeal Charges
Gross Surplus                           40.9      57.6      69.8    112.4      99.7
C. Appropriation Account
Balance brought forward                                      40.9     57.6      69.8    112.4       99.7
Less
Provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts at 1% of
Pre-Season Loans             (45.6)   (49.6)   (53.6)   (57.6)   (57.6)
Annual Balances carried forward                              (4.7)     8.0      16.2      54.8      42.1
1/ 8 months interest at 8% p.a. on previous years working capital plus capital introduced to maximum of
Production Loans. Totals as follows:-
1981     N2.43 million
1982     N4.60 million
1983     N5.36 million
1984     N5.76 million
1985     N5.76 million
2/  8 months interest at 2% p.a. (net interest spread) on NACB funds borrowed for Production Loans as follows:-
1981     N2.13 million
1981     N0.36 million
3/ 3 months insterest at 2% p.a. (net interest spread) on NACB funds borrowed for Production Loans.



-79-                           ANNEX 3
Table 1
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Physical Parameters for Typical Rainfed Farms
Crop-                             Area           Yield
Unimproved (traditional)                 (ha)           (kg)              Mandays
Sorghum                                0.70           350                  41
Cotton                                 0.45           180                  32
Millet                                 0.13.           52                   7
Maize                                  0.06            30                   4
Groundnuts                             0.05            11                   4
Sorghum/Millet                         0.79           356/189              58
Cowpeas/Sorghum/Millet                 0.42           25/183/92            50
Cotton/M6fzeV7 m 1                     0.16           56/43'               14
Other Mixed (Main) Crops               0.90           273 (Sorghum)       104
87 (Millet)
126 (Cotton)
67 (Maize)
27 (Cowpeas)
39 (Groundnuts)
Minor Crops (incl. vegetables)         0.25            N/A                 18
Total                                3.91                               332
Improved
Sorghum                                 0.70          700                  49
Cotton                                 0.45           270                  38
Millet                                 0.13            85                   8
Maize                                  0.06            72                   5
Groundnuts                             0.05            30                   5
Sorghum/Millet                         0.79           356/189              58
Cowpeas/Sorghum/Millet                 0.42            25/183/92           50
Other Mixed (Main) Crops               0.90           As Above            104
Minor Crops (incl. vegetables)         0.25           N/A                  18
Total                                3.75                               335
Advanced
Sorghum                                0.70        1,050                   56
Cotton                                 0.45           540                  56
Millet                                 0.20           180                  14
Maize                                  0.20           360                  18
Groundnuts                             0.10            00                  11
Sorghum/Millet                         0.70           315/175              52
Cowpeas/Sorghum/Millet                 0.10           6/44/22              12
Sorghum/Cowpea                         0.25           113/125              29
Other Mixed Main Crops                 0.75           228 (Sorghum)        86
-z                                                 73 (Millet)
105 (Cotton)
56 (Maize)
23 CCovpeas)
33 (Groundauta)
Minor Cfops (inel;.-vegetables)        0.20                                15
Cowpeas                                0.10            65                   9
Total                                3.75                               358
April 1, 1980



-80-                                      ANNEX 3
Table 2
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Income from Rainfed Farm Systems
(a)  Unimproved                           Output  Traditional seed  Net output  Value
(kg)           (kg)           (kg)       (N)
Sorghum                            1,162             23          1,139       358.8
Cotton                                362            n.a. 1/       362       132.1
Millet                                420             6            414       126.3
Maize                                 140             3            137        41.8
Groundnuts                             50             9             41        22.6
Cowpeas                                52             6             46        26.2
Vegetables                         n.a.              n.a.        n.a.         45.0
Total                                                                      752.8
Less purchased inputs                                                        -
Net revenue                                                               752.8
Labor days                                                                332
Net revenue per labor day                                                    2.27
(b) Improved
Sorghum                           1,512             16         1,496       471.2
Cotton                              396             n.a. 1/       396      144.5
Millet                               453             6            447       136.3
Maize                                139             1            138        42.1
Groundnuts                            69             7             62        34.1
Cowpeas                               52             6             46        26.2
Vegetables                        n.a.              n.a.       n.a.          45.0
Total                                                                    899.4
Less purchased inputs 2/                                                   21.8
Net revenue                                                              877.6
Labor days                                                                335
Net revenue per labor day                                                  2.62
(c) Advanced
Sorghum                           1,750             14         1,736       546.8
Cotton                              645             n.a. 1/       645       235.4
Millet                               450             4            446       136.0
Maize                                416             1            415       126.6
Groundnuts                          123              6            117        64.4
Cowpeas                              203            18            185       105.5
Vegetables                        n.a.              n.a.        n.a.         37.5
Total                                                                  1,252.2
Less purchased inputs 2/                                                   79.5
Net revenue                                                            1,172.7
Labor Days                                                               358
Net revenue per labor day                                                   3.28
1/ Cottonseed is distributed free as planting material.
2/ Purchased inputs include improved seed under packages (b) and Cc).



F 7
-81-                                    ANNEX 4
Table 1
NIGERIA
DAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF ECONOHIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(NAIRA THOUSAND)
1           2           3            4           5            6           7            8           9        10-25
COST S
____________
PROJECT UNIT COSTS           18779.6      17433.9     18005.7      15635.3     14597.4       8758.4      5839.0       2919.5      1459.7       1459.7
INCR.FARM LABOR(RAINFED)       532.0       1478.8      4366.3       7211.8     10704.8      10704.8      10704.8     10704.8     10704.8      10704.8
FADAMA CONSTRUCTION COST          1.9         6.7         17.5        39.2         77.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
FADAMA INCRENENTAL LABOR          5.8         8.9          2.5       -32.8       -125.3      -125.3       -125.3      -125.3       -125.3      -125,3
FARM INPUT COSTS               1069.9      3061.7       6234.2     10431.6      16455.8     15014.5      15014.5     15014.5      15014.5     15215.1
LIVESTOCK LOANS(CAPITAL)        118.0       141.0        163.0       185.0        185.0       185.0        185.0       185.0        185.0       185.0
RESIDUAL VALUE
________________
ROAD EQUIPHENT                   0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0-0       4300.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
TRAINING                          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0      1855.8          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
B E N E F I T S
RAINFED CROPS                 2316.4       7410.0     15180.6      28224.6     39457.6      39457.6     39457.6      39457.6     39457.6      40009.5
FADAMA CROPS                     85.5       297.0        778.5      1732.5       3404.3      3404.3       3404.3      3404.3      3404.3       3404.3
NET BENEFIT -ALIVESTOCK          11.6        34.8         58.1        87.2        116.2       116.2        116.2       116.2        116.2       116.2
NET BENEFITS (COST)          -18093.7   -14399.2   -12772.0    -3425.8           1083.4     14596.5      11360.1     14279.6      15739.4     16090.7
===sS=   ============:=== ===~======== =======S==  5=-=====-   ====                     =======    ======  ======
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN: 18 PERCENT
__- - _____ --_ - - _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - - -____



-82-
ANNEX 4
Table 2
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Benefits (Rainfed Crops)
(N' 000)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3    Year 4   Year 5-9   Year 10-25
Sorghum                1,319.9  4,104.0  7,668.0  13,'824.0 17,870.4    18,033.6
Millet                    187.0    824.0  1,503.8   2,925.2  3,950.1        3,987.9
Cowpea                   262.5  1,162.5  2,925.0   5,062.5  7,035.0         7,035.0
Groundaut                183.0    445.9  1,166.2   2,366.7  2,920.4         3,116.4
Maize                     285.6    744.6  1,554.9   3,000.3  5,463.5        5,537.0
Cotton                    78.4    129.0    215.0       645.0  1,574.4       1,638.4
Rice                      -         -        147.7      400.9    643.8        661.2
Total rainfed crops:  2,316.4  7,410.0  15,180.6 28,224.6 39,457.6    40,009.5
May 30, 1980



-83-
ANNEX 5
NIGERIA
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Related Documents and Data Available in Project File.
A.   Bauchi State Agricultural Development Program Preparation Report - July. 1979
B.   Selected Documents
- Local Government Edict 1976 - The Bauchi State Local Governments
- Preliminary Statistical Analysis - Agronomic Data, Gombe 1977/78
(Vol. VIII) and 1978/79 (Vol. VIII)
- Norman, D.W. et al "Technical Change and the Small Farmer in Hausaland,
Northern Nigeria" (1979)
- Tiffen, M., "The Enterprising Peasant, Economic Development in Gombe
Emirate, 1900 - 1968" (1976)
- Hays, H.M. "Marketing and Storage of Food Grains in Northern
Nigeria" (1975)
- Amex Consultants, "Cotton Marketing in GADP, Bauchi State" (1978)
C.   Supplementary Appraisal
A number of Working Papers (WP) have been prepared to guide project
implementation. The WPs contain greater narrative detail on project
components.  The project file contains the following WPs:
Volume I
Working Paper I    -  Agricultural Background and Farm Development
Working Paper II   -  Staff Development and Training
Working Paper III  -  Roads
Working Paper IV   -  Rural Water Supply
Working Paper V    -  Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperatives -
Department of Cooperati es
Working Paper VI   -  Cooperative Institutions and Agricultural Credit
Working Paper VII  -  Bauchi State Agricultural Services Company
Working Paper VIII - Monitoring and Evaluation
Working Paper IX   -  Economic Analysis
Volume II
Working Paper X    -  Project Cost Tables






NIGERIA
ORGANIZATIN OF BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BAUCHI STATE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
I
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL AND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
BSADP
HEAD OFFICE
E                                EVALUATION l                                          C     AFINANCE
PLANNING      |                                                    ADMINISTRATION
FARM                 E                    S                        TRAINING
MANAGEMENT
RESEARCH                                                             ENGINEERING 
Mechanical~~~~~~~ Lan U. lnin  am
CENTRAL              EASTERNN NORTHERN                         WESTERN
ZONE                ZONE                 ZONE                  ZONE
|WorkshoP| and Farm Management      Local Government                            .     AA  OA               AA 
F Transport   F R"earch                                      |    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRANCH  *  B AUCHI 
Roads        .       L Uvestock'-------_--' I
Water Supp/ies         Seed Mutipiication
EIROAD ANO  WATER       MINISTRY
* 4     SUPPLY       _       OP 
'    MAINTENANCE   '|LOCAL GOV.|
ii ' 8AUCHI SCHOO
-I OF j_l ~MANR
AGRICULTURE   ,
D      AND
* COOPERATIVES
World Bank-21728



NIGERIA
ORGANIZATION OF BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT:
INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONSHIP
BAUCHI STATE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL
AND                          (Policy and Finance)
RURAL DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
|BAUCHI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT           (Ipeenain
PROJECT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE               (Implementation)
l  _   l  _         l                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ------------
BSD             BACHSTT              REGISTRAR                                MIITRY OAL[LEVE
HEAD  AGRICULTURAL  OF                                OF                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE
OrFICE  SERVICES  COOPS                              LOCAL                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEVEL
BSADP               BSASCII.
ZONAL               ZONAL                                                 I    JOINT       I                 ZONAL
HBRNHI    BOARD  I                 LEVEL
,  _                                          ----T----J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------
ZONAL               AGROk
DEVE LOPMENT          SERVICES                       COOPERATIVE                    LGC                          LGA
COMMITTEE            CENTERS                           UNION                 ADMINISTRATION                    LEVEL
EXTENSION             FARM                                                     ROAD AND
AND               SERVICES                        PRIMARY                  WATER SUPPLY                   VILLAGE
INFRASTRUCT-          CENTERS       .                  SOCIETY                 MAINTENANCE                     LEVEL
TURE STAFF                                                                                                   B
World Bank -21729



I B B D 15065R
NIGERIA
IBRD Assisted Agricultural Projects
7                                    M t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  J                                                                                    Completed and Appraised
~~~                    eau~~~~~~~~~\ ~~~Agricultural Development Projects:
Nsrj                                                        ':1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMPLETtED:
-V           ~~~~Fu,,Wo (Loon 1092- UNI)
Gu-a  Loo- 1099- UNGore(on 14UI
6   0   R   N   0                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lotio  Leon1454-UNII
-m  K 0 T 0       tu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  KANO    ~          ~          ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~      ~ ~ tAyongba (L-o1455-UJNIi
FUAIR                                    P&I.k- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAOSUIBide (Loon 1667- UJNI)
one (Loon 1668-UNI)
GOy North (Loan 18e8-UNI)
Ehitl Akoko lLoo,,Ie54-UNlI)
Boohi stole
K A D   N A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~1IAPPRAISED:
B  u  0                                                                             K.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rdone Stole
Cub,?                        ~~~~~~UNDER PREPARATION:
AoIsra SItot
River Stale
P   L  A  T   E   A  U                     A    t~~~~~~~~~~~~n,~~~                          Training Projects:
Age.tuoolna end Rural
Mana gement Trointeg lostitote
.g                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Loon 1719-UNI)
'Ki" '00AVY_'1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ~~~~~Tree Crap Proiects
API  *7(7/                                                                                                                                   et    EQ        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coco  I Loon 764-UNI) and
y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oe  on14-UNII
MAKURDI'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7   On,doOiI PIrlLvenIPSUNII
4                        ~~~~~~~~Beedelci, Pole, (Loan 1183 -UNII
s-,            ZF~~~~~~~~~L 4,i                                O~~~~~m  il Palm  Loan 1191 -UNI)
River Stole Gil Poim Loon 1525 -LUNII
\-  '\              C           ~                                   ~     .\l/1/M/                  -                                                      INZ       Foretny Loon 16795UNI1
:L                       W~~~~~   UTV W%~~~~~ ~~~t~~        APPRAISED-
Forts-none  ui~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.OoM. -t..R'  rSt-<ht. 0. PI.
M4- arv~~~~~~S                               Irrigation Project:
EXISTING-
6/ThSZAY  4'                     -s-~~~~~~~~~-r- tone,                      OP~~~~~~~z~~A~~--~4   fA                        (Loan 1091 -UNI))
le~~~ vv050                                                                                 (J~      NotioalLiesoc Prodoction Co Ronolhes
-. -  Tnesuoson uessEn  roen ~  I  'd  ~     >i~          U       Wester Livetok C. Ranches
J   ~    nro rtns             A        Nort -Easter Co. R-nohe
A.0 40doe  isolo  no ,K,tt                                                                  A-ieno/ Posture 1-Inetgio  Centers
B~uAt   0/    Boney  oiltsteTeeo   I . .                                cU,rsto A s~-1~~ eciur        [1111]     Gro-ng Re--os - Poei  Grov  Rencme
B,,ghl  B.-Y                                           a~~~~~~~ 2   4    00 ,0  -I  A,l-i, c>u-      Aoe-r4 






IBRD 15109
NIGE R                C d             h        H by                                      N ooruf  1                                        N IGERIA                           JUNE 1980
World BonIto otff -ool-n'ly for
r,:              ont            .}       the con renhnce_oo-f the rtede-roof                                                       BAUCHI  STATE  AGRICULTURAL
th  rpor  to oh,oh,t,  fto toh.d
zt          boondotries sho- n on- -Yth ap                                                                  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
~~RAuC1-U ~0       do not ,,o"ply' on tho poolofth
Word Bank and ito  WfIl,.to   n
t 0C                                         -y   on th lega tt- of                       J                                                           BSADP headquarters/ State capital
l  N  12G E R A     v      \C HAD    anttro o r accetanceof sucbotornot                                                                     * !    J  .    Zonal headquarters
Nzgos  5   .t><f   ,  _ f  72iGamawS    _ ,,  *   Possible form service center sites
vOA   /   CAMEROON ,rC.A.R. -12- '                           G AfMQW%>,_/7                                                 0   Local government headquarters
Local government boundaries
Zonal boundaries
To Kan                                                      !State boundories
..--~  A  4REI, Azar     N      '                           To Maoe ogvri              Existing federal roads
/   Jamajarel   - i     7C                   t                                              Proposed federal roads
:_-  ,o ' Proposed project roads
o                             5 H                                                                      -i,-~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railway
YC1 a                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R ivers
Gombe Agricultural Development
Project area
C /    j  |  /Game reserves
5*FlNAL SELECTIONV TO BE MADE DLURING IMP'LEMENTATIONI.
Ning                                                                  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS 0  20  40  60  80  100
Dukku                        ~~~~~~~MILES 0      2            40           6'0
'   '   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
i o A4_,tJf d1--0
F ) 0 Jc Z   +                                   xA.. R 5 EVE to                                   )                          %~~U
\\~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                         Kokrri9 0| !12 rOY/ , 



