LOAN NUMBER 1981 UNI
DOCU MEN
Loan Agreement
(Bauchi Agricultural Development Project)
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1281 UNI
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1981, between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA .(hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Bauchi State of
Nigeria (hereinafter called Bauchi State) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to Bauchi State the proceeds of the Loan as 7ereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Bauchi State:
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (the
said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Bauchi State of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and the term includes all schedules and all
agreements supplemental thereto;


﻿-2-
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into by the Borrower and Bauchi State pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and the term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "BSARDC" means the Bauchi State Agricultural and Rural
Development Council referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of the
Project Agreement;
(d) "BSADPTC" means the Bauchi State Agricultural Develop-
ment Project Technical Committee referred to in Section 2.01 (c)
of the Project Agreement;
(e) "BAPMU" means the Bauchi Agricultural Program Management
Unit referred to in Section 2.01 (d) of the Project Agreement;
(f) "BASAC" means the Bauchi State Agricultural Services
Company Limited referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project
Agreement;
(g) "MANR" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources of Bauchi State;
(h) "Naira" or "N" means the currency of the Borrower;
and
(i) "Project Area" means an area of about 66,000 km2
lying within the areas of authority of the 16 local governments
referred to in Part C of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II,
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
thirty-two million dollars ($132,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in


﻿-3-
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Bank is hereby authorized on receipt of reimburse-
ment claims to pay amounts to be reimbursed in respect of expen-
ditures made by BAPMU under the Project through the Central Bank
of Nigeria directly into the bank account opened for BAPMU under
the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Section 2.06 of, and Schedule 1 to, the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amou ' of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of
Finance, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Arti-
cle V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the


﻿-4-
Borrower shall within the limits of its constitutional powers
ensure that Bauchi State performs in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Bauchi State to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
Bauchi State under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
by the Borrower and Bauchi State, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank including repayment of prin-
cipal in 20 years, an annual interest rate which shall not be
less than the rate specified in Section 2.06 hereof and a grace
period of 5 years.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon the
Borrower's obligations under Section 3.01 (a) above, the Borrower
shall: (i) make adequate budgeting provisions for, and pay to
BAPMU at least three months in advance, quarterly contributions
for the Project based on the annual budget of BAPMU approved by
Bauchi State and estimated by the Borrower and the Bank to
amount to forty-four million one hundred twenty thousand Naira
(N 44,120,000) (exclusive of subsidies on farm inputs) over the
project period; and (ii) pay into the bank account opened for
BAPMU under the Project Agreement an initial deposit of two
million Naira (N 2,000,000).
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall under arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Bank ensure that Bauchi State receives adequate and
timely amounts of fertilizer for the Project. Arrangements for
fertilizer procurement and distribution on sound commercial
principles, and budgeting and subsidy payments shall be furnished
to the Bank, and the Bank shall be notified promptly of any
changes, or proposed changes, in the arrangements.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall review and agree with
the Bank, Bauchi State and BASAC annually, its cost recovery
policies and practices.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause BASAC to be
appointed a licensed buying agent of the Nigerian Commodity
Boards operating in Bauchi State.
(b) The Borrower hereby agrees that BASAC shall be empowered
to purchase and sell grains produced by farmers under the Project
and that in the carrying out of its responsibilities BASAC shall,
as it thinks fit, negotiate and conclude contracts for sale of
grains produced in Bauchi State.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, no later than December 31,
1984, review with the Bank and Bauchi State plans prepared by
BAPMU for future programs in the Project Area, recommendations
for the future of project activities and the resulting budgetary
implications, and the division of responsibility between Bauchi
State and the local governments for long-term maintenance of
feeder roads and rural water supplies in the Project Area.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall establish and maintain an
organization in a form and with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank to provide monitoring, evaluation, planning
and technical support (including agronomic, training, feeder roads
and infrastructural development) to BAPMU.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank; (ii) undertakes that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall be
created on any assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the
Borrower (including assets of the Central Bank of Nigeria, or of
any other institution performing the functions of a central bank
of the Borrower) as security for any external debt, such lien will


﻿-6-
ipso facto equally and ratably, secure the payment of the prin-
cipal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and that in
the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect; and (iii) further undertakes that the Borrower will,
within the limits of its constitutional powers, make the foregoing
undertaking effective with respect to liens on assets of any of
the Borrower's political subdivisions or of any agency of any such
political subdivisions, and to the extent that the Borrower is
unable within the limits of its constitutional powers to make such
undertaking effective, the Borrower will give to the Bank an
equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any of its political sub-
divisions or of any agency of the Borrower or of any such poli-
tical subdivisions, including the Central Bank of Nigeria or any
institution performing the function of a central bank for the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Bauchi State shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) the Borrower or Bauchi State shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c) a change shall have been made in the memorandum and
articles of association of BASAC which shall materially and
adversely affect the operations and financial condition of
BASAC;


﻿-7-
(d) The Borrower, Bauchi State or any other authority
having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dis-
solution or disestablishment of BASAC or for the suspension
of its operations; and
(e) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that Bauchi State will be able to per-
form its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5*02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) in Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower and Bauchi State; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and Bauchi State has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(b) a bank account has been opened at a commercial bank for
BAPMU and an initial deposit of two million Naira (N 2,000,000)
separately paid in by Bauchi State and by the Borrower in accord-
ance with Section 2.03 (a) (i) of the Project Agreement and
Section 3.02 (ii) of this Agreement;
(c) a bank account has been opened at a commercial bank for
BASAC and an initial deposit of one million Naira (N 1,000,000)
paid in in accordance with Section 2.03 (a) (i) of the Project
Agreement;


﻿-8-
(d) guaranteed overdraft facilities have been esta-
blished for BAPMU with a commercial bank in accordance with
Section 2.03 (a) (ii) of the Project Agreement;
(e) BSARDC and BSADPTC have been duly established in accord-
ance with Section 2.01 (b) and (c) of the Project Agreement;
(f) the Program Manager and Financial Controller for BAPMU
have been appointed in accordance with Section 2.04 (b) of the
Project Agreement;
(g) Bauchi State has furnished the Bank with proposals
from short-listed consultants for the supply of staff and services
for the Project and draft contracts have been prepared and agreed
by the Bank for a project recruitment and servicing agency,
accounting services, and a managing agency for BASAC; and
(h) the Bank has been furnished with the first of the
action plans to be furnished under Section 2.03 (b) of the Project
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Bauchi State, and is legally binding upon Bauchi State
in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Bauchi State and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Bauchi State in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date&a    mu   2, 'qVis hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Permanent Secretary
Federal Ministry of Finance
P.M.B. 12591
Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
Lagos, Nigeria
Cable address:                      Telex:
PERMFIN                            21428
Lagos                              LAGOS
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Ad~
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Buildings                  20,500,000        50%
(2) Vehicles, tractors,        45,400,000        100% of foreign
heavy plant,                                expenditures if
equipment and                               directly im-
spare parts                                 ported or 85% if
procured locally
(3) Rural water supply:        12,200,000        100% of foreign
contracted bore-                            expenditures or
hole drilling                               70% of local
expenditures
(4) Salaries and               27,300,000        100%
allowances of
internationally
recruited staff,
consultant and
specialist ser-
vices, studies
and overseas
training
(5) Chemicals and              13,600,000        100% of foreign
other farm                                  expenditures or
inputs                                      75% if procured
locally
(6) Unallocated                13,000,000
TOTAL     132,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the curreucy of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on
or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000) may be made in respect of
Category (4) on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after November 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, in consultation with the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 12 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the pro-
cedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agree-
ment, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan
as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   Crop and Livestock Development
(1) Increasing production of the major rainfed food and
cash crops through the introduction of a basic service
package involving very moderate levels of farm inputs
and slightly improved farm practices and an advanced
service package involving higher levels of farm inputs,
including pesticides and insecticides and improved land
preparation and more efficient weeding practices; and
improvement of the existing agricultural extension
service, farm input supply, access roads and marketing.
(2) Increasing production of horticultural crops on fadama
(i.e. flood plains) land through the extension on a
pilot basis of a fadama service package to some 5,000
selected farmers practising traditional irrigation
on fadama land, promotion of improved water management
techniques, introduction of modern water lifting
devices, improved plot layout and land levelling,
introduction of more sophisticated seedbed preparation
and timely planting; and close supervision of the said
package by extension staff including an irrigation
agronomist.
(3) Establishment of an applied research program to test
varieties and agronomic packages, and to investigate
intercropping/rotation systems, crop storage and pro-
cessing, animal traction and improved mechanized hus-
bandry; and establishment of a Research and Technical
Development Division.
(4) Establishment of a program to improve existing seed
multiplication facilities, enabling farmers to replace
seed every fourth year including expansion of the
Bima Hills Seed Farm at Dadin Kowa, expansion of the
seed production unit at Bogo, the establishment of a
small laboratory for seed testing and the importation
of disease free stocks of potatoes for multiplication
to supply fadama farmers.


﻿- 14-
(5) Livestock development program involving development
of a cattle fattening scheme, establishment of a
livestock development unit, emphasis of integration
of arable farming with cattle rearing on individual
holdings, strengthening of MANR's Range Management
Division, assistance in the stocktaking, planning
and demarcation of grazing reserves and provision of
stock watering points for formally approved and
gazetted grazing areas.
(6) (a) Establishment of a farm input organization to
supply necessary inputs to farmers; advice on farm
planning and mechanization, training and preventive
maintenance for simple farm equipment and limited
repair by zonal workshops of tractors and pumps.
(b) Provision of crop production credit and crop
purchasing loans to cooperative unions and
societies; and assistance in the preparation of
farm plans for medium-scale individual or group
farmers requesting commercial bank loans under
the Agricultural Credit Guarantee Scheme of the
Borrower.
(7) A program to advise farmers on proper land use and
conservation including development of model intensive
conservation areas at suitable locations in selected
communities.
B.   Civil Works
(1) (a) Construction of feeder roads (about 1,200 km)
by zonal road construction units and training
of local government staff in routine and periodic
road maintenance.
(b) Construction of water supply facilities for a
quarter of the rural population involving the
drilling of about 1,300 boreholes equipped with
handpumps, construction and rehabilitation of
about 200 wells, construction of cattle watering
points and about 25 medium-size reservoirs and
50 small reservoirs.
(2) Construction of project offices, workshops, stores,
staff houses and farm service centers.


﻿- 15 -
C.   Institutional Support
(1) Program to strengthen through establishment of sound
institutional structures and the development of indigen-
uous capability in the technical and managerial field
the institutions that will be responsible, on completion
of the Project, for extension, inputs supplies, credit,
cooperative development, training and maintenance of
feeder roads and rural water supply facilities.
(2) Establishment of a state monitoring and evaluation
unit to collect baseline data on population, cropping
patterns, farm systems, yields, crop marketing and
farm incomes and to conduct on a continuing basis
specialized technical studies and data retrieval and
generally to provide information for, and evaluate,
the progress of the Project.
(3) A staff development and training program involving
training of project staff in agriculture, vehicle
and equipment operation and maintenance and training
in management and administration; training of local
government staff in administration and planning; a
program of formal training for farmers and their
families and for agricultural and livestock assistants
and cooperative inspectors; in-service training for
BAPMU's junior and intermediate staff; training of
drivers, operators and mechanics and home economics
training courses for women in rural areas; strengthening
of the staff, and expansion of the physical facilities,
of the Bauchi School of Agriculture.
D.   Technical Assistance
(1) A program to assess the status of nutrition among the
rural population of the Project Area; review of the
nutritional implications of the Project; assistance
in the preparation of a medium-term action plan to
improve the effectiveness of the Home Economics Section
of Bauchi State's Ministry of Rural Development and
Cooperatives in rural nutrition education including
staffing, training and cooperation with the media and
mobile training sections of the Project; monitoring
progress of this Part of the Project; exploring the
incorporation of monitoring of nutritional data in


﻿- 16 -
the survey work of the monitoring and evaluation
section of the Project. (About 6 man-months of the
services of a specialist nutritionist).
(2) Assistance in innovative on-farm technology including
on-farm and other low-level crop storage, crop pro-
cessing, mixed cropping systems, animal traction and
small-scale mechanization. (About 9 man-months of
specialist services).
(3) Assistance in planning the water supply component
of the Project, particularly, in the interpretation
of the Side-Looking Airborne Radar. (About 16 man-
months of specialist services).
(4) Assistance in the introduction and adaptation of
low to intermediate levels of technology to fadama
farming (about 13 man-months of consultancy services).
(5) Assistance in needs evaluation, curriculum development
and short term courses, principally in areas such as
local government and management where in-project ex-
pertise requires supplementation. (About 27 man-months
of specialist services).
(6) (a) State-wide road sector survey: (i) to determine
economic priorities for the development and main-
tenance of the road network in Bauchi State;
and (ii) to identify road sections whose improve-
ment is of high priority and would assist in the
agricultural development of the State (about 26
man-months of consultancy services).
(b) Detailed engineering of about 100 km of road
sections identified by the survey (about 42 man-
months of consultancy services).
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1986
through   June 1, 2001                     4,400,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                          2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  5.30%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                  7.70%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                  8.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                  9.60%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witnuss whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  32I     day of       ,198 I
FOR SECRETARY


