                                             Documentof
                                          The World Bank

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                      ReportNo. T-7642-PK




                                      TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                                ONA

                            A PROPOSEDLOAN OFX 13,107,500,000
                                    (US$123 millionequivalent)

                                                  TO

                           THE ISLAMIC REPUBLICOF PAKISTAN

                                                FORA

TAUNSA BARRAGEEMERGENCY REHABILITATION& MODERNIZATION
                                             PROJECT




                                       FEBRUARY 18,2005




AgricultureandRuralDevelopmentSector Unit
SouthAsia RegionalOffice


This document has a restricteddistribution and may be usedby recipientsonly inthe performanceof
their official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bankauthorization.

                           CURRENCYAND EQUIVALENTS
                               (as o f October 31,2004)

                          Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
                                Rs59.5 = US$1
                              US$0.017 = Rs 1
                           JPY 106.565 = US$ 1



                                    July 1 - June 30
                                     FISCALYEAR



                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy             N S      NationalShopping
ECNEC    Executive Committee o f National        M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
         Economic Council
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment         NCB      National Competitive Bidding
EMP      Environmental Management Plan           NBP      National Bank o f Pakistan
EPD      Environmental Protection                O&M      Operation & Maintenance
         Department
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate o f Return       OMS      Operation, Maintenance &
                                                          Surveillance
FD       Finance Department                      PC-1     Planning Commission Proforma 1
GOP      Govemment o f Pakistan                  P&D      Planning and DevelopmentBoard
GOPunjab Govemment o f Punjab                    PMO      Project Management Office
GPN      General Procurement Notice              POE      Panel o f Experts
IBRD     IntemationalBank for                    PSC      Project Steering Committee
         Reconstruction & Development
IA       Implementing Agency                     PWD      Punjab Wildlife Department
ICB      Intemational Competitive Bidding        RFP      Request for Proposal
IPD      Irrigation & Power Department           SOE       Statement o f Expenditure
IRSA     Indus River SystemAuthority


                         MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS

                    11hectare
                      acre          -        0.404 hectares
                                    -
                                    -        2.47 acres
                    1 cubic meter =          35.31 cubic feet
                    1 kilometer     =        0.62 miles


                        Vice President:              Praful C. Pate1
                     Country Director:               John W. Wall
              Sector ManagerDirector:                Adolfo Brizzi/
                                                     Constance A. Bernard
                    Task Team Leader:                Xiaokai Li


                                            ..
                                            11

                                                                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                T-ABLEOFCONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                Page
              I BACKGROUNDANDSTRATEGY
               .                                                                                                                                  1

              I1.   RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT                                            .............................................      2
                    Rationalefor Bank Involvement                 .......................................................................
                    Lessons Learned from other Bank-financedEmergencyProjects.....................                                               2
                                                                                                                                                 3

              I11
                .   PROJECTDESCRIPTION                      ............................................................................
                    ProjectObjectives..............................................................................................              3
                                                                                                                                                 3
                    ProjectComponents ........................................................................................
                    Cost Estimatesand Financing...........................................................................                        3
                                                                                                                                                 4

              IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
                    ImplementingAgency .......................................................................................
                                                                          ...............................................................        5
                                                                                                                                                  5
                    ProjectManagement Office ............................................................................                         5
                    ProcurementArrangements .............................................................................                         6
                    FinancialManagement and Disbursement ........................................................                                 6
                    Reportingand Monitoring.................................................................................                      7

              V.    PROJECTJUSTIFICATION AND RISKS                                     ...................................................
                    ProjectJustification ..........................................................................................               7
                                                                                                                                                  7
                    Project Risks......................................................................................................           8
                    Project Sustainability.........................................................................................               8  .

              VI.   ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASPECTS AND SAFEGUARDS                                                                        ......
                    Overview............................................................................................................          8

                    Projects on InternationalWaterways .................................................................                          8
                                                                                                                                                  9
                                                                                                                                                  9
                    Social Impact .....................................................................................................
                    Dam Safety ........................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                 10

              VI1.   LOAN CONDITIONS AND COVENANTS                                        .................................................
                     Effectiveness Conditions...................................................................................                 10
                                                                                                                                                 10
                     BoardConditions ..............................................................................................              10
                     Loan Covenants.................................................................................................             11

              VI11.  READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION                                       ...................................................      11
                     Readiness for Implementation...........................................................................                     11
                     Compliancewith Bank Policies........................................................................                        11

              APPENDICES
                    Appendix 1: Indus BasinBarragesand RehabilitationPriorities.......................                                           12
                    Appendix 2: ProjectDescriptionand Cost Estimates........................................                                     15
                    Appendix 3: Economic Evaluation....................................................................                          18

                    Appendix 5: FinancialManagement and Disbursement....................................
                    Appendix 4: ProcurementCapacityAssessment andArrangements ................ 22
                                                                                                                                                 25
                    Appendix 6: Environmentaland Social Safeguards..........................................                                     28
                    Appendix 7: PerformanceMonitoring Indicators..............................................                                   30
                    Appendix 8: ProjectProcessingSchedule.........................................................                               31
               MAP IBRD 33568

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization            .        .


                          I.BACKGROUNDANDSTRATEGY


1.       Agriculture i s the backbone o f Pakistan's economy and one o f the key engines of
economic growth. The sector contributes about 25% o f GDP, employs nearly 50% o f the
rural labor force, and is responsible, directly or indirectly, for over 60% o f exports.
Around 80% o f Pakistan's arable lands and 90% o f agricultural output depend on
irrigation. Over 18 million ha o f land in Pakistan are irrigated from the Indus River and
its tributaries.

2.       Barrages in the Indus Basin are vital parts o f Pakistan's irrigation network
(Appendix 1). Their main purpose i s to, divert water from the rivers into canals serving
vast areas o f irrigated land. Some o f the newer barrages also divert water into link canals
that join the main rivers o f the IndusBasin, namely, the Indus, Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi and
Sutlej. Barrages also serve as road and rail bridges and crossings for oil, gas, and power
transmission lines. Many o f the older barrages built 50 to 100 years ago, in Punjab are in
need o f rehabilitation. Most o f the problems identified stemfrom design and construction
defects, aging and changes in hydrological conditions. Some o f them require urgent
remedial measures to avoid severe economic and social impacts on the lives o f millions
o f poor farm families through interruption of irrigation on millions o f acres o f irrigated
land. The newer barrages built as a part o f the Indus Basin Project in the 1960s are
reportedto be ingood condition.

3.       The main problem encountered inthe older barrages i s erosion at the downstream
toe, due inpart to changes in river hydrology. Another problem i s "piping," that occurs
when a loss o f integrity inthe downstream floor causes a loss o f soil from the foundation.
Gates and hoists are also in most cases in need o f renovation. River training works
upstream o f the barrages also need some improvement. These problems are present in
varying degrees o f severity at all o f the older barrages.

4.       The Taunsa Barrage on the River Indus, completed in 1958, has been identified as
the barrage with the highestpriority for rehabilitation (Appendix 1).The barrage diverts a
part o f the Indus flow to two large canal commands with an irrigated area o f 2 million
acres and to other large areas served by the Taunsa -Panjnad Link Canal. This link canal
was built in the 1960's to transfer water from the Industo areas served by two rivers, the
Ravi and the Sutlej that became controlled by India under the terms of the 1960 Indus
Waters Treaty.

5.       At Taunsa, there is clear evidence o f distress, such as severe erosion of the
downstream floor and loss o f foundation material. In the event o f a major flood, the
downstream floor, that i s already damaged, could be underminedand this could cause a
failure o f the barrage at any time. The barrage would not then be able to maintain the
water at the level needed to supply the irrigation canals. Floods on the Indus occur
during the main season for crop irrigation. The flow inthe river would then be too high
to allow a temporary earth and rock fill dam to be built as a temporary closure.
Therefore, all irrigated crops would fail because the commanded area has very low



                                                1

rainfall. There i s no way o f telling when or how the Taunsa Barrage might fail. But the
owner o f the barrage and the consultants are o f the view that the weaknesses are so
serious that failure could conceivably occur in the near future. Therefore, the first option
poses an unacceptable risk to the livelihoods o f millions o f farm families in the area
served by the barrage.

6.      The government strategy has been to employ consulting firms, experienced in
barrage design, to review the structural and hydraulic conditions o f six existing barrages
built between 1890 and 1958, to prioritize the rehabilitation and undertake rehabilitation
in the order o f urgency. The priority for rehabilitation depends on a number of factors
(Annex 1). First, i s the severity o f the current problems. Second, i s the extent to which
failure would cause agricultural and other economic and social losses. Third, i s the
difficulty that would be met in executing temporary measures to restore service. Failure
would involve collapse o f a number o f the 50-60 bays in a barrage; it would not result in
total collapse o f the whole structure. Therefore, the response to a failure would be to
build a temporary dam to close the breach. On the Indus, this would be more difficult
than on other rivers in the Indus Basin because the Indus has a high flow throughout the
year.The Taunsa and Jinnah Barrages on the Indus also suffer from a drop in the
downstream river levels due to a change in regime caused by sediment deposition in the
upstream dam at Tarbela. Ofthe two barrages, Taunsa has the most serious weaknesses.


                    11. RATIONALEFORBANKINVOLVEMENT


Rationale for Bank Involvement

7.      In view o f the severe conditions o f Taunsa Barrage proved by the in-depth
investigation and studies and review o f the independent panel o f experts, it was decided
to follow the Bank's emergency operations procedures (OP/BP 8.50), in response to the
government's request for urgent actions. Applying the emergency procedures, provides
both the government and the Bank the possibility to prepare and process the project to
meet the very tight schedule for awarding the main contract and starting preparatory
implementation work before the 2005 flood season, so that the main construction and
repair work could start immediately after the flood season ends. Consequently, time i s
gained in helping prevent a potentially prominent disastrous barrage failure. Bank
involvement would ensure timely and adequate financing that might not otherwise be
available to carry out an emergency project.

8.      This is consistent with the current country assistance strategy for Pakistan that
emphasizes improvements in rural infrastructures for poverty reduction and provision o f
reliable and safe water for domestic and productive purposes. The Bank has a long
history o f operations in Pakistan that began with its support for the Indus Basin Waters
Treaty between Pakistan and India. The Bank had the leading role to secure finance and
manage the Indus Basin Project (IBP). The IBP implemented a vast system o f works to
transfer water from the western rivers o f the Basin to the areas inPakistan supplied by the



                                               2

eastern rivers whose waters were allocated to India. Since then the Bank has financed
numerous major water and power projects often inpartnership with other lenders.

9.      The Bank's involvement will also help ensure that: (i) systematic approach i s
                                                                   a
adopted inthe design o f rehabilitationprojects for the Taunsa Barrage and other barrages;
(ii) environmentalandsocialconcernsareproperlyaddressed;(iii) projectworks
    any                                                                   the
and facilities are procured and constructed with good quality, within the budget, and on
schedule; and (iv) the operation and maintenance will be upgraded and strengthened as a
model for safe and sustainable use o f other Punjab barrages.

10.     LessonsLearnedfrom other Bank-financedEmergencyProjects.                       The
project design draws on the lessons learned from emergency operations financed by the
Bank in and outside Pakistan, as highlighted in the project Implementation Reports and
OED's evaluation reports. These lessons include: (i)   emergency loans should be simple in
design and consistent with the Borrower's institutional capacity to prepare and implement
projects; (ii)emergency loans should have no policy refo'rms or similar conditions for
disbursement; (iii)the speed o f appraisal and implementation is critical to project
success; (iii) procurement needs to be flexible and procurement process should start
early, and retroactive financing can be very helpful to ensure an early project startup; and
(vi) strong government leadership and a properly staffed Project Management Office are
indispensable to effective project preparation and implementation.


                              111.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION


ProjectObjectives

11.     The main objectives o f the Project are: (a) to take urgent steps to prevent the
failure o f the Taunsa Barrage which provides irrigation for two million acres and
drinkingwater to several million farmers inthe rural areas o f Southern Punjab; and (b) to
prepare for similar steps with respect to other existing barrages inPunjab. The objectives
will be achieved through: (i)    rehabilitating and strengthening the Taunsa Barrage and
associated structures; (ii) renovation and modernizationo f gates, hoists and operating and
control facilities;   (iii)improving operation and maintenance             capability;   and
(iv) rehabilitation design studies for other barrages inPunjab.

ProjectComponents

12.     The Project includes the following components (Appendix 2):

ComponentA.       Rehabilitation and Strengthening Works

The main works include: (a) a 4,300 feet long subsidiary weir located about 1,000 feet
downstream o f the barrage to raise the tail water level and ensure proper energy
dissipation; (b) repair o f the barrage floor by removal o f weak concrete and replacement



                                              3

with a new layer o f concrete, and grouting to seal joints and fill voids inthe foundation;
(c) a silt excluder at the canal intake on the right bank; and (d) upgrading the internal
monitoring system o f the barrage structure. This will lead to a secure barrage structure
with effective energy dissipation and a functional monitoring and flow measurement
system'. The operating manual will be improved and brought up to date.

Component B.            Renovation of Gates and Hoists and Strengthening 0 & A4Facilities

This involves: (i)        renovation o f the barrage gates and hoists and improvement in the
operating and control system for the barrage and canal head-works, including necessary
facilities to enhance the flow measurement in existence; and (ii)procurement o f
necessary equipment for operation and maintenance. This component will lead to
upgrading o f the operating facilities with higher level o f automation through remote
control and operation & maintenance equipment.

Component C.             Consulting Services and Implementation Support

This component covers: (i)consulting services for construction supervision at Taunsa
Barrage; (ii)consulting services for preparation o f designs for other Punjab barrages;
(iii)maintainingaindependentpanelofexperts fortechnicaldesignandsafetyreview,
and construction quality enhancement; and (iv) incremental administration and operating
costs o f the Project Management Office (PMO) and the PSC Secretariat.

The Project is expected to start inApril, 2005 and be completed by June 30, 2008.

Cost Estimatesand Financing

13.       The following is a summary o f the estimated project costs and financing
arrangement. More details are given in Appendix 2. Physical contingencies are 10% o f
the works and price contingencies are based on annual price escalation o f 3.9%. A Bank
Loan of US$123 million equivalent will finance 92% of the project cost. Retroactive
financing in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent o f US$2 million, o f
eligible expenditures occurred before loan signing but after March 31,2004.




1         IRSA has installed gate opening and water level sensors at many of the barrages and canal headworks along
the Indus Rivers. The discharges are derived from the water level and gate opening data that are periodically calibrated
by actual flow measurements. The flow data is transmitted inreal time through satellite to several hubs and is expected
to be accessible soon through the intemet. The installation contractor is training IRSA staff inoperation o f the system.




                                                            4

                      Component


      1. Rehabilitation & Strengthening Works    72.6   90     65.3     53.1    7.3
      2. Gates, Hoists and O$MEquipment          41.9   90     38.0     30.8    3.9
      3. ConsultingServices and Implementation   8.9    100     8.9     7.2      0



       on IBRDLoan




                             IV. PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION


ImplementingAgency

14.     The Irrigation and Power Department o f the Government o f Punjab (IPD) will be
the implementing agency. A Project Steering Committee (PSC) chaired by the Chairman
P&D with the Secretaries o f IPD and Finance and Environmental Protection Departments
as its members, has been setup to provide policy guidance and inter-agency coordination
for the project. An independent Panel o f Experts (POE) composed o f experienced
international and national experts has been appointed.      The POE has already been
convened to review the feasibility study for the Taunsa barrage and will be convened
from time to time as needed during the course o f project implementation to advise the
IPD on technical and construction issues.

Project Management Office

15.     A Project Management Office (PMO), headed by a Project Director, has been set
up inIPD comprising the four units described below. Key specialists have beenrecruited
and the units have largely been staffed with qualified personnel. A Project Management
& Procurement Unit will be responsible for the overall management of the project
implementation. It will manage the entire procurement process, monitor and evaluate
project progress and performance, liaise with the Bank and be responsible for preparing
annual programs and implementation reporting. An Engineering Unit will oversee the
work o f the consultants on design and construction supervision matters. A Financial
Management Unit will be responsible for all project-related financial management,
disbursement and financial management reporting. And, an Environmental Unit will
supervise compliance with the Environmental Management Plan. For contractual
purposes, the Project Director will serve as the Employer, and the supervising consultant
will serve as the Engineer for construction supervision. At the site, a Resident Engineer,
appointed by the consultant, with a team o f specialists and inspectors will supervise the




                                                5

Contractor. The head o f the Engineering Unit will spend about half o f his time at the site
to provide coordination between the PMO and the supervising consultant.

ProcurementArrangements

16.      All repairs to the barrage structure andthe construction o fthe subsidiary weir will
be executed under a single civil works contract. Renovation o f the gates and hoists will
be executed under another contract. Both contracts will be awarded to pre-qualified
bidders through ICB according to the Bank procurement guidelines. Works costing less
than US$2 million and US$lOO,OOO          per contract will be procured through National
Competitive Bidding and Shopping (Quotation) respectively. Office and field equipment
and vehicles for the PMO will be procured through shopping procedures. Consulting
services for detailed designs o f the other Punjab barrages will be procured through
competitive bidding procedures following the Bank Guidelines for Selection and
Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated May 2004.

FinancialManagementandDisbursement

17.      The project works will be executed under two large works contracts that will be
unit price contracts. Disbursement to the contractors will be against contractors' claims
certified by the Resident Engineer and submitted to the PMO. Disbursement for
consultants will be against payment claims reviewed and verified by the PMO. A Special
Account o f US$7,500,000 will be established by the PMO for the IBRD Loan with the
National Bank o f Pakistan (NBP). The PMO will also establish a `Rupee Assignment
Account' with the National Bank o f Pakistan for government funds for the project.

18       Financial management will be carried out by two professionally qualified staff o f
the PMO recruited on contracts, supported by the two seconded government accounting
personnel. A financial management manual would be prepared following the Bank's
financial management guidelines. The project shall adopt cash basis accounting for
financial reporting. However, it would be requiredto provide abridgednotes definingthe
liabilities it has accrued at each reporting period as well as the assets it has acquired for
internal management and project monitoring. The PMO shall render quarterly Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) to the Bank, the IPD and its management within 45 days
after the end o f each quarter. The FMRs shall include statements such as: `sources and
uses of funds', `uses o f funds according to project categories and components', `special
accounts reconciliation' and `financial vs. physical progress'.

19.       Annual external audit o f the project will be undertaken by the Auditor General o f
Pakistan under agreed terms o f reference (to be submitted to the DGAudit by the Finance
Department after clearing with the Bank), and the audited financial statements together
with the audit report shall be furnished to the Bank within six months o f the end o f each
fiscal year.




                                               6

Reporting and Monitoring

20.      The format, contents and reporting frequency o f project progress and financial
statements have been discussed and agreed with the IPD. The project's financial and
progress reports, together with procurement and disbursement documents, will form the
basis for routine monitoring o f physical and financial progress. The PMO will carry out
quarterly implementation performance review and evaluation, the result o f which will be
furnished to the Bank for review within a month thereafter. A Mid-Term Review o f
project implementation will be undertakenby December 31,2006 and any changes to the
Project will be reviewed and agreed by the Bank. The PMO will be responsible, in
cooperation with the Resident Engineer, for monitoring the compliance o f Environmental
Management Plan.


                    V.      PROJECTJUSTIFICATIONAND RISKS


Project Justification

21.      If Taunsa Barrage were to fail it would probably be during the summer flood
season. With the huge summer flow in the Indus it would than be impossible to build a
temporary dam to maintain the pool level and continue to serve the more than 2 million
acres o f irrigated land inthe summer and in the next dry season. The summer and winter
crops are almost entirely dependent on irrigation as the annual rainfall is about 150").
So a failure would mean huge agricultural losses estimated to be about $300 million
(Appendix 3).      In addition there would be the cost of temporary repairs to restore
irrigation service and then the cost o f full rehabilitation. The question i s when could this
failure happen? If it i s assumed to happen some years inthe future, the ERR i s arrived at
by treating the losses avoided as a benefit to be measured against the cost o f barrage
rehabilitation starting in2005. If,for example, the loss i s assumed to happen 5 years from
now, the EIRR is 42%, and if 10 years from now the EIRR would be 17%. Under the
scenario o f a 10% cost increase and 10% benefit decrease assuming failure ten years from
now the Project i s still sound economically.

22.      The major benefits o f the Project stem from securing irrigation o f the cultivated
lands in the command areas o f over 2 million acres in the two canal commands o f
Muzaffargarh and Dera Ghazi Khan, and through the Taunsa-Panjnad Link Canal to
supplement water supply to Panjnad Headworks canals. Other benefits from the
rehabilitation o f the barrage include: (a) long-term and effective functioning o f the
critical oil and gas pipelines, and telephone lines; and (b) ensuring continued availability
o f vital rail and road links o f strategic importance between the Punjab and the Sindh and
Balochistan provinces.




                                                7

ProjectRisks

23.     Most o f the emergency projects financed by the Bank in the past have been to
assist restoration o f infrastructure after natural disasters or conflicts. Typically, such
projects have had to implement a wide variety o f infrastructure over large areas through a
number of institutions. Incontrast, this Project is confined to a single site and involves
clearly defined works that have been designed in detail. However, timely procurement
will be crucial in view o f the emergency nature o f the Project. Project implementation
may be delayed because o f lack o f counterpart funds and delays inprocurement. Inorder
to achieve speedy project implementation it has been agreed to finance a major
proportion o f the investment costs from the Bank Loan. The Government has established
a procurement and contract management unit together with engineering, environment and
financial management units in the PMO, to ensure adequate capacity inprocurement and
other key fields by recruiting experienced specialists in procurement and other fields on
fixed-term contracts at competitive salaries. The Project will finance the cost o f these
experts. Also a project launch workshop will be organized to train PMO and consultant
staff in project management and monitoring, especially on procurement, disbursement
and financial management.

24.     During construction, there is a chance o f setbacks from high floods that could
under the worst circumstances breach cofferdam that protects the work area for the
subsidiary weir. The contractor's plans for cofferdam design and construction will be
closely reviewedby the supervision consultants and the POE.

ProjectSustainability

25.     Taunsa Barrage has been in service for more than 50 years, despite initial design
errors and construction defects. The proposed rehabilitation will eliminate possible
sources of failure and give the structure a long life. Instruments will be installed to
monitor the performance o f the barrage structures and its foundations. In addition, the
project will help strengthen operation and maintenance through staff training, upgrading
o f the 0 & M Manual including safety management and preparedness planning, and
automation o f the gate control system. In addition, assurance was obtained from the
government at negotiations that sufficient funds would be made available by the
government for the 0 & Mo f Taunsa Barrage.


     VI. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASPECTSAND SAFEGUARDS


Overview

26.     This project is processed as an environmental category B emergency intervention.
The applicable safeguard policies are: (i)Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0 1);
(ii) Habitats(OP/BP 4.04); (iii) ofDams(OP/BP4.37); and(iv)Projects
    Natural                                Safety




                                             8

on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50). The EINEMPwas cleared by the Bank before
Loan negotiations.

27.     The key safeguard policy issues raised by the project are: (i)the possible
environmental and social impacts o f any upstream or downstream changes to the
hydrological regime once the rehabilitation is completed; and (ii)management o f
constructionphase environmental and social impacts.

28.     The pond area upstream o f the Taunsa Barrage was designated a Ramsar site in
1996. N o significant environmental or social impacts are anticipated as a result o f the
rehabilitation o f the barrage, as water levels will remain within the current seasonal
ranges. A detailed EMP has been prepared to mitigate the possible construction phase
impacts, and environmental monitoring will be carried out by the PMO's environmental
unitincollaborationwith independent thirdparties.

29.     Regarding dam safety, since the barrage is not a water impounding structure,
negligible incremental inundation damage would occur in the case o f failure. However,
given the severity o f the economic impacts that failure would cause, the task team
decided to make use o f the provisions o f OP 4.37 inthe preparation o f the project.

30.     A public hearingto discuss the draft EIA was heldinDera Ghazi Khan on August
23, 2004. The EIA has been made publicly available at the office o f the District Officer
(Environmental) in Dera Ghazi Khan, in the Punjab Public Library, Lahore, and in the
InfoShop. The EIA has been approved by both the Punjab Environmental Protection
Department and the Punjab Wildlife Department. More detailed discussions are in
Appendix 6.

Projects on International Waterways

31.     Since the Project i s to be carried out on irrigation structure that diverts water from
the Indus River - an international waterway - OP 7.50 is triggered. However, the Project
i s essentially to rehabilitate an existing structure, and the Project works and activities are
not expected to exceed the original scheme, or change its nature, or so alter or expand its
scope or extent as to make it appear a new or different scheme. Giventhe nature o f these
works, the Project will not (a) adversely affect the quality or quantity o f water flows to
other riparians, or (b) adversely affect other riparians' water use. Also, the Project will not
cause interference with the waters o f any o f the rivers covered by the India-Pakistan
Indus Waters Treaty o f 1960 and will not affect the other riparian materially. Therefore,
the requirement o fnotification o f other riparians under OP 7.50 was waived.

Dam Safety

32.     Neither Taunsa nor any o f the other Punjab barrages for which rehabilitation
designs are to be prepared under the Project can be classified as a dam, Le. a water
impounding structure. However, given the severity o f the impacts that failure o f any o f




                                                9

the barrages would cause, the project team decided to make use o f the provisions o f OP
4.37 "Safety o f Dam' inthe preparationo f the project.

33.     The implementing agency has appointed an independent panel o f experts (POE)
to review the design, implementation progress at critical stages, and advise on the long
term operation o f the rehabilitated works. The panel i s composed o f three experts, two
national and one international. A minimum o f three visits o f about a week each in the
duration o f the project will be organized.

34.     The information provided by the Irrigation and Power Department (IPD) o f
GOPunjab indicates that Taunsa barrage needs urgent and major remedial measures. The
likelihood of failure o f some important components o f the structure, and the potential
consequences are such as to require emergency intervention. Other barrages are also in
need o f rehabilitation. An assessment o f priorities for rehabilitation i s presented in
Appendix 1.

35.     An Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) will be included inthe OMS Manual of
the Barrage. The EPP will specify the actors and actions inrelation to the following chain
o f tasks: (a) detection and classification o f any potential problem at the barrage site;
(b) decision to notify and warn competent authorities; and (c) mobilization o f response
unitswhenneeded.

Social Impacts

36.     The primary purpose o f the Project i s to prevent failure o f Taunsa Barrage and
thus eliminate the possibility o f at least a year-long interruption inthe supply o f water to
more than two million people who depend on irrigation for their livelihood. N o
resettlement i s required for the rehabilitation o f the barrage or the contractor's facilities.


                     VII.     LOANCONDITIONS AND COVENANTS


EffectivenessConditions

37.     Standard.

Board Conditions

38.     The conditions for Board include: (i)approval by GOP and Punjab o f the
negotiateddraft LoanAgreement and Project Agreement; (ii)          receipt o f the bidevaluation
report for the lStICB works contract by the Bank; (iii) confirmation o f the Project
                                                            GOP's
PC-1 approval by ECNEC; and (iv) evidence that the implementation o f agreed Financial
Management Action Planhas been completed.




                                               10

LoanCovenants

39.    The mainlegal covenants are as follows:

(i) PunjabwillmaintainaProjectSteeringCommittee(PSC), aPanelofExperts
(POE) and a Project Management Office (PMO) throughout Project implementation.

(ii)   Punjab will each year prepare a detailed annual work plan, including a work
program and budget, for the Project.

(iii)  Punjab will prepare an Operation, Maintenance and Surveillance (OMS) Manual ,
and, on the basis thereof, an Operation and Maintenance (O&M) financing plan, all for
Taunsa Barrage.

(iv)   Punjab will implement the Environment Management Plan (EMP), and make
suitable arrangements for keeping the same under constant monitoring, and will provide
the Bank with semi-annual Environmental Monitoring Reports.

(v)    Punjab will fumishto the Bank quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
as well as semi-annually progress reports inrespect o fthe Project, and, jointly with the
Bank, conduct a mid-term review o f the Project, all inaccordance with agreed indicators.


                       VIII. READINESSFORIMPLEMENTATION


Readinessfor Implementation

40.    The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and
ready for the start o f project implementation.

41.    The annual work plan and procurement documents for the first year's activities
are complete and ready for the start o f project implementation.

Compliancewith BankPolicies

42.    This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.




                                              11

                                                                                 Appendix 1


                IndusBasinBarragesandRehabilitationPriorities


IndusRiver Barrages

Irrigation has been carried out for centuries in the Indus Basin. Until the advent o f
barrages, irrigation was through inundation canals that drew water from the rivers only
when water levels were high during the flood season (July to September). To overcome
this problem, a number ofbarrages were builtbetween 1875 and 1940to divert water into
the canals at all stages o f flow throughout the year. At the same time the new canals were
built and extended to create one o f the world's largest irrigation systems. After
Independence, Pakistan built several new barrages and then in 1960 the signing o f the
Indus Water Treaty led to the construction o f six new barrages to transfer water from the
western to the eastern rivers as parts o f the IndusBasin Project. The barrages o f the Indus
Basin are listed inTable 1.1.

A typical barrage consists of a concrete weir divided into 40 to 60 bays, each 60 ft wide
controlled by 20 ft high gates. The total width o f a barrage between abutments can be
over 4,000 ft. A barrage forms a shallow reservoir with a pool level about 20 ft above the
river bed. The early structures were simple concrete weirs with steel flap gates that could
be raised or lowered as needed. These were followed by larger more durable structures.
Inthe Indus Basin, a barrage is a concrete structure founded on alluvial sands and silts.
Therefore, cut-off walls, usually several rows o f sheet piles, are needed to prevent
seepage through the foundation and to reduce uplift pressures under the downstream
floor.

A barrage has also to be designedto pass safely a flood that inthe case o f most barrages
in the IndusBasin is on the order o f one million cubic feet per second. The crest of the
weir i s set a level that raises the upstream flood level by about 3 ft above the downstream
level (this i s called the afflux). Betweenthe crest and the horizontal downstream floor is a
sloping section called the glacis. The horizontal downstream floor i s protected at the toe
by concrete blocks, and heavy rock armor. A concrete apron on the upstream side ties
into the upstream sheet pile cutoff. The normal operating pool level upstream of a barrage
is usually about the maximum flood level in the absence o f a barrage Embankments
(marginal bunds) extend upstream o f the barrage to contain the pool. At the barrage, rock
protected guide banks prevent the river outflanking the barrage.

Duringhighflows, a very large volume o f water falls through a height o f around 3-5 ft.
The floor below the glacis, known as the stilling basin, has to be set low enough so that a
standing wave, or hydraulic jump, forms just downstream o f the glacis.

There are several problems that can threaten a barrage structure. There can be a loss o f
foundation material ifconstructionjoints inthe floor are not sealed; this can, inthe worst



                                                12

case, cause one or more bays to collapse. A serious problem arises if the downstream
water level for the design flood i s lower than the level used in the designing the
downstream floor. This can happen where the level originally assumed was inerror (as in
the case o f Taunsa), or where changes in a river's sediment regime cause a drop in level
(retrogression).

Priorities for Rehabilitation

Of the structures listed in Table 1.1, Taunsa, Jinnah, Balloki, Suleimanki, and Islam
Barrages and the Khanki Weir have been found to have structural and hydraulic
problems. The priority depends to a large extent on the nature o f possible failure, and to
what extent temporary measures can be employed to restore a barrage's ability to meet
the full demands o f its related canals.

As regards the Punjab Barrages, there is a strong casethat Taunsa and Jinnah should have
the highest priority. As explained below the consequences and chances o f damage to the
various barrages are quite different. In some cases temporary measures could restore
irrigation a few weeks after a failure, but at Taunsa and Jinnah the huge annual flow
would make temporary repairs impossible untilwell into the following dry season.

Khanki on the Chenab is an old weir carrying "shutters." These are steel panels hinged at
the weir crest. Ifa piece o f the structure gets destroyed in a flood, a temporary fix after
the flood has passed would be a low embankment, or gabions, or some other way o f
pluggingthe hole. Inthe dry season, a more permanent fix could be made. Ifirrigation is
interrupted for a month in the summer, it would lower the crop yields but not cause the
whole crop to be lost on the one million acres o f the Lower Chenab command. The dry
season irrigation could be assured by a temporary closure while reconstruction proceeds.

Suleimanki and Islam on the Sutlej is on a river with not much flow except during rare
floods. A failure o f a number o f bays could be handled as described above, but it would
be easier to do a temporary fix as most o f the time the Sutlej i s dry because India has full
use o f it. A wet season flood is less likely than on the Chenab. The barrage at Islam
actually failed during a major flood inthe early 1950s because o f retrogression caused by
upstream dams.

Balloki on the Ravi: The situation at Balloki is very similar to Suleimanki and Islam.

Jinnah and Taunsa on the Indus pass a huge flow every year, and sometimes a major
flood. Ifsome bays collapse due to downstream erosion, it could be a progressive failure.
It would also be very difficult to make a temporary fix in the summer or even in the
winter. The areas served have less than six inches o f rainfall so the agricultural impact
would be very serious. Taunsa barrage i s in emergency condition, in the sense that
continued safe operation cannot be predictedunder the circumstances.




                                             13

                              Table 1.1 Indus Basin Barra-

                                         Year of      I
                         River                          Area Served          LinkCanal
                                      Completion      1  (mil. acres)           Served
                                                                         ~




1PUNJABBARRAGES
I     Jinnah             Indus   1        1946        1     1.912     I
      Chasma             Indus            1971                              Chasma-Jhelum   Part of IBP
      Taunsa             Indus            1958              2.225           Taunsa-Panjnad  Part of IBP
       Rasul             Jhelum  I        1967              1.518           Rasul-Qadirabad Part of IBP*
                         Chenab  I        1971              2.597            Marala Ravi    Out of IBP
I     Khanki             Chenab  I        1892        1     3.054        I
     Qadirabad                                                                              Partof IBP

      Trimmu             Chenab           1938              1.462
                         Chenab           1932              1.590           Trimmu-Sidhnai  Part of IBP

      Balloki             Ravi            1967              2.282              Balloki-
                                                                               Suleimanki
I     Sidhnai             Ravi   I        1965        I     1.766        I                  Part of IBP*
     Suleimanki          Sutlej           1926              2.529
                         Sutlej           1927                0.5           Sidhnai-Mailsi  Part of IBP

   Mailsi Siphon         Sutlej           1965                                  Mailsi-
                                                                              Bahawalpur    Part of IBP


 SINDHBARRAGES

                         Indus            1963               2.89
~
I
i     Sukkur             Indus   II       1932        II    7.544         1I
       Kotri             Indus   I        1956              2.805


  * These barrages replaced weirs built inthe lgthcentury; IBP=Indus Basin Project




                                                 14

                                                                                Appendix 2


                      Project Descriptionand CostEstimates


BasicFeaturesof TaunsaBarrage

The Taunsa Barrage spans the River Indus about 60 miles from the city o f Multan inthe
southern part o f the Punjab. It has 64, 60 ft wide bays and has a length between
abutments o f 4,200 feet and was completed in 1958. The barrage diverts water to Dera
Ghazi Khan Canal on the right bank serving 1,285,000 acres o f irrigated land and the
Muzaffargarh Canal on the left bank serving 940,000 acres of irrigated land. It also
serves the Taunsa-Panjnad Link Canal built in 1966 to divert Indus water to the lands
formerly irrigated from the rivers Ravi and Sutlej. These rivers came under the control o f
India under the terms o f the 1959 Indus Water Treaty. In addition to the supply of
irrigation water, the canals bringdrinkingwater to millions o fpeople inan area where the
annual rainfall i s around six inches. The barrage also carries a road bridge, oil and gas
pipelines, and a power transmission line.

Diagnosisof Problems

A detailed inspection o f the barrage by the consultants and the barrage's operating and
maintenance staff has identified numerous structural weaknesses and an unstable
hydraulic situation on the downstream floor. Work on Taunsa Barrage began soon after
Pakistan's independence in 1947 when the new nation's financial resources were low and
construction funds were hardto come by. This ledto short cuts inquality to save money.
It is also now evident that the assumed level o fthe highflood tailwater level is lower than
assumed inthe design.

These problems show up in several ways. Many o f the joints in the downstream floor
were not sealed. When the head across the barrage i s high inthe dry season, sand and silt
i s washed out by the high pressure under the floor. This piping o f the foundation could
eventually lead to collapse of parts of the floor. A one foot layer o f concrete was not
anchored to the underlying concrete and large areas have been ripped loose by high
velocity flow across the floor.

The most serious threat to Taunsa Barrage has to do with deficiencies in hydraulic
design. The actual tail-water level is about three feet lower than the level assumed inthe
design, and therefore the hydraulic jump does not form in the stilling basin. This
contributes to the damage to the surface concrete o f the stilling basin. Also, many impact
blocks designed to help in energy dissipation have been dislodged. Inadequate energy
dissipation has also caused damage to the concrete blocks and flexible apron at
downstream end o f the floor.




                                             15

The barrage gates are in need o f renovation. A detailed inspection o f each gate by the
consultants shows that wear and tear on the gates, rollers and hoists is considerable.
Each o fthe 53 bays o f the barrage is controlled by 60ft wide vertical lift gates. There
are also 23 gates in the under sluices, canal head regulators, the fish ladder and the
navigation lock. Another operationalproblem concerns the excessive sediment inflow
to the Dera Ghazi Khan Canal on the right bank. This has been a problem for many years.
The IPD and its consultants believe the proposed silt excluder will help mitigate this
problem.

Project Description

Repair of the glacis and the stilling basinjloor: The entire one-foot skin o f concrete on
the glacis and stilling basin floor will be removed and replaced with a layer o f reinforced
concrete that will be anchored to the underlying concrete. The new layer o f concrete will
also include a new sill beam under the gates. Grouting o f the foundation will precede the
placing o f the new concrete skin. Several barrages in Pakistan have a silt excluder, a
device that is believed to reduce silt entry into off taking canals.

Silt Excluder:      A silt excluder is a set o f tunnels in the barrage bays in front o f the
canal head. The theory is that the heavier sediments will flow through the tunnels and
only the lighter sediments will enter the canal. The plan is to build silt excluders in front
o f the DG Khan Canal at the same time as the floor i s repaired

Construction of a Subsidiary Weir:       The main purpose o f the subsidiary weir i s to raise
the water level downstream o f the barrage by 6 ft. This will cause a stable jump to occur
on the downstream floor o f the barrage. The weir will have a stilling basin and protective
aprons designed to ensure energy dissipation for the weir itself.

Alternatives to a concrete subsidiary weir were considered in detail by the consultants.
One was to build a weir at the end o f the existing downstream floor. Such a scheme
would involve the removal o f the massive concrete blocks and stone in and the creation
o f an entirely new concrete block and rock apron. It was found that much more favorable
conditions would exist downstream at the site now adopted. Another alternative would be
to form a subsidiary weir by a line o f gabions (rock-filled heavy wire baskets). But the
concern here was that even if costly protection was provided upstream and downstream
o f the gabions the durability could not be guaranteed. Also, the gabions could not bejust
dumped in fast flowing water and so a cofferdam would be needed as in the case o f the
subsidiary weir.

Renovation of Gates and Appurtenances: The survey o f the gates and appurtenances has
shown that the gates themselves do not need replacement. The main items needed are
new rollers and conversion o f the hoists to powered, remote control operation. The skin
plates on the gates will be cleaned and painted. The operation o f the barrage and canal
head-works gates will be undertaken in a central control room, together with monitoring
instrument readings and flow measurement.




                                              16

ConsultingServices:     Consulting services include (a) construction supervision for the
Taunsa Barrage; (b) detailed designs for the rehabilitation o f other barrages o f Punjab, in
the Indus River Basin; (c) an independent panel o f experts for feasibility study, design,
safety review and construction quality assurance; (d) miscellaneous consultants for
project management, technical advisory services, monitoring and so on.

Cost Estimates

The Project is estimated to cost US$134 million (Table 2.1), including proposed Bank
financing of US$123 million and a Government share o fUS$ 11million.


                            Table 2.1 COST ESTIMATE
                                                                   US$ million
            Component A
            SubsidiaryWeir:
            Cofferdam                                                      6.5
            Care of Water                                                  6.2
            Main Body of Sub Weir                                         38.0
            Other structures (incl. barragefish ladders
            upgrading)                                                     1.4
            Remodeling DG Khan Head Regulator                              0.2
            Repair of Barrage Floor                                        6.0
            Buildings & Equipmentfor Engineer and Employer                 1.1
              Total ComponentA                                            59.5

            Component B
            Gates for Subsidiary Weir                                      0.6
            Gates and Hoists                                              36.1
            O&M Equipmentand Training                                      0.9
              Total Component B                                           37.6

            Component C
            Consultantsfor Supervision                                     3.7
            Consultants for Other Barrages                                 2.5
            PMO staffing, operationand equipment                           1.9
              Total component C                                            8.2

            TOTAL BASE COST                                              105.3
            PhysicalContingencies                                          9.5
            Price Contingencies                                            8.6
            InterestDuring Construction                                   10.3
            Front End Fee                                                  0.6

            TOTAL COST                                                   134.3




                                                17

                                                                                Appendix 3


                                 Economic Evaluation


The condition o f Taunsa Barrage i s such that it could fail at any time. In the event o f a
major flood, the downstream floor, that is already damaged, could be undermined and
this would cause a part o fthe barrage to collapse. The flow inthe river would then be too
highto allow a temporary earth and rock fill dam to be built as a temporary closure. The
barrage would not then be able to maintain the water at the level needed to supply the
irrigation canals. If failure occurred for example in July, the main summer (khan) crop
o f cotton could not be irrigated any longer and the crop would fail because the
commanded area has very low rainfall. Ifthe barrage could not be put back in service in
time for the winter (rabi)crop, the farmers would be unableto grow a winter wheat crop.

The economic benefit o f the barrage rehabilitation would be the avoided crop losses as
well as other losses due to interruption o f the oil and gas pipeline and other services.
The agricultural losses in the summer would be the area o f cotton in the DG Khan and
Muzaffagarh Canal Commands times the per acre value o f the crop. By July the farmers
will have invested in most o f the inputs, and in the absence o f barrage failure the crop
would continue to mature. The crop value to be taken as an agricultural loss would
therefore be the gross farm-gate value o f raw cotton less the remaining costs for water
management and harvesting. This i s estimated to be $260 per acre. The loss in the rabi
season would be the opportunity value o f the wheat crop that could not be planted
because o f the lack o f irrigation.  The net value o f a wheat crop would be about $40
per acre. The cropping pattern for the two canal commands is roughly 50% cotton and
50% wheat. The total agricultural loss would be about $300 million. It is assumed for
purposes o f this analysis that losses would be confined to one year (two crop seasons)
and that emergency arrangements at a cost o f $20 million could be made to restore
service to the two canal commands by the start of the next main irrigation season. After
that, the barrage would have to be rehabilitated at a cost o f over $100 million.

The losses due to interruptions in the service o f the pipelines and the road have been
omitted inthis analysis on the assumption that temporary pipe and road bridges could be
built in a short time. The rate o f return on the investment in barrage rehabilitation
depends on when it i s assumed barrage failure takes place. If it occurs five years from
now the EIRR is 42%, and ten years from now 17%. A sensitivity analysis indicates that
even under the worst scenario, with 10% cost increase and 10% benefit reduction at the
same time, the EIRR assuming failure ten years from now is still above 12%, thus the
Project i s economically justified.




                                             18

              Table 3.1     Economic Evaluation
                      Crop Budgets (Acre)

ProductionInputItems                       Cotton         Wheat


Yield-Kg                                            660      860
PriceJkg-Rs                                          27        11
Value o f By-product                                413      722
GrossValue                                       18226     10139

Land Preparation                                   1373      761

Seed Rate-kg                                           9       40
Pricehit-kg                                          20        13
Total-Rs.                                           176      526

Fertilizer. K g                                      95        68
Unitrate-Rs.                                         24        24
Total-Rs.                                          2166      1632

Sprays-No.                                             5        0
Unitrate-Rs.                                        293         0
Total-Rs.                                          1389         0

Labor-days                                           65        43
Unit rate-Rs.                                       113       113
Total-Rs.                                          7345     4859

ProductionCost                                   12449       7778

Net Value of Production                            5777      2362

Source: Taunsa BarrageRehabilitation,Feasibility Study NI
NESPAWAtkinsJuly 2004




                         19

                         Table 3.2      Economic Evaluation
                             Economic Price of Cotton
                                     (Export Parity)

                      Price Typesand Conditions



Middling, 1-3/32Inch, CIF Europe/a
Current US$ per metric toda                                                     1542
Adjusted by factor o f .94 /b                                                   1453
Exchange rate /c                                                                   58
FOB Karachi, constant Rsper metric ton                                         84,259
Handling and Transport between port and market adjusted by SCF/d                -334
Ex-Ginnery Price o f Lint                                                      83,925
LintValue from 1ton of seedcotton @ 1/3                                        27975
Ginning, baling, etc. adjustedby SCF.                                           -857

Handling and Transport between farm gate and mill adjusted by SCF.              -124

Price at ginnery, per metric ton o f Seed Cotton                               26994
                            Price Rs.per Kg                                        27

/a World Bank Commodity Price Data May, 2004.
/b For differences inquality and marketing; based on relationship between export
   unitprice andprices ofreference quality.
/c US$ 1= Rs.58 as on June 2004.

Source: TaunsaBarrageRehabilitation,Feasibility Study NDC/NESPAWAtkinsJuly 2004




                                         20

                        Table 3.3       Economic Evaluation
                             Economic Price of Wheat
                                  (Import Parity)
                          Price Typesand Conditions                             Amount
                                                                                 (RSJ

Canadian No. 1WRS, in Store, St. Lawrence /a
Current US$ per metric toda                                                       148
Adjusted by factor o f 1.03 /b                                                    152
Freight and insurance                                                             30
CIF Karachi, constant US$per metric ton                                           182
Exchange rate /c                                                                  58.
CIF Karachi, constant Rs.per metric ton                                         10575
Handling and Transport between Port and market adjusted by SCF. /d               503

Local market Price                                                              11077
                                                                                   -
Handling and Transport. Between farm gate and market adjusted by
SCF.                                                                             -124

Farm gate price, constant Rs per Metric Ton.                                    10954

                        Rs.per Kg                                                 11
/a World Bank Commodity Price Data May, 2004
/b For differences inquality and marketing; based on relationship between export
   unitprice andprices'ofreference quality.
/c US$ 1= Rs.58 as on June 2004.
/d Adjusted by SCF o f0.9.

Source: Taunsa BarrageRehabilitation,FeasibilityStudy NDC/NESPAUAtkins July 2004




                                            21

                                                                          Appendix4

           ProcurementCapacityAssessment andArrangements


ProcurementCapacityAssessment Summary

Keeping in view the procurement capacity o f the department and the need to
expeditiously process all procurement throughout the process, a Project Management
Office (PMO) with a procurement and contract management unit has been set up.
Effective function o f PMO i s essential for meeting the milestones o f the procurement
plan o f the project. Hiring o f all key personnel o f PMO, particularly the procurement
personnel with prior Bank procurement experiences i s essential for meeting the tight
schedule. Minimumroutine organizational reshuffle o f the PMO staff would be expected
before the project startup.

It is understood that PMO shall be the technical authority in awarding all Works and
Goods contracts. Authority o f Consultancy Contracts i s not vested in PMO and a high
level Consultants Selection Committee remains the evaluatiodapproving authority. This
may create a bottleneck in procurement o f consultancy services. However, IPD has
already obtained government approval o f single sourcing o f supervision consultancy o f
Taunsa Barrage (See detailed procurement assessment report inthe project files).

To enhance the procurement capacity o f the implementing agency, a two-day
procurement training workshop i s planned in'December 2004 in Lahore, to be followed
bythe project Launch Workshop inthe first halfo f2005.

ProcurementArrangements

General

Procurement o f goods and works to be financed under the Project shall be carried out in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
dated May 2004. Consultants Services financed under the project shall be procured in
accordance with Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment o f Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers dated May 2004 (except as noted below). The Bank's standard
biddingdocuments for procurement under International Competitive Bidding(ICB), will
be usedfor procurement o f Goods and Works under the Project. Domestic Preference as
defined in the Guidelines will be allowed for eligible domestic contractors and
domestically manufactured goods on ICB contracts.

All expected procurement o f goods; works and consulting services have been listed inthe
Project's General Procurement Notice (GPN). The GPN has already been published in
the United Nations Development Business (UNDB) and will be updated annually.
Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) for the first ICB contract has been advertised in
UNDBandnational newspapers.



                                            22

CivilWorks

All repairs to the barrage structure and the construction o f the subsidiary weir will be
executed under a single civil works contract, and renovation o f the gates and hoists will
be executed under another contract. Both contracts will be awarded to pre-qualified
bidders through ICB. Any other works contracts costing less than $2 million equivalent
per contract to an aggregate amount o f US$ 4 million shall be procured through NCB,
and works costing less than $100,000 per contract through shopping (quotation).

Goods

All vehicles and office equipment for the PMO and PSC Secretariat, at cost o f no more
than $200,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount o f $500,000, shall be
procured through national shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. The O&M
equipment will be procured as part o fthe ICB works contract for gate renovation.

ConsultingServices

Consulting services under the project include: (a) Taunsa Barrage construction
supervision; (b) detailed design for other Punjab barrages, (c) an independent Panel o f
Experts (POE); and (d) consultants employed by the PMO for project management and
technical advisory services, and monitoring, etc. Consulting services shall be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment o f Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers, dated May 2004. Selection methods include QCBS, CQ and
Least-Cost Selection for firm contracts, and individual consultants.

ProcurementPlanning

The procurement plan for the project prepared at appraisal andupdated on November 24,
2004 at the time of negotiations i s attached to the minutes o f negotiations for the Project.
Prior to the issuance o f any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for review and approval, inaccordance
with the provisions o f paragraph 1 o f Appendix 1 to the relevant Bank Procurement
Guidelines. Such plan shall be updated every three months during the execution of the
Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.
Procurement o f all goods, works and consultants' services shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been
approvedby the Bank, andwith the provisions o f said paragraph 1.

ProcurementReviewby the Bank

Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the following
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) procured on the basis o f International
Competitive Bidding, or National Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract for consultants'



                                             23

services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and all
single-source contracts irrespective o f value; and (c) the first contract for the employment
o f individual consultants, irrespective o f value, and thereafter each such contract
estimated to cost the equivalent o f $50,000 or more.

     SummarvProcurementArrangementsfor the Project(amount inUS$ million)

         Project Component                               Procurement Method                       Total
                                            ICB/a        NCB/b        lOthers/c  I NBF/d
Civil Works                                  114.5           0.0          0.0        0.0          114.5
                                            (103.5)         (0.0)        (0.0)       (0.0)      (103.5)
Goods                                         0.0            0.0          0.3        0.0           0.3
                                             (0.0)          (0.0)        (0.3)       (0.0)        (0.3)
Consulting Services and Training              0.0            0.0          6.3        0.0           6.3
                                             (0.0)         (0.0)         (6.3)       (0.0)        (6.3)
Incremental Administrative &                  0.0            0.0          2.0         0.0          2.0
Operating Costs                              (0.0)          (0.0)        (2.0)       (0.0)        (2.0)
Interest During Construction                  0.0            0.0          10.3        0.0          10.3
                                             (0.0)          (0.0)        (10.3)      (0.0)        (10.3)
Front-end Fee                                 0.0            0.0          0.6         0.0          0.6
                                             (0.0)          (0.0)        (0.6)       (0.0)        (0.6)
             Total                           114.5           0.0          19.5        0.0         134.0
                                            (103.5)         (0.0)        (19.5)      (0.0)       (123.0)
la:
     floor repair, and renovation o f the barrage and canal intake gates.
ib: NationalCompetitive Bidding(NCB) for minor civilworks costing lessthan US$2million. Such
    works are unlikely to be needed and are not included inthe cost estimates.
I C Include: (i) shopping for goods (vehicles, equipment and materials) estimated to cost between
    US$25,000 and US$200,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount o f US$500,000;
    (ii) shopping (quotation) for minor works estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO per contract;
    (iii)incrementaladministrativeandoperatingcosts(PMO); (iv)procurementofconsultingservices
    according to the Bank's "Guidelines for Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank
    Borrowers" dated May 2004; (v) interest during construction (Loan part); and (vi) front-end fee.
Id: NBF=Not Bank Financed.




                                                      24

                                                                               Appendix 5


                   FinancialManagementandDisbursement


InstitutionalArrangementsand Staffing

A project management office (PMO), headed by a Project Director has been established
within the IPD to carry out the day-to-day management o f the Project. The PMO will
have a Financial Management Section staffed by two key qualified accounting personnel:
a Director (Finance) responsible for overall financial management o f the project
including reporting, and preparation o f annual financial statements for audit ; and a
financial management staff responsible for budget planning and execution reporting, and
for all disbursements for the project and management o f the Special Account and
associated withdrawal and replenishment activities, preparation o f the annual financial
statements for audit and submission thereof to the Bank. To support the PMO staff, the
Government o f the Punjab shall assign two full-time government accounting staff with
qualifications equivalent to Accounts Officers to manage and implement the book-
keeping o fthe project's financial transactions duringthe life o f the project.

Disbursementsand SpecialAccount

The Project will be executed under two large works contracts that will be unit-price
contracts. Disbursement to the contractors will be against contractors' claims verified by
the Resident Engineer and submittedto the PMO. Disbursement for consulting services
will be against payment claims reviewed and verified by the PMO. A Special Account
will be opened with the National Bank o f Pakistan (NBP) to finance all eligible
expenditures. All funds transferred by the Bank shall be routed through the State Bank o f
Pakistan (SBP) to the nominated account o f the project with the NBP. The Authorized
Allocation to the Special Account will be $7,500,000.

To allow for uninterrupted flow o f funds to the project, a `rupee assignment account'
representing the counterpart funds will be opened at the NBP and managed under the
same auspices as the Special Account. The project will observe the provisions o f the
CGA instructions o f 25 November 2002 relating to the maintenance and operation o f          ,
revolving fund accounts opened for IDA/IBRD/ADB loandcredits. In addition to
disbursements through the Special Account, the project will be at liberty to use the option
o f `direct payments' from the credit proceeds to finance large payments to thirdparties.

Withdrawal Applications for replenishing eligible expenditures drawn from the Special
Account will be supported by Statements o f Expenditures for: (a) Contracts for civil
works, goods and consulting firms estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent;
(b) Contracts for individual consultants estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent;
and (c) the incremental operating costs o f the PMO.




                                             25

 The total loan o f US$123 million equivalent will be disbursed over a period o f about four
 years with the projected disbursementschedule (unit:million US$ ).

                               Table 5.1 ProjectedDisbursementSchedule
                           FY 2005-06                 FY2006-07                   FY 2007-08


             1     I1    II    I 1    II     I      II    I
                                                          I    II      I        II      II     I     II
~     ~~
 Quarterly    11.0   5.3   14.2   18.3  15.2    6.3   10.5 12.6  12.6     2.6     4.3     4.3   3.4    2.6
 CumulativeI  11.0   16.3  30.5   48.8  64.0   170.3  80.7 93.3  105.8   1108.4   112.7   117.0I120.4  123.0


 Allocation o f the loan proceeds by disbursement category and percentage to be financed
 are shown inthe Table 5.2.


              Expenditure Category               Amount               Financing
                                            (Japanese Yen)            Percentage
           1. Works                         10,475,400,000                  90%
           2. Goods                             31,970,000                 100%
           3. Consultant Services &            735,3 00,000                100%
           Training
           4. IncrementalAdmin. &               170,510,000                100%
           Operating Costs
           5. Interest during               1,097,620,000                  100%
           Construction
           6. Front-endFee                      65,537,500                 100%

          I7. Unallocated                      531.162.500
           TotalLoanFinancing             1 13,107,500,000      [                         1

 Based on the level o f financial management preparedness for this project and the
 qualifications o f the personnel that will serve inthe FMunit, an initial overall FMrisk o f
 the project i s assessed as `Medium". The details o f the capacity assessment are on the
 project file.

 ReportingandAuditing

 The PMO will prepare quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) and submit to the
 Bank within 45 days o f the end o f each quarter. The formats o f these reports will closely
 follow the FARAHprinciples but will specifically include: `Sources and Uses o f Funds',
 Uses o f Funds according to Project Category and Component', `Reconciliation o f Special
 Accounts', Physical vs. Financial Progress Reports'. An inventory o f fixed assets
 acquired with project funds should also be prepared, updated, and made available to the
 PMO and the Bank at least on semi-annual basis. Internal auditing will be undertaken by
 the Finance Bureau o f the Punjab. The external audit o f the Project accounts will be done
 bythe Auditor-General ofPakistanthrough the DirectorateGeneral for Provincial Audit.

 Since this i s a public sector development program project, the specific reporting
 requirements of the GoPakistan would not be compromised. The Financial Management



                                                    26

Section o f the PMO would need to prepare monthly expenditures of the project (made
through Special Account and Pak. Rupees Assignment Account) accounting to approved
heads o f account and report to the Accountant General o f Punjab for incorporation and
aggregation o f those expenditures in the GoPunjab civil accounts. The specific heads o f
account for the project's transactions would have to be pre-agreed with the Accountant
General, Punjab, and the codes should be derived from the New Chart o f Accounts that
the GoPunjab shall fully adopt as of FY 2005/06.




                                           27

                                                                              Appendix 6


                       Environmental and Social Safeguards


OperationPhaseImpactson TaunsaWildlife Sanctuary

The pond and shore area behind Taunsa barrage, covering 6,567 ha was declared a Game
Sanctuary by the Government o f Pakistan in 1972. The Sanctuary was re-listed in April
1983, then in July 1988 and subsequently in March 1993. The area was re-notified as a
Wildlife Sanctuary in 2002.        In 1996 it was declared a wetland o f international
importance under the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands.           This Convention, signed in
Ramsar, Iran, in 1971, i s an intergovernmental treaty which provides the framework for
national action and international cooperation for the conservation and wise use o f
wetlands and their resources.

The rare marbled teal (Marmaronetta angustirostris) is a regular passage migrant and a
winter visitor in small numbers to the Taunsa Wildlife Sanctuary. The rare Indus dolphin
(Platanista minor) and otter (Lutraperspicillata) are present at the site in small numbers,
and the endangered crocodile (Gavialis gangeticus) has been reported at the barrage. The
site forms an important wintering area for ducks and geese, a breeding area for several
species, notably the Lesser Whistling-Duck (Dendrocygna javanica), and a staging area
for cranes (Grus grus and Anthropoides Virgo) and shorebirds. Taunsa Barrage i s the
most important wintering area for the bar-headed goose in Pakistan. Over 24,000 water
birds were present at Taunsa in mid-January 1987. Mammals occurring at the site
include the Asiatic jackal (Canis aureus), jungle cat (Felis chaus), wild boar (Sus scrofa
cristatus) and hare (Lepus nigricollis). The hog deer (Axis porcinus) still occurs in the
area, although it has been heavily hunted.

The question arises whether the rehabilitation o f the reservoir may cause changes in
reservoir operation that might affect the ecology o f the Sanctuary. Inorder to supply the
off-taking canals at their maximum capacity the pond level is normally about El. 447.5,
but sometimes it is as high as El. 448.5 because o f silt accumulation in the DG Khan
canal. The operating level can fall to as low as El. 443.0 in November, when the head
across the weir i s greatest. Each year for three weeks inJanuary the canals are closed and
the pool level drops to as low as El. 425.7. While rehabilitation o f the barrage provides
the possibility of operating the barrage at higher pond levels during winter, the EIA
indicates that the operational pond levels will remain within current seasonal ranges upon
completion o f rehabilitation, and that there will not be a significant ecological impact
from this. A baseline survey has been conducted and regular monitoring will be
undertaken duringproject implementation by the PMO in collaboration with independent
thirdparties.




                                              28

ConstructionPhaseImpacts

Temporary land acquisition:          Sufficient unused land i s available within the existing IPD
compound for storage and lay-down areas, so it will not be necessary to acquire land
temporarily for these purposes duringconstruction.

Local Labor: An important opportunity for positive intervention will be the hiring of local labor
for construction activities, to the extent possible. This has been noted inthe EMP.

Canal Closures: The IPD provided assurances that the duration and timing o f canal
closures duringthe constructionperiodwill remain the same as under the current regime.

Access:       No new roads or road widening will be required to provide access during
construction. The approved EMP includes measures to control emissions and waste
duringthe roaduse.

Vehicle Impacts:       The EMP includes measures to ensure that dust and other vehicular
emissions are minimized. The contractor will consult with local communities to develop
measures to minimize the disturbances and safety risks imposedby construction traffic.

Safety and Health:        The contractor will be required to provide laborers with
appropriate safety equipment and training. The contractor will also adopt additional
measures to help prevent the spread o f sexually transmitted infections (STI) within the
host population and the temporary work force especially HIV/AIDS. The contractor will:
(i)employ a qualified organization to conduct an STI/HIV/AIDS awareness and
prevention campaign, reaching in particular the non-local labor and truck-drivers,
(ii) that condoms are available at laborcamps andtruck stops, and(iii)ensure
    ensure
access to acceptable and appropriate STI voluntary counseling and testing services.

EnvironmentalManagementPlan

Based on the assessment o f operation and construction phase impacts outlined above, the
EIA includes an EMP prepared insufficient detail to be incorporated in(i)          guidelines for
operation o f the barrage and (ii)bidding documents and the contracts for construction
under the Project. These include specific mitigation measures, with associated budgets,
timetables, and responsibilities for implementation and monitoring.

Consultation

The EIA has been made publicly available at the office o f the District Officer
(Environmental) inDera Ghazi Khan, and inthe Punjab Public Library, Lahore. A public
hearing to discuss the EIA was heldinDera Ghazi Khan on August 23,2004.




                                                  29

                                                                   Appendix 7


                       Performance Monitoring Indicators



InputIndicators:                                            Result-Targets

1. Construction Supervision ConsultantsMobilized:           February 2005
2. Award of ICB Works Contract No. 1:                       March 2005
3. Consultants for Environmental Baseline SurveyAppointed:  April 2005
4. Start o f Cofferdam Construction:                        September 2005
5. Award of ICB Works Contract No. 2:                       October 2005
6. Consultants for Designs of Other Barrages Selected:      October 2005
7. Gates Renovation & Installation Starts:                  January 2006
8. Numberof Panelof Experts Meetings Held:                  6-8times
9. Govemment Counterpart Funding provided:                  8% o ftotal costs
10. Adequate O&M Funding for Taunsa Barrage:                As definedinthe
                                                            OMS Manual

OutputIndicators:

11. ICB Works Contract No. 1Completion:                     June 2008
12. ICB Works Contract No. 2 Completion:                    June 2008
13. Completion o fUpgrading OMS Manual for Taunsa Barrage:  December 2007
14.Number of Operating Staff Trained:                       20
15. Completion of Technical Designs for the Five Barrages:  October 2006
16.FinalProject Costs:                                      US$134 million
17.Project Completion Date:                                 June 30,2008
18. Barrage Monitoring SystemPerformance (actual):


Outcome/ImpactIndicators(Actual):

19. Number of Significant Safety Incidentsat Taunsa:
20. Pond Level Maintained Upstream o fthe Barrage:




                                          30

                                                                     Appendix 8

                         Project Processing Schedule




B. Teamcomposition
                Name                                Area of specialty
Xiaokai Li                            TTL, Senior Water Resources Specialist
Usman Qamar                           Senior Irrigation Specialist
Alessandro Palmieri                   Lead Dam Specialist
William Smith                         Consulting Engineer
Akhtar Hamid                          Lead Counsel
Paul Martin                           Senior Environmental/ Safeguard Specialist
Ali Awais                             Counsel
Tasnim Beg                            Financial Management Specialist
Uzma Sadaf                            Procurement Specialist
Anwar Ali Bhatti                      Disbursement Analyst
Ismaila Ceesay                        Senior FinancialManagement Specialist
Hasan Saqib                           Financial Management Specialist
Vaqar Zakaria                         Environmental Consultant
Altaf Iqbal                           Economist/Costs Consultant
Manuel Contiioch                      Senior Water Resources SDecialist
Lilac Thomas                          Program Analyst
Ghulam Ali                            Program Assistant
Arthur Walz                           Peer Reviewer -Engineering (consultant)
Chaohua Zhang                         Peer reviewer - Safeguards
Rita E. Cestti                        Peer reviewer - Economics


              Key Processes                      ResourceRequirement
Concept review                                           20,000
Amraisal                                                 200.000
Negotiation                                              30,000
Board Approval                                           20,000
Effectiveness                                            10,000




                                     31


MAP SECTION


