Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7277-PAK 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB 
 
Dated March 24, 2005 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7277-PAK 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated March 24, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and PROVINCE OF 
PUNJAB acting by its Governor (Punjab). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a 
loan to the Borrower in the amount of thirteen billion one hundred seven million five 
hundred thousand Japanese Yen 
(¥13,107,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Punjab agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS Punjab, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) Punjab declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through IPD with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and irrigation practices, and shall provide, or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Punjab shall otherwise agree, Punjab shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
-
2
-
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
Punjab shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than twelve (12) 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) Punjab shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Punjab shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Punjab, a plan for the future operation of 
Taunsa Barrage and related structures as rehabilitated and 
modernized under the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Punjab on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) Punjab shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
Punjab shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Punjab of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a)  Punjab shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  5
-
3
-
(b) Punjab 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its financial statements (statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors,  
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation Punjab’s reporting obligations set out in 
paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, Punjab shall prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the 
period not covered by the previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
Page  6
-
4
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Punjab 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Punjab thereof. 
 
Section 4.03. All this provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
For Punjab: 
 
Planning and Development Board 
 
Government of Punjab 
 
Lahore, Pakistan 
 
Cable 
address: 
     Facsimile: 
 
DEVELOPMENT 
   (92-42) 
910003 
 
Lahore 
 
Pakistan 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Punjab, may be 
taken or executed by the Chairman, Planning and Development Board or such other 
person or persons as he/she shall designate in writing, and he/she shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 
 
 
         /s/ John W. Wall 
Country Director 
 
Pakistan 
 
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
By 
 
 
 
          /s/ Arif Nadeem 
Authorized Representative 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for 
domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions: 
 
(a) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper 
with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids; 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
(b) 
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee; 
 
(c) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process; 
 
(d) 
bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms; 
 
(e) 
qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents; 
 
(f) 
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids; 
 
(g) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with 
an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Bank; 
 
(h) 
before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Bank’s prior 
concurrence shall be obtained;  
 
(i) 
bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis 
of unit prices, and not on the basis of a schedule of rates; 
 
(j) 
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated 
rates; 
 
(k) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified 
bidders; and  
 
(l) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or any other bidders. 
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
A. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for 
goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) procured on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding, or National Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or 
more; and (c) the first contract for the employment of individual consultants, irrespective of 
value, and thereafter each such contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more. In addition, the record of justification referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines for each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more shall be subject to prior approval of the 
Bank. 
 
B. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  12
-
10 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Project Management
1. Punjab 
shall: 
 
(a) 
throughout Project implementation, maintain a Project Steering 
Committee (PSC) and a Panel of Experts (POE), each with terms of reference, 
composition, meeting schedules and resources satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
throughout Project implementation, maintain a Project Management 
Office (PMO) in IPD, under the direction of qualified and experienced managers, staffed 
with competent procurement, financial management, environment and technical 
personnel in sufficient numbers, and provided with adequate resources, all in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; said PMO to be responsible for overall Project coordination, 
management and monitoring, procurement and financial management, work program 
preparation, progress reporting, environmental monitoring and evaluation, and other 
Project-related activities; and 
 
(c) 
not later than February 28 in each year beginning 2005, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank, for its review and concurrence, a detailed annual work plan, 
including a work program and proposed budget, for the carrying out of the Project in the 
next following fiscal year. 
 
Environmental Protection
2. Punjab 
shall: 
 
(a) 
implement the Environment Management Plan (EMP) in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank and designed to ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with sound environmental standards and practices;  
 
(b) 
engage experienced and qualified agencies acceptable to the Bank, to 
monitor the implementation of EMP;   
 
(c) 
make such modifications to EMP from time to time as shall have been 
agreed with the Bank; and  
 
(d) 
obtain the prior concurrence of the Bank to any other proposed 
modification or waiver of EMP, or any provisions thereof. 
 
Page  13
-
11 - 
 
Operation and Maintenance 
3.
 
Punjab shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than December 31, 2007: (i) complete and implement an 
Operation, Maintenance & Surveillance (OMS) Manual for Taunsa Barrage, satisfactory 
to the Bank, including job descriptions of key personnel, O&M rules and procedures, a 
monitoring and inspection program and an emergency preparedness plan; and (ii) plan 
and organize the necessary O&M staff training based on the OMS Manual; and 
 
(b) 
to that end, not later than June 30, 2007, cause the draft of the OMS 
Manual to be furnished to the Bank for its review following clearance by POE. 
 
4. 
Punjab shall, not later than December 31, 2007, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
an O&M financing plan for Taunsa Barrage, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with 
the OMS Manual. 
 
Monitoring and Reporting 
5. Punjab 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the Environment Management Plan and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) not later than January 31 and July 31 in each year beginning 2005, semi-
annual reports; and (ii) on or about June 30, 2006, a mid-term report, all integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the respective dates of said reports and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the respective periods following such dates; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the mid-term report referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
 
