GOVERNMENT OF THE PUNJAB
IRRIGATION AND POWER DEPARTMENT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT OFFICE
TAUNSA BARRAGE EMERGENCY REHABILITATION
AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
El 031
VOL. 2
CHANGE MANAGEMENT STATEMENT
(FINAL)
MAY 2006
PUNJAB BARRAGES CONSULTANTS
CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION
A JOINT VENTURE OF
r     National Development Consultants (Regd),  National Engineering Services Pakistan,
62-M Gulberg-III, Lahore  _    1-C, Block-N, Model Town Extension, Lahore
In Association with
ATKINS ATKINS Global (Water) UK



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
TAUNSA BARRAGE EMERGENCY REHABILITATION AND
MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CHANGE MANAGEMENT STATEMENT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ..................                                1
BACKGROUND .............                                     1-1
1.1  THE CHANGE IN THE PROJECT       ....................................... 1-1
1.2 OBJECTIVES OF CMS          ..1-2
1.2.1 The Problems .1-2
1.2.2 The Solutions .1-3
1.2.3 Changes in Construction Design .1-3
1.2.4 Implementation .1-6
1.2.5 Salient Features of the Proposed Changes .1-6
1.3 EIA, EMP & EMMP         ..1-9
1.3.1 Adequacy of Provisions in EIA, EMP and EMMP Proposed Change
Management .1-9
1.3.2 Impacts Due to Change .1-11
1.3.3 Public Hearing .1-12
1.3.4 Public Disclosure .1-12
1.4  CHANGE MANAGEMENT PROVISION        .     .1-12
1.5  TAUNSA BARRAGE WILDLIFE SANCTUARY AND RAMSAR SITE ..1-13
2.    SCOPE OF CHANGE, JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS ........................................... 2-1
2.1 LABOUR CAMP            ..2-1
2.2   WORK PLACE ON THE RIGHT SIDE DOWNSTREAM    .  .2-1
2.3   WORK PLACE ON THE LEFT SIDE DOWNSTREAM    .   .2-2
2.4   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY UPSTREAM OF BARRAGE GATE LINE ..2-2
2.4.1 Construction of Coffer Dam .2-2
2.4.2 Piezometers .2-2
2.4.3 Grouting Activities .2-3
2.5   EXTENDED CLOSURE OF CANALS      .       .2-3
2.6   LEAD CHANNEL FOR D.G. KHAN CANALS    .    .2-3
2.7   WORKS ON MECHANICAL GATES (ICB-02)   .     .2-4
2.7.1 Fabrication and Installation of Gates .2-4
2.7.2 Building of Workplace Area for ICB-02 .2-4
2.7.3 Work of Silt Excluder D.G. Khan Canal Headworks .2-4
2.7.4 Construction of Jetty .2-5
2.7.5 Change of Earth Borrow Areas .2-5
3.   ANALYSIS OF ADVERSE IMPACTS CAUSED DUE TO CHANGES ........................ 3-1



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
3.1   ADVERSE IMPACTS DUE TO LABOUR CAMP RIGHT SIDE UPSTREAM3-1
3.2   ADVERSE IMPACTS DUE TO WORKPLACE ON THE RIGHTSIDE,
DOWNSTREAM .........................................................  3-3
3.3   ADVERSE IMPACTS DUE TO WORKPLACE ON THE LEFT SIDE
DOWNSTREAM             ........... 3-3
3.4   ADVERSE IMPACTS DUE TO CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES UPSTREAM
OF BARRAGE GATE LINE ..........................            3-4
3.4.1 Work of Silt Excluder ..........................       3-4
3.4.2  Construction of Coffer Dam ..........................  3-4
3.4.3  Piezometer ..........................                 3-5
3.4.4  Grouting Activities ..........................        3-5
3.5   ADVERSE IMPACTS DUE TO EXTENDED CLOSURE OF CANALS &
LOWERING OF WATER LEVELS IN PONDED AREA ................................. 3-5
3.6   ADVERSE IMPACTS DUE TO LEAD CHANNEL FOR FEEDING D.G. KHAN
CANAL .3-6
3.7 CHANGE OF EARTH BORROW AREAS .3-7
3.8   ADVERSE IMPACTS DUE TO WORKS ON THE MECHANICAL GATES ...3-7
3.8.1  Fabrication and Installation of Gates .3-7
3.8.2  Building of Workplace Area for ICB-02 .3-8
3.8.3 Construction of Jetty .3-8
3.8.4  Upgrading of the existing fish ladders .3-9
3.9   CUMULATIVE IMPACTS IN PONDED AREA       .     .3-9
3.10 EVALUATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF CHANGE
MANAGEMENT OF TAUNSA BARRAGE REHABILITATION AND
MODERNIZATION PROJECT          .       .3-10
4.    SUPPLEMENTARY ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP) .................... 4-1
4.1 GENERAL              ..4-1
4.2 MITIGATION PLAN FOR CHANGE          .       .4-1
4.3   MANAGEMENT OF CHANGES IN SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACTS ..        4-25
4.4   ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT MONITORING PLAN (EMMP) FOR
CHANGES IN EMP I.E. CHANGES IN EMMP     .    .4-25
4.5   INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR CHANGE MANAGEMENT.. 4-25
4.5.1  Management Responsibility .4-25
4.5.2 Institutional Strengthening .4-25
4.5.3  Reporting and Supervision .4-26
4.5.4  Financial Implications .4-26
4.6 RECOMMENDATIONS              .         .4-26
4.6.1 Avoidance through Design of New Structures and Work Designs . 4-26
4.6.2  Contractor's Obligation towards Change Management .4-26
4.6.3  Social Framework Agreement (SFA) readjustments with Change
Management .4-27
4.6.4  PMO Responsibilities in Change Management .4-27
4.6.5 Supervision Consultants Role in Change Management .4-27
4.6.6 Action by wildlife department Punjab in Change Management . 4-27
4.6.7 Action by Environment Protection Department (EPD) in Change
Management .4-28
4.6.8 Action by WWF in Change Management .4-29
4.6.9  Donor's Patronage in Change Management .4-29
4.6.10 Operational Management Readjustments with Change Management 4-29
NDC i NESPAK I ATKINS                                                   ii



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project Change Management Statement
LIST OF TABLES
Table 3.1    Evaluation of Change Management Impacts
Table 4.1    Supplemental   Environmental  management   Plan  (EMP)   for  Change
Management
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex-I:     Taunsa Barrage Wildlife Sanctuary and the Taunsa Barrage.
Annex-Il:    Location of Facilities and Works for Change Management
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                           Hii



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project Change Management Statement
ACRONYMS & ABBREVIATIONS
BOQ        Bill of Quantities
CCA        Canal Command Area
CMS        Change Management Statement
CRE        Chief Resident Engineer
DGK        Dera Ghazi Khan
EIA        Environment Impact Assessment
EMMP       Environment Management Monitoring Plan
EMP        Environment Management Plan
EPD        Environment Management Department
EU         Environmental Unit
ICB        International Contract Bidding
JICA       Japanese International Cooperation Agency
NGO        Non Governmental Agency
OP         Operational Plan
PDWP       Provincial Department Working Party
PEPD       Provincial Environmental Protection Department
PM         Project Manager
PMO        Project Management Office
PWD        Pakistan Wildlife Department
RAP        Resettlement Action Plan
RE         Resident Engineer
SFA        Social Framework Agreement
TBWS       Taunsa Barrage Wildlife Sanctuary
WWF        World Wide Fund for Conservation of Nature
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                        iv



I
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Taunsa Barrage Rehabilitation and Modernization Project was taken up by the World Bank
on fast track. Consequently its EIA study was carried out when the details of construction
design had not yet been fully worked out. Consequently while setting up the site construction
facilities, some new requirements and activities emerged which could not be anticipated at
the initial stage. Also, at the time of writing the EIA, the barrage from the Guide Bunds down
to the gateline, according to the interpretation of the Irrigation and Power Department, was
considered to be outside the wildlife sanctuary and the Ramsar site. However, in retrospect
this interpretation was incorrect, as the barrage falls inside the official boundaries of the
wildlife sanctuary. The change of status of works upstream of gateline has therefore
necessitated the need for further changes. These change include clearance of additional
land for work bases on the right and left banks downstream; shifting of a part of the labour
camp and batching plants upstream adjacent to the right bank; construction of earthen
cofferdam upstream; construction of workplace and jetty upstream left side; construction of
silt excluder and lead channel for feeding DG Khan canal. Further, the closure of canals
which is normally limited to 5 weeks is now expected to be about 12 weeks. Some works like
fixing of piezometers and filling up cavities in old civil works structures (bascially, the base of
the barrage) by grouting will also take place upstream. As it is now realised that the Taunsa
barrage is partially located within a wildlife sanctuary and Ramsar site, an approval for the
changes is necessary. This Change Management Statement (CMS) is therefore being
submitted.
Detailed analysis of the environmental and social impacts for Taunsa Barrage is contained in
the comprehensive EIA. This CMS makes reference to only those impacts which are likely to
emerge only as a result of the changes. These identified impacts have been, analyzed and
evaluated viz-a-viz the necessity and benefits of the proposed changes. Based upon that, a
supplemental Environmental Management Plan has been produced.
CMS suggests that the Change Management has essentially been necessitated by the
belated realization that the entire barrage up to the gateline is included in the wildlife
sanctuary. So for the purpose of Change Management, 61 possible impacts have been
divided into those to be handled at construction stage (98%) and those to be mitigated at
operational stage (2%). The supplemental EIA prescribes the mitigation measures for all the
adverse factors. The CMS concludes that the envisaged change is manageable and
practicable and almost all the required mitigation measures are already included in the
comprehensive EIA. A separate Change Management Statement will be prepared by the
end of June 2006, covering (i) the identification and mitigation of impacts associated with low
flows in the DG Khan canal in the period extending from December 2005 through February
2006, and (ii) measures to mitigate the impacts of any proposed future extensions of the
canal closure period.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                      1



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project Change Management Statement
The CMS recommends various actions to be taken by all concerned organizations and
Departments. It also seeks formal approval of the proposed changes from the concerned
authorities.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                           2



1. BACKGROUND



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
1. BACKGROUND
1.1 THE CHANGE IN THE PROJECT
The Taunsa Barrage Rehabilitation and Modernization Project has a comprehensive
Environmental Assessment Report (EIA), wherein paragraphs 1.1 and 1.2 in Chapter 1
amply describe the Taunsa Barrage Rehabilitation and Modernization Project.
In view of the emergent threat of possible toppling over of the barrage, the World Bank
accepted to take up the Project following fast track procedures. The EIA study was carried
out last year and completed in September 2004. At the time, details of the construction
design had been worked out only on a tentative basis, and not all information had become
available. Since then two major 'changes' have occurred:
* the final design includes new land requirements and activities that have emerged
since September 2004, which were not anticipated by the Irrigation and Power
Department (I&PD) at the time of offering information for the EIA; and
*  it has become apparent that the assertion in the EIA that the Taunsa Barrage Wildlife
Sanctuary (TBWS) is located to the north of the barrage guide banks (and therefore
outside all anticipated activities) was incorrect, as the sanctuary's southern boundary
coincides with the gate line of the barrage.
These changes have necessitated the formulation of this Change Management Statement
(CMS), to ensure that newly emerging environmental issues are adequately dealt with. Both
categories of change are described in below, and in more detail in 1.2.3 and 1.2.5; the
location of the changes is indicated in the map included as Annex-1.
New land requirements and activities. The field realities and nature of the works have led to
the expansion and/or adaptation of the original design with following activities:
*  clearing of additional land for work bases on the right and left banks downstream of
the barrage;
*  shifting of a part of the labor camp and batching plants upstream to right side of the
barrage, adjacent to the right guide bund;
*  planned construction of an earthen coffer dam to facilitate construction activities
upstream of the barrage gate line;
construction of a work place and jetty for facilitating the works on mechanical gates;
construction of a silt excluder and construction of a lead channel for feeding D.G.
Khan canal;
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                    1-1



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project Change Management Statement
*  the closure of canals, which is normally limited to five weeks, is now expected to be
extended to about 12 weeks to facilitate adequate time for de-silting, repair and
maintenance of the canal;
*  fitting of piezometers on the upper side of the barrage line;
* adjustment of the existing fish ladders; and
* the grouting of existing masonry structures on the upper side of the barrage line.
The expansion of the work bases beyond the original design has also lead to the
displacement and resettlement of 800 persons (157 households). This is beyond the scope
of the approved EIA, and therefore necessitated the formulation and implementation of a
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). Relocation has already occurred, although final
resettlement still needs to be completed as at the time of formulating the CMS, pending
acceptance of the compensation rates.
Taunsa Barrage Wildlife Sanctuary. The EIA was carried out on the assumption that all
works and activities carried out between the guide bunds and the gate line fell within the
barrage limits and were located outside the boundaries of the Taunsa Barrage Wildlife
Sanctuary and Ramsar site. However, this assumption was mistaken, as subsequent
information from the Punjab Wildlife Department made it clear that the southern boundary of
the TBWS coincides with the gate line of the barrage. An approval from PWD is therefore
necessary before carrying out any physical changes upstream of the barrage as this area is
located within the TBWS. As a result, a Change Management Statement (CMS) has become
an absolute necessity, to meet both national and World Bank requirements. The latter was
clearly stated in the Aide Memoire of Supervision Mission (September 25-October 5, 2005),
which reads as follows: "No activities will commence within TBWS before a CMS acceptable
to the World Bank is approved by the PEPD and PWD."
1.2 OBJECTIVES OF CMS
1.2.1 The Problems
The location of some of the proposed works, such as the silt excluder, coffer dam, lead channel
for feeding D.G. Khan canal, placing of piezometers, grouting work and jetty are of special
concern as the water body upstream of the barrage gates is located within the Taunsa Barrage
Wildlife Sanctuary (TBWS), which has been designated a Ramsarl site since 22nd March 1996.
' Ramsar sites are areas designated as 'Wetlands of International Importance' under the Ramsar Convention on
Wetlands of International Importance, especially as Waterfowl Habitat (Ramsar, Iran, 1971). The repository for
Ramsar sites is UNESCO.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                     1-2



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
The other construction works such as the labor camp, the work base for ICB-02, and the activity
of fabrication and installation of gates are located outside the limits of the TBWS. However, as
they are located in close proximity to the TBWS, these works and activities are likely to impact
the nearby wetland and TBWS. Therefore, the entire set of the upstream works and activities
can be regarded a potential direct threat to the TBWS and the Ramsar site. On the downstream
side, the expansion of the work bases has caused displacement and shifting of 800 persons
(157 households - 21 on the right and 136 on the left banks). This activity has also taken place
beyond the scope of the approved EIA. In nutshell, major changes in the construction design
and layout have taken place, and therefore a change management statement has become
necessary.
1.2.2 The Solutions
The approved Environment Management Monitoring Plan (EMMP) for the Project allows for
preparation of a Change Management Statement (CMS) to assess and manage the
environmental and social impacts of such unanticipated works and activities. As per
provision in the EMMP, this CMS has been produced collectively by the PMO, Supervision
Consultants (PBC) and the Construction Contractor (DESCON).
1.2.3 Changes in Construction Design
Sr                                                     CagsPooe 
Work / Activity   As provided in approved EIA  Changes Proposed
No.                                                          Resulted
1.   Site for labor camp, At the old workshop area Right side    of the  river
equipment      yard, (Refer EIA para. 3.9.1, page upstream, about 100 meters
batching  plant  and  3.15, Figure 3.1)        from  the right protection
Japanese International                         bund on the unused borrow
Cooperation  Agency                            area (Refer item 7 at page
(JICA) work base                               6-11 of EIA)
2.    Work place on right At the end of the right d/s The area expanded to about
side downstream       protection bund in available 9 acres, leading to the need
open place on about 5 acres for  relocation    and
(Refer EIA para. 3.9.4 page resettlement  of    21
3-21)                     households, under RAP.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                     1-3



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
3.   Work place on left side At the end of the left d/s The work place expanded to
downstream           protection bund in already about 14 acres leading to
available open  place  on the need for relocation and
about 9 acres (Refer to EIA resettlement  of  136
para. 3.9.4 page 3-21)    households, under RAP.
4.   Works of silt excluder Already provided in EIA at Due  to  more  complete
at the head of D.G. present site (Refer EIA page information, the site now
Khan canal           3-7, para. 3.4).         falls inside the TBWS and
hence requires approval/
concurrence by PEPD, PWD
and WB.
5.   Construction of coffer Not in EIA, as it is a new  Requirement for carrying out
dam  upstream  of the addition.                construction  upstream  on
barrage.                                      the gates and silt excluder.
Temporary earthen coffer
dam   across   width  of
barrage; falls within TBWS.
6.    Piezometer installation  Not in EIA, as it is a new  An instrument for measuring
addition.                 magnitude and direction of
river pressure; is to be
buried in the river floor;
located within TBWS.
7.    Grouting     activity Not in EIA, as it is a new  The old masonry of the main
upstream             addition.                 barrage  structure,  now
almost 50 years old, needs
strengthening by means of
grouting. Located within the
TBWS.
8.    Fabrication     and  Not in EIA, as it is a new  Being part of ICB-02, it is an
installation of gates  addition.               additional work to the civil
works of ICB-01. Mostly
outside the barrage area,
but inside the TBWS.
NDC NESPAK I ATKINS                                                      1-4



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
9.    Building of work place Not in EIA, as it is a new  Required for Fabrication of
for ICB-02            addition.                the Gates. Will be built in the
unused borrow area on left
side  upstream.  Located
inside the TBWS.
10.  Construction of jetty  Not in EIA, as it is a new  This will be a platform/jetty
addition.                 combination built on the left
bank and protruding out into
the ponded area by about 6
meters. Both platform and
jetty are located in the
TBWS.
11.  Canal closure         Not   in  EIA,   as  this In order to accommodate
requirement   was     not the physical work above and
foreseen at the time.     below the barrage closure
required from November 15
to February 15 (12 weeks),
instead of usual 5 weeks.
Water levels will be reduced,
but within normal limits.
12.  Lead    channel   for Not   in  EIA,   as  this This is to supply water to
feeding DGK canal    requirement    was     not D.G. Khan   canal during
foreseen at the time.     extended  drought period.
Consists of excavation of
silted up canal used during
construction in the 1950s.
Located in TBWS.
13.  Change     of   earth  Original borrow  areas are Because of availability of
borrow areas         located beside the right and  earth from D.G. Khan canal
left guide  bunds  (Refer bank spoils, the earth was
Project map as Figure 3.1 of obtained from there. A small
EIA reproduced as Annex-2  part of the proposed borrow
of CMS. Also before para. 6- area has been used for
11, item 7, of EIA.)      constructing the Contractor's
campsite on the right and for
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                     1-5



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
creating ICB-02 work place
and jetty on the left side.
14.   Fish ladders.        Not foreseen in EIA.       The two existing fish ladders
no  longer meet current
standards,  and  will  be
adjusted  at  request  of
Fisheries Department.
1.2.4 Implementation
Once approved, the 'Change Management' shall be implemented through the same chain of
command and control as is for the main Project. See para. 1.2.4 on page 1-7 of the EIA.
1.2.5 Salient Features of the Proposed Changes
The proposed changes shall have the following salient features:-
1.    Labor Camp: A part of the contractor's camp facilities were shifted to the present
location for a better utilization of the site. On approval of Change Management, the site
shall house the facilities of labor camp, batching plants, vehicle & equipment yard, pre-
cast yard and work base for activities funded by the Japanese Intemational Cooperation
Agency (JICA) over the Project period, on about 20 acres.
2.    Work place on the right side downstream: The work base, on approval, shall expand
to just over 9 acres (from the original 5 acres), which will be adequate for the housing
work base and the material depot.
3.    Work place on the left side downstream: The work base, on approval, shall expand
to over 14 acres (from the original 9 acres), and shall be adequate for housing work
base, material yard, vehicle yard and batching plant.
4.    Silt Excluder: A Silt Excluder has been proposed in 3 out of 4 bays of the right pocket
of the barrage, in front of the Head Regulator for D.G. Khan Canal, to exclude heavier
silt particles from the water flowing into the D.G. Khan canal and reduce the high level
of siltation in the canal. The silt excluder consists of 12 rectangular reinforced concrete
(RCC) barrels varying in length from 253 ft to 27 ft, the largest being adjacent to the
Head Regulator. It has a design discharge capacity of about 25,000 cusecs.
5.    Coffer dam on upstream side: In order to facilitate the civil works on the upstream
side a temporary earthen coffer dam shall be built in parts, across the width of the river
above the gate line, which is 4648 ft. Its approval is necessary to facilitate the other
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                      1-6



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
upstream works. Once the works have been completed, the coffer dam will be flattened,
and it is expected that the material will largely be flushed out of the system and washed
downstream in 1-2 seasons. This will partly be retained between the barrage and the
newly constructed weir downstream of the barrage, thereby adding to the protection of
the toe of the barrage. The coffer dam will be constructed one compartment at a time,
and each compartment will be demolished after it has served its purpose.
6.    Piezometers: These are the instruments that will measure the water pressure. Their
installation near the inside base of the main barrage structure does not add any volume
on the size of civil work, but enhances the technical capacity of barrage management.
7.    Grouting activities: These are necessary to fill up cavities that have gradually formed
within (and mainly at the base of) existing main barrage structures, so as to reinforce
the strength of these structures. A quick-hardening cement slurry will be fed by pipes
into existing cavities, following the removal of loose fragments. It will not involve external
work.
8.    Fabrication  and  installation  of gates: As ICB-02, JICA  have offered to
repair/rehabilitate 29 out of 65 gates of the barrage. The width of the barrage between
the abutments is 4648 ft. The clear span between piers is 60 ft, and width of the piers is
7 ft while the height of the gate in weir portion is 19 ft and in the under sluice it is 19 ft.
The barrage contains a 22 ft. navigation gate and two fish ladder with spans of 20 ft
each.
9.    Building of work place area for ICB-02: A work place shall be built by Japanese
Engineers for carrying out works for replacement of the gates and fixing their
operational components. This will be located on left side upstream of the barrage and
near the head regulator of TP Link canal; this will be located in an unused borrow area
located in the wildlife sanctuary.
10.   Construction of jetty: The jetty / plafform shall consist of an earthen structure paved
with concrete, and with a fixed set of rails; it will be located on the left bank just
upstream of the left pocket. Construction will not require piling. This platform/jetty will be
used for transporting the gates to/from a barge or boat, and from there to the barrage
gate line. The platform will be about 100 meters wide and located east of the left guide
bank, while the jetty shall protrude about 6 meters into the barrage ponded area. Both
jetty and platform will be located in the wildlife sanctuary.
11.   Canal closure: In order to accommodate the physical work above and below the
barrage, canal closure will be required from November 15 to February 28 (15 weeks)
for the D.G. Khan canal, extended from the existing annual close of five weeks. For
the two other primary canals, the closure shall be shorter - from 15 December to
early to late February (9-12 weeks), instead of the normal 5 weeks. During closure
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                       1-7



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
the water level in pond area shall be lowered, but not below the normal range, as it
will be stabilized at a level of about 430-431 ft at the barrage, which is normal during
this time of the year. It will take about 1 1/2 days for water levels to drop, and once the
works have been completed, about a same time to fill again.
12.   Lead channel for feeding DGH canal: The Lead Channel is needed to supply water
to D.G. Khan Canal during the extended period during which there will not be any
flow through the three primary canals. The command area of the D.G. Khan canal
has limited groundwater availability (of dubious quality), and the lead channel flow
will serve to provide drinking water to the area during the construction period. The
canal command areas (CCAs) of the two other primary canals located on the left
bank (TP-Link Canal and Muzaffargarh Canal) have ample groundwater of good
quality; hence there will not be a similar requirement for supplying drinking water to
these areas. Also, the CCA of the Muzaffargarh Canal is equipped with many deep
tubewells for irrigation purposes, while the CCA of the TP-Link Canal is supplied with
water via this conduit only when required, and pending availability. The Lead
Channel will not be a new structure, as use will be made of the channel used during
construction in the 1950s. As this has silted up to some extent, works will consist of
desilting/excavation. It is located within the boundary of the TBWS.
13.   Change of earth borrow areas: Borrow areas are located beside the right and left
guide bunds (Refer Project map as Figure 3.1 of EIA reproduced as Annex-2 of
CMS. Also before para. 6-11, item 7, of EIA.). Because of availability of earth from
D.G. Khan Canal bank spoils, the earth was obtained from there. A small part of the
borrow area has been used for constructing the Contractor's campsite on the right
bank, and for creating the ICB-02 work place and the jetty on the left bank.
14.   Upgrading of fish ladders. Two 20 ft wide fish ladders were installed during
construction of the barrage in the 1950s. These are located downstream, between the
central weir and the left and right pockets, respectively. While they facilitate the
migration of some fish species, they are not particularly effective: they are too small for
movement of dolphins, and do not meet current standards. They are also in need of
repairs, as the gates have disappeared, they are silted up, and some of the concrete
structures are damaged. Both will be repaired, or replaced by more modem structures,
as the Fisheries Department has been requested to provide details of an improved
design. Works entailed with this are located downstream of the barrage gate line.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                     1-8



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
1.3 EIA, EMP & EMMP
1.3.1 Adequacy of Provisions in EIA, EMP and EMMP Proposed Change
Management
Sr        Item of Change         Related Provision in   Status of Adequacy of
No.        Management              E IA/EMP/EMMP           Mitigation Cover
1    Site  for  labor  camp, New    site. Only general Site specific mitigation of
equipment yard, batching  provisions  have  been  adverse  impacts  need
plant and JICA work base  mentioned in EIA  para. improvement by way of
3.9.1 page 3.15 and Figure creating a buffer zone and
3.1 along with EMP No 1.1, finding appropriate disposal
1.3,  1.5  para.  8.10.2, of solid and liquid waste.
EMMP para. 8.7 and table
8.2 also item 7 at page 6-11
of EIA.
2     Construction of workplace Expanded  site.  General Site  specific  adverse
on   the    right   side provisions contained in EIA factors need improvement;
downstream               para. 3.9.4, page 3-21 and  mitigation of social impacts
the EMP.                required through RAP.
3     Construction of workplace Expanded  site.  Only Site    specific  adverse
on the left side downstream  general provision contained factors need improvement;
in EIA para. 3.9.4, page 3- mitigation of social impacts
21 and the EMP.         required through RAP.
4     Construction of coffer dam  New work on a fresh site. It has to be examined for
upstream                 Not indicated in the EIA.  adverse factors that require
mitigation  and   allied
suggestions.
5     Installation of piezometer New work on a fresh site. It has to be examined for
upstream                 Not indicated in the EIA.  adverse factors that require
mitigation  and   allied
suggestions.
6     Grouting activity upstream  New work not indicated in It has to be examined for
the EIA.                 adverse factors that require
mitigation  and   allied
NDC i NESPAK I ATKINS                                                     1-9



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
Sr        Item of Change         Related Provision in    Status of Adequacy of
No.        Management              EIA/EMP/EMMP             Mitigation Cover
suggestions.
7     Fabrication and installation  New work not indicated in It has to be examined for
of gates                 the EIA.                 adverse factors that require
mitigation.
8     Building of work place for Not mentioned in EIA.  It has to be examined for
ICB-02                                            adverse factors that require
mitigation  and   allied
suggestions.
9     Construction of jetty    New work not indicated in It has to be examined for
the EIA.                 adverse factors that require
mitigation  and   allied
suggestions.
10    Canal closure            Covered in the EIA in 6.2, It has to be examined for
page 6-4.                adverse factors that require
mitigation  and   allied
suggestions.
11   Change of earth borrow    Initially the borrow pits were It has to be examined for
areas                    located on upstream  right adverse factors that require
and left side. Some borrow  mitigation  and  allied
area has been used as site suggestions.
for buildings shown project
map as Figure 3.1 of EIA,
reproduced as Annexe-2 of
CMS. Also para. 6.11, item
7 of EIA.
12    Lead channel for feeding  New work.              It has to be examined for
DGK canal                                         adverse factors that require
mitigation.
13   Works pertaining  to silt New work. EIA para. 3.4 It has to be examined for
excluder DGK canal head  page 3-7 only describes it.  adverse factors that require
mitigation.
14    Fish ladders.            New work, not described in It has to be examined for
EIA.                     adverse factors that require
mitigation.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                      1-10



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project Change Management Statement
1.3.2 Impacts Due to Change
1      2      3      4       5      6      7      8      9
C                          -o        ~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Sr.      Item under        9!             E,     m>                        CD
0                   3          -CD-CD  )  %Jn aCf 0  -  0.
No       Examination          j0.D                                          o  a  -   CD
0  CD CD 
_  0)  D)              Cfl  -,  Cfl  ~~: -o  0.  0
-'  -,        ~~     ~     ~~CD  0f
1    Site for labor camp,
equipment     yard,                                                      /
batching plant and
J ICA work base
2    Workplace  on  the
right          site                                V /  /  /                   V
downstream
3    Workplace  on  the
left side downstream
4    Work pertaining to
silt excluder DGK     X                                                 /
canal head
5    Coffer        dam
construction                                              /             V
upstream
6    Installation    of
piezometer
7    Grouting    activity
upstream
8    Fabrication   and
installation of gates
9    Building  of  work
base for ICB-02
10   Construction of jetty  X/                                               V
11   Canal closure        /       /                           /              V      /
12   Lead  channel  for
feeding DGK canal
13   Change   of  earth   X                     V
borrow areas
14   Fish ladders          V                                 _
See further explanation in chapter 3.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                              1-11



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project Change Management Statement
1.3.3 Public Hearing
Chapter 6 of the EIA describes the outcome of the public consultation, held with different
stakeholder groups who may be affected by the project. The consultation process was
carried out in accordance with the World Bank Operational Policy (OP 4.01) on Public
consultation. Details of the process and the outcome are given in chapter 6 of the EIA. It
may be added here that during the Public hearing, when the representative of PMO
answered the questions from members of the Public, they were under the impression that
the barrage consisted of the gate line and the water up to the upper ends of the Guide
Bunds. Accordingly, the part of the river below the line joining the upper ends of Guide
Bunds was considered to be outside the Wildlife Sanctuary. Therefore, in one of her
answers, the PMO representative incorrectly stated that the construction activity shall be
downstream of the barrage and outside the bounds of the Wildlife Sanctuary and the
Ramsar site. It was further stated that any construction (within or below the barrage) will in
no way cause any negative impact on Indus Dolphin, and the flora and fauna of the ponded
area within the Taunsa Barrage. This position has now changed in view of the recognition
that the southern boundary of the TBWS coincides with the gate line of the barrage. All the
construction works to be carried out upstream of the barrage gate line fall within the Wildlife
Sanctuary and therefore require concurrence of the Wildlife Department as part of the
Change Management being proposed.
1.3.4 Public Disclosure
Copies of the EIA were placed at the Office of the EPB Punjab, the Project Site Office i.e.
Taunsa Barrage Control Office and the Punjab Public Library Lahore, so as to be accessible
to the project beneficiaries, local NGOS and general public. In addition, a public
announcement board providing the salient features of the EIA has been placed at the
barrage. An approved Change Management Statement, as a supplement to the main EIA,
shall also be placed at all the points where main EIA was disclosed.
1.4 CHANGE MANAGEMENT PROVISION
For monitoring the implementation of the EMP a comprehensive EMMP has been provided
in para. 8.7 of the EIA. An approved Change Management Statement shall form an essential
supplement to the EMP in the EIA. As a minimum, the monitoring plan provided in table 8.2
of the EIA shall also be followed for the CMS. For institutional arrangements, the provisions
of para. 8.8 of the EIA are also considered adequate for the change management.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                  1-12



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project Change Management Statement
Accordingly, all new EMP points have been highlighted for appending to the approved
EMMP by the PMO.
1.5 TAUNSA BARRAGE WILDLIFE SANCTUARY AND RAMSAR SITE
The Taunsa Barrage Wildlife Sanctuary was first gazetted in 1974, and designated as a
Ramsar site in 1996. It is world class protected area, providing a habitat for rare species
such as the Indus Dolphin Platanista minor, otter Lutra perspicillata and hog deer Axis
porcinus. The area upstream of the Taunsa barrage provides a habitat for a population of
about 84 Indus dolphins2. The site also forms an important wintering area for waterbirds
(especially ducks), a breeding area for several species (notably whistling duck Dendrocygna
javanica, of which 325 in August 1995), and a staging area for cranes (Grus grus and
Anthropoides virgo) and shorebirds. Over 24,000 waterbirds were present during the mid-
January count in 1987, with a total of 21 species. Since then, mid-winter bird counts have
been considerably lower, numbering 3,128 in 1994 (24 spp.), 8,826 in 1997 (21 spp.),
11,142 in 1999 (28 spp.), 10,880 in 2000 (35 spp.) and 4,640 in 2001 (24 spp.)3. Species
lists and further details are provided in para. 4.3.3 and 4.3.4 of the EIA. Reportedly,
migratory waterbirds arrive in December, and remain until February.
The main areas utilized by the waterbirds are the main barrage water body (ponded area),
and the main island (Matwani Wala). The latter is largely covered with a dense, woody
vegetation dominated by Tamarix dioica and Tamarix articulata, with Populus euphratica
further inland. This is interspersed with open patches of grass and sedgeland, dominated by
Saccharum  spontaneum, Saccharum   (Erythrium) munja, Cynodon dactylon, Typha
elephantina and Cyperus sp., and small (temporary) bodies of water with lotus (Nelumbo).
The official PWD boundary of the reserve is as indicated in the Map in Annex-1, which gives
the TBWS a total area of 6,756 ha. According to the Ramsar description, the sanctuary has
been renotified by the PWD in 1983, 1988 and again in 1993. More recently (in 1999), a draft
renotification has been submitted to the PWD by the District WD in Muzaffargarh. This as yet
not accepted revision would reduce the area to 7,000 acres (or 2800 ha), and basically
consist of the main barrage water body between the two guard bunds, and only a small
southern part of the main island (Matwani Wala). It must be noted that areas outside the
2 These are not only located in the ponded area near the barrage, but may be found anywhere between the
Chashma and Taunsa barrages, although they prefer large expanses of deeper water.
3Asian Waterfowl Census, coordinated by Wetlands International (www.wetlands.org).
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                     1-13



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project Change Management Statement
main island and the main water body are all under intensive agriculture (mainly wheat and
sugarcane), with little or no natural habitat remaining.
PWD has a small office and facility at Taunsa, a supervisor based at Kotaddu, and in
addition 4-5 wildlife watchers and one boatman. The wildlife watchers - who are all recruited
from outside Taunsa - are based at the TBWS on a rotational basis, with each team staying
one month at a time. Patrolling of the site by PWD staff seems irregular at best. During the
CMS field survey (23-24 November 2005) the Taunsa PWD facility was not in use, and
according to locals no-one had been there for at least a month; no staff were encountered in
the field. There are signs located at the barrage indicating that the area is a protected area,
and stating which activities are not permitted. There are no displays, maps or other
interpretive material.
During a field trip on 23 November 2005 it was noticed that the main island, Matwani Wala,
is utilized by the local community in numerous ways:
*  as a source of fuel wood, and several boats loaded bunches of brushwood with were
observed leaving the island; tracks left by oxcarts indicates that this may at times be
at a large scale;
*  fishing: locals fish around the island, but also in residual ponds and pools that remain
once floodwaters recede; locals were seen using gillnets and funnel-shaped
pushnets, working in groups;
* buffalo grazing - one hard of about 20 animals was observed; and
* collecting of grass (notably Saccharum munja) for making brooms.
Most of these activities have a fairly low impacts, and as the island is still largely covered
with a dense woody vegetation, collection of fuel wood at the present level seems benign.
However, activities carried out during the breeding season (May-June) for resident birds, and
when migratory birds are present (December-February) may lead to unwanted levels of
disturbance. Additionally, fires - presumably lit to encourage new growth of Saccharum
munja - have affected parts of the northern part of the island. Given the lack of PWD staff
presence, hunting could also be a problem in the peak migratory season.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                     1-14



2. SCOPE OF CHANGE,
JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
2. SCOPE OF CHANGE, JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS
2.1 LABOUR CAMP
In the EIA, the areas adjacent to the right and left upstream guide bunds have been earmarked
as the borrow areas for earth (see EIA Project map at Figures 3.1, also para. 6.11 and items 7
of para. 6.5 of EIA and Annex 3.2 of CMS). As earth subsequently became available from the
spoils of DGK canal, the designated borrow areas were no longer required for obtaining earth.
However, 20 acres near the right guide bund have been used to house the contractor's labor
camp, batching plant, pre-cast yard, equipment yard and the JICA work base.
Initially, the labor camp had to be accommodated at the old workshop site of l&P Department
about one kilometer from the main project site. As labor for the mechanical part of ICB-02 has
to be accommodated at the workshop site, the labor camp for ICB-01 has been shifted to the
proposed site on the right bank upstream. In conjunction with this, the batching plant and the
pre-cast areas have also been shifted.
This change has created an easy accommodation for the labor of ICB-01 as well as ICB-02.
The batching plant is now located closer to the main project and this will save a lot of transport
costs and resource wastage. After completion of the project, it is proposed that the labor camp
site be used as a tourist accommodation for the visitors to Taunsa Barrage Wildlife Sanctuary.
The tourist resort can, at a later stage, be improved, by constructing an observation tower for
tourists to see the wildlife in the sanctuary by means of a fixed but rotating telescope, or using
binoculars.
2.2 WORK PLACE ON THE RIGHT SIDE DOWNSTREAM
Initially, a 5-acre open place was available near the end of the downstream Right Guide Bund.
To meet the requirement of the contractor for a larger work base, another 4 acres were added.
This meant that 21 households had to be relocated to a nearby site; these persons are now
being compensated under arrangements confirmed in a RAP.
The expansion of the work place has created ample space for temporary dumping of materials,
and for locating the heavy machinery yard required for construction of the coffer dam and the
main sub-weir.
DCI NESPAK I ATKINS                                                       2-1



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
2.3 WORK PLACE ON THE LEFT SIDE DOWNSTREAM
Initially, 9 acres of land were available as a work base on the lower tip of the d/s left guide bund.
Five acres of land was added to expand the work base in consideration of the scale of the
activities. This meant that 136 households had to be relocated to a nearby site; these persons
are now being compensated under arrangements confirmed in a RAP.
As with the right bank site (see 2.2), the expansion of the work place has created ample space
for storing materials, operating heavy machinery and creating an executing convenience for the
construction of the coffer dam and (later) the main sub-weir.
2.4 CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY UPSTREAM OF BARRAGE GATE LINE
The construction activities upstream of the gate line of the barrage have taken the status of a
"Change" now it has become known that the southern boundary of the Taunsa Barrage Wildlife
Sanctuary coincides with the gate line of the barrage.
2.4.1 Construction of Coffer Dam
To facilitate the works on the upstream side of the barrage gate line an earthen Coffer Dam has
to be constructed. The Coffer Dam shall be built in stages of 500-550 ft each over a length of
4648 ft. span of the barrage. It will be about 10 meters wide at the top to allow vehicles to pass.
The coffer dam will be a temporary, earthen structure that will be flattened after use and left in
situ. However, it is expected that this material will be removed in 1-2 flood seasons and be at
least partly deposited between the barrage and new weir, adding to the protection of the base
of the barrage. The coffer dam will be constructed one compartment at a time, and each
compartment will be demolished after it has served its purpose.
2.4.2 Piezometers
Piezometers are instruments rather than structures, and are used from a fixed point to measure
the pressure of water. Their installment near the upstream base of the main barrage structure
will enhance the technical capacity of the Barrage Management by measuring the downward
pressure of the river water. This will in turn help to balance the upward hydraulic pressure of the
concrete flooring.
DC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                      2-2



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
2.4.3 Grouting Activities
The civil work structures of the main Taunsa Barrage structure have, over past 50 years, and
developed cavities and structural weaknesses at a number of locations at the base and
foundations. It will be reinforced and strengthened by filling the cavities by means of grouting,
which involves removing loose material and injecting the cavities with a slurry of fast setting
cement. It is estimated that the grouting activity can help the structure to stay firm and functional
for another 50 years.
2.5 EXTENDED CLOSURE OF CANALS
The normal operational canal closure schedule for the Taunsa barrage is as follows:
.  Name of Canals             Muzaffargarh Canal
DG.Khan Canal
T-P link Canal
*  Status of Canals           Non-Perennial
.  Period when Canals are run  April 15 to October 15
.  Period of Canal Closure for December 22 to January 31 (5 weeks)
repairs and maintenance
.  Only Drinking water released  February 01 to April 14 and October16 to December 21.
As a special measure during implementation of the project, the annual canal closure of the D.G.
Khan Canal has been extended from 15 November to 28 February, i.e. for 15 weeks instead of
the normal 5 weeks. For the two other primary canals closure will be from 15 December until
early or late February (9-13 weeks), instead of the usually 5 weeks. Water levels in the barrage
will be lowered during closure in the course of 1 12 days, but lowering will be within limits that are
normal during the dry season, i.e. stabilized at 430-421 ft at the barrage.
2.6 LEAD CHANNEL FOR D.G. KHAN CANALS
A channel, about 6 km long, with a capacity of 1,000 cusecs shall be used to provide water to
DGK canal during the extended period during which there will not be any flow through the
three primary canals. The canal command area (CCA) of the D.G. Khan Canal has limited
groundwater availability (of dubious quality), and the Lead Channel flow will serve to provide
drinking water to the CCA during the construction period. The Lead Channel will not be a
DC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                       2-3



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
new structure, as use will be made of the channel used during construction in the 1950s.
<This original channel was in turn constructed along an existing natural drainage feature.>
As the 1950s channel has silted up to some extent, works will consist of desilting/excavation
and widening (by about 20 ft.). This channel shall be required only during implementation of
the project, after which it will be abandoned.
2.7 WORKS ON MECHANICAL GATES (ICB-02)
2.7.1 Fabrication and Installation of Gates
After running for over about five decades the moving components for the gates of the barrage
have deteriorated, causing serious malfunctioning and posing a threat to the safety of the
barrage. Therefore, for modification in design, studies were carried out by JICA who offered to
repair/rehabilitate 29 out of 65 gates of the barrage. The clear span between piers is 60 ft. and
the width of the piers is 7 ft., while the height of the gate in the weir portion is 19 ft. and in the
undersluice it is 22 ft. The barrage also incorporates a navigation gate with a span of 22 ft, and
two 20 ft. fish ladders on the other side. Change of gates would increase the efficiency of the
gate line.
2.7.2 Building of Workplace Area for ICB-02
A working platform of about 100 meters width (i.e. one ha in area) will be built by Japanese
Engineers on the left bank of the barrage, upstream of the TP Link canal regulator, along with a
stock yard for carrying out necessary replacement/repair of gates and the operational set up.
For building the work place a small part of the unused borrow area on the left bank upstream
has been used. This is a less intensive use than excavating earth from there. The work place
will be used to carry out repairs and for the replacement of the barrage gates. After the
completion of the project, the cleared land may be re-utilized for other purposes.
2.7.3 Work of Silt Excluder D.G. Khan Canal Headworks
To save D.G. Khan Canal from heavy siltation, a silt excluder shall be built, inside the river; in
front of the headworks of D.G. Khan Canal, i.e. in the TBWS. The silt excluder will consist of silt
trapping system covering three bays in the right pocket of the barrage. The system will re-
release the trapped silt into the river. The D.G. Khan canal will receive water with reduced
sediments.
DC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                       2-4



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project Change Management Statement
The silt excluder comprises of 12 rectangular RCC barrels, varying in length from 253 down
to 25 ft., the longest being adjacent to the Head Regulator. It has a design discharge
capacity of about 25,000 cusecs.
2.7.4 Construction of Jetty
Prefabricated gates, repaired gates and new parts of the gate holding system have to be
brought in to the system. Also, some of the gates and other repairable parts have to be
taken out of water. To facilitate that, a jetty will be constructed that is contiguous with the
plafform for gate construction (see 2.7.2). The jetty / plafform shall consist of an earthen
structure paved with concrete, and with a fixed set of rails; it will be located on the left bank
just upstream of the left pocket. Construction will not require piling. As indicated above, the
plafform will be about 100 meters wide and located east of the left guide bank, while the jetty
shall protrude about 6 meters into the barrage ponded area. They will be left for alternative
use (e.g. by barrage operators) after construction has been completed.
2.7.5 Change of Earth Borrow Areas
Due to availability of earth from D.G. Khan Canal bank spoils, the earth was obtained from
there. A small part of the originally proposed borrow area has been used for constructing the
Contractor's campsite on the right and for creating the ICB-02 work place and the
jetty/plafform on the left side.
DC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                       2-5



3. ANALYSIS OF ADVERSE
IMPACTS CAUSED DUE TO
CHANGES



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
3. ANALYSIS OF ADVERSE IMPACTS CAUSED DUE TO CHANGES
3.1 ADVERSE IMPACTS DUE TO LABOUR CAMP RIGHT SIDE UPSTREAM
Twenty acres of land, about 100 meters away from the right upstream guide bund has been
utilized to construct a labor camp and house batching plants, pre-cast area equipment yard and
the JICA work base. This area is located within the southwestern part of the officially gazetted
TBWS. While having a lower visual impact than impact than the originally intended use as
borrow area, it may affect the wildlife sanctuary in the following ways.
3.1.1  Biodiversity The disturbance created by frequent movement of heavy vehicles, noise
of batching plants and presence of a large number of inhabitants of the camp may scare
away waterfowl and other wildlife from the ponded area and guide bund. Impacts on the
landward side are negligible, as the area was either under agricultural use, or had been
otherwise largely disturbed and had little value as a natural habitat.
3.1.2  Water quality of the river will be affected due to dust produced by a chain of trucks
carrying materials and goods to and from the construction site. Given the silt load of the
river in its natural state, this effect is expected to be negligible, local and temporary.
3.1.3  Quality of ground water is likely to suffer from the local disposal of solid and liquid
wastes. The effects can be of local significance, but can also be readily managed and
mitigated, by following appropriate methods for disposal and storage.
3.1.4  Endangered Species like Indus Dolphin and waterbirds such as the marbled teal may
be further threatened by human activity near and inside the barrage waters. The threat
will largely be due to disturbance - fortunately, the water body is fairly large and wildlife
can easily move away from areas of disturbance.
3.1.5  Potential impacts specific to the Wetland formed by the water body behind the gate
line of the barrage, are as follows: -
* Water, water quality & microclimate:
o  Impact on sediment in the right river pocket and erosion control along the right
guide bank.
o  Impacts on flood control by way of any damage to right guide bund due to heavy
traffic on its top.
o  Impact on maintenance of water quality and abatement of pollution by way of
providing a source of solid and liquid wastes contributed directly or though
seepage.
DC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                        3-1



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
o  Impact on maintenance of surface and underground water supply by way of
addition of solid and liquid waste and soil compaction because of vehicular and
human activity.
o  An impact on microclimate is likely due to physical disturbance and biological
interference.
Biological resources:
o  Fisheries may suffer because of the presence of large number of labor and their
possible activities, including fishing, which may adversely affect the balance of
fish and Indus Dolphin.
o  Impacts on waterfowl habitat will be adverse, caused by extensive human and
vehicular activity in the area.
o  Impacts on the biodiversity will be obvious when the habitat is disturbed.
* Socio-economics:
o  Impact on outdoor recreation and education about wetlands will be caused by
the exclusion of visitors to this area because of the camp. This function of the
wetland may, however, be restored after the completion of the project, and even
enhanced if the facilities are re-used for (eco-)tourism.
o  Impacts on socio-economic values of the wetland will become apparent to local
people when they are excluded from the area. (Note: they are already excluded
from utilizing this area under the existing management of the barrage
operations).
* Management of the area:
o  Impacts on sustainable practices shall be caused by habitat destruction.
o  Impacts on technology already under use shall be caused by way of
construction activities on the upstream side of the gate line.
o  Impact on further efforts of restoring the wetland shall inadvertently be
negatively impacted.
o  Impacts may be caused on other projects already under implementation by way
of strong interference.
o  Impacts may also be caused by the utilization of natural wetland resources in an
unplanned and unprecedented way.
o  Impacts on continued status as Ramsar site; the continual high level of
disturbance in the barrage area may lead to this 20-acre area having to be
excluded from the overall Taunsa Barrage Wildlife Sanctuary.
DC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                       3-2



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
While the list of potential impacts on the ponded area behind the barrage is long, most of these
effects are minor, or can easily be mitigated so that they are minor. Most of the effects are also
temporary, and will be reversed after completion of the project. Care must be taken, however,
to rehabilitate the area of the labor camp after the project, to remove unsightly piles of materials
and remaining equipment (-parts), loosen compacted areas, and removing buildings that will
not be re-used. It has been suggested that some of the buildings can be re-used for the
development of eco-tourism; this will require careful planning to ensure that no new (and long-
term) disturbance results from this. A plan should be produced by the contractor for
environmentally friendly re-use of some of the facility, and dismantling of the rest.
3.2 ADVERSE IMPACTS DUE TO WORKPLACE ON THE RIGHTSIDE, DOWNSTREAM
To create a greater facility for execution of work, the work base was expanded from 5 acres to
9 acres. The expansion caused the following impacts.
*  21 households had to be relocated, and a RAP had to be produced and implemented to
safeguard local livelihoods and interests.
*  Local land use was changed from residential to operational, thus causing compaction
and exposure to oil spillage and solid/liquid waste dumps on the new site, near the river
bank, from where local residents were shifted. This affects both surface and ground
water quality, albeit in a minor and temporary way.
.  Biodiversity has been affected by removal of vegetation and leveling the area. A
seepage pond had to be filled up to improve the approach to work place which indirectly
could have upset the biodiversity balance in that niche. Apart from the small seepage
pond, the habitats were already largely disturbed and of little biodiversity value.
3.3 ADVERSE IMPACTS DUE TO WORKPLACE ON THE LEFT SIDE DOWNSTREAM
To create a larger facility for execution of work, the work base on the left side downstream of
the barrage, was expanded from 9 acres to 14 acres. The expansion caused the following
impacts:
* 136 households had to be shifted elsewhere and a RAP had to be produced and
implemented to safeguard local livelihoods and interests.
* Local land use was changed form residential to operational, thus causing compaction
and exposure to oil spillage and solid and liquid waste dumps on the new site near the
DC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                        3-3



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
river bank where squatters were shifted. This affects both surface and ground water
quality.
Biodiversity was affected by removal of vegetation and leveling the area. These impacts
are minimal, as the habitats were already largely disturbed and of little biodiversity
value.
3.4 ADVERSE IMPACTS DUE TO CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES UPSTREAM OF
BARRAGE GATE LINE
3.4.1 Work of Silt Excluder
The silt excluder shall reduce the quantity of silt from the water flowing into D.G.Khan Canal,
preventing it from silting up and guaranteeing its capacity for a longer period. Construction will
take place once the right pocket has been shielded from flooding by the coffer dam. Once in
place the silt excluder may some negative impacts, including:
*  The accumulation of greater quantities of silt in the right pocket and three bays adjacent
to the right bank.
.  In the right pocket the change in the physical conditions will change the micro-
environment, affecting wetlands and associated biodiversity. However, the latter effect
is expected to be minor, at most.
3.4.2 Construction of Coffer Dam
The coffer dam located upstream of the barrage shall:
*  Cause obstruction to the normal flow of water to the extent it is built. It will temporarily
raise the water level behind the coffer dam and due to pressure created there; increase
the velocity of water flowing towards the gate line. Rise in level and velocity can create
problems downstream, particularly on the glacis. As the coffer dam will be constructed
and demolished one compartment at a time, this effect will be limited.
.  During construction, water quality will be affected as earth is deposited in the water
body will cause an increase in ambient levels of suspended matter. This will in turn
affect biodiversity, endangered species such as the Indus Dolphin, and peripheral
wetlands.
.  After the work is finished, the earth used for building the coffer dam, cannot be directly
removed. It will have to be spread on the bottom of the ponded area, causing a
DC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                       3-4



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
temporary reduction in water depth, affecting fish and Indus Dolphin, wetlands, and
indirectly impacting waterfowl. This effect is expected to be moderate and temporary, as
during the next period of flooding most of these sediments are likely to be flushed out of
the barrage.
Biodiversity will be adversely affected during the period the coffered area remains dry
and at times when heavy quantities of earth are converted into sediment load of the
river water. However, as the total coffered area is small compared to the total ponded
area (600 ft of coffered length versus 5000 ft total length N-S of the ponded area), the
reduction in available habitat for dolphins or waterfowl is moderate and temporary. Also,
as the coffer dam will be constructed and demolished one compartment at a time, this
effect will be limited.
3.4.3 Piezometer
Piezometers are measuring instruments that will be installed upstream near the base of the
main barrage structure, and will be linked by wires to the barrage operations office. The
environmental effect of their installation is expected to be negligible. At the most, they may
provide shelter for certain deep water fish, where they may be able to hide from the Indus
Dolphin. During installation, there may be some minor disturbance to wildlife in the areas, and
minor resuspension of sediments. Environmental effects will therefore be minor and temporary.
3.4.4 Grouting Activities
Grouting is one time operation of pumping cement slurry into the cavities at or near the base of
the main barrage structure. However, any leakage may end up in the river water, and this may
temporarily affect surface water quality downstream of the barrage. Smaller wildlife living in the
cavities, such as amphibians and fish, may be affected as the may be smothered by the
cement slurry, and available shelter will disappear. Overall, the effects on the wildlife sanctuary
will be small, although impacts on certain biodiversity may be long-lasting.
3.5 ADVERSE IMPACTS DUE TO EXTENDED CLOSURE OF CANALS & LOWERING
OF WATER LEVELS IN PONDED AREA
Canals are artificial structures and for their maintenance and repairs, a closure is prescribed in
their operational manuals. The D.G.Khan Canal shall remain closed during the implementation
of the project, from 15 November to 28 February (15 weeks) instead of the usual closure from
December 22 to January 31 (5 weeks).
DC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                       3-5



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
The two other primary canals (TP-Link Canal and Muzaffargarh Canal) will be closed from 15
December to early or late February (9-12 weeks), instead of the usual 5 weeks. A longer
closure is necessary for better silt clearance and maintenance of the D.G. Khan Canal, and for
allowing works on the main barrage, but this will also have adverse impacts:
*  It will cut off drinking water supply for a large human population in the D.G. Khan CCA
for the extended period, as groundwater in the command area is of poor quality and
cannot be used for human consumption. To mitigate this, the Lead Channel (see 3.6)
will be used to provide the D.G. Khan canal with 1,000 cusecs so as to be able to serve
drinking water requirements.
*  Agricultural crops, especially the raising of the Rabi crop, may suffer during the
closure season, especially in the D.G. Khan CCA. A separate Change Management
Statement will be prepared by the end of June, 2006, covering (i) the identification
and mitigation of impacts associated with low flows in the DG Khan canal in the
period extending from December 2005 through February 2006, and (ii) measures to
mitigate the impacts of any proposed future extensions of the canal closure period.
*  Due to fall of water in the river, aquatic life will suffer and it may be forced to move into
deeper waters in other parts upstream. This lowering of water levels and desiccation
may affect endangered species such as the Indus Dolphin, and also affect wildlife, fish,
wetlands and biodiversity in the TBWS. Some of these impacts may be temporary, but
others may be longer-lasting. The lowering of water levels is expected to be within the
normal range, however, and not below the 430-431 ft level. As a result, the overall
effects are not expected to be relatively significant, but not irreversible.
*  The fall in the water levels will temporarily increase the size of islands in the Indus River
north of the barrage, and if left undisturbed these could potentially provide more habitat
for birds.
3.6 ADVERSE IMPACTS DUE TO LEAD CHANNEL FOR FEEDING D.G. KHAN CANAL
This is a temporary channel which will be used to supply drinking water to D.G.Khan Canal,
over the extended canal closure period during the project period. It is not a new structure, but
an upgraded existing structure previously used during the 1950s construction. The present
channel will be widened by about 10-20 ft along much of its length, and deepened. It will be
abandoned as soon as the need for the extended Canal closure is finished. The following
environmental and socio-economic effects are to be expected:
DC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                       3-6



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
Impacts are expected on wildlife, biodiversity, endangered species, surface waters and
wetlands during construction, as these activities will cause disturbance and increased
levels of suspended sediment in surface waters. While the channel is officially located
within the TBWS, the area has totally been converted to agriculture and land use
consists of wheat fields, sugarcane areas, and human habitation. Impacts on
biodiversity, wildlife and wetlands is therefore expected to be minor.
After abandonment, however, the effects may be beneficial as extra wetland habitat will
be available. This is largely due to the excavation and enlargement of the existing
channel, which apart from an increase in size, can also be expected to hold water for
longer periods in the dry season. Both aspects will be beneficial to wetland species in
the medium to long-term.
Excavation of the channel will waste land, as the channel will remain operational only
temporarily and afterward, it will be abandoned. The total area affected will only be
about 5-10 hectares (about 3-6 meters widened channel, spoils on banks are about 6
meters wide, total length is 6 km), which is a moderate loss.
3.7 CHANGE OF EARTH BORROW AREAS
Not using the borrow areas and instead obtaining earth from spoils of D.G.Khan Canal has had
the following environmental effects:
*  Led to change in the land use: habitation instead of created ponds (left after excavation
of borrow pits).
* Created a buffer zone between the agricultural field, and the Wildlife Sanctuary.
3.8 ADVERSE IMPACTS DUE TO WORKS ON THE MECHANICAL GATES
3.8.1 Fabrication and Installation of Gates
The gates will be fabricated ex situ and shall be brought on rail track up to the jetty from where
these shall be floated on barges/with tug boats to the site of installation. This activity may have
following impacts:
The risk of accidents is high and therefore while receiving, conveying and installing the
gates, a high Health and Security alert is to be issued by the HSE section staff to
prevent accidents.
DC NESPAK I ATKINS                                                         3-7



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
*  Installation and fabrication may disturb the normal water flow in the Barrage, and affect
ambient air quality.
* It will require modification of the river bank from where the gates, etcetera have to be
guided along a ramp down into the river (see 3.8.3).
3.8.2 Building of Workplace Area for ICB-02
Construction of the Workplace for ICB-2 (the platform associated with the jetty) will cause
following impacts:-
*  It will require clearance of some vegetation, and therefore cause local loss of
biodiversity. This impact will be minimal, for although the site is officially located within
the wildlife sanctuary, most of this area is already very heavily disturbed.
* A small part of the area, originally meant for borrowing earth shall now be used as
workplace for ICB-02.
3.8.3  Construction of Jetty
The construction and operation of the jetty will have the following effects:
* Construction of the jetty will elevate suspended matter levels and thereby affect surface
water quality, nearby wetlands, and biodiversity at a localized level. Construction
activities will also disturb wildlife. As the size of the jetty is small (protruding only 6m into
river), certainly compared to the entire ponded area, the impacts will be minor. Piling will
not be required.
* The fact that it protrudes into the water will affect water flows at a local level, and
therefore have lasting effects on local hydrology and wetlands. However, as the
dimensions are small, the impact on the hydrology is likely to be negligible.
* Activities on the jetty may have an impact locally in the left pocket, thus affecting any
aquatic life below. This will be mainly in the form of (some) disturbance during
construction, as fishing and hunting are prohibited by barrage operators.
* The jetty will use a part of the riverbank adjacent to which lies the area originally meant
as the borrow area. This will cause a change in the land use, especially considering that
the jetty is located inside the wildlife sanctuary.
DC NESPAK I ATKINS                                                             3-8



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
3.8.4 Upgrading of the existing fish ladders
The upgrading of the two existing fish ladders will bring about positive environmental effects in
the medium- to long-term, but during reconstruction they will not be in use, and therefore there
will possibly not be any passage of fish via this route during part of one seasons.
3.9 CUMULATIVE IMPACTS IN PONDED AREA
While all individual impacts of project activities on the ponded area are expected to be minor or
moderate, it is possible that the cumulative effects of the coffer dam, lowering of the water
table, grouting, and construction activity that increase suspended sediment levels will be
significant, at least for aquatic species such as the Indus Dolphin. Together, smaller volumes of
water and impacts on water quality may combine to create adverse conditions. The project
should therefore carefully monitor:
*  water levels in the ponded area to ensure that a minimal depth of 430-431 ft. is truly
maintained;
* water quality4, to ensure that oxygen levels are within safe levels (>2.0 mg/I),
suspended sediment is generally below 80 mg/l (and never above 400 mg/I)5, and
cement is not spilled into the river;
*  possible fish kills (and immediately investigate any report by taking water and fish
samples for analysis in Lahore); and
  the Indus Dolphin and waterbird populations in the ponded area, to ensure that levels
remain constant, or within normal (pre-project) fluctuations.
Monitoring of water quality and quantity is to be carried out by the Contractor, at least on a
weekly basis, using at least six sites: four in the ponded part of the barrage (i.e. between the
guide bunds), and two in the water body upstream of the guide bunds. Monitoring of Indus
dolphin and waterbirds should be carried out by WWF-Pakistan at least on a fortnightly basis
(during project implementation, and monthly during intermittent periods).
4 Adapted from Alabaster, J.S. & Lloyd, R.L. (1980) - Water quality criteria for freshwater fish. Butterworths
Pubi., London.
5The suspended sediment level of incoming waters upstream of the barrage guide bunds must also be measured,
as this may, on occasion, also be elevated (e.g. during peak floods).
DC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                           3-9



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
3.10 EVALUATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF CHANGE MANAGEMENT OF
TAUNSA BARRAGE REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(A comprehensive analysis of overall impacts has been given in EIA, Table 7.1 page 7-3. In the
following table 3.1 only those impacts are included which have been caused due to change
management and should be read as a supplemental list to that given in EIA.)
DC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                            3-10



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                    Change Management Statement
Table 3.1
Evaluation of Change Management Impacts
Assessment
No            Change                      Aspect                         Impact                Slight    Moderate      High
1   2   3   1   2   3   1   2   3
1 .   Contractors  labor  camp  1.1 Biodiversity              1.1.1  Noise  due  to frequent
and    batching   plants,                               movement of vehicles
equipment plant and JICA                                1.1.2 Noise due to batching plans              X
work base taken to right                                1.1.3 Large No. of labor                        V
bank upstream  from   old                               1.1.4 Threat to Flora               /
factory area.                                           1.1.5 Threat to Fauna           ==/
1.1.6 Threat to Indus Dolphin      v/
1.2 Water quality of the river  1.2.1 Dust effect
1.3 Quality of ground water   1.3.1 Disposal of solid waste                   /
1.3.2 disposal of liquid waste                  /
1.4 Threatened species under 1.4.1 Human activity near river                 VI'
social pressure               bank
6 NOTES:     I = Avoidable through design (Preventative);
2 = Mitigation through Contractor's obligation or by communities through Social Framework Agreements (SFAs) (Curative);
3 = Irreversible/permanent Change (to be adopted).
DC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                        3-11



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                Change Management Statement
1.5 Impacts specific to wetland  1.5.1 Sedimentation along river
pocket
1.5.2 Flood control 
1.5.3 Water quality                                         _
1.5.4 Surface and ground water               /
supply
1.5.5 Fisheries                              /
1.5.6 Outdoor recreation
1.5.7 Temporary habitat of water
fowls
1.5.8 Climatic stability          /
1.5.9 Socio-economic values       X
1.5.10  Biodiversity  &  habitat
stability
1.5.11  Sustainable  fisheries
practices
1.5.12   Barrage  technology
already in practice
1.5.13 Restoration of wetland 
1.5.14  Utilization  of wetland
system
1.5.15 Status as Ramsar site =
DCj NESPAK ATKINS                                                                                                     3-12



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                  Change Management Statement
2.    Expansion of work place on  2.1 RAP undertaken (separate  2.1.1 Twenty one households
the right side downstream  & independent report)      shifted
2.1.2 Change in land use                      X       _
2.1.3 Biodiversity effects due to
removal of vegetation.
2.1.4 Effects on water quality.
3.    Expansion of work place on  3.1 RAP undertaken (separate  3.1.1 One hundred thirty six                          X
the left side downstream  and independent report)      households shifted
3.1.2 Change in land use       _t
3.1.3 Biodiversity effects                    _
3.1.4 Effects on water quality.    X_
4.    Construction of coffer dam  4.1  Works  inside  wildlife 4.1.1 Obstruction to the normal
upstream                 sanctuary                    flow of water
4.1.2 Disposal of coffer dam                   X
material
4.1.3  Biodiversity  effects  &               _t
endangered species
4.1.4 Effects on wetland
4.1.5 Effects on water quality                 X
5.    Work of silt excluder    5.1 Reduction of silt in D.G. 5.1.1 Addition of removed silt into
Khan canal                   right pocket
5.1.2 Effect of physical change on
micro-environment
DC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                     3-13



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                 Change Management Statement
6.    Piezometer               6.1 Water pressure          6.1.1 Fish                     =
6.1.2 Water quality.              X
7.    Grouting Activity        7.1 Filling up cavities      7.1.1 Drinking water shortage  =
7.1.2  Affecting  water quality
during construction
7.1.3  Wildlife/biota  will  be
displaced and/or killed by filling of
cracks; species dependent on          X
these as food source will also
decline.
8.    Extended canal closure   8.1 Water availability       8.1.1 Drinking water shortage
8.1.2  Shortage of agricultural   __
irrigation water
8.1.3    Affecting  wetlands,
endangered    species    and                  X
biodiversity.
9.    Lead channel for feeding  9.1  Coverage water supply  9.1.1 Availability of water
D.G. Khan canal          during extended canal closure  9.1.2 Loss of land for construction
of the channel
9.1.3  Water quality  affected
during construction.
10.  Works on mechanical gates  10.1 Fabrication and installation  10.1.1  Disturbance in flow  of
of gates                     water
DCI NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                     3-14



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                    Change Management Statement
10.1.2 Modification of river bank
point
11.   Building of work base for 11.1  Clearance   of   place  11.1.1 Biodiversityeffects     _
ICB-02 upstream left side  upstream of TP Link          11.1.2 Change in land use          /
12.   Change of earth borrow pit 12.1 Excavation of earth     12.1.1 Biodiversity effects        /
area                                                    12.1.2 Change in land use
12.1.3 Buffer zone between
wildlife sanctuary and agricultural
land
13.   Construction of jetty     13.1 Modification of a part of 13.1.1 Protruding into the river
river bank for facilitating fixing  affecting hydrology & wetlands
of gates                      13.1.2 Construction of a jetty in a
wildlife  sanctuary  disturbing     /
wildlife
13.1.3 Water quality adversely     /
affected during construction
14.   Fish ladders              14.1  Fish  ladders  will be  14.1.1 During reconstruction, the
modified during the project, to fish ladders will not be in use.  X
improve their design/capacity.
DC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                        3-15



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                    Change Management Statement
Since the construction work has already started and all designs are already in place, there is no possibility of taking up option 1 i.e. incorporation of
change management in the new design, in any of the categories. The change management has caused 61 impacts of which:
27 are slight and mitigable
01 is slight and irreversible
28 are moderate and mitigable
01 is moderate and irreversible
03 are high and mitigable
01 is high and irreversible
DC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                        3-16



4. SUPPLEMENTAL
ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project Change Management Statement
4. SUPPLEMENTARY ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
(EMP)
4.1 GENERAL
This is primarily a supplementary EMP to the one given in chapter 8 of the EIA of Taunsa
Barrage Rehabilitation and Modernization Project. On the pattern of the main EIA, this also
includes each of the following:
1. Mitigation plan for each adverse factor.
2. Implementation responsibility.
3. Monitoring responsibility.
4. Institutional strengthening.
For convenience sake, each change has been taken separately for dealing with the impacts
emanating from it. It is understood that this Supplementary EMP shall be read together with the
main EMP, provided in the EIA. See Table 4.1 for the Supplementary EIA.
4.2 MITIGATION PLAN FOR CHANGE
The main reason for the Change Management Statement is that the EIA overlooked the fact
that the entire Barrage upstream of the gate line is located within the Taunsa Barrage
Wildlife Sanctuary. In addition, there were several changes to the design that directly affect
the TBWS, such as the construction of the coffer dam, the Lead Channel, and the grouting
activity. All the design works have already been finalized and the project has currently
entered the Construction Phase. As a result, the entire change has to be implemented
through readjustments during construction and in the operational phase. For the purpose of
Change Management, the 61 possible impacts have been divided into those to be handled
at Construction Phase and those to be addressed during the Operational Phase. It will be
noted that 98% of the adverse impacts indicated in the Change Management shall be
mitigated during the Construction Phase, only 2% of those shall be taken up at the
Operational Phase. It is therefore a practicable Change Management with few additional
costs.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                   4-1



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                               Change Management Statement
Table 4.1
Supplemental Environmental management Plan (EMP) for Change Management
Sr                                       Mitigation                          Responsibility            Quantities and
Impact                    ~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.         Impact          Mitigation Measure  Provisior S FA      Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
A. CONSTRUCTION PHASE
1. Contractor's labor camp and batching plant, equipment plant and JICA work base taken to right bank upstream from old factory area
1.1   Biodiversity
1.1.1 Noise and dust 1) Keep    a  buffer Contract   provides Chief   Resident Project Manager Cost        already
due    to    frequent between  camp and control refer EIA page Engineer  (CRE) (PM) and PMO     covered in BOQ
movement of vehicles  sanctuary           8-5 Sr No. 20. Also and Contractor
2) Provide C.l. sheet EIA page 8-26 Sr No.
fence               3.1.
3) Carry out buffer
plantation
1.1.2  Noise  due  to 1) Provide a buffer Contract   provides Contractor  and  PM and PMO       Cost       already
batching plants       around the site     contractors EIA page CRE                              covered in BOQ
2) Provide Gl sheet 8-5 Sr No. 22 and
cover               EIA, page 8-27 No.
3)   Fast   growing 3.3.
vegetation all around
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                4-2



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                Change Management Statement
Sr                                        Mitigation                          Responsibility
Sr                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Quantities and
Impact                    ~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.         Impact          Mitigation Measure  Pmvisior SEA         Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
1.1.3 Large number of There  are  control Contract     already Contractor  and  PM and PMO       Cost       already
laborers is a threat to measures involved in provides control on CRE                             covered in BOQ
the sanctuary         contractor's        labor. Also see EIA
obligations          page 8-3 Sr No. 07
and page 8-20 Sr No.
1.3.
1.1.4 Threat to Flora  A  special  clause  1)      Contractual Contractor  and  PM and PMO       Cost       already
incorporated  in the obligation          RE                                covered in BOQ
contract documents to 2) Provide necessary
conserve biodiversity. signology    for
Also see page 8-28 Sr protection
No.  4.1   of  EIA; 3) Communities to be
rehabilitation  of the involved.
area after completion.
Contractor to provide
alternative  fuel  to
laborers housed on-
site,  to    reduce
impacts   on   local
fuelwood   resources
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                 4-3



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                               Change Management Statement
Mitigation                          Responsibility
Sr                                                                                                     Quantities and
Impact                    ~~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.         Impact          Mitigation Measure  Pror SEa            Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
or SFA
(mostly taken from
TBWS).
1.1.5 Threat to Fauna  Unnecessary and out A special clause was Contractor  and  PM and PMO     Cost       already
of bound activities and  incorporated  in the RE                           covered in BOQ
movements       are contract to that effect.
prohibited          Also see EIA pages 8-
27, 8-28 and 8-29;
clauses 4.1, 4.2 & 4.3
1.1.6 Threat to Indus Catching,    killing, Contractor's obligation Contractor  and  PM and PMO  Cost      already
Dolphin               eating or chasing the in the contract at the RE                           covered in BOQ
Indus       Dolphin pain of heavy penalty
upstream         or to  protect dolphin;
downstream is strictly wildlife  laws  also
prohibited          prohibit. Also see IEA
page 8-29 para. 4.2.
1.2  Dust effect on water - Sprinkling of water Contractor's obligation Contractor  and  PM and PMO   Cost      already
quality  of river in on all kacha road    defined in the contract RE                            covered in BOQ
barrage area          - Keeping traffic to document. Also EIA
minimum             page 8-26.
- Protective measures
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                4-4



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                 Change Management Statement
Sr                                        Mitigation                           Responsibility            Quantities and
Impact                    ~~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.         Impact           Mitigation Measure  Pror SE     a        Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
or SFA
1.3  Impact    of  project 1)       Regularized  Clause    regarding  Contractor  and  PM and PMO       Cost       already
activity on quality of disposal  of  solid location       and  CRE                                covered in BOQ
ground water          waste of the camp    management of labor
2)       Regularized  camps included in the
disposal  of  liquid contract.      Also
waste of the camp    provision in EIA item
3) Drainage          1.3 on page 8-20 of
EIA and item 1.9 page
8-22 of EIA.
1.4   Threatened   species Control         and  Clause in the contract Contractor  and  PM and PMO      Cost       already
under social pressure  regularized  human to  respect  wildlife, CRE                              covered in BOQ
activity by organizing forests and fisheries
the communities     laws. Also see EIA
page 8-28, item 4.1.
1.5  Impacts   specific  to  By suitably opening  Clause in contract the Mainly CRE and  PM and PMO     Cost       already
ponded area           and closing of barrage CRE to ensure that the PMO                           covered in BOQ
1.5.1   Sedimentation  gates and removing  EIA  is  respected.
along river pocket    all obstructions from  Refer clause 2.4 on
the flow of water    page 8-25 of EIA.
NDC NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                     4-5



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                Change Management Statement
Sr                                        Mitigation                          Responsibility            Quantities and
Impact                    ~~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.           p             Mitigation Measure        on in          Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
or SEA
1.5.2 Flood control   Provision is made to Clause  in  contract PMO and CRE     PM and PMO       Cost       already
protect        the provision in EIA page                                   covered in BOQ
construction  from  8-25
flood  by   adopting
waming          and
engineering methods
1.5.3 Water quality (in 1) Control on solid There is a clause in Contractor  and  PM and PMO     Cost built in the
the wetland) pollution  waste disposal    the contract. Also EIA  CRE                            BOQ
2) Control on oil spills provides  coverage
into water          page 8-24 section 2.2
3)   Awareness   in and sections 1.13.
works and community
1.5.4  Surface   and  1) Earthen embank- There is a clause in Contractor   and  PM and PMO       Cost built in the
ground water viz-a-viz ments,   protection the contract. Also EIA  CRE                           BOQ
the ponded area of the bunds              provides   coverage
barrage.              2) Control on spills.  page  8-23  section
3) Control of solid and  1.10 and page 8-22,
liquid waste disposal.  sections 1.8.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                 4-6



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                Change Management Statement
Mitigation                          Responsibility
Sr                        ____________Quantities and
Impact                    ~~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.         Impact          Mitigation Measure  Provisior SFA        Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
1.5.5. Fisheries possible 1)       Prefer 1) Training of staff  Contractor  and  PM and PMO      Cost built in the
adverse effect       implementation    of 2)  Organization  of CRE                               BOQ
fisheries act.      communities
2) Facilitate inspections
3)    Training   of
communities through
SFA
1.5.6 Adverse impacts 1) All such sites will There are clauses in Contractor  and  PM and PMO    Cost built in the
on outdoor recreation  be rehabilitated by the the contract to cover CRE                         BOQ
by way of spoiling the contractor.        all these  mitigation
top  of  bunds   and  2) The bunds shall be measures. Also see
producing dust.       maintained by rip rap  EIA pages 8-21 and
work and protection  8-22 at serial number
walls.               1.4, 1.5 and 1.10.
3) Water sprinkling
daily to keep the dust
production low.
1.5.7 Temporary habitat 1) Unnecessary out of Contractor's     Contractor  and  PM and PMO       Cost built in the
of waterfowl shall be bound activities and  contractual obligations CRE                           BOQ
disturbed  due    to movement shall be already    provided  in
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                 4-7



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                Change Management Statement
Sr                                        Mitigation                          Responsibility
Sr                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Quantities and
Impact                    ~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.         Impact          Mitigation Measure  Provisior SEA        Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
destruction of biological prevented.      the contract. Also see
resources             2) Activities during the  EIA page 8-28 para.
period  of migratory 4.1.
waterfowl shall be
kept at the lowest
level possible near
and in areas where
birds congregate.
1.5.8 Wetland stability 1) Unnecessary and  PMO  and  SFA  to  PMO and CRE in PM and PMO         No direct cost. All
(esp. in the ponded   out    of    bound  operate          in collaboration with                 indirect costs built in
area above the barrage) movement  to  be collaboration         local communities                 BOQ
hinges   on    proper prohibited
maintenance  of  the 2) Barrage water level
ecosystem.            to be maintained at a
constant level.
1.5.9 Adverse impact on  1) 21 families from the  1) RAP  has been  PMO, CRE  and  PM and PMO    1)     Cost     of
socio-economic values  right bank and 136 produced        for Contractor                         production    and
families from left bank  resettlement of 156 Communities                   implementation  of
have been shifted.  families                                                RAP    shall  be
2) SFA   has  been   2) Social Framework                                    charged separately
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                 4-8



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                               Change Management Statement
Sr                                        Mitigation                          Responsibility
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Quantities and
Impact                    ~~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.         Impact          Mitigation Measure  Pror SE     a        Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
or SFA
signed.             Agreement has been                                     2)   Liaison  with
incorporated  in the                                   community will not
contract.                                             involve extra costs
1.5.10 Adverse impact WWF is undertaking a A  separate contract WWF and PMO     PMO              Cost being charged
on biodiversity       baseline survey of the  has been awarded to                                separately under an
barrage and wildlife WWF, which is being                                   independent
sanctuary  (wetland). monitored by PMO                                     contract
This will be used as a
baseline to monitor
possible   changes,
and to ensure that
biodiversity     is
maintained.
1.5.11 Adverse impact 1) Fishing has been  1)  Fisheries  act PMO          and  PMO and CRE      Regulation    and
on sustainable fisheries suspended  during  pertaining  to  public Contractor                    fisheries  will  not
practices  due    to construction period  waters                                                 cost anything to the
construction activities  2)      Minimum  2)       Contractor's                                  project
disturbance in barrage contractual obligation
area as well as the not to   disturb the
sanctuary   to   be resource.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                 4-9



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                               Change Management Statement
Sr                                        Mitigation                          Responsibility
Sr                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Quantities and
Impact                    ~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.         Impact          Mitigation Measure                       Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
or SFA
ensured
1.5.12 Adverse impact Renovation     and  Strong   supervision  PMO, Contractor PMO and CRE      Quality control of
on barrage technology  modemization    of shall ensure that there and CRE                        technology will not
already in practice   Taunsa Barrage will is  no   change  in                                    cost      anything
not   change    any technology and hence                                   additional  to  the
essential features of there  are     no                                    project
the barrage.        implications.
1.5.13  Restoration  of The coffer dam will be  1)  Contractor's Contractor  and  PMO and CRE    Cost built in BOQ
wetland   (esp.  the flattened after use, as obligation to restore CRE
ponded area upstream  water  erosion  will the area before he
of the barrage) will be remove the material in leaves.
required  after  the  1-2 flood  seasons. 2) Also see EIA page
upstream coffer dam is This  is  to   be 8-28 section 4.1 and
dismantled.       An monitored, to ensure page 8-21 and 1.4.
exception will be made that this does indeed
for some buildings that occur.
are to be left for eco-
toursm facilities.
NDC j NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                4-10



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                               Change Management Statement
Sr                                        Mitigation                          Responsibility
Sr                                                                                                      Quantities and
Impact                    ~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.         Impact          Mitigation Measure  Pror SE     a        Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
or SFA
1.5.14 Adverse impact Notification of wildlife Wildlife sanctuary has PMO and CRE  PMO and CRE   Notification  for
on utilization of wetland  sanctuary  shall  be been notified, under                             wildlife  sanctuary
ecosystem            revived for next five Wildlife Act 1974. The                                would   not   cost
years. This will also waters  behind  the                                  anything
supplement     the barrage are available
existing Ramsar site for optimal utilization.
designation.
1.5.15 Impact on status 1) The area has been  Notification regarding  Punjab  Wildlife Punjab  Wildlife No  cost,  but
as Ramsar site        declared  a  Wildlife the wildlife sanctuary  Department, EPD  Department  recognition of status
Sanctuary           expired in 2003. It is Punjab, PMO and                 of area.
2) I&P Dept and all being re-notified for WWF
other   departments five years
have    agreed  to
respect the status
2. Expansion of work place on the right side downstream
21 households had to  RAP      undertaken  RAP is a World Bank  PMO, CRE   and  PMO              RAP cost calculated
be shifted to expand the (separate  indepen- requirement for such  Sociologist                   independently in a
workplace from 5 acres dent report) wherein shifting of population                               separate report, and
to  9  acres. It has due     compensation  change in land use                                    will be added to the
caused  the  following  has been proposed. was inevitable. New                                   Change
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                4-11



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                Change Management Statement
Sr          Impact                        Mitigation                           Responsibility            Quantities and
No.         Impact           Mitigation Measure  Pror SE     a        Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
or SFA
impacts:              Since more land was plantation will replace                                 Management Cost
1) Shifting  of local required the land use the  original  one
persons               has temporarily been  cleared.
2) Change in land use  changed.      The
3) Effect on biodiversity  vegetation  that has
4) Effects on   water been  cut shall be
quality               replaced by means of
reforestation.
3. Works inside wildlife sanctuary
1) Obstructions to the  1) Minimal obstruction  Collectively the EMP  PMO, Contractor PMO         Contract   clauses
normal flow of water  by making coffer dam  contained in EIA, the and CRE                         already   provided
2) Disposal of coffer in  parts  and   by provisions of EMMP                                      are adequate. No
dam material          staggering  different and  the   general                                    new   contract  or
works so that work is contractual  clauses                                  contract clauses are
3)     Effects    on  done at one time.    and rules look after all                               required
biodiversity          2) It is an earthen  these  aspects.  No
4)  Noise   close  to coffer dam, which will new  contract  is
aquatic habitat.      be   flattened  and  required.
5) Possible addition of removed  by  flood
pollutants to water   waters. Construction
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                 4-12



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                  Change Management Statement
Sr                              Mitigation                           Responsibility            Quantities and
r   Impact                         ~~~~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.          Impact          Mitigation Measure  Pmvisior SFA         Implementation      Monitoring           Costs
and   flattening  will
occur one coffer dam
compartment at a
time.
3)  No   fishing  or
catching  of  Indus
Dolphin allowed.
4) No pile driving
allowed in the water.
5) Contractor to be
alerted and checked
strictly  for   any
pollution.
4. Works of Silt Excluder
1) Addition of removed  1) Preferred opening  The  contract terms Contractor, PMO  PMO and CRE     Already provided in
silt and thus increase in of  the  gates  to already provided and  and CRE                         contract. No  new
turbidity of the water in facilitate the removal the procedures to be                               clause is required at
the right pocket.     of silt from the right provided    during                                     this  stage.   An
2) Effect of physical pocket.              construction as well                                     operational manual
change in the micro- 2) Effective monitoring  as     operational                                    should be carefully
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                   4-13



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                               Change Management Statement
Sr                                    Mitigation                          Responsibility
Sr                                                                                                      Quantities and
Impact                    ~~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.         Impact          Mitigation Measure  Provisior SE A       Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
environment in the right to ensure that the phases.                                              prepared so as to
pocket                biological balance is                                                      ensure  that   no
maintained.                                                                serious changes in
3) Collaboration with                                                      physical features in
WWF database.                                                              the  right  pocket
occur.
5. Installment of Piezometers
1)   A   very  small No notable impact is No special provision is Contractor, PMO  PMO and CRE   No additional cost
intervention in barrage expected.  During  required. The general and CRE                         shall be incurred.
floor                fixing  some   noise clauses provided in                                    Fixing          of
2) A minor obstruction  pollution  may  be the existing contract                                 piezometers     is
due to wires etc..    added  but that is are adequate.                                           already  provided.
expected to be very                                                        The      provisions
minor.                                                                     already made are
adequate.
6. Grouting Activity
1) Filling out the cavities  1) Grouting  to  be Clauses  already Contractor  and  PMO           No additional cost.
at the  base  of the done   carefully  and  provided  in  the CRE                                The cost is already
barrage  with  cement with right mix tube.  contract cover  the                                  built in BOQ.
slurry.               2) Pipes may be used  grouting activity.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                4-14



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                  Change Management Statement
Mitigation                           Responsibility
Sr                                                                                                        Quantities and
Impact                     ~~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.          Impact          Mitigation Measure  Provisior SFA         Implementation     Monitoring           Costs
2) Some noise will be for  conveying  the
produced,  with  local grouting material into
effects.              the cavities.
3) Some leakages into  3) Contractor to be
the river, affecting water alerted  against any
quality.              leakages.
4) Aquatic life hiding in
the cavities shall be
dislocated,  killed  or
smothered.
7. Extended canal closure
1) Shortage of drinking  1) A lead channel for Provisions  already  Contractor  and  PMO           No additional cost.
water  in the   canal feeding  D.G. Khan   made in the contract CRE                                 The cost is already
command area (CCA).   canal   during   the and     SFA     are                                      built in BOQ.
2) Shortage of irrigation  extended  canal adequate to cover the
water for a longer time closure period will be  extended  canal
in CCA.               used   to    provide closure.
3)     Effects    on  drinking water to the
biodiversity,         CCA.
endangered    species 2) A separate Change
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                   4-15



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                Change Management Statement
Mitigation                          Responsibility
Sr                                                                                                       Quantities and
Impact                    ~~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.         Impact           Mitigation Measure  Provisior SE A       Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
and wetlands.         Management
Statement  will  be
prepared by the end
of   June,    2006,
covering  (i)   the
identification  and
mitigation of impacts
associated with low
flows in the DG Khan
canal in the period
extending      from
December      2005
through    February
2006,    and    (ii)
measures to mitigate
the impacts of any
proposed      future
extensions  of  the
canal closure period.
NDC I NESPAK ATKINS                                                                                                   4-16



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                               Change Management Statement
Sr                                        Mitigation                          Responsibility
Sr                                                                                                      Quantities and
Impact                    ~~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.         Impact          Mitigation Measure  Provisior SE A       Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
3) Vigilant monitoring
for  any   stranded
aquatic life. Ensuring
that water levels in the
ponded area do not
fall below 430 ft. level.
8. Lead channel for feeding D.G. Khan canal
This impact a mitigation The land used under Building  of  the PMO and CRE      PMO/I&P Dept.    Built in BOQ. The
measure   in   itself. the lead channel after channel is provided in                             costs at operational
However it may cause it is abandoned after the main project as                                   phase  pertain to
the following impacts:  the completion of the well as the contract.                              recurring  charges
1) Addition of water into project will be brought The use of land after                          which are not part of
DGK    canal   during  under    plantation the project pertains to                               the        project
extended canal closure under the advice and  operational period.                                 expanses.
period.               patronage  of  the
2) Loss of land (5-10  Forest Department. Its
ha) due to modification character as channel
of the existing channel.  shall  however  be
3) Some impacts (on   maintained so that it
wildlife)  due    to can   be re-used  in
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                4-17



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                 Change Management Statement
Mitigation                          Responsibility
Sr                                                                                                       Quantities and
Impact                    ~~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.         Impact           Mitigation Measure  Pror SE     a        Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
or SFA
excavation disturbance, case some repair or
and  possibly due to  maintenance    work
large amounts of spoils. become essential at
the   DGK     canal
headworks.
9. Works on mechanical gates
Fabrication      and  1) Fabrication shall be  1)  Contractor's Contractor, CRE  PMO and CRE      All  cost  already
installation  of  gates done  ex  situ  and  contractual obligation  and PMO                      incorporated    in
causing:              fabricated gates shall to carry out the work                                BOQ.
1) Disturbance to flow of be conveyed to Jetty as safely as possible.
water                 by a trolley running on  2) Also  refer EIA
2) Modification of the a pair of rails.    pages 8-20 section
river bank.           2) For installation, tug  1.1 and page 8-24
boats/barges shall be section 1.13.
used, causing mini-
mum disturbance to
flow of water.
3)   Any    material,
pieces of old gates
shall not be thrown
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                 4-18



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                  Change Management Statement
Mitigation                           Responsibility
Sr                                                                                                        Quantities and
Impact                     ~~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.          Impact          Mitigation Measure  Provisior SFA        Implementation      Monitoring          Costs
into the  river, but
brought back to jetty
by boats from where
these will be sent to a
disposal site away
from barrage on the
returning   trolleys
which bring the gate.
10. Building of work base for ICB-02 upstream left side
This    will  involve  1) Some disturbance  1)      Contractor's Contractor, PMO  PMO              All  cost  already
clearance of an area to existing vegetation  obligation to restore and CRE                         provided   in  the
upstream   TP   Link, particulady the trees the site as far as                                     BOQ.
causing:              shall be caused.     possible provided in
1 )    Effects    on  2) After the project the Contract.
biodiversity.         work, the contractor 2)  Also  see   EIA
2) Change in land use.  shall restore the site  provisions at page 8-
nearest to its original 21 section 1.3 and
form   as   far  as section 1.4.
possible.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                   4-19



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                              Change Management Statement
Mitigation                          Responsibility
Sr                                           T-                                                        Quantities and
No.         Impact          Mitigation Measure  Proviion in Contract  Implementation   Monitoring          Costs
or SFA
11. Change of Earth Borrow Pit area
On   the  right bank  11) any activity outside  1)  Contractors Contractor CRE  PMO             All costs  already
upstream, instead  of the         fenced  obligation to provide                                 provided in BOQ.
locating borrow pits, the  construction site to be full protection to the
Labor Camp and the    strictly banned.    sites    constituting
batching plan has been  2) Traffic on the night Wildlife Sanctuary on
constructed  over  20  Guide Bank to be provided    in   the
acres. The Borrow Area  kept to a minimum.  Contract.
has been   shifted to 3) A buffer Zone of at 2) Also see EIA page
banks of D.G. Khan    least 100 meters to be 8-28 Section 4.1 &
Canal where spoils are  provided  between Section 4.2, and page
available. This Change water edge of side 8-30 section 4.4.
has caused:           protection bund and
1) Some effects on    the fence.
Biodiversity.         4) Area other than the
2) Change in land use: 20  acres   under
Building and Batching  buildings  not  to
Plan instead of Borrow  disturbed any further.
Pits.
3) A Buffer Zone is
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                               4-20



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                  Change Management Statement
Sr                                         Mitigation                           Responsibility            Quantities and
No.          Impact          Mitigation Measure  Provision in Contract  Implementation    Monitoring           Costs
or SFA
formed between Wildlife
Sanctuary  and    the
construction & Batching
site.
12. Construction of Jetty
This    will  involve  1) No  activity e.g. 1)      Contractors Contractor CRE    PMO              All costs reflected in
modification of a part of boating,  netting, contractual  obligator                                the BOQ.
the  river  bank  for angling, etc. to  be to ensure no activity
facilitating the fixing of allowed from the jetty. except the  contract
gates. This will cause  Only essential Project work.
the following impacts:-  activities are to be 2) Also see EIA page
1) Protruding into the allowed.            8-27 and 8-28 section
river (by 6m only) and  2)  Dolphin to  be  1.1.  Pages   8-29
causing obstruction to specially protected.  section 4.1, 4.2 page
flow in the left pocket,                   8-30 Section.4.3.
(marginally)  affecting
hydrology  and    the
ponded area upstream
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                   4-21



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                    Change Management Statement
Mitigation                            Responsibility
Sr                                                                                                           Quantities and
Impact                     ~~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.          Impact           Mitigation Measure  Provisior SEA         Implementation      Monitoring           Costs
of the barrage.
2) Construction of a
jetty  in  a   Wildlife
Sanctuary inhabited by
the endangered Indus
Dolphin.
13. Upgrading of fish ladders
This will involve repair The upgrading in itself Repairs  and/or Contractor & CRE   PMO & CRE         Within     existing
and/or modifying  the  is    a    mitigation  modification are part                                   contract.
existing  structure  so  measure. Important is of  the    current
that it meets current to  ensure that the   contract.
standards and is better reconstruction occurs
at   facilitating  fish in a short span of time
migration. Impacts will so  that effects  on
be felt as during recon- migration     are
struction they will not be  minimized.
in use.
14. Cumulative Effects on Ponded area
Cumulative effects of The        contractors Water levels, water Water      levels, CRE & PMO         No additional costs,
the coffer dam, lowering  should  therefore  quality and fish kill water quality and                  as Contractor can
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                     4-22



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                               Change Management Statement
Sr                                        Mitigation                          Responsibility            Quantities and
Impact                    ~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.         Impact          Mitigation Measure  Provisior SEA        Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
of the   water table, carefully monitor:  monitoring  to   be  possible fish kills               include     these
grouting,        and  * water levels in the included in contract to be measured                  parameters in their
construction  activities  ponded  area  to amendment; dolphin  by the Contractor;                regular program; the
that         increase   ensure   that  a & waterbird monitor-                                    rest  if   already
suspended   sediment    minimal depth  of ing are included in Dolphin      and                   included  in  the
levels    may     be    430  ft. is truly present contract with waterbird                        existing  contract
significant for aquatic  maintained;      WWF    for  baseline numbers to   be                   with WWF and will
species such as Indus * water quality, to study.               assessed  on  a                   not        involve
Dolphin.    Together,   ensure that oxygen                    regular basis by                   additional costs.
small water volumes &   levels are  within                     WWF during their
impacts on water quality  safe levels (>2.0                    baseline study.
may combine & create    mg/I),  suspended
adverse conditions.     sediment       is
generally below 80
mg/l (and never
above 400 mg/I)
due to the project,
and cement is not
spilled  into  the
river;
NDC INESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                 4-23



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project                                Change Management Statement
Sr                                        Mitigation                           Responsibility            Quantities and
Impact                    ~~~~~~~~Provision in Contract
No.         Impact           Mitigation Measure  Pror SE     a        Implementation     Monitoring          Costs
or SFA
* possible fish kills
(and  immediately
investigate  any
report by taking
water   and   fish
samples       for
analysis); and
* the Indus Dolphin
population   and
waterbirds in the
ponded area and
its extension north
of the barrage, to
ensure that levels
remain constant, or
within normal (pre-
project) fluctuations
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                                                                 4-24



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project Change Management Statement
4.3 MANAGEMENT OF CHANGES IN SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACTS
Since the changes are due to the physical readjustments within the overall Project area and a
better understanding of the location of the TBWS, this does not affect the status of the Social
Framework Agreement (SFA) provided in 8.10.3 of the EIA. The existing SFA can therefore
remain effective and is considered adequate for the purpose of this Change Management Plan.
4.4 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT MONITORING PLAN (EMMP) FOR CHANGES
IN EMP I.E. CHANGES IN EMMP.
The EIA for the Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modemization Project was
accorded NOC by PEDP by means of letter NO.3521F-93/06091EIA, dated September 6th
2004. Subsequent to that, a detailed Environmental Management Monitoring Plan (EMMP) was
produced as per guidance presented in section 8.7 of the EIA (pages 8-10 to 8-12) and is
available in PMO office. The EMMP covers all types of activities to be carried out under the
contract and EIA in force. The Changes that have been mentioned earlier in this report pertain
to sites and not in type of activity, thus causing no practical change in the methodology of the
implementation of EMMP. Therefore, the EMMP already being implemented can remain
effective and no new EMMP will be required. The CMS can therefore be regarded as a
supplement, to be carried out in conjunction with the existing EMMP.
4.5 INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR CHANGE MANAGEMENT.
4.5.1 Management Responsibility
Management Responsibility for the Project as defined in Section 8.8 (pages 8.13 - 8.15) of EIA
covers all the aspects of the Project. Since the changes have been caused by recognition that
some of the activities occur within the Wildlife Sanctuary, and no change has been made to the
type and scope of activities (only in location), there is no need to redefine Management
Responsibilities, which can remain the same.
4.5.2 Institutional Strengthening
Institutional strengthening is referred to in paragraph 8.8.2 of the EIA. The institutional
strengthening already carried out by the project is considered adequate to handle the Change
Management.
4-25



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
4.5.3 Reporting and Supervision
Reporting and Supervision are dealt with in paragraph 8.8.3 of the EIA, which provides a
prescription for Reporting and Supervision for the Project. This will generally be adequate for
undertaking the Change Management Plan. However, given that a number of activities are
being carried out in the TBWS, a report on the status of that part of the TBWS most directly
affected - the ponded area behind the barrage - should be produced by the Environmental Unit
(EU), based on water quality/quantity monitoring data collected by the Contractor, and data on
waterbirds and Indus Dolphin collected by WWF's baseline study program. A quarterly report
on the "Status of the TBWS Barrage Area" should be produced by the CRE/supervisors, and
distributed to PMO, who should forward this to IPD, Contractor and PWD for their perusal and
action.
4.5.4 Financial Implications
Since the activities undertaken in the Change Management Plan are already a physical part of
the Project for which a Contract and a BOQ exists, there shall be no new financial liability due
to Change Management on any of the stakeholders of the Project. This is also true for the
monitoring activities to be carried out by WWF, as these are part of the baseline study for which
they have been contracted by the PMO.
4.6 RECOMMENDATIONS
4.6.1 Avoidance through Design of New Structures and Work Designs
No new or revision of the design of any of the construction activities is proposed. There are
changes in the location of some of the structures, particularly those to be constructed inside the
Wildlife Sanctuary above the gate line of the barrage. However, some new activities have been
proposed that are associated with some of the already designed structures. These include the
coffer dam required for the gate repairs, and the lead canal required to mitigate effects of the
closure of the D.G. Khan canal.
4.6.2 Contractor's Obligation towards Change Management
Due to the belated realization that a number of project activities are located within the boundary
of the Wildlife Sanctuary, this perceived "change of site" requires a Change Management.
Physically, however, there shall be no change in the overall obligations of the Contractor.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                     4-26



*            Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
4.6.3 Social Framework Agreement (SFA) readjustments with Change Management
As already stated, the Social Framework Agreement already signed with the communities (refer
to the EIA paragraph 8.10.3, pages 8-45 to 8-49) is adequate and shall stay valid and does not
require revision.
4.6.4 PMO Responsibilities in Change Management
The Project Management Office (PMO) is already fully staffed and has adequate capacity to
implement the Project. The PMO should, however, improve coordination with government
departments such as Punjab Wildlife Department, Fisheries Department and Punjab Forest
Department, and with NGOs such as WWF, for reaping full benefits of the Change
Management.
4.6.5 Supervision Consultants Role in Change Management
The Supervision Consultant is already providing services in Monitoring, Reporting and in an
Advisory Capacity. The production of Daily, Weekly, Monthly, Biannual and Annual Reports has
already been agreed to for documentation purposes, and in addition, photographic and video
film coverage has also been provided. The Contractor's complaint Register and Implementation
Register are already being maintained. The elements of Change Management already stand
incorporated in the EIA and in the Contract. With the realization of the official location of the
boundary of the Wildlife Sanctuary, the supervision consultants shall take full care and
precautions that the Wildlife Sanctuary and Ramsar site is fully respected. The supervision
consultants are adequately staffed to handle the change management and no additional
staffing is required by them on their panel.
4.6.6 Action by wildlife department Punjab in Change Management
The Punjab Wildlife Department is advised to:
1. Issue the much-delayed renotification of the Taunsa Barrage Wildlife Sanctuary, which
expired in 2003. The boundaries of the Sanctuary should, however, be realistically
redefined, as both the official boundary of the 6,756 ha TBWS, and the recent 2,800 ha
proposed revision have serious flaws:
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                     4-27



*             Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
a. The official boundary includes large swathes of intensively cultivated agricultural
land to the east and west of the two guide bunds, but does not include the entire
main island of the reserve (Matwani Wala) - instead, it cuts off the northern tip.
b. The latest draft boundary (2,800 ha) includes only the area between the two guide
bunds, plus a small, balloon-shaped area to the north of this that includes some of
the main island, but does not follow any natural feature.
c. Both boundaries also run up to the gate line of the barrage, which means that
barrage management will continue to run into difficulties in the future.
2. The PWD should consider redefining the TBWS boundary along the following lines:
include the ponded area north of the guide bunds, the entire main island (Matwani
Wala), plus the adjacent sandy islands and waterways. This could be supported by
WWF Pakistan's baseline study program at Taunsa, which is currently using GIS and
Remote Sensing imagery to study the site. The barrage area between the guide bunds
will remain a protected area for Indus Dolphin and waterbirds, as public access, hunting,
fishing and disturbance are not permitted by the Barrage Operator. It can also remain
part of the Ramsar site.
3. PWD should strengthen its management presence at the TBWS. At present, there is
little indication to the public that the site is a protected area, apart from two small signs
indicating prohibitions. There is no awareness raising about the natural value of the
area, nor is there a visitor's center or signage indicating its location. Staff presence is
low, and illegal extractive activities on the island are rampant.
4. Special arrangements for patrolling in the project area may be made for protection of
wildlife in general, and Indus Dolphins and waterfowl in particular, throughout the year.
If required necessary logistic support for PWD may be obtained from the PMO.
4.6.7 Action by Environment Protection Department (EPD) in Change Management
The Environmental Protection Department is requested to:
i. Take up the issue of demarcation of the southern boundary of the Taunsa Barrage
Wildlife Sanctuary. The boundary of Sanctuary may better be placed at the upper end of
the barrage i.e. the line which joins the upper ends of the two Guide bunds. A correct
definition of "barrage" may be incorporated in the notification in consultation with
Irrigation and Power Department.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                     4-28



Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project  Change Management Statement
4.6.8 Action by WWF in Change Management
WWF-Pakistan is requested to:
i. Give priority, for the Baseline study, to the waters insides the barrage area i.e. the part
of river between the line joining the ends of two Guide Bunds.
ii. Produce a set of critical indicators specific to the Taunsa Barrage Wetland to be used
as a baseline in any future projects.
iii. Provide recommendations on how the TBWS boundary can best be redefined, and
assess if realignment is required.
iv. Provide information and data on a regular basis regarding the status and population of
Indus dolphin and waterbirds in the barrage area, and in the ponded area to the north of
the barrage. <This information is intended for use in the quarterly monitoring reports,
used for monitoring the effects of the project on the barrage ponded area.>
4.6.9 Donor's Patronage in Change Management
Donor's Patronage is requested in the following ways:
i. Their continued appreciation of the Monitoring and Reporting System of the Project is
highly valued.
ii. Although this Change Management Plan has been produced, recognizing the inclusion
of the Barrage area in the Wildlife Sanctuary, the final notification may be awaited from
the Punjab Wildlife Department.
4.6.10 Operational Management Readjustments with Change Management
The PMO, for the period during the Project period, and the Irrigation and Power Department for
after the Project phase is adequately staffed and suitably organized to adjust with the proposed
Change Management Plan. No new arrangements have been demanded or envisaged at this
stage.
NDC I NESPAK I ATKINS                                                     4-29



a
ANNEXES



ANNEX-1
LEGEND:-
*WILDLIFE SANCTUARY AS CLAIMED AFTER
DEFUNCT NOTIFICATION
WILDLIFE SACTUARY BEING PROPOSED IN
RECENT NOTIFICATION
* PROPOSED WILDLIFE SANCTUIARY
*BELA SDNE ONSEDth OF TMANBDX D.      E
ACACIA NUPEA ND PMUIJS EIP,NICA
WEr LAND
*OEN WATER L_D WM GRASSES, MMM   OM  TlPN.  /
WET LAND
1 PERIPHERY OF THE VILDLIFE S1ACTUARY
*    CWA1E 1Y      .         IY
* MNAGOTUFW LAND                      /
* WEnAMDEGM USE AS OPEN ERAZiC LAND
*TAMIA WAWBa BETrEN S THEB GLIDEED
AND THE TARAD SWAGAE EAYE LKC
MOM HIHRE BDOJTR SATUOT WACER
* ASE- 2DB APF 2005
EATTEW MC POWER EAOPAI
TAUNSA BARRAGE EMERGENCY
REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PUNJAB BARRAGES CONSULTANTS .
TAUNSA BARRAGE
TAUNSA BARRAGE WILDLIFE SANCTUARY
AND THE TAUNSA BARRAGE
OE DI     - 200     I"2



ANNEX - 2
TAUNSA BARRAGE
LOCATION OF FACILITES AND WORKS FOR CHANGE MANAGEMENT
a 5T''h                           ,                            czZ__                      -_ _
-                 'n              ~       -           \                  - N_ O   -             W ,   \  '      TAUNSA
_ \ <// , ~~, ,__:, ;,/ \ 3 _; ' ~~~-_ Xv \ rBARRAGE aIrr~~ ;Ds [>w ~~ .~~ -BARRAG
RAIL TRACK                              -
_~~~ ~                                                                         - - | 1   r  4   C vV  F
|       TAUNSA BARRAGE EMERGENCY
REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PUNJAB BARRAGES CONSULTANTS
TAUNSA BARRAGE
LOCATION OF FACILITES AND WORKS FOR
CHANGE MANAGEMENT



