Page  1
PAKISTAN 
PUNJAB BARRAGE REHABILITATION & MODERNIZATION PROJECT  
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1133 
Project Name 
Punjab Barrage Rehabilitation & Modernization Project 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Irrigation and Drainage (60%); General Water Resources (40%) 
Project ID 
P088994 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
Irrigation and Power Department, Punjab Province 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
April 19, 2004 (Updated on August 26, 2004) 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
August 26, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 20, 2004 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Background:
 
Agriculture is the backbone of Pakistan’s economy and one of the key 
engines of economic growth. The sector contributes about 25% of GDP, employs nearly 
50% of the rural labor force, and is responsible, directly or indirectly, for over 60% of 
exports. Around 80% of Pakistan’s arable lands and 90% of agricultural output depend on 
irrigation. Over 18 million ha of land in Pakistan are irrigated from the Indus River and 
its tributaries.  
 
Barrages in the Indus Basin are vital parts of Pakistan’s irrigation network. Their main 
purpose is to divert water from the rivers into canals serving vast areas of irrigated land. 
Some of the newer barrages also divert water into link canals that join the main rivers of 
the Indus Basin, namely, the Indus, Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi and Sutlej. Barrages also serve 
as road and rail bridges and crossings for oil, gas, and power transmission lines. Many of 
the of the older barrages built 50 to 100 years ago in Punjab are in need of rehabilitation 
to take care of aging, design and construction defects, changes in hydrological conditions, 
and deferred maintenance.  Some of them require urgent remedial measures to avoid 
severe economic and social impacts on the lives of millions of poor farm families through 
interruption of irrigation on millions of acres of irrigated land. The newer barrages built 
as a part of the Indus Basin Project in the 1960s are reported to be in good condition. 
 
The main problem encountered in the older barrages is erosion at the downstream toe, 
due in part to changes in river hydrology.  Another problem is the loss of integrity in the 
downstream floor leading to loss of soil from the foundation. Gates and hoists are also in 
most cases in need of renovation. River training works upstream of the barrages also need 
Page  2
2
some improvement. These problems are present in varying degrees of severity at all of 
the older barrages.   
 
The Taunsa Barrage on the River Indus, completed in 1952, has been identified as the 
barrage with the highest priority for rehabilitation. The barrage diverts a part of the Indus 
flow to two large canal commands with an irrigated area of 2 million acres and to other 
large areas served by the Taunsa -Panjnad Link Canal. This link canal was built in the 
1960’s to transfer water from the Indus to areas served by two rivers, the Ravi and the 
Sutlej that became controlled by India under the terms of the 1959 Indus Waters Treaty.   
 
At Taunsa, there is clear evidence of distress: erosion at the downstream toe and a loss of 
foundation material. In the event of a major flood, the downstream floor, that is already 
damaged, could be undermined and this would cause a part of the barrage to collapse. 
The barrage would not then be able to maintain the water at the level needed to supply 
the irrigation canals.  Floods on the Indus occur during the main season for crop 
irrigation.  The flow in the river would then be too high to allow a temporary earth and 
rock fill dam to be built as a temporary closure.  Therefore, all irrigated crops would fail 
because the commanded area has very low rainfall.    
 
Government Strategy:
 
The government strategy is to carry out quick review and 
assessment of the safety conditions of all aged barrages and prioritize them according to 
the level of urgency and economic viability. The prioritization will be based on (i) the 
assessment of likelihood and risk of failure; and (ii) the economic and social 
consequences including costs of failure derived from feasibility studies. After having 
identified the high priority barrage, the government has basically two options. One is to 
wait for the barrage to fail and then carry out repairs or build a new barrage. The second 
is to begin immediately on the works needed to make the barrage a sound and durable 
structure. There is no way of telling when or how the Taunsa Barrage might fail. But the 
owner of the barrage and the consultants are of the view that the weaknesses are so 
serious that failure could conceivably occur in the near future. Therefore, the first option 
poses an unacceptable risk to the livelihoods of millions of farm families in the area 
served by the barrage. 
 
Rationale for Bank Involvement:
 
Bank involvement would ensure timely and 
adequate financing that might not otherwise be available to carry out an emergency 
project.  Bank involvement would also be consistent with the current country assistance 
strategy for Pakistan that emphasizes improvements in rural infrastructures for poverty 
reduction and provision of reliable and safe water for domestic and productive purposes. 
The Bank has a long history of operations in Pakistan that began with its support for the 
Indus Basin Waters Treaty between Pakistan and India. The Bank had the leading role to 
secure finance and manage the Indus Basin Project (IBP). The IBP implemented a vast 
system of works to transfer water from the western rivers of the Basin to the areas in 
Pakistan supplied by the eastern rivers whose waters were allocated to India. Since then 
the Bank has financed numerous major water and power projects often in partnership 
with other lenders. 
 
The Bank’s involvement will help ensure that: (i) a systematic approach is adopted in the 
design of rehabilitation projects for the Taunsa Barrage and other barrages; (ii) any 
Page  3
3
environmental and social concerns are properly addressed; (iii) the project works and 
facilities are procured and constructed with good quality, within the budget, and on 
schedule; and (iv) the operation and maintenance will be upgraded and strengthened for 
safe and sustainable use of the critical barrages. 
 
2.  Proposed project development objective 
 
The main objective of the project is to prevent the failure of the Taunsa Barrage that 
provides irrigation for 2 million acres and drinking water in the rural areas of Southern 
Punjab benefiting several million people. This objective would be achieved through: (i) 
rehabilitating and strengthening the Taunsa Barrage and associated structures; (ii) 
renovation of the electro-mechanical facilities; and (iii) improving operation and 
maintenance and emergency preparedness.  
 
3.  Preliminary project description 
 
While the detailed project description is not yet to be finalized at appraisal, the project is 
to include the following three components. 
 
Component 1.     Rehabilitation and Strengthening Works  
The main works include (a)  a 4,300 ft long  subsidiary weir located  1,500 feet 
downstream of the barrage to raise the tailwater level and ensure proper energy 
dissipation at high river flows; (b) repair of the barrage floor by removal of weak 
concrete and replacement with a new layer of concrete, and grouting to seal joints and fill 
voids in the foundation; (c)  sediment mitigation measures for the D.G Khan canal at the 
right bank; and (d) installation of  a safety monitoring system by placing some critical 
monitoring instruments in the barrage and its foundation. The output of this component 
will be a secure barrage structure with effective energy dissipation and restored design 
discharge capacity, and a functional monitoring system.  
 
Component 2.      Renovation of Gates and Appurtenances for Barrage and Canal  
Headworks  
 
This component involves renovation of the barrage gates and hoists and improvement in 
the operating and control system including necessary O & M equipment and possibly 
upgrading of flow measurement equipment at Taunsa. This component will lead to 
upgrading of the operating facilities with higher level of automation and remote control.  
 
Component 3.        Consulting Services and Implementation Support 
This component covers: (i) consultants for feasibility study, detailed design and 
construction supervision of Taunsa Barrage; (ii) consultants for detailed  designs for  
rehabilitation of five other barrages, namely, Jinnah, Khanki, Suleimanki, Trimmu, 
Balloki and Islam; and (iii) an independent panel of experts for feasibility study, design, 
safety review and construction quality enhancement. (iv) support for the Project 
Page  4
4
Management Office including equipment and the appointment of specialist in project 
management, procurement and financial management.
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
This project is processed as an emergency intervention, and is classified as an 
environmental category B. However, an EIA has been prepared. The applicable safeguard 
policies include: (i) Environmental Assessment (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01); (ii) Natural Habitats 
(
OP
/
BP
4.04); (iii) Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37); and (iv) Projects on International 
Waterways (OP/BP
7.50).
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 16 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
112 
Total 128 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact:  Xiaokai Li 
Title: Senior Water Resources Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473.9087 
Email: xli@worldbank.org 
 
