Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  11/16/2005 
Report No.:  AC1062
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Pakistan 
Project ID:  P088994 
Project Name:  Taunsa Barrages Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project 
Task Team Leader:  Xiaokai Li 
Estimated Appraisal Date: September 10, 
2004 
Estimated Board Date: March 15, 2005 
Managing Unit:  SASAR 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Irrigation and drainage (100%) 
Theme:  Rural services and infrastructure (P);Water resource management (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
123.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
20.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
7.00
27.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The main objective of the project is to prevent the failure of the Taunsa Barrage that 
provides irrigation for 2 million acres and drinking water in the rural areas of Southern 
Punjab benefiting several million people. This objective would be achieved through: (i) 
rehabilitating and strengthening the Taunsa Barrage and associated structures; (ii) 
renovation of the electro-mechanical facilities; and (iii) improving operation and 
maintenance and emergency preparedness.   
 
3. Project Description 
While the detailed project description is not yet to be finalized at appraisal, the project is 
to include the following three components.  
 
Component 1.     Rehabilitation and Strengthening Works  
 
The main works include (a)  a 4,300 ft long  subsidiary weir located  1,500 feet 
downstream of the barrage to raise the tailwater level and ensure proper energy 
dissipation at high river flows; (b) repair of the barrage floor by removal of weak 
concrete and replacement with a new layer of concrete, and grouting to seal joints and fill 
voids in the foundation; (c)  sediment mitigation measures for the D.G Khan canal at the 
Page  2
right bank; and (d) installation of  a safety monitoring system by placing some critical 
monitoring instruments in the barrage and its foundation. The output of this component 
will be a secure barrage structure with effective energy dissipation and restored design 
discharge capacity, and a functional monitoring system.  
 
Component 2.      Renovation of Gates and Appurtenances for Barrage and Canal  
 
Headworks  
 
This component involves renovation of the barrage gates and hoists and improvement in 
the operating and control system including necessary O & M equipment and possibly 
upgrading of flow measurement equipment at Taunsa. This component will lead to 
upgrading of the operating facilities with higher level of automation and remote control.  
 
Component 3.        Consulting Services and Implementation Support  
 
This component covers: (i) consultants for feasibility study, detailed design and 
construction supervision of Taunsa Barrage; (ii) consultants for detailed  designs for  
rehabilitation of five other barrages, namely, Jinnah, Khanki, Suleimanki, Trimmu, 
Balloki and Islam; and (iii) an independent panel of experts for feasibility study, design, 
safety review and construction quality enhancement. (iv) support for the Project 
Management Office including equipment and the appointment of specialist in project 
management, procurement and financial management.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will be located on the mainstream of the Indus River in the section of Punjab 
Province. The Taunsa barrage is located 30 km downstream of Taunsa Sharif Town, in 
the arid zone of southern Punjab.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
Page  3
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/26/2004 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
10/28/2004 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
11/16/2005 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Safety of Dams: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
N/A 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
N/A 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
N/A 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
There are no seperate document on 'Safety of Dams'   
Page  4
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA 
report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
No 
OP/BP 4.37 - Safety of Dams 
 
Have dam safety plans been prepared? 
No 
Have the TORs as well as composition for the independent Panel of Experts 
(POE) been reviewed and approved by the Bank? 
No 
Has an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) been prepared and arrangements 
been made for public awareness and training? 
No 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
 
Page  5
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Xiaokai Li 
11/15/2005 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Paul Jonathan Martin 
11/16/2005 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Warren Waters 
11/15/2005 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Frederick Edmund Brusberg 
11/16/2005 
Comments:  The revised ISDS is cleared by SASES / Safeguards. Please disclose in infoshop. 
 
Sadaf, please file in IRIS.  
 
Regards,  
Frederick Edmund Brusberg 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Adolfo Brizzi 
 
Comments:   
