                                         Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                             Report No: ICR0000998



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IBRD-72770)



                                            ON A

                                            LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF ¥ 13,107.5 MILLION
                         (US$ 123.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                           FOR A

    TAUNSA BARRAGE EMERGENCY REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION
                            PROJECT



                                         JUNE 1, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
South Asia Region
                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           (Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 2010)

                            Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
                                   Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.012
                                   US$ 1.00 = Rs 84.71
                                   US$ 1.00 = ¥ 91.16

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                       July1 ­ June 30

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy          NCB        National Competitive Bidding
CO       Community Organization               NS         National Shopping
CCA      Canal Command Area                   O&M        Operation and Maintenance
ECNEC    Executive Committee of National      OMS        Operation, Maintenance &
         Economic Council                                Surveillance
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment      PAPs       Project Affected Persons
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return     PBC        Punjab Barrage Consultants
EMMP     Environment Management and           PC-1       Planning Commission Pro-Forma
         Monitoring Plan                                 1
EPD      Environment Protection               PDO        Project Development Objective
         Department
GDP      Gross Domestic Product               P&D        Planning and Development
GOP      Government of Pakistan               PMO        Project Management Office
GOPunjab Government of Punjab                 POE        Panel of Experts
IA       Implementing Agency                  PRSP       Punjab Rural Support Program
IBRD     International Bank for               PSC        Project Steering Committee
         Reconstruction & Development
ICB      International Competitive Bidding    PWD        Punjab Wildlife Department
IPD      Irrigation & Power Department        RAP        Resettlement Action Plan
IRSA     Indus River System Authority         SOE        Statement of Expenditure
JICA     Japan International Cooperation      WWF        World Wide Fund for Nature
         Agency
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation

                                Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
                              Country Director: Yusupha B. Crookes
                               Sector Manager: Simeon Kacou Ehui
                           Project Team Leader: Xiaokai Li
                             ICR Team Leader: Winston Yu
                                      PAKISTAN
             Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project




                                                           CONTENTS


DATA SHEET
 A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
 B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
 C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
 D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ ii
 E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... ii
 F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... iv
 H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ iv
 I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................. v

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 16
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 17

 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 18
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 19
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 24
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 31
 Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32
 Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 49
 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 50
 Annex 8. Environment Management ............................................................................ 52
 Annex 9. Implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan ........................................ 58

MAP IBRD
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Taunsa Barrages
                                                                          Emergency
Country:                Pakistan                Project Name:
                                                                          Rehabilitation and
                                                                          Modernization Project
Project ID:             P088994                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-72770
ICR Date:               06/04/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          PAKISTAN
Original Total
                        USD 123.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 106.5M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 113.6M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Irrigation & Power Dept. (IPD)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 JICA

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/12/2004     Effectiveness:                               04/12/2005
Appraisal:            09/10/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/15/2005     Mid-term Review:           03/31/2007        04/15/2007
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2008        12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                 Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Irrigation and drainage                                               100                  100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Rural services and infrastructure                                      67                   67
Water resource management                                              33                   33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Yusupha B. Crookes                   John W. Wall
Sector Manager:            Simeon Kacou Ehui                    Adolfo Brizzi
Project Team Leader:       Winston Yu                           Xiaokai Li
ICR Team Leader:           Winston Yu
ICR Primary Author:        Winston Yu


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objectives of the Project are: (a) to take urgent steps to prevent the failure of
the Taunsa Barrage which provides irrigation for two million acres and drinking water to
several million farmers in the rural areas of southern Punjab; and (b) to prepare for
similar steps with respect to other existing barrages in Punjab. The objectives will be
achieved through: (i) rehabilitating and strengthening the Taunsa Barrage and associated
structures; (ii) renovation and modernization of gates, hoists and operating and control
facilities; (iii) improving operation and maintenance capability; and (iv) rehabilitation
design studies for other barrages in Punjab.




                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                                 Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                   approval           Target         Completion or
                                                  documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Completion of the most critical ICB I Works Contract
Value                                         Full completion of                  Full completion of
quantitative or   Contract awarded            works under                         works under
Qualitative)                                  contract ICB 1                      contract ICB 01
Date achieved     05/16/2005                  06/30/2008                          06/30/2008
                  The largest single contract pertaining to Component A was completed on time. In
Comments
                  fact, the underwater works under the contract were completed one year ahead of
(incl. %
                  schedule. The performance of the contractor in recovering from a slow start was
achievement)
                  commendable.
Indicator 2 :     No. of significant safety incidents at Taunsa Barrage
                  Severe scouring and floor
                  damage in the
                  downstream due to
Value             retrogression; gate         No major safety                     No major safety
quantitative or   structures in poor          incidents before                    incidents before
Qualitative)      conditions; barrage         end of project                      end of project.
                  operated with pool levels
                  lower than the original
                  design level
Date achieved     04/12/2005                  12/31/2008                          12/31/2008
Comments          The envisaged project outcome indicators of: (i) not having any significant safety
(incl. %          incidents at Taunsa after rehabilitation; and (ii) maintenance of desired pond
achievement)      level upstream of the barrage have been substantially achieved.
                  Completion of designs for rehabilitation of Jinnah and Islam barrages
Indicator 3 :
                  rehabilitation
                                                                  Completion of
                                                                  technical
                                                                  designs for the
                  No exisiting rehabilitation
                                                                  two barrages
                  designs. The design                                             Completion of
                                              Completion of       (Islam and
Value             consultancy was included                                        technical designs
                                              both barrage        Jinnah), as
quantitative or   as part of the project to                                       for the two barrages
                                              rehabilitation      other funding
Qualitative)      prepare similar measures                                        (Islam and Jinnah)
                                              designs             entities took
                  for two other barrages -                                        achieved.
                                                                  up the designs
                  Jinnah and Islam.
                                                                  of the
                                                                  remaining
                                                                  barrages.
Date achieved     04/12/2005                  06/30/2008          06/30/2008      12/31/2009
Comments          The consultancy contract for preparing detailed designs for Islam and Jinnah
(incl. %          Barrage was signed in August 2007 and October 2007 respectively (against


                                                  iii
achievement)   original target date of October 2005).

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                            Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised
                                              approval                        Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
                Upgrading the operation, maintenance & surveillance (OMS) Manual for Taunsa
Indicator 1 :
                Barrage by Dec. 2007
                The O&M Manual needs
                to be upgraded with the
                                                                            Completion of
Value           state-of-art practice in Completion of
                                                                            OMS
(quantitative   operation, maintenance OMS
                                                                            Manual/upgrading
or Qualitative) and surveillance,        Manual/upgrading
                                                                            achieved.
                financing plan and staff
                training plan
Date achieved 04/12/2005                 12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
                An Operation and Maintenance Manual (O&M Manual) for the barrage and sub-
Comments
                weir including Standing Operating Procedures (SOP) for silt excluder has been
(incl. %
                prepared. The O&M Manual has been operationalized following the training of
achievement)
                staff.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                            IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/10/2005         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     3.10
  2     12/11/2005         Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory            17.26
  3     06/09/2006         Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory            33.53
  4     10/12/2006         Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory            46.07
  5     04/20/2007         Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory            64.06
  6     06/18/2007         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                   76.79
  7     10/04/2007         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                   79.23
  8     04/12/2008         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                   83.64
  9     10/13/2008         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                   90.06
 10     05/08/2009      Highly Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  105.80
 11     11/28/2009      Highly Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  105.80


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Pakistan is an arid country where irrigated agriculture occupies an important place in its
economy and is a major source of livelihood. The agriculture sector contributes about 25% of
GDP and employs nearly 50% of the rural labor force. Around 80% of Pakistan's arable lands
and 90% of agricultural output depend on irrigation. Over 18 million ha of land in Pakistan are
irrigated from the Indus River and its tributaries. Barrages in the Indus Basin are vital parts of
Pakistan's irrigation network. They divert water from the rivers into canals serving vast areas of
irrigated land. Barrages also serve as road and rail bridges and crossings for oil, gas, and power
transmission lines. While the newer barrages built, as a part of the Indus Basin Project in the
1960s, are in good condition, many of the older barrages in Punjab, built 50 to 100 years ago,
need rehabilitation. Most of their problems stem from design and construction defects, aging and
changes in hydrological conditions. Some of them require urgent remedial measures to avoid
severe economic and social impacts on the lives of millions of poor farm families through
interruption of irrigation on their irrigated land. The main problem encountered in many older
barrages is erosion at the downstream toe, due in part to changes in river hydrology. Another
problem is "piping," that occurs when a loss of integrity in the downstream floor causes a loss of
soil from the foundation. Gates and hoists are also in most cases in need of renovation. River
training works, upstream of the barrages, also need improvement. These problems are present to
varying degrees of severity at all of the older barrages.

The Government of Pakistan engaged consulting firms to review the structural and hydraulic
conditions of six existing barrages built between 1890 and 1958 and to prioritize their
rehabilitation. The priority for rehabilitation was determined mainly by the following factors: (i)
severity of the current problem; (ii) extent to which failure would cause agricultural and other
economic and social losses; and (iii) difficulty that would be met in executing temporary
measures to restore service. On the Indus River, in case of barrage failure, restoration of service
would be more difficult than on other rivers in the Indus Basin because the Indus has a high flow
throughout the year. Of the two barrages on the Indus, Taunsa Barrage was selected as the first
priority barrage to be rehabilitated because it had the most serious weaknesses.

The construction of Taunsa Barrage on the River Indus was completed in 1958. The barrage
diverts a part of the Indus flow to two large canal commands from the D.G. Khan and
Muzaffargarh Canals with an irrigated area of some 0.8 million ha (2 million acres) and to other
large areas served by the Taunsa-Panjnad Link Canal. This link canal was built in the 1960s to
transfer water from the Indus to areas served by the Rivers Ravi and Sutlej that came under the
control of India as per the terms of the 1960 Indus Waters Treaty.

There was clear evidence that the Taunsa Barrage was in distress due to severe erosion of the
downstream floor and loss of foundation material. In the event of a major flood, the downstream
floor, which was already damaged, could be undermined and could cause failure of the barrage at
any time. The barrage would not then be able to maintain the water at the level needed to supply
the irrigation canals to their design capacities. Moreover, floods in the Indus occur during the



                                                 1
kharif cropping season, which lasts from April to September. The flow in the river during this
time would be too high for a temporary earth and rock fill dam. Therefore, in the case of barrage
failure, all irrigated crops would fail because the command area receives very low rainfall. There
is no way to predict with certainty when or how the Taunsa Barrage might fail. However, the
operators of the barrage and the consultants were of the view that the weaknesses were so serious
that failure could conceivably occur in the near future.

In response to the Government's request for urgent action, as highlighted in the findings of
feasibility studies and by the review of an independent panel of experts, the Bank decided to
follow the Bank's emergency operation procedures (OP/BP 8.50). The concept and design of the
Project was developed on the basis of the findings of the consulting firms and is in line with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Pakistan that emphasizes improvements in rural
infrastructure for poverty reduction and provision of reliable and safe water for domestic and
productive purposes. This project is the first in a series of projects for rehabilitation and
modernization of aging barrages in Punjab.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The main objectives of the Project were: (a) to take urgent steps to prevent the failure of the
Taunsa Barrage which provides irrigation for two million acres and drinking water to several
million farmers in the rural areas of southern Punjab; and (b) to prepare for similar steps with
respect to other existing barrages in Punjab. The objectives were to be achieved through:
(i) rehabilitating and strengthening the Taunsa Barrage and associated structures; (ii) renovation
and modernization of gates, hoists and operating and control facilities; (iii) improving operation
and maintenance capability; and (iv) rehabilitation design studies for other barrages in Punjab.

The key outcome indicators were: (i) number of significant safety incidents; and (ii) maintaining
pond level upstream of the Barrage to original design level to enable supplies to both canals off-
taking from the Barrage.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The original PDO and key indicators remained relevant and were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries are some 6 million people who depend on irrigation water obtained
through the Taunsa Barrage for their livelihood. They are farmers and residents of the command
areas of the Muzaffargarh and Dera Ghazi Khan Canals and those of the Panjnad Headworks
canals whose supplies are supplemented by the Taunsa-Panjnad Link Canal off-taking from the
Taunsa Barrage. Other beneficiaries from the rehabilitation of the barrage include the population
who use the services of the oil and gas pipelines, telephone lines, and the inter-provincial rail and
road links passing through the Barrage, and, on average, about 2,000 skilled and unskilled
workers employed daily by the contractors, which include members of some 160 households
who were displaced due to construction activities.



                                                 2
1.5 Original Components

The original components are:

Component A. Rehabilitation and Strengthening Works: The main works include:
(a) construction of a 4,300 ft long subsidiary weir located about 1,000 ft downstream of the
barrage to raise the tail water level and ensure proper energy dissipation; (b) repair of the barrage
floor by removal of weak concrete and replacement with a new layer of concrete, and grouting to
seal joints and fill voids in the foundation; (c) a silt excluder at the canal intake on the right bank;
and (d) upgrading the internal monitoring system of the barrage structure. This will lead to a
secure barrage structure with effective energy dissipation and a functional monitoring and flow
measurement system1. The operating manual will be improved and brought up to date.

Component B. Renovation of Gates and Hoists and Strengthening O & M Facilities: This
involves: (i) renovation of all the barrage gates and hoists and improvement in the operating and
control system for the barrage and canal head-works, including necessary facilities to enhance
the flow measurement in existence; and (ii) procurement of necessary equipment for operation
and maintenance. This component will lead to upgrading of the operating facilities with higher
level of automation through remote control and operation & maintenance equipment.

Component C. Consulting Services and Implementation Support: This component covers:
(i) consulting services for construction supervision at Taunsa Barrage; (ii) consulting services for
preparation of designs for other Punjab barrages; (iii) maintaining an independent panel of
experts for technical design and safety review, and construction quality enhancement; and
(iv) incremental administration and operating costs of the Project Management Office (PMO)
and Project Steering Committee (PSC) Secretariat.

1.6 Revised Components

There has been no formal revision of Project components.

1.7 Other significant changes

The Project envisaged that Component B would be executed through a single ICB contract and
funds accordingly were provided in the Loan Agreement. After Bank's approval of the Project,
however, an agreement was signed between the Governments of Pakistan and Japan on April 30,
2005 to co-finance the implementation of a part of Component B through a grant of ¥ 5,165
million. Furthermore, the Government of Japan designated the Japan International Cooperation
Agency (JICA) to implement the necessary works that included the rehabilitation of 29 gates for
the left half of the Barrage, superstructure of the Barrage and provision of O & M facilities. As a
result, the scope of Component B funded by the Bank was accordingly reduced.

1
  IRSA has installed gate opening and water level sensors at many of the barrages and canal headworks along the Indus Rivers.
The discharges are derived from the water level and gate opening data that are periodically calibrated by actual flow
measurements. The flow data is transmitted in real time through satellite to several hubs and is expected to be accessible soon
through the internet. The installation contractor is training IRSA staff in operation of the system.




                                                              3
No resettlement associated with Component A was originally anticipated at the time of Project
appraisal. However, since the encroachment of squatter communities dwelling on the land owned
by the Irrigation and Power Department (IPD) at the downstream left and right guide banks of
the barrage posed problems for the initiation of construction activities, the ICB-01 Contractor
requested the IPD to shift them to an alternate place. As a result, these families were shifted
about 0.5 km away from their previous abodes. This resulted in dissatisfaction among the Project
Affected Persons (PAPs) and resultantly generated several problems and issues related to
resettlement and rehabilitation of the squatters. The Government, after Bank's clearance,
prepared and implemented a comprehensive Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). As a result, 160
families (137 on left and 23 on right bank), comprising of some 900 people, have been properly
resettled. The displaced families have been paid disturbance and vulnerability allowances,
compensated for their lost housing, and provided with new community infrastructure comprising
of a school and clinic buildings, a mosque, roads, drains, toilets and electrification services, etc.
The revised Project PC-1 provided for Rs. 19.883 million to meet the RAP costs of which Rs.
14.704 million were actually spent. In addition, an amount of Rs. 17.150 million was spent on
community development works through the construction contractor thus bringing the total
resettlement cost to Rs. 31.855 million. An independent Panel of Social and Environmental
Experts, in August 2007, reviewed the RAP execution and commented that "the Project was
doing a reasonably commendable job on resettlement". More details are provided in Annex 9.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The Taunsa Barrage, as the studies indicated, needed to be repaired urgently. In response to the
Government's request for urgent action, the Bank decided to follow the emergency operations
procedures (OP/BP 8.50) to prepare the Project. The Project incorporated into its design the
lessons learned from other emergency operations financed by the Bank, in and outside Pakistan.
The lessons include: (i) emergency loans should be simple in design and consistent with the
Borrower's institutional capacity to prepare and implement projects, and they should have no
policy reforms or similar conditions for disbursement; (ii) the speed of appraisal and
implementation is critical to project success; and (iii) procurement process for key contracts
should start early to ensure a quick project startup. This Project was processed quickly and
approved within 10 months of its concept review and within 6 months of appraisal. The Project
became effective in less than a month after appraisal. Moreover, the main construction contract
was ready to start at the time of the Project's approval by the Bank's Board.

The Government's commitment to the Project has been strong from the beginning. Various
critical tasks that were necessary for getting the Project in a state of readiness for implementation
were accomplished before appraisal. These included: (i) establishment of a Project Management
Office (PMO), headed by a Project Director and manned by qualified professionals;
(ii) completion of the feasibility study and draft PC-1 as well as an Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) and its clearance by the Environment Protection Department (EPD);
(iii) appointment and convening of first meeting of the Panel of Experts (POE);
(iv) prequalification of contractors for the major works contract (Component A); (v) preparation



                                                 4
of draft bidding documents for the first ICB works contract; and (vi) seeking, by the Irrigation
and Power Department (IPD), a no objection from the Bank to awarding the construction
supervision contract to the consultants who had prepared the feasibility and design. The
Government, like the Bank, took speedy actions to complete the various requisite steps for
project preparation.

The Project authorities' initial interaction with the local communities residing in the vicinity of
the Taunsa Barrage and the farmers in the D.G. Khan and Muzaffargarh Canal command areas
was, however, minimal. It was for this reason that the assessment of risk related to the possibility
of extended canal closures at the time of project appraisal was overly optimistic and the
mitigation measures conceived were originally inadequate. More careful construction planning,
inclusion in the Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan (EMMP) of the construction
of a feeder channel for emergency water supply to canal command areas and preparation of a
well-perceived communication strategy early on would have helped reduce the duration of canal
closures and raise the awareness amongst farmers about such closures. The EMMP also could
not anticipate the need for a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) which had to be prepared
subsequently during the implementation of the Project.

2.2 Implementation

There were no changes or restructuring done during the implementation of the Project. The
Project was never at risk status. The Project has successfully implemented all three original
components. The largest single contract, ICB-01, pertaining to Component A - Rehabilitation
and Strengthening Works - was completed on time. In fact, the underwater works under the
contract were completed one year ahead of schedule. The performance of the contractor in
recovering from a slow initial start was commendable. The implementation readiness at the
project start as a result of the Government and the Bank teams working seamlessly together
during project preparation was critical to the completion of these project works.

Construction work plans of the ICB-01 contractor did not, however, aim at ensuring minimum
canal closures. The result was that the canals remained closed for extended periods causing
distress, particularly to a part of the D.G. Khan Canal command area during the rabi cropping
season of 2005-06. Also, the PMO did not prepare and implement a proper communications
strategy to inform farmers in the D.G. Khan and Muzaffargarh Canal commands ahead of time
about the canal closures so that they could adjust agricultural operations and arrange for alternate
supplies of irrigation water. It is worth noting, however, that proper construction plans and
effective communication programs in the second and third construction seasons resulted in
shorter closures and better awareness among farmers.

A pro-poor assistance program was developed and implemented by Punjab Rural Support
Program (PRSP) following these extended canal closures. The program included the provision of
quality wheat seed at subsidized rates, installation of hand pumps for drinking water supply,
social mobilization of local communities, construction of community infrastructure, and
provision of microcredit and skills training. The program had a very positive impact in the areas
affected by the prolonged canal closures.




                                                 5
Award of the ICB-02 contract pertaining to a part of Component B ­ Renovation of Gates and
Hoists and Strengthening of O&M facilities - was delayed considerably. Bid submissions took
place in January 2006 and the contractor started work in October 2006. Despite this, the works
under the contract were completed during the project period due to close supervision of the PMO
and the supervision consultants. The introduction of a JICA grant after Bank approval of the
Project also added new challenges to the implementation arrangements for the remaining part of
Component B comprising of electro-mechanical works. However, well coordinated teamwork of
different parties under the strong leadership and effective coordination of IPD and PMO led to
the successful completion of all elements of Component B before the loan closing date.

The four subcomponents of Component C (Consulting Services and Implementation Support)
were also implemented satisfactorily: (i) consultants for construction supervision at Taunsa
barrage were hired timely and they performed their functions satisfactorily, (ii) despite long
delays in the procurement of the consultancy services for the Jinnah and Islam Barrages, all work
assigned was completed except the preparation of bidding documents for the two barrages, (iii)
independent panels of experts hired on three different occasions during the project period carried
out reviews of engineering works as well as the social and environmental aspects of the Project
and offered valuable advice, and (iv) the PMO and the PSC secretariat were maintained and
performed their functions well.

The scope of the Bank-funded Component B reduced because of the JICA grant taking up a part
of the works. The actual cost of this Component was thus about 35% less than the appraisal
estimates. The costs of Component A increased by about 38% due mainly to significant increases
in construction material prices on the world market at the time of bidding, variation orders and
contractual claims and the costs of unanticipated resettlement. Nevertheless, the overall project
costs have remained within appraisal estimates.

The Government provided adequate counterpart funds throughout the project period which
helped in the timely execution of works. The Project team made use of the mid-term review to
reassess the relevance and feasibility of achieving project development objectives and to build on
the first two years' implementation experiences to effectively address emerging issues.

A review by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) for Supervision in 2006 rated the performance
of project implementation and supervision satisfactory and provided useful recommendations to
enhance project performance.

Project Cost and Financing: At the revised loan closing date of December 31, 2009, the actual
project cost was USD 126.6 million, which represents about 94.3 % of the cost estimated at
appraisal. Although there was a nominal saving of USD 7.7 million (see table below), the actual
total cost, taking into account the cost of JICA works, was much higher. The overall high cost is
due to the following reasons: (i) significant increases in construction material prices on the world
market at the time of bidding for the main contracts; (ii) changes in the scope of Component B
funded by the Bank; (iii) variation orders and contractual claims related to the two ICB works
contracts under Components A and B; and (iv) unanticipated costs on resettlement. The nominal
saving, on the other hand, is due to: (i) reduced cost of Component B because of JICA funding;
and (ii) less actual cost of consulting services. The total saving amounting to 1 billion yen



                                                 6
(almost USD 10 million) was cancelled December 2008. The table below provides a summary
of the costs by source of funds. Further details can be found in Annex 1.

        Source of Fund                    Appraisal       Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                          Estimates          Estimates          Appraisal
        Borrower                               11.3               13.0               115.0

        International Bank for                 123.0               113.6               94.2
        Reconstruction and
        Development
        Total                                  134.3               126.6               94.3



2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Due to the single spot nature of the Project, a simple set of performance indicators was used.
These included input indicators, output indicators and outcome/impact indicators. The two
outcome/impact indicators were: (i) number of significant safety incidents at Taunsa; and
(ii) pond level maintained upstream of the barrage.

Monitoring of implementation progress was done internally as well as externally. For internal
monitoring, within the PMO, a Deputy Director collected and collated information received from
different functionaries and prepared a monthly progress report which was circulated within the
PMO. He also prepared quarterly reports which were circulated to all concerned, including the
Bank. These reports were prepared regularly, though delayed at times. A Barrages Cell and
Project Steering Committee (PSC) in the P&D Department also monitored progress since they
were responsible for the overall oversight of project activities. Externally, monitoring and
evaluation was done primarily by the supervision consultants who prepared their own quarterly
progress reports, which were circulated widely. Quality Assessment Reports were also prepared
periodically. The Bank's implementation review missions also contributed their share in
monitoring and evaluation. In addition, an independent Panels of Experts, one member of which
focused exclusively on environmental and social issues, reviewed project activities three times
during the implementation of the project. An environmental audit carried out in October 2008
concluded that the Project was environmentally and socially "satisfactory". The final
resettlement implementation evaluation report prepared by the PMO in December 2009 also
indicated positive outcomes.

The arrangements for monitoring and evaluation through supervision consultants worked well
for monitoring implementation progress and costs and helped ensure quality of project activities.
In retrospect, however, it is considered that some indicators relating to implementation of the
Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan (EMMP) should have been developed and
included as part of the terms of reference for the supervision consultants. Monitoring of
environmental impact did not work well until later in the project period when the terms of
reference and monitoring indicators for environmental and social aspects were clarified and more
staff-time were provided to this function.



                                                7
At the completion of the Project, these outcome/impact indictors showed positive results in that
the safety incidents throughout the project period were insignificant and the pond level upstream
was maintained at the desired level.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The Bank safeguard policies triggered for the Project at appraisal included: (i) Environmental
Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01); (ii) Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04); (iii) Safety of Dams (OP/BP
4.37); and (iv) Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50). The key safeguard issues
anticipated were concerning: (i) the possible environmental and social impacts of any upstream
or downstream changes to the hydrological regime once the rehabilitation was completed; and
(ii) management of construction phase environmental and social impacts. An EIA was prepared
and implemented, and an independent panel of experts (POE) was established to review the
design, implementation progress at critical stages, and advise on the long term operation of the
rehabilitated works.

Environmental Aspects: After the start of construction works at the site, a number of
environmental management actions were implemented, e.g. (i) protecting the wildlife sanctuary
upstream of the Taunsa barrage, (ii) protecting blind dolphins and other aquatic life at the
construction area in the river and (iii) creating and maintaining a buffer zone in compliance with
the EMMP. The Project engaged the World Wildlife Federation (WWF) Pakistan for preparing
an environmental baseline study of the wildlife sanctuary, a Ramsar site, which was completed in
August 2006. WWF-Pakistan helped carry out an analytical baseline survey and dealt with the
biological and socio-economic aspects of the sanctuary. Due diligence and compliance with the
EMMP during the project construction activities resulted in minimal impact on the wildlife
sanctuary and blind dolphin population. Also, in order to protect the blind dolphin from the
construction work area, the PMO maintained close coordination with the Punjab Wildlife,
Forestry and Fisheries Department as well with other stakeholders. WWF-Pakistan also trained
the contractors' staff on rescuing blind dolphins if entangled in the construction work sites.
Environmental impacts resulting from the extended canal closure during the construction period
which were not anticipated at the time of the EIA study were taken care of through a Change
Management Statement (CMS).
An environmental audit was carried out in October 2008 to comply with the requirements of the
Pakistan Environmental Protection Act 1997 and the recommendations of the POE that met in
August 2007. The audit pronounced that overall the environment and social concerns were well
addressed during the execution of the Project and that the Project was satisfactory in these
regards. Details of the environmental aspects of the Project are available in Annex 8.

Social Aspects: Based on the lessons learnt from the 2005/2006 rabi extended canal closures
which caused hardship to the residents of the D.G. Khan Canal command area, the PMO/IPD,
jointly with the Punjab Barrage Consultants (PBC) and the ICB-01 contractor, went all out to
optimize the construction program, in light of the water availability as predicted by the Indus
River System Authority (IRSA), with the objective of minimizing further interruptions to canal
operation. This plan of action was also endorsed by the independent Panel of Experts. In
addition, preventive measures were taken to minimize the impacts of potential future canal
closure extensions, which included: (i) a multi-media strategy and program for information



                                                8
dissemination to the farmers and the rural residents in the Canal Command Areas (CCAs),
(ii) distribution of quality wheat seed at subsidized rates, and (iii) installation of additional hand
pumps and repair of the state-owned tube wells which were of critical importance and out of
order. These efforts produced positive results. Despite a breach occurring in one of the
cofferdams, the subsequent canal closures had minimal impact on farmers and local communities
in the CCAs. The farmers in the CCAs had a good harvest of wheat crop in April 2007.
Furthermore, the livelihood support and poverty reduction measures undertaken by PRSP in the
command areas comprising of formation of Community Organizations (COs), provision of
vocational training and micro-credit, and construction of community physical infrastructure have
been very beneficial for the farming and other communities.

Involuntary resettlement and rehabilitation: The Project did not envision any resettlement
activities during its preparation stage. However, early during implementation, contractors
operations required that 160 families located along the left and right banks of the river needed to
be resettled. Their actual relocation was rushed without adequate consultation and planning as
required for compliance with the World Bank policy on involuntary resettlement. At the request
and assistance of the World Bank, the Government accordingly developed a Resettlement Action
Plan (RAP) that covered both the resettled and host communities. The program included
compensation payment, resettlement site development, community infrastructure, house plots
allocation, house construction and various assistance allowance. The government established an
institutional setup to implement the RAP. With the dedicated staff and commitment to improve
the situation, the PMO implemented the RAP successfully. As a result, the living conditions for
the resettled households have improved. Details can be found in Annex 9.

Procurement: There has been turnover of the procurement staff at the PMO at various stages of
project implementation. In addition, the PMO attempted to meet both their internal and Bank
procedures for the selection of consultancy firms. This resulted in considerable delay in the
entire consultancy selection process ­ in particular with the short-listing of firms. The
consultancy contracts for Islam and Jinnah Barrages due in October 2005 were signed in August
2007 and October 2007 respectively about 24 months late. The procurement process for the
selection of works went relatively smooth. ICB-02 was delayed because of complaints at the bid
evaluation stage. These complaints did not cast any bearing on the initial recommendation of
award, but the complaint handling and review process took some time. As opposed to the award
of ICB-01 which was four months after bid opening, award of ICB-02 took nine months after bid
opening. A more defined and specified complaint handling mechanism could have shortened the
time to conclude the process. By the loan closing date, however, the works contracts as well as
the detailed design consultancy contracts, except bidding documents, for Jinnah and Islam
Barrages had been completed.

A Disputes Review Board (DRB) was established. All the disputes in ICB-01 were reviewed by
a special committee constituted under the order of the Chief Minister Punjab and a package
payment of Rs. 125 million for 11 disputes were agreed and implemented. However, 2 claims
under the ICB-02 contract have still to pass through the DRB and whose final settlement may go
well beyond the loan closing date. GoPunjab will be required to allocate funds for the payments
due to the disputes/claims after the loan closing date.




                                                  9
Financial Aspects: The financial management systems and related processes provide reasonable
assurance that loan proceeds were used for the intended purposes. The annual and quarterly
financial reports were submitted to the Bank in a timely manner and with adequate presentation.
Some staff positions remained vacant from time to time as a result of which physical verification
of assets was not completed. In addition, there were audit observations which needed to be
attended to.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

As part of various envisaged outputs, an Operation and Maintenance Manual (O&M Manual) for
the barrage and sub-weir and Standing Operating Procedures (SOP) for the silt excluder have
been prepared. The O&M Manual was made operational following the training of staff, including
those involved in the operation of gates. PMO/IPD also prepared a post-completion operation
work plan detailing transition arrangements, inputs required, budget, staffing needs, monitoring
arrangements and performance indicators to monitor and evaluate the Project in the future and
any follow-up required from the Bank that might contribute to sustaining benefits, including the
desirability of follow-on projects. For preparing annual budgets, IPD has devised a barrage
specific yardstick considering the maintenance requirements.

Prior to the rehabilitation and modernization of Taunsa barrage, its operation and maintenance
activities were carried out by an irrigation district (Division) which formed part of the existing
institutional architecture of IPD. Currently, the operation and maintenance activities are being
performed by a set up (Division) which is part of PMO and is supervised by the Project Director,
PMO. This is a stepping stone towards building the capacity of the PMO to transition to an
autonomous Barrage Management Organization (BMO).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The two main objectives of the Project, that is to take urgent steps to prevent the failure of the
Taunsa Barrage and prepare for similar steps with respect to other existing barrages in Punjab,
remain relevant to the current development priorities of Punjab. The enhancement of irrigation
supplies and improvement of overall efficiency through many of its development projects
including those on on-farm water management, small dam construction and micro-irrigation,
remain key priorities for the Government. These activities support crop production and alleviate
poverty among the farming community. The objectives are also in line with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), which, for the irrigation sector, supports investments in rehabilitation
of critical assets (including barrages) and reforms to improve the quality, efficiency, and
accountability with which irrigation services are delivered.

The Project has been suitably designed as evidenced by the timely completion of all components,
with some sub-components completed even ahead of schedule and benefits already flowing to
the intended communities. Enhanced discharges were witnessed in the D.G. Khan Canal and in
its distributaries and minors following the rehabilitation of the Taunsa Barrage. Moreover, the
implementation mechanism was well designed and helped in the timely completion of project



                                                10
activities. A PMO, staffed with qualified and dedicated professionals, a competent expert team of
supervision consultants, a qualified team of contractor engineers, the timely availability of
adequate funds, and guidance from the Panels of Experts combined to help realize most of the
project objectives. The O&M manual has been upgraded to operate the Taunsa Barrage. Long
delays did occur (almost 2 years late) in the recruitment of the detailed design consultants for the
Jinnah and Islam Barrages.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives (details in Annex 2)

All Project works have been completed - some of them well ahead of schedule. This has set a
good example for well-managed construction. The project objectives of strengthening the Taunsa
barrage and preparing for similar steps for other barrages (two were selected, namely Jinnah and
Islam) in Punjab have been fully achieved. The major outputs of the Project are: (i) since its
rehabilitation and modernization, the Taunsa Barrage has been operated safely at design level
without downstream retrogression; (ii) the two canals off-taking from Taunsa barrage and
supplying water to over 0.8 million ha (2 million acres) of farmland can now be supplied to their
full design capacities with higher reliability and much improved management of sediment entry;
(iii) the instrument monitoring system for the barrage is renovated and operational, and the
operating staff equipped with an upgraded O&M Manual; (iv) detailed designs for Jinnah and
Islam barrage rehabilitation prepared under the Project will lay a good ground for the preparation
of the next barrage Project; (v) the barrage structure can now continue to provide the important
functions of accommodating the existing rail road crossing connecting Kot Adu with Kashmore,
an Arterial Road Bridge, a high pressure pipeline conveying petroleum fuels from Karachi to up-
country, and a pressure (1,200 psi) gas pipe line providing up-country link for the Dhodak gas
field; and (vi) the barrage will continue to facilitate a telephone line and EHV transmission line
crossings, and feed the TP Link canal to supplement the supplies required at the Panjnad
headworks for the Panjnad and Abbasia canal systems.

These outputs have a direct link to outcomes. The major outcomes are: (i) the D.G. Khan canal,
which in the past used to draw an average historical discharge of 7,500 cusecs during the kharif
season, now runs at 9,200 cusecs; and (ii) with the implementation of the Project, the canal has
been able to supply an additional 146.88 million ft3 (4.16 million m3) of water to the command
area during one kharif season. The impact of increased water availability on agricultural
production of the canal command areas is expected to be substantial.

3.3 Efficiency

At appraisal, the Taunsa barrage was found with several structural weaknesses and an unstable
hydraulic situation on the downstream floor. It was determined that if a large flood were to
occur, the barrage would be at high risk of partial or complete failure. While working out the
economic viability of the project, only the economic loss associated with the catastrophic
scenario of the barrage was considered. The partial or complete failure of the barrage would
cause a direct loss of water availability to about 1.3 million acres which could prolong over a
period of more than seven years. The economic benefits were determined by primarily
quantifying the avoided crop losses. The avoided non quantifiable losses due to the interruption
of the existing oil and gas pipelines (providing natural gas to the 137 MW Kot Adu combined



                                                11
cycle power plant), the road and rail connections between Punjab and Sindh and the road link
between Punjab and Balochistan which have strategic importance both from the country's
defense and national integration point of view, and other services were not included but
mentioned in the analysis. Thus, avoided losses were conservative. The cost for rehabilitation of
the barrage was estimated at about $134 million, at appraisal.

The barrage rehabilitation costs and benefits have been updated in line with the methodology
adopted at appraisal. The ex-post economic analysis is based on actual costs under the Project,
and investments made by JICA and PRSP. JICA invested about US$40 million on completing a
part of the Component B of the Project and the GoPunjab, under the PRSP, incurred costs on the
supply of subsidized wheat seed and other infrastructure items to mitigate the effects of extended
canal closure of the D.G. Khan Canal during the project period. The analysis has been done at
actual costs/latest estimates incurred for completion of the project (at January 2010 price levels).

It was concluded at appraisal that the rate of return on the investment in barrage rehabilitation
depended on when its failure would take place. If failure occurred five years from the appraisal,
the EIRR was estimated at 42%. If failure occurred ten years from appraisal the EIRR was
estimated at 17%. The ex-post economic benefit of the barrage rehabilitation is taken as the
avoided crop losses assuming that the situation is set back to the level prior to the failure of
barrage within a period of seven years. Using actual/latest cost estimates, the EIRR is calculated
to be 21%. NPV of the project has been worked out as US$6.60 million using a discount rate of
12%. Details are given in Annex 3. This ex-post analysis confirms the findings at appraisal that
the project is economically viable.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

       Rating: Satisfactory

The Project is relevant both in terms of the development priorities of the Government of Punjab
and the provisions of the Bank Country Assistance Strategy. Development of the irrigation sector
in Pakistan, and particularly in Punjab which possesses the largest share of Pakistan's irrigation
system, is directly linked to poverty reduction and thus the betterment of the people. The Project
Development Objective, comprising two objectives, namely strengthening of the barrage and
preparing for similar steps for other barrages has been fully achieved. Works have been executed
efficiently, the quality of works completed is good, the main works (ICB-01) were completed
ahead of schedule, and financial discipline was satisfactory. Combining relevance, achievement
of PDO and efficiency in relation to this Project, the rating for the overall outcome is assessed as
satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

No specific study was carried out to assess the Project impact in terms of poverty alleviation or
gender aspects. However, increased supplies of irrigation water as a result of barrage
rehabilitation will have a positive impact on the economic condition of the people living in the



                                                12
canal command areas through improved agricultural performance. It has been assessed that due
to the Project, in one kharif season, 146.88 million ft3 (4.16 million m3) additional water was
supplied through the D.G. Khan canal. A total of 3,000,000 man days of work was also achieved
under the ICB-01 contract which contributed to the economic uplift of the people living in areas
surrounding the Taunsa Barrage.

Moreover, during the initial stages of project implementation, the PRSP launched a 4-year pro-
poor program in the districts of D.G. Khan, Muzaffargarh, Rajanpur and Layyah. The Barrage
command areas were located in the first three of these aforementioned districts. The project
authorities took the initiative and approached the PRSP to launch their program in the tail end
areas of the D.G. Khan Canal where farmers had suffered losses due to the extended closure of
the D.G. Khan in the 2005-06 rabi crop season. The PRSP were very supportive and they
launched their program in four Union Councils (UCs) of the Rajanpur district, which were
indicated by the Project authorities where the farmers had suffered the most. The coverage was
later expanded to 14 UCs of Rajanpur and Muzaffargarh districts and the resettled and host
communities at the Taunsa Barrage, where the PRSP kept the focus and implemented their
activities more intensively as compared to other UCs. By the project close, in these selected
areas, PRSP had socially mobilized about ten thousand people by establishing 581 UCs;
developed community physical infrastructure comprising toilets, brick pavements, drains,
culverts, lining of water courses, drinking water supply schemes etc. by investing about Rs 19
million; disbursed micro-credit amounting to Rs. 31 million to 2,760 people; and provided skills
training to about 5,860 people.

The GoPunjab, under the PRSP, also launched a crash assistance program in the worst affected
four UCs of the Rajanpur District. The program was implemented by the PRSP in a transparent
manner whereby 40,593 bags of wheat seed, each of 50 kg, were distributed among all the small
farmers of these UCs, numbering 7,047. The seed was supplied at a subsidized price (50%
subsidy) and the subsidy amounted to Rs. 16.237 million. A total of 252 hand pumps were also
installed in the D.G. Khan and Muzaffargarh CCAs to augment drinking water supplies. These
remedial measures were well received by the people, as indicated in a study titled "Impact
Assessment of Remedial Measures for Extended Canal Closure" carried out in July 2007. The
program of seed distribution was repeated by the PRSP on its own in November 2008 by
distributing 8,880 bags of seed to 1,776 farmers at a total cost of Rs. 6.3 million.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Institution building for this Project started early in the project cycle. A skeleton Project
Management Office (PMO) existed at the project preparation stage. It was later expanded and
was sufficiently staffed by the time of project appraisal. The PMO is currently manned by an
adequate number of qualified professionals. They, by virtue of the Project, have gained rare and
invaluable experience of executing civil, mechanical and electrical constructions of a rather large
project. The O&M manual for the Barrage has been upgraded and the PMO staff have been
trained in operation and management of the barrage. The PMO, gradually, is expected to
transition to a larger Punjab Barrages Management Organization which will be responsible for
rehabilitating other barrages in Punjab. In this manner, the Project brought about significant
institutional strengthening and changes within the Irrigation and Power Department of the



                                                13
Government of Punjab. Also, provincial public sector projects normally do not give importance
to social and environmental aspects. This Project was one of the few projects whereby PMO staff
gained valuable experience and lessons in handling the social, environmental and resettlement
issues. This will serve them well with similar future infrastructure projects.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The PRSP related activities mentioned earlier (originally not part of the Project) have yielded
positive outcomes and impacts.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

       Rating: Low

The possibility of structural failure now has been eliminated with repairs to the barrage floor,
rectification of downstream retrogression, barrage gates renovation with dual operating systems,
and the addition of a silt excluder. Furthermore, monitoring instruments have been installed to
monitor the performance of the barrage structures and its foundation. Operational staff have also
been trained for operating and maintaining the remodeled barrage infrastructure in accordance
with the upgraded O & M Manual.

The risk to the development outcomes is linked to the maintenance of the Barrage. IPD has
prepared a post-completion O&M plan to ensure adequate inputs in the form of staffing,
equipment and operational budget. For preparing annual budgets, IPD has devised a barrage
specific yardstick considering the maintenance requirements. Given these adequate inputs, the
risks to achieving the development outcomes are low.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

       Rating: Satisfactory

At the request of GoPunjab, and being an emergency operation, the Bank acted swiftly to
complete the processing of this Project. The Bank's preparation mission visited Pakistan in June
2004 and the Project was approved by the Bank's Board in March 2005 and became effective in
April 2005. Thus the Project was processed in record time of less than one year. Quick
processing could not have been possible without the strong cooperation of the GoPunjab.
Various critical tasks that were necessary for getting the Project in a state of readiness for
implementation were accomplished by GoPunjab before appraisal. The Bank's performance in
these regards is assessed as satisfactory.
(b) Quality of Supervision

       Rating: Satisfactory



                                                14
The Bank remained thoroughly engaged with the Project throughout implementation. Following
appraisal, the Bank fielded 10 review missions to regularly supervise and monitor the
implementation progress of the Project. In addition, because of the urgency of the matter, two
missions related exclusively to resettlement issues were fielded in quick succession between
August and November 2005. In fact, the Bank and the PMO worked closely together to ensure
timely implementation of the Project and quality assurance of its works. Because of the good
rapport between the Bank and PMO, communication by phone was frequent with several audio
conferences.

The Bank identified major implementation issues and discussed and agreed with the GoPunjab
on time-bound action plans and monitored/advised on their implementation. The Bank promptly
and favorably responded to IA's request for approval of procurement plans, extensively advised
on procurement, disbursement, and financial management issues, and approved the credit
extension in a timely manner. The Bank continuously emphasized the need for preparing a
communication strategy to inform farmers in the Barrage command of possible extended canal
closures. Such a strategy was eventually prepared and successfully implemented.

Overarching implementation issues as well as specific procurement, financial management,
environmental and social issues were expeditiously handled. The lack of a resettlement action
plan at appraisal and its quick preparation and implementation when the need arose during
implementation is one example of the quality and responsiveness of the supervision. The role of
the Bank's Islamabad Office in this regard has also been crucial. The quality of supervision by
the Bank is assessed as satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

       Rating: Satisfactory

Combining the performances during the lending and implementation phases, there is ample
justification to rate the overall performance of the Bank as satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

       Rating: Satisfactory

The Borrower (the Islamic Republic of Pakistan) was involved mainly in the final clearance of
the Project PC-1 by ECNEC and in liaising with the Bank in negotiating and processing the
Loan. The Borrower carried out these functions and provided guidance to GoPunjab as and when
needed. The Borrower's performance is assessed as satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

       Rating: Satisfactory



                                               15
GoPunjab was generally proactive and responsive to the variety of situational needs. Its role was
praiseworthy during the preparation and appraisal stages as it complied with most of the Bank's
requirements expeditiously. For example, before appraisal, it had established the PMO,
completed the feasibility study and prepared a draft PC-1 and appointed and convened the first
meeting of the POE. GoPunjab also acted promptly to assist the people affected by the extended
closure of the D.G. Khan canal during the rabi 2005-06 cropping season when it launched a pro-
poor program in four southern districts of Punjab to provide the affected farmers with good
quality wheat seed at their doorsteps and at subsidized rates.

The PMO also performed its functions efficiently. The staff in the PMO were dedicated
professionals who believed in hard work. The engineers and other field specialists, including the
Head of PMO, remained vigilant and spent the better part of their time at the work site which
helped to resolve emerging issues in an expeditious manner. PRSP, who got associated with the
Project during its implementation also performed credibly. Their role in making it possible to
provide subsidized wheat seed for the 2006-07 rabi crop timely and at the doorsteps of farmers
and install hand pumps for augmenting drinking water supplies was commendable and was
widely appreciated. The performance of the Implementing Agencies is thus assessed as
satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

       Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the Borrower and Implementing Agencies taken together justifies labeling
the performance of the Borrower as satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The following key lessons were learned from the Project:
       · A well-structured consultative process involving all stakeholders, particularly the
          beneficiaries, should precede project preparation. A communication strategy should
          be developed to keep constant liaison with all stakeholders for projects of this nature.
          This will minimize complaints that come forth during project implementation.
       · A suitably staffed PMO established before preparation/project appraisal facilitates
          project processing and ensures quicker start up of project activities.
       · An orientation/training for PMO staff and supervision consultants about World Bank
          policies/procedures, particularly on safeguards, at project launch will help remove
          impediments and improve implementation.
       · Approval of PC-1, EIA, and convening of POE for review of feasibility study and
          engineering design before Board approval enabled a quicker start of project activities.
       · The borrower should be adequately informed at all levels that the Bank's procedures
          need to be followed for all procurements.
       · The contractors must build good relations with the local community to ensure smooth
          implementation.



                                               16
       ·   Detailed engineering design of Employer's site facilities to be constructed by the
           contractor and location of contractor's site facilities should be a part of the bidding
           documents to avoid variation orders later on and social disruption.
       ·   A Project Implementation Plan (PIP) prepared at the project preparation stage would
           be a very valuable guide for all project staff to avoid ad hoc planning.
       ·   Periodic review of Project activities by an independent Panel of Experts (POE) is an
           effective tool for taking corrective measures and ensuring quality.
       ·   Main EMMP provisions should be a part of contractor's agreement so that the
           contractor is bound to comply with the provisions.
       ·   Implementation of resettlement action plan (RAP) and other project activities
           involving interaction with local communities should be implemented through the
           process of social mobilization. Involvement of adequately experienced NGOs, can
           provide valuable assistance. Implementing Agency (IA) role in such a case may be
           focused on monitoring the progress.
       ·   A sound financial management, accounting and reporting system managed by
           qualified staff is a key element for a smooth implementation of the project.
           Consideration should be given to out-sourcing certain aspects of financial
           management to professional firms, instead of setting up in-house systems.
       ·   A well-conceived results monitoring framework including Management Information
           System is needed, and a well designed and effective M & E system pays dividend in
           terms of timely feedback to implementing agencies and allows mid-course corrective
           measures. A baseline survey should be carried out before start of any physical
           activities.
       ·   Majority of the M&E and social and environmental staff for both consultants and
           PMO should be site-based

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

None

(b) Co-financiers

None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

None




                                                17
                              Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent),
                                    Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                    Estimate         Estimate         Percentage
           Components
                                     (USD             (USD           of Appraisal
                                    millions)        millions)

Rehabilitation and Strengthening      59.50               80.5              135.3
              Work

 Renovation of Gates and Hoists
   and Strengthening O & M            37.6                29.7              79.1
           Facilities
    Consulting Services and            8.2                5.5               66.6
    Implementation Support
      Total Baseline Cost            105.30              115.7              109.9
     Physical Contingencies            9.5                  0                0.0
       Price Contingencies             8.6                  0                0.0
       Total Project Costs           123.40              115.7              93.8
Interest During Construction (on      10.3                10.3              100.0
          IBRD Loan)
       Front-end fee IBRD              0.6                0.6               100.0

   Total Financing Required          134.30              126.6              94.3

(b) Financing
                                                Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                                Estimate           Estimate    Percentage
                              Type of Co-
Source of Funds                                                                    of
                               financing         (USD               (USD       Appraisal
                                                millions)          millions)
Borrower                                          11.3               13.0           115.0
IBRD                                              123               113.6           92.4
TOTAL                                             134.3             126.6           94.3




                                                  18
                                 Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The following three components were envisaged at appraisal: (A) rehabilitation and
strengthening works; (B) renovation of gates and hoists and strengthening O&M facilities; and
(C) consulting services and implementation support. There was no change made in the scope of
the Project during implementation. However, the component B of the Project which was
originally to be totally funded by the Bank was co-financed by the Government of Japan (JICA).
As a result, the rehabilitation of 29 gates on the left half of the Barrage, construction of the
superstructure of the Barrage, and provision of O&M facilities was carried out with the help of
the Japanese grant. Works under all components were completed, a substantial part of them
ahead of schedule. The outputs obtained through each of the above components are, however,
discussed and detailed below:

Component A: Rehabilitation and Strengthening Works. The main works include:
(a) construction of a 4,300 ft long subsidiary weir located about 1,000 ft downstream of the
barrage to raise the tail water level and ensure proper energy dissipation; (b) repair of the barrage
floor by removal of weak concrete and replacement with a new layer of concrete, and grouting to
seal joints and fill voids in the foundation; (c) a silt excluder at the canal intake on the right bank;
and (d) upgrading the internal monitoring system of the barrage structure.

The civil works under this component were intended to fix the barrage structure of the problems
with energy dissipation, excessive silt entry in to D.G Khan Canal, the dysfunctional hydraulic
parameter monitoring system, etc. in order to extend the life and safety of the barrage
infrastructure. All these works were packaged into one ICB-01 contract which was awarded to a
joint venture following the Bank's ICB procedures. The notice to commence was issued on May
10, 2005 and the contract was signed on May 27, 2005. The contract completion period was 36
months with the completion date of May 05, 2008. The contract works mainly involved:
(a) mobilization works that included the construction of contractor's camp, workshops, site
office and the Employer's site facilities; (b) strengthening of the barrage, which included (i) the
rehabilitation of downstream floor and glacis of the main weir, (ii) construction of a silt excluder
for D.G. Khan Canal; (iii) remodeling of the D.G. Khan Canal Head Regulator; (iv) remodeling
of fish ladders of the barrage; and (v) diversion of escape channel of D.G. Khan Canal silt
ejector; and (c) the construction of a 4,346 ft long subsidiary weir, 925 ft downstream of the
barrage, along with appurtenant works such as a navigation lock, two fish ladders and extension
of the existing downstream guide banks. The details of the execution of works under this
component are as follows:

        Mobilization Works: The Contractor started mobilizing on May 28, 2005 and constructed
the following facilities at the camp at site: office buildings, staff residences, two mess halls,
recreation hall, mosque, site laboratory, labor dormitories, canteen, toilets, workshops, material
storage facilities, and pre-casting yard. The Contractor also deployed three concrete batching
plants (installed capacity of 160 m3/hour) and a crushing plant; and for the Employer,
constructed an Erection Supervisors House with a covered area of 5,510 sq. ft., a building to
house telecommunication facilities (under a variation order), and a hospital.



                                                  19
        Strengthening of the Barrage: Prior to the execution of permanent works, about 9 km of
cofferdams were constructed, 2,219 sheet piles were driven, and 100 centrifugal, 225
submersible and 42 mud pumps were installed for dewatering purposes. About 24,570 cubic ft of
grouting was injected through 5,990 ft of 2 inch diameter bore holes in order to fill up channels,
voids, fractures and open joints in the downstream floor of the barrage. A 2 ft top layer,
comprising 1 ft of reinforced skin concrete and underlying 1 ft of lean concrete, was broken and
dismantled in the stilling basin. In the downstream glacis, only a 1 ft thick reinforced skin
concrete was dismantled, leaving the lower layers intact. Before replacing the deteriorated
concrete with new fresh concrete, 8,330 rawl bolts (expanding anchor bolts) of 2.5 to 4.5 ft
lengths were installed in different grid patterns, both in the downstream glacis and stilling basin
of the barrage.

Piezometers were installed underneath the structure at critical points for monitoring water levels
and pressures in order to determine the uplift pressures underneath the structure and thus
monitoring its physical conditions. A total of 80 piezometers were installed, 70 of which were
the vibrating wire (VW) type and 10 were the stand pipe type.

The new concrete layer laid was 1ft thick on the crest and glacis, while in stilling basin floor the
thickness of the new concrete was 3 ft in the right half and 2 ft in the left half of the barrage, in
addition to chute blocks and end sill which were cast anew. The concrete was laid in panels in
one go and full thicknesses. A total of 1,122,213 cubic ft Class­A concrete (4,000 psi) was used.
Quality control measures were strictly followed to comply with requirements of hot weather,
ensuring the temperature of concrete at batching plant at or below 28oC, and during winter above
2oC.

The following ancillary works were carried out: (i) grouting of drain pipes; (ii) raising the crest
level of the left navigation lock (bay # 8) by 1 ft. and installing of new sill beams;
(iii) replacement of sill beams in bays 31 to 65 of the barrage; and (iv) extension of fish ladders
of the existing barrage.

Other works undertaken were: (i) a feeder canal was constructed and later its capacity
augmented, as a temporary work, for providing drinking water supplies to the population in the
command area of D.G Khan Canal during October 15 to April 15; (ii) D.G. Khan Canal head
regulator was remodeled; (iii) a silt excluder in the upstream right pocket was constructed for the
benefit of the D.G. Khan Canal; and (iv) the outfall channels of D.G. Khan Canal silt ejectors
located at RD 7+500 and RD 20+800 were remodeled.

        Construction of Subsidiary Weir: A 4,346 ft long subsidiary weir was constructed at 925
ft downstream of the main barrage gate line. With its crest at RL 424.0, the subsidiary weir
raised the water level on the downstream of the barrage to provide adequate depth in the stilling
basin ensuring formation of a hydraulic jump at the proper location, i.e. toe of or on the
downstream glacis, and satisfactory energy dissipation. It was constructed in two stages during
the low flow season, with half of the weir length (2,173 ft) under taken in each stage. The right
and left halves were constructed during the low flow seasons in October 2005- July 2006 and
October 2006-June 2007 respectively. Before starting the permanent works of the sub-weir,
temporary works, comprising cofferdams and installation and operation of a well system to take


                                                 20
out impounded water and thus maintain dry working conditions, were put in place. The
construction involved: (a) a total excavation of 16,907,720 ft3 of river bed material in order to
prepare foundation of the subsidiary weir and its ancillary works; (b) 399,858 ft2 of steel sheet
piling, 10 to 30.50 ft deep; (c) 7 rows, each containing 7 VW piezometers and one stand pipe
type piezometer; and (d) a total of 5,914,271 ft3 of concrete (class A­4,000 psi and class B ­
3,000 psi) was laid on 3 inch thick layer of lean concrete (class D­2.000 psi). Additionally, (i)
aprons made of 4 ft x 4 ft x 4 ft PPC blocks were laid at both the upstream and downstream sides
of the sub weir over graded filter of 1 ft depth and 2 ft depth respectively and (ii) two fish
ladders, one on each side of the subsidiary weir, and a navigation lock at the left flank were
provided as ancillary works.

The initial findings suggest that the envisaged impact of Component A has been realized. One of
the major problems necessitating the Project was the excessive silt entry into the D.G. Khan
Canal and resultant silting of the canal reducing its discharge capacity drastically. The
construction of a silt excluder in the upstream right pocket and remodeling of the D.G. Khan
Canal head regulator have provided the necessary infrastructure to control silt entry. Another key
issue of the barrage was the problem of energy dissipation downstream of the barrage due to
excessive retrogression and lowering of the tail water. This problem has been addressed by
constructing the subsidiary weir which is reportedly functioning very well. It has been possible
to maintain the design pond level now without any disruption. And there has been no significant
safety hazardous incident at Taunsa barrage since its rehabilitation and modernization.

Component B: Renovation of Gates and Hoists and Strengthening O&M Facilities. This
involves: (i) renovation of all the barrage gates and hoists and improvement in the operating and
control system for the barrage and canal head-works, including necessary facilities to enhance
the flow measurement in existence; and (ii) procurement of necessary equipment for operation
and maintenance.

The original gates of the Taunsa barrage and their hoisting arrangement were constructed as per
the then available technology in the 1950s. The gates were operable manually. Over the years,
the gates and gearing system of the barrage had deteriorated. There was profuse leakage through
closed gates. The implementation of this component intended to improve the condition of the
gates and upgrade the operating facilities with higher level of automation through remote control,
and O&M equipment.

Initially, the entire component was planned to be executed through a single ICB contract, using
the Bank's funds. In view of the grant of the Government of Japan to rehabilitate 29 gates of the
left half of the barrage, the superstructure of the barrage and provision of O&M facilities, the
scope of Component B funded by the Bank was reduced. The details of the procurement of
works under this component are as follows:

        Bank Funded: The part of works included in this component to be procured with Bank
funding was packaged in ICB-02 Contract. This package included (i) replacement of right under-
sluice gates in bays # 62-65; (ii) rehabilitation and increasing the height of weir gates in bays # 8
and #31 to 61; (iii) rehabilitation of 5 gates of the Muzaffargarh Canal; (iv) replacement of 7
gates each D.G Khan Canal and TP Link Canal; (v) hoisting system for the above; and
(vi) automation of operation for all the gates of the barrage and canals.


                                                 21
         JICA Contracts: The part of works included in this component to be procured with JICA
funding comprised: (i) rehabilitation and/or renovation of 22 gates of the main weir (bays # 9 to
30), replacement for 7 left undersluices (bays # 1 to 7), rehabilitation and upgradation of hoists
and superstructure deck, and electrification of gate hoists; (ii) supply of five bulkhead gates;
(iii) supply of 2 tug boats and three working boats; and (iv) supply of one 50 ton truck crane. The
design of the rehabilitation and/or renovation work was carried out by the consultants engaged
by JICA specifically for this purpose and their installation was also supervised by these
consultants. For this purpose, two separate consulting services contracts for amounts of ¥
281.945 million and ¥ 129 million were signed

All physical works have been completed, and the operation of gates of the barrage and the canal
head regulators has improved, as envisaged. The gates operate smoothly, there is absolutely no
leakage from the closed gates, and there is now a central control room available at the barrage
site. Thus the envisaged impact of the Component B has been realized.

Component C: Consulting Services and Implementation Support. This component covers:
(i) consulting services for construction supervision at Taunsa Barrage; (ii) consulting services for
preparation of designs for other Punjab barrages; (iii) maintaining an independent panel of
experts for technical design and safety review, and construction quality enhancement; and
(iv) incremental administration and operating costs of the Project Management Office (PMO)
and Project Steering Committee (PSC) Secretariat. The details of this component are given
below:

       Consulting Services for Construction Supervision: A consultancy services contract was
awarded to a joint venture of three companies on May 9, 2005 for a total input of 1,096 staff
months, spanning a period of 44 months. The supervision consultants, acting as the "Engineer",
provided supervisory services for the two Bank-funded ICB contracts, namely ICB-01 (civil
works) and ICB-02 (mechanical and electrical works). As the project activities progressed,
addendums to the contract agreements were issued increasing the number of staff months to
1,119. The revised contract cost was Rs. 181.7 million.

        Consultant Services for Preparation of Designs for Other Barrages: The consultancy
contract for preparing detailed design of the Islam Barrage due in October 2005 was signed in
August 2007, which was about 22 months late, and that for preparing detailed designs of the
Jinnah Barrage due in October 2005 was signed in October 2007, which was about 24 months
late. By the loan closing date, detailed designs, contract documents, Environment Impact
Assessment and social studies for the Jinnah and Islam Barrages had been completed.
Simultaneously, the Environmental Management and Social Development Assistance Plans were
also prepared.

        Independent Panel of Experts (POE): As envisaged at the time of preparation of the
Project, independent Panels of Experts (POEs) composed of experienced international and
national experts were appointed. The POEs convened thrice during the implementation of the
Project. They reviewed activities of the Project independently and provided findings and
recommendations which proved useful and were acted upon. One of the panels was specifically



                                                22
convened to advise on environmental and social issues. This panel imparted advice on how to
deal with the serious social issues related to displaced/resettled communities and people in canal
command areas who were adversely affected by extended canal closures and environmental
issues of wild life sanctuary situated upstream of the barrage, water logging and safety of the
Indus dolphin.

         Support to Project Management Office (PMO): A Project Management Office (PMO),
headed by a Project Director, was set up in IPD. It comprised of four units: (i) Project
Management & Procurement Unit that was responsible for project implementation, procurement
activities, monitoring and evaluating project progress and performance, liaising with the Bank
and preparing annual programs and implementation reporting; (ii) Engineering Unit that oversaw
the work of the consultants on design and construction supervision matters; (iii) Financial
Management Unit that was responsible for all project-related financial management,
disbursements and financial reporting; and, (iv) Environmental Unit that supervised compliance
with the Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan. These units were staffed with
qualified personnel. For contractual purposes, the Project Director served as the "Employer" for
the purposes of administering the ICBs.

        Project Steering Committee: A Project Steering Committee (PSC), headed by the
Chairman, Planning and Development Board and having Secretaries of Irrigation and Power,
Finance and Environmental Protection Departments as its members, provided policy guidance
and inter-agency coordination for the Project.

A Barrages Review Cell was also established in the GoPunjab Planning and Development
Department, which was headed by a Program Coordinator. This Cell facilitated inter-
departmental dialogue and helped address Project related issues in which more than one
Government Department were involved, acted as a link between the Project and the P&D
Department for the Project and future projects concerning barrages, and also acted as a link
between the Project and the Federal Government.




                                                23
                          Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A.     Background

The Taunsa Barrage diverts a part of the Indus flow to the D.G Khan and Muzzafargarh canal
commands with an irrigated area of about 0.8 million ha (2 million acres) and to other large areas
served by the Taunsa-Panjnad Link Canal. This link canal was built in the 1960s to transfer
water from the Indus to areas served by two rivers, the Ravi and the Sutlej. The barrage also
carries a road, railway, oil and gas pipelines.

As a result of the investigation and feasibility study at appraisal, Taunsa Barrage was found to
have numerous structural weaknesses and an unstable hydraulic situation on the downstream
floor. It was concluded that the barrage was at high risk of structural failure and may collapse at
any time. In case of failure, the barrage would not be able to maintain the water at the level
needed to supply the irrigation canals. Thus the funding for rehabilitation of the Taunsa Barrage
was put on fast track. While working out the economic viability of the project, only the economic
loss associated with the catastrophic scenario of the barrage was considered.

B.     The Main Objectives of the Economic Analysis

The main objective of the ex-post economic analysis is to re-examine the economic viability and
sustainability of the Project at loan closing date and to re-assess the potential risks to
sustainability of the Project. The results of the analysis at completion of the Project will also be
compared with the results of economic analysis envisaged at appraisal.

C.     Approach and Methodology

The standard economic analysis approach was used here whereby the net present value of costs
and benefits were calculated over a period of twenty years discounted at the opportunity cost of
capital. Obviously, the project life is much longer than the period considered for this analysis. A
conservative approach has been adopted for this analysis. In addition to comparing the results of
the catastrophic assumption, the economic analysis has also been carried out under standard
perspectives to examine the sustainability of the Project.

During the analysis, the comparisons of costs and benefits of the Project were made on the basis
of quantifiable physical inputs and outputs. Incremental net benefits were estimated on the basis
of the changes expected to occur and other conditions expected to prevail within targeted
geographic areas: (i) in the absence of the Project's interventions and (ii) as a consequence of
implementing the proposed investments. These quantifiable inputs and outputs were valued
according to their border price equivalents, at January 2010 price levels. For the farm budget
analysis, the established prices determined by local markets were applied.

In assessing input and output prices, the detailed financial and economic farm-gate prices of
agricultural commodities and inputs were calculated on export/import parity basis. In this
exercise, the World Bank's commodity price projections for tradable commodities such as wheat,


                                                 24
cotton, and fertilizers were used as appropriate. Economic prices were calculated and based on
domestic price numbers. All key assumptions used in the analysis and their rationales are
provided in the following sections. The derivation of economic prices used for the analysis is
shown in Table 3.1.

                                            Table 3.1
               Derivation of Farm-gate Economic Prices of Agricultural Commodities
                                      (Jan 2010 Price Level)
                                                                                                  Rice
         Parity Price Basis (1)                          Wheat         Sugarcane     Cotton
                                                                                                Irri (6)
                                                                 (I)           (I)        (E)         (E)
         Projected Price in Current Dollars $/mt (2)          201.2        478.1      1,704.9      571.3
         Factor                                                1.00         1.00         1.00       1.00
         Quality Adjustment Factor                             0.85         0.97         0.97       0.81
         World Market Equivalent $/mt                         171.0        463.8      1,653.8      462.7
         Transport and Insurance                                 54           54          162          54
         cif, Karachi                                           225          518        1,492        409
         Exchange Rate Rs/US$                                 85.00        85.00        85.00      85.00
         cif, Karachi (Rs/t)                                 19,130       44,015     126,788      34,736
         Port charges                                           450          450        1,350        450
         Storage and handling                                   831          831        2,494        831
         Value at Karachi market                             20,412       45,296     122,945      33,455
         Transport to Project Area (Mill)                       230          230        1,150        230
         Processed Value                                     20,642       45,526     121,795      33,225
         Processing Ratio %                                    93.6           8.5          33          62
         Processing Charges                                     750        5,100        2,250      1,750
         Wholesale Value                                     20,022        4,303      39,450      19,515
         Local agent's commission                               400          129          986        390
         Value at farmgate                                   20,423        4,432      38,463      19,124
         Economic Value at farmgate (Rs/40kg)                   817          177        1,539        765
         Local farmgate price (Rs/40kg)                         880          170        1,720      1,280
         Ratio of border to local farmgate price               0.93         1.04         0.89       0.60
         Financial Price per Kg                               22.00         4.25        43.00      32.00
         Economic Price per Kg                                20.42         4.43        38.46      19.12
        (1) Parity : [I] Import [E] Export
        (2) World Bank Commodity Prices February 2010



Detailed crop and farm budgets were developed to support analysis of with and without Project
scenarios, by taking into consideration the amount of potential losses avoided and possible
savings in farm operation cost due to Project interventions. Also the sensitivity analysis was
carried out.

In addition, all non-quantifiable and indirect benefits that may arise due to the Project were
described in detail during appraisal. These indirect economic benefits accruing to other sectors
include rail and road transport, gas, and local job creation due to barrage rehabilitation.

At appraisal, the economic analysis assumed a period of five and ten years before collapse of the
barrage under the without Project scenario. At midterm review, the analysis was further


                                                        25
elaborated assuming that under the without Project scenario the losses would be confined to one
year (two crop seasons) and the situation would recoup within 7 years. The ICR repeats both the
analyses (appraisal and midterm) and compares the results at completion of the Project. In
addition, the impact of the Project in financial terms, on the income of farmers has also been
studied herein.

Costs

Total Project costs have been re-valued on the basis of actual costs/latest estimates incurred for
rehabilitation of the Taunsa Barrage. The costs incurred for civil works, mechanical and
electrical equipment, project management and technical assistance, and cost of resettlement
action plan have been included in the cash flow of costs. However, the costs incurred for model
studies and surveys, and for the design of other barrages in the Punjab have been excluded from
the total Project costs while working out the economic analysis.

A pro-poor assistance program was developed and implemented by the Punjab Rural Support
Program (PRSP) in 124 union councils of four districts (Muzaffargarh, Layyah, D.G. Khan and
Rajanpur). In 2005-06, due to extended canal closure of the D.G. Khan canal, irrigation water
supply received by the farmers of the canal command area was less than usual. Therefore,
GoPunjab, under the PRSP, launched a crash assistance program in selected union councils,
which included the provision of quality wheat seed at subsidized rates, installation of hand
pumps for drinking water supply, social mobilization of local communities, construction of
community infrastructure, provision of microcredit and skills training. The program had a
positive impact in the areas affected by the prolonged canal closures. The cost of this program
attributed to the Project area has been worked out and included in the cash flow of costs for
carrying out the economic analysis.

JICA also financed the rehabilitation of a part of the barrage gates and some other
equipment/activities at a cost of about US$ 40 million (about Yen 3,860 million). The decision
of partial funding by JICA was made during the implementation of the Project and did not exist
at appraisal. This cost has also been included in the cash flow of costs, as segregation of the
benefits of JICA's investment is not possible.

The O&M costs were taken from the historical data of year wise funds allocation and
expenditures for the barrage. These allocations are made on a standard yardstick based on
discharge of the canals of any barrage. In case of failure of the barrage, the O&M costs were to
be redundant, hence full O&M cost of the barrage has been accounted for in the cash flow of
costs, after converting into economic values.

D.      Key Assumptions Used in the Analysis

        If failure of the barrage occurs in July, the main summer (kharif) crop of cotton would
        not be irrigated and thus fail because the canal command area in general receives very
        low natural rainfall. If the barrage could not be put back in service in time for the winter
        (rabi) crop, the farmers would be unable to grow a winter wheat crop.



                                                 26
        The analysis has been done on conservative assumptions; hence only key crops have been
        taken into account. Though the tangible improvements in yield due to enhanced and
        uninterrupted water supply have been quantified but these have just been described.

        The opportunity cost of capital is assumed to be 12%, the rate used by the Planning and
        Development Department, GoPunjab/GoPakistan for Projects' evaluation purposes.

        The economic benefit of the barrage rehabilitation would be the avoided crop losses as
        well as other losses due to interruption of the oil and gas pipeline, road and railway
        linkages and other services. Major agricultural losses in the summer would be the area of
        cotton in the DG Khan and Muzaffargarh canal commands. By July, the farmers will
        have invested in most of the inputs, and in the absence of barrage failure the crop would
        continue to mature.

        Mainly the avoided agricultural losses considered are for the kharif for key crops in the
        D.G. Khan and Muzaffargarh canal commands. Under the Project, the farmers would be
        enabled to get more water at the tail end, timely and effective for their crops. In case of
        failure of the barrage, the agriculture loss would be sum of the two seasons (rabi and
        kharif), whereas the situation would recover within seven years.

        The Project would yield quantifiable as well as non-quantifiable benefits. Specifically,
        the evaluation is premised on the fact that the condition of Taunsa Barrage is improved
        after its rehabilitation. The barrage would be able to maintain the water at 447 ft above
        sea level and enable timely and effective water supply to the irrigation canals. As the
        canals are non-perennial, the farmers would be able to grow the main summer (kharif)
        crops of cotton and rice. The farmer would also take advantage of cultivating winter
        (rabi) crop of wheat and watering to perennial crops of sugarcane and orchards
        (mangoes).

        Similar to the assumption at appraisal, it has been further assumed that full losses would
        be confined to one year (two crop seasons) and the emergency arrangements at a cost of
        $20 million would be required to restore services to the two canal commands by the start
        of the next main irrigation season. After that, the barrage would have to be rehabilitated
        at costs worked out on the basis of actual expenditures/latest estimates at completion of
        the Project.

E.      Benefits of the Project

Quantifiable Benefits

Area Benefited: The two canals are non-perennial, as such the benefited area is assumed as 55
percent (i.e. 6.5 months water supply). Total detriment area is computed more than 1.26 m acres
(0.55 million ha). The project benefits have been taken for the value of potential losses averted as
a result of the barrage failure.




                                                 27
Agriculture Benefits: Under the without Project situation, the partial or complete failure of the
barrage, the total estimated agricultural loss during the year (in economic values) would be more
than Rs 6.3 billion (US$74.5 million). The other potential losses of human life, cattle and
infrastructure would be in addition to the agriculture loss and have not been quantified.

Non-Quantifiable Benefits

Increase in Crop yields: It has now become apparent that the rehabilitation of the barrage and
the addition of works to reduce sediment entry to the D.G.Khan canal will ensure a larger
(restoration of design level) and more reliable supply of water to the canals served by the
barrage, as its capacity to accommodate the flow has increased from 7,500 cusecs to 9,000
cusecs. Obviously, this incremental increase of water would result in increase in intensity and
crop yields. However, as a conservative approach, no change in either crop yields or in the inputs
level has been assumed for with and without Project scenarios.

Change of Cropping Pattern: After having more water and with a flat rate for the abiana (canal
water use charges) introduced by the Punjab government, some of the farmers may have shifted
to cash crops, but due to non availability of such empirical data, no benefits of shifting to cash
crops (cropping pattern) has been accounted for.

The non-quantified loss which might have occurred in case of partial or complete failure of
Taunsa Barrage include: (i) in case of damage to the gas pipeline providing natural gas to Kot
Adu combined cycle power plant, the power supply of a 137 MW thermal power station would
be interrupted; (ii) the oil transporting pipeline passing through the Project area would also be
damaged; (iii) the road and rail connections between Punjab and Sindh and the link between
Balochistan and Punjab may be interrupted with the damage of the main road and railway line
passing through the Project area, which has a strategic importance both from the country's
defense as well as from the national integration point of view; (iv) the barrage-bridge has
facilitated rapid as well as point to point passenger and trucking facilities which have continued
to boost all round growth of trade and commercial activities. The damage to barrage-bridge may
seriously harm all these economic activities; (v) loss of human life, cattle, infrastructure and
other private and public property.

F.     Results of Economic Analysis

At appraisal the EIRR was calculated as 42% assuming if the barrage collapsed after 5 years and
17% if it collapsed after ten years (baseline). An ex-post analysis was repeated based on
actual/latest costs estimates and the EIRR was calculated to be 34.0% against the scenario
assuming the failure of barrage after five years and 15.9% if failure occurs after 10 years. The
reduction in EIRR is due to variation in the prices of agricultural input and output commodities.
No other scenario was examined for evaluating the economic viability of the Project, at
appraisal.

The MTR mission also updated the economic analysis and calculated an EIRR of 25% under
standard perspectives. The economic benefit of the barrage rehabilitation was taken as the
avoided crop losses assuming that the situation would be set back to the level prior to the failure



                                                28
of barrage within a period of seven years. For the ICR, this analysis was repeated using
actual/latest cost estimates. An EIRR of 21% was calculated. The difference between the results
of analysis carried out at Appraisal and for this ICR is mainly due to the increase in Project
completion cost from US$134 million to about US$166 million (including JICA's funding).
Details are given in Table 3.2.

                                       Table 3.2
              Economic Analysis: Cash Flow of Costs and Benefits (Base Case)
                                                                               Rs Million
                                                               Avoided            Net
                         Project                  Total
              Years                  O&M                      Agronomic       Incremental
                          Costs                   Costs
                                                                Loss            Benefits

            Year-1       2,212.0     14.76       2,226.75            -          (2,226.75)
            Year-2       2,542.2     28.00       2,570.17          6,332          3,762.02
            Year-3       3,680.9     32.67       3,713.61          2,159        (1,554.80)
            Year-4       2,259.1     46.67       2,305.75          1,542          (763.74)
            Year-5       1,322.3     46.67       1,368.95           925           (443.75)
            Year-6        74.5       46.67        121.17            617            495.63
            Year-7          -        46.67         46.67            617            570.13
            Year-8          -        46.67         46.67            617            570.13
            Year-9                   46.67         46.67            308            261.73
            Year-10                  46.67         46.67            308            261.73
            Year-11                  46.67         46.67            308            261.73
            Year-12                  46.67         46.67            308            261.73
            Year-13                  46.67         46.67            308            261.73
            Year-14                  46.67         46.67            308            261.73
            Year-15                  46.67         46.67            308            261.73
            Year-16                  46.67         46.67            308            261.73
            Year-17                  46.67         46.67            308            261.73
            Year-18                  46.67         46.67            308            261.73
            Year-19                  46.67         46.67            308            261.73
            Year-20                  46.67         46.67            308            261.73
                      NPV @ 12%    Rs 561.11 million :equivalent to US$ 6.60 million
                                                                  Base case IRR 21.0%




Sensitivity Analysis: An analysis made at appraisal found that the EIRR remains above 12%
even under the worst case scenario, with 10% cost increase and 10% benefit reduction. The
sensitivity analysis carried out at the ICR based on actual/latest cost estimates keeps the EIRR
above 12% with reduction of benefits up to 6%. The NPV of the Project has been worked out as
US$ 6.60 million using a discount rate of 12%.

The analysis at ICR confirms the findings at appraisal and MTR that the Project is economically
viable.




                                                 29
G.     Farm Budget Analysis

Farm budget analysis has been undertaken to calculate the farm income made possible as a result
of Project implementation. Impact of barrage failure on income of a small, medium and large
farmer of the Project area was studied by developing typical farm budgets of 2 ha (small farm), 5
ha (medium farm) and 12 ha (large farm). Cropping intensity was worked out for small farms as
159%, for medium farm as 143% and for large farms as 137%. Overall intensity of the Project
area has been reported as 153%. (Comparison with at appraisal could not be made as such
analysis was not carried out).

Approach and Methodology for Farm Budget Analysis

It is assumed that under the 'without Project scenario' in the event of barrage failure, farmers
would bear the loss of the kharif crops and would not be able to grow wheat and provide
irrigation to the rabi crops to some extent (both the canals are non-perennial). A conservative
approach has been adopted for evaluating the impact of barrage failure on the income of the
farmers by assuming only the key crops for this analysis. Based on the crop budgets, farm
budgets for the small, medium and large farm were developed separately. In the farm budget
analysis, the cost of farm family has not been added in the expenses.

Farm Budget Development

Farm budget prepared covers analysis of gross value of production (GVP), gross cost of
production (GCP), and incremental farm income. For simplicity and to avoid unnecessary
details, similar average per acre crop budgets and bench mark prices have been used for all farms
under consideration.

Results of the analysis and Impact on Farm Income

The farm budget analysis reveals that rehabilitation of the barrage has saved the farmers from
loss of their investment (45% of potential expenses as input to the crops) in farm inputs ranging
between Rs. 33,600 (small farm) to more than Rs. 147,700 (large farm). Moreover, in case of
failure of barrage, the farmers would not get any returns for their livelihood, whereas,
implementation of the Project would enable farmers to receive income for their family members
from activities on the farms. Results of the farm budget analysis have been summarized in the
following Table 3.3:

                 Table 3.3: Results of Farm Level Income for the Key Crops
                                                               Rupees
                                                             Medium        Large
                                             Small Farm
                        Description                           Farm         Farm
                                               (2 Ha)
                                                              (5 Ha)      (10 Ha)
                GVP                             115,089      258,769      495,823
                GCP                             74,709       169,657      328,295
                Net Returns                      40,380       89,112      167,528
                Net Return per Farm Acre        20,190        17,822       16,753


                                                30
               Key: GVP = Gross Value of Production; GCP = Gross Cost of Production.


      Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
             Names                                  Title                       Unit
Javaid Afzal                      Environmental Spec.                          SASDI
Pramod K. Agrawal                 Consultant                                   EASPR
Masood Ahmad                      Lead Water Resources Specialist              SASDA
Ali Awais                         Consultant                                   MNCA4
Tumurdavaa Bayarsaihan            Senior Rural Development Specialist          SASDA
Anwar Ali Bhatti                  Financial Analyst                            SACPK
Ismaila B. Ceesay                 Lead Financial Management Spec               SARFM
Paul Jonathan Martin              Sr. Environmental Specialist                 AFTEN
Alessandro Palmieri               Lead Dam Specialist                          OPCQC
Usman Qamar                       Senior Rural Development Specialist          SASDA
Uzma Sadaf                        Senior Procurement Specialist                SARPS
Furqan Ahmad Saleem               Sr. Financial Management Specialist          SARFM
Hasan Saqib                       Sr. Financial Management Specialist          SARFM
Abdul Qaiyum Sheikh               Consultant                                   SASDA
William T. Smith                  Consultant                                   EASRE
Warren Waters                     Regional Environmental and Staff             AFTQK
Winston Yu                        Water Resources Spec.                        SASDA
Vaqar Zakaria                     Consultant                                   SASDT
Chaohua Zhang                     Sr. Social Sector Specialist                 SASDI
Altaf Iqbal                       Consultant                                   SASDA

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                     USD Thousands (including
                                                 No. of staff weeks
                                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                                   1                              26.16
  FY05                                                  33                             145.46
  FY06                                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                                   0.00
  FY08                                                                                   0.00
                                 Total:                 34                             171.62
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                  11                              35.69
  FY06                                                  58                             315.35
  FY07                                                  42                             221.13
  FY08                                                  31                             152.85
  FY09                                                   3                               0.00
                                 Total:                145                             725.02


                                                      31
         Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                                        INTRODUCTION

THE TAUNSA BARRAGE

The Taunsa Barrage, built across Indus River is located at about 16 Km from Kot Addu, a Tehsil
head quarter of Muzaffargarh District, with location coordinates of 30º 31' N 70º 51' E. The
Barrage as originally constructed has 65 bays with a total width of 4,346 ft between the abutments.
Width of each bay is 60 ft except for bay No. 8 which is 22 ft wide and serves as navigation lock to
allow boats and other craft to cross the Barrage. Bays No. 9 to 61 constitute main weir and there are
two sets of under-sluices separated from the weir by two divide walls as left and right flanks bays
No. 1 to 7 from left under-sluices while right under-sluices cover bays No. 62 to 65. The Barrage
has 2 fish ladders each 11 ft wide alongside each divide wall.




Figure -1: Downstream View of the Barrage

Table -1 ­ Discharge, GCA & Districts Irrigated by Taunsa Barrage Canals
Sr     Name of          GCA (Acres)        Length      District     Design Discharge
 #      Canals                              (Km)                         (Cusec)
1    Muzaffargarh 940,000                  113      Muzaffargarh, 8,901
                                                    Layyah
2    DG Khan        1,285,000 (present)    105      DG Khan,      i) present day
                    2,279,874 (Final)               Rajanpur      11,540, Final
                                                                  14,500
3    TP Link        126,000 (Rangpur       62       Muzaffargarh, 12,000
                    canal tail area)                Balawalpur,
                    supplemental support            Rahimyar
                    to Panjnad Command              Khan




                                                 32
FUNCTIONS OF THE BARRAGE

The functions of a conventional Barrage are:

   ·   Raising water level in the river to an extent required for feeding the off-taking canals;
   ·   Pinning down the river at one location to facilitate transportation needs;
   ·   Regulation and control of the river flows.

But Taunsa Barrage is more than a conventional Barrage. It provides the following:

   ·   Irrigation facilities to areas in Muzaffargarh, DG Khan and Rajanpur Districts (2.354
       million Acres);
   ·   Converting inundation canal systems into weir regulated irrigation system;
   ·   Accommodates rail road crossing for the direct rail link between Kot Adu on the left
       bank and DG Khan, Rajanpur and Kashmore on the right bank of Indus River in Sindh;
   ·   Accommodates a Class 70/AA loading Arterial Road Bridge;
   ·   Accommodates a 16 inch dia high pressure pipeline owned by PARCO for conveying
       petroleum products from Karachi to the up country storage at Mahmood Kot terminal.
   ·   Accommodates a 16 inch dia high pressure natural gas pipeline conveying natural gas
       from Dhodak gas field to KAPCO and serviceable areas.

Taunsa Barrage is thus a truly multipurpose complex.

Problems and Remedial Measures

Taunsa Barrage soon after its commissioning in 1958 ran into multitude of problems, which
multiplied with passage of time. Then, a stage reached that indicated that the Barrage could collapse
at any time which would have resulted in; stoppage of irrigation water supply to multi-millions of
acres and drinking water supply to about 6 million people and their live stock served by Taunsa
Barrage canals' systems; disruption of rail road traffic to trans-Indus areas; non functioning of oil
and gas pipe lines crossing the river over the Barrage piers; etc.

Briefly, solutions to the problems lay in immediate rehabilitation of Taunsa Barrage to restore its
designed functions. The following table lists the problems and proposed solutions/remedies in
annotated form.




                                                  33
Table 2: Problems and Solutions/Remedies
Problems                                      Solution/Remedies
Retrogression of levels on the downstream     Construction of a subsidiary weir 925 ft
of Barrage and consequential issues           downstream of the Barrage to raise tail water
                                              levels to safe values.
Repeated damages to stilling basin            Grouting of leaking Concrete and cavities in
appurtenances including rupture of skin       or underneath the mass concrete, removal of
concrete and leaking joints of mass concrete. existing shattered skin and re-laying of 3 feet
                                              thick concrete overlay with nominal
                                              reinforcement.
Sedimentation problems in DG Khan canal        Construction of silt excluder in the u/s right
                                               pocket, raising crest of head regulator and
                                               removing the silt ejector at RD 20,800 D.G
                                               Khan Canal which is not rendering any
                                               assistance in silt ejection rather behaving as
                                               a hump in the canal flow.
Repeated subsidence of the backfill of left    Provision of a proper filter and pressure
and right flared out walls on the              release pipes or an effective seepage cut-off.
downstream.
Choking of about 80% of pressure pipes and     Provision of vibrating wire (electronic)
mal-functioning of the remaining 20%           piezometers in 10 bays of the Barrage and 7
                                               rows in the new sub-weir.
Problems of gates and hoists                   Overhauling the gates and hoisting system,
                                               improvements through amended design and
                                               automation with Central Control System for
                                               better regulation of flows.

PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND CONSTRUCTION PHASE

The main objectives of the Project were to take urgent steps to prevent a failure of the Taunsa
Barrage that provides irrigation for two million acres and drinking water in the rural areas of
Southern Punjab benefiting several million farmers, and to serve as a model for rehabilitation of
other Barrages in Punjab.

In May 2005, the World Bank helped launch the "Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and
Modernization Project" to achieve the aforesaid objectives and to assist Irrigation and Power
Department, Government of the Punjab in overcoming the problems associated with the Taunsa
Barrage.

Engineering Design

The following table lists the design standards adopted for engineering design of various Project
works:




                                                 34
                   Table 3: Basis of Design for Various Components Works
Sr #              Design Features                        Theory / Standard Adopted
1      Frequency Analysis for Estimation of          Gumbel Extreme Value Type-I
       the Peak Annual Discharge
2      Surface Flow Conditions ­ Hydraulic           Crump and Khosla methods
       jump analysis and relevant floor
       thickness
3      Subsurface Flow Analysis
           · Safety against Uplift Pressures         Khosla' s Theory, Lane Theory
           · Seepage Analysis                        Khosla' s Theory, & Lane Theory
           · Floor Thicknesses                       Khosla' s Theory


4      Stilling Basins                               USBR Engineering Monograph No. 25
           · Type                                    Modified Type IV
5      Stone Aprons                                  Scour depths using Lacey's Method and
                                                     the Blench Equation
6      Abutment & Flared out Walls                   USBR Monograph No. 27 & Irrigation
                                                     Engineering by SK Sharma
7      Earth Pressure for Stability Analysis for     Coulomb's Theory
       walls and embankments
8      Structural Design                             American Concrete Institute (ACI), or
                                                     British Standards (BS) where ACI Code
                                                     does not carry certain pertinent
                                                     information.

PROCUREMENT OF CONSULTANCY SERVICES AND WORKS

PROCUREMENT OF SERVICES OF SUPERVISION CONSULTANTS
M/s Punjab Barrages Consultants-PBC (a Joint Venture of National Development Consultants
Regd (NDC), and National Engineering Services of Pakistan (Pvt) Limited (NESPAK) in
association with ATKINS (Global) Water, UK), who had provided services for feasibility study
and detailed design of Taunsa Barrage, were employed to provide construction supervision
services for following two International Competitive Bidding (ICB) Contracts financed by the
World Bank:
       i)       Civil Works - ICB-01 Contract, and
       ii)      Mechanical & Electrical Works - ICB-02 Contract.

PROCUREMENT OF CIVIL WORKS
The procurement for civil works was initiated in July 2004 with a notice for Invitation for
Prequalification in the press. In response to the above notice, eleven individual firms and joint
ventures (JV), from different countries applied for prequalification.

After evaluation, five applicants qualified for bidding for civil works and these were notified
during September 2005. The Letters of Invitation (LOI) to purchase Bidding Documents for
ICB-01 Contract were issued to the pre-qualified firms/JVs on November 13, 2004. Out of 5 pre-


                                                35
qualified bidders, 4 submitted their Bids The Bids were opened on January 14, 2005 at 11:30
hours by a Bid Opening Committee in the presence of Bidder's Representatives.

As a result of bid evaluation process, carried out by the bid evaluation committee, JV of M/S
Descon Engineering Ltd (DEL) and M/S China Gezhouba Water & Power Group Corporation
Ltd (CGGC), was declared as the lowest evaluated Bidder.

Letter of acceptance for ICB Contract-01 (Civil Works) was issued to JV of DEL-CGGC by
Head PMO for Punjab Barrages (Employer) on 12 April 2005. Notice to commence the work
was issued by the Engineer on 10 May 2005 and Contract amounting to Rs 4,527.68 million was
signed on 27 May 2005 with a stipulated completion period of 1,092 days with May 05, 2008 as
the Contracted date of completion.

PROCUREMENT OF M & E WORKS
The procurement process for M & E works was initiated in April 2005 with publication of a
notice for Invitation for Prequalification in the press. In response to the above notice, eight
firms/JVs from different countries applied for prequalification. Out of eight applicants six
firms/JVs were pre-qualified. The results of pre-qualification were issued on November 01, 2005
to all the six pre-qualified firms/JVs. The LOI to purchase Bidding Documents for ICB Contract
No. 02 was issued to all pre-qualified firms/JVs on November 23, 2005. Only 4 firms/JVs
purchased the Bidding Documents.

The Bids were opened on January 09, 2006 at 11:30 hours by a Bid Opening Committee in the
presence of Bidder's Representatives. While the bids were in the final stages of evaluation, M/s
China National Electric Wire & Cable Imp/Exp Corporation, the second lowest bidder through
their letter of February 10, 2006 addressed to the World Bank Islamabad with a copy to the
Employer represented that the evaluation of the bids for Contract ICB­02 is not being done in a
fair and transparent manner, not according to the laid down tender conditions and World Bank
Procurement Guidelines.

The allegations made by China National Electric Wire & Cable Imp/Exp Corporation were
examined by the Bid Evaluation Committee during the evaluation process and the Bid
Evaluation Report was submitted by PMO to the World Bank for their review on February 20,
2006 wherein it was recommended that the contract be awarded to the Consortium of M/s Harbin
Power Engineering Ltd and M/s Baju Hydropower Construction Group who were the lowest
evaluated Bidder with evaluated Bid Price of Rs. 1,471,176,139.

The recommendations of the Bid Evaluation Committee were however assessed by the World
Bank not to be in conformity with the Bidding Documents (ITB clauses 28.2 and 28.3) the Bid
Evaluation committee further explained their earlier recommendations and reiterated for award
of Contract to M/s Harbin Power Engineering but World Bank was unable to agree with these
recommendations as the Bank's evaluation determined the bid of M/s Harbin Power Engineering
Construction Group as non-responsive. In the meantime a representation was received from M/s
Harbin Power Engineering through their letter of April 29, 2006 which was addressed to the
Employer with a copy to the World Bank and others, wherein they explained that they are very
well aware of the requirements and Guidelines of the World Bank and that they have submitted a



                                               36
fully responsive bid. The Bid Evaluation committee revisited its earlier evaluation in light of M/s
Harbin's representation and Bank's review in result of which the committee on June 27, 2006
agreed with the World Bank's observations and recommended to award the Contract to the next
lowest bidder i.e. M/s China National Electric Wire & Cable Imp/Exp Corporation at a Price of
Rs. 1,559,580,298.

Letter of acceptance for ICB Contract-02 was issued to M/S CNEWC, China by Head PMO for
Punjab Barrages on August 11, 2006. Notice to commence the work was issued by the Engineer
on August 29, 2006 and the Contract was signed on October 09, 2006. Total price of the Contract
was Rs 1,557.76 million with a completion period of 850 days with a prescribed date of 26
December, 2008.

PROCUREMENT OF CONSULTANCY SERVICES AND WORKS UNDER JICA
GRANT IN AID

PROCUREMENT OF SERVICES OF SUPERVISION CONSULTANTS
A Consortium of Sanyu Consultants Inc. and Yachiyo Engineering Co., Ltd, who had provided
services for feasibility study and detailed design of Taunsa Barrage gates, were employed to
provide construction supervision services for following four Contract packages:
       i)      CP ­ 1 Contract Package
       ii)     CP ­ 2 Contract Package
       iii)    CP ­ 3 Contract Package
       iv)     CP ­ 4 Contract Package

PROCUREMENT OF M & E WORKS
CP ­ 1 contract was signed on November 19, 2005 between Irrigation and Power Department,
Government of the Punjab, Islamic Republic of Pakistan and Consortium of Kurimoto, Ltd and
Taisei Corporation, duly organized and existing under the laws of Japan, having its Principal
office of business at 12-19, Kitahorie 1 ­chome, Nishi-ku, Osaka, Japan.
        Whereas, the Government of Japan extended its grant to the Government of Islamic
Republic of Pakistan on the basis of `'the Exchange of Notes'' signed on the April 30, 2005
between the Governments concerning the project for the Rehabilitation of Gates of Taunsa
Barrage."

CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROJECT WORKS

Civil Works Contract ICB-01
The Contract (ICB-01) civil works in the river bed were completed one year ahead of schedule.
Taking over Certificate (TOC) was issued 26 May 2008.

Scope of Work
Civil works involved following main components:
   a) Mobilization Works, involving construction of Contractor's and Employer's site
       Facilities such as Contractor's labor camp and staff residences, equipment and plants
       maintenance facilities etc.;
   b) Strengthening of the existing Barrage included:


                                                37
         · Rehabilitation of D/S floor & glacis of Main Weir,
         · Construction of silt excluder for DG Khan Canal,
         · Remodeling of D.G. Khan Canal Head Regulator ,
         · Remodeling of Fish ladders of Existing Barrage, and
         · Diversion of escape channel of D.G. Khan Canal silt ejectors; and
   c) Construction of 4,346 ft long Subsidiary Weir with essential appurtenances such as
      navigation lock, two fish ladders and the D/S guide banks.

MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL (M & E) WORKS

M & E Works Contract ICB-02
ICB-02 Contract comprising M & E works was awarded to M/S China National Electric Wire &
Cable Import/Export Corporation (CNEWC); the acceptance letter was issued on August 12,
2006; `Notice to Commence' was issued on 29 August 2006 and Contract was signed on 09
October 2006. The original Contract Price was Rs 1,557.76 million (excluding provisional
sums). The stipulated Contract period was 28 months with completion date of 26 December
2008. Taking Over Certificate (TOC) was issued on 09 February 2009.

Scope of Works
M & E works under ICB-02 contract for Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and
Modernization Project financed by the World Bank comprised:
   a) Mobilization Works
   b) Replacement of 4 right under-sluice gates No. 62-65.
   c) Rehabilitation of 31 gates of the main weir, (bay No. 31-61) and Gate No. 8 in the
      navigation bay.
   d) Replacement of 7 gates each of DG Khan and T.P. Link Canal Head Regulators
   e) Rehabilitation of 5 gates of Muzaffargarh Canal.
   f) Automation of gates operation
   g) Data acquisition and communication system.
   h) Procurement of necessary equipment for operation and maintenance, including workshop,
      data observation, and discharge monitoring equipment.

ICB-02 Contractor made use of the coffer dam of the ICB-01 Contractor only for gates # 32 to
37. He had his own coffer dam for gates 38 to 65. JICA contractor, however, made use of the
coffer dam of ICB-01 Contractor.

                   WORKS EXECUTED UNDER JICA GRANT IN-AID

The works under the Japanese Grant Aid project were divided in to four (4) contract packages as
below;

Package      Description of Package                             Cost Rs. Date of         Completio
                                                                Million Award            n
Contract     - Bulkhead gate stockyard construction.            2,096.36 Nov 19,         May, 2008
Package- 1   - Replacement of seven (7) Under-sluice Gates at            2005
CP - 1       Left bank.
             - Rehabilitation of twenty two (22) Weir gates.


                                                38
             - Replacement and electrification of twenty nine
             (29) gate hoists.
             - Electric work.
             - Replacement of deck on superstructure for sixty
             five (65) gates.
             - Bulkhead gate assembly
             - Installation of gate guide for bulkhead gate
             - Gate facility manufacturing work.
Contract     - Procurement of five (5) sets of Bulkhead          359.32    Nov 17,    Apr, 2007
Package- 2       gates including gate guides and accessories               2005
CP - 2       - Undertaking of on the job training for the
                 installation of bulkhead gates.
Contract     - Procurement of two (2) Tugboats and three          60.72    Dec, 02,   Sep, 2006
Package- 3       (3) working boats and their spare parts.                  2005
CP - 3       - Undertaking of on the job training for
                 steering of ships.
Contract     - Procurement of one (1) set of 50 Ton Track         33.43    Dec, 02,   Sep, 2006
Package- 4       Crane with spare parts.                                   2005
CP - 4       - Undertaking of on the job training for
                 operation of Track Crane.
             Detailed Design Consultancy                          71.86    Mar 10,
                                                                           2005
             Supervision Consultancy                             157.07    Sep 30,    Mar, 2009
                                                                           2005
             Total                                               2778.84


QUALITY ASSURANCE AND QUALITY CONTROL

GENERAL
Quality assurance and quality control are the most important grass root processes that are
essential for good health and timely completion of large construction project. Taunsa Barrage
Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project was a mega project and proper
implementation of QA and QC procedures was the essence of the whole construction operation
for the project.

ENGINEERS QUALITY ASSURANCE PLAN
A quality assurance and control plan was prepared by the Engineer and submitted to the
Employer vide # TBRM/01/82.2/61 dated June 20, 2005. It included the details of quality
assurance procedures and instructions.

CONTRACTOR'S QUALITY ASSURANCE PLAN
The Contractor also prepared and submitted his plan as per Contract Provision (SP-10) which
being in order was reviewed and agreed.




                                               39
Source Approvals
The first step in the quality assurance/control (QA/QC) activities exercised on the project is the
source approval of the materials intended to be used on the project by the Contractor. Source
approvals were granted for required materials including steel reinforcement, aggregates, stone,
cement, PVC water stops, and admixtures etc. After the source approval, regular tests were
conducted in the laboratory established at the site for aggregates, concrete, bricks. For materials
such as cement, steel reinforcement, samples were taken periodically from the consignments
delivered at site in accordance with provision of the technical specifications of the project. These
materials were got tested from Central Materials Testing Laboratory (CMTL) WAPDA,
University of Engineering & Technology, Lahore, and PITAC, Lahore.

CONCRETE MIX DESIGN
The method given in ACI 211.1-91 was adopted to design the mix for Concrete class A, B, C, D
& E. 28 days strength requirement for the above five categories of Concrete was:
Class A 4000 Psi                    Class B 3000 Psi
Class C 2500 Psi                    Class D 2000 Psi
Class E 1500 Psi

SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS SUMMARY
Water resources development projects invariably result in many far-reaching ecological changes.
Some of them benefit human population, while others threaten the long-term productivity of the
projects themselves as well as the natural resource base. The undesirable changes are not solely
restricted to increasing pollution or loss of habitat for native plants and animals; they cover the
entire range of environmental components, such as soil, water, air, energy, and the
socioeconomic system.

The Taunsa barrage emergency rehabilitation and modernization (TBERM) project was
necessitated due to retrogression of levels on the downstream of barrage and consequential
issues; i.e., repeated damages to stilling basin appurtenances including rupture of skin concrete
and leaking joints of mass concrete; sedimentation problems in DG Khan canal; choking of about
80% of pressure pipes and mal-functioning of the remaining 20%; and above all, operational
problems of gates and hoists.

To comply with Pakistan as well as international financer's social and environmental safeguards
policies, environmental impact assessment was carried out to predict social and environmental
impacts of the project during construction as well as operation phases. The environmental
management and monitoring plan (EMMP) as well as a resettlement action plan (RAP) were also
developed to mitigate the anticipated adverse social and environmental impacts.

The environmental and social impacts anticipated and identified during monitoring were:
   · Biological Impacts: Impacts on Taunsa wildlife sanctuary; threats to Indus dolphin
       upstream or downstream; Impacts on algae and micro-invertebrates; impacts on fish
       fauna;
   · Physical Impacts: change in river morphology; waterlogging; impacts on water quality;
       changes in ambient air quality; increased noise levels; and




                                                40
   ·   Social Impacts: Community displacement and resettlement; pending claims/grievances
       of project affected persons (PAPs); disturbance in fishing; disturbance in business;
       economic stability to canal command area; social mixing; downstream fish catch.

All these issues were well addressed during construction phase. The most significant positive
impact of TBERM project is the sustainability of the agriculture ecosystem in the canal
command areas which otherwise could result in desertification of the entire land, in case of
failure of the barrage.

PHYSICAL QUANTITIES AND FINANCIAL TABLES
- All the project works were completed within schedule time and cost.
- The total project cost has remained within the approved PC-1 outlay.
- The table showing the breakup appears as Table-I.
- The project has been constructed/completed under two International Contracts. The physical
  quantities completed for ICB-01 are contained in Table-II.
- The expenditure on ICB-01 works comes to Rs. 4,974,084,181/- as detailed in Table-III.
- All the works have been completed by ICB-02 Contractor in December 2008.
- The total expenditure on ICB-02 is Rs. 1,877,403,517/- as detailed in Table-IV.
- Since the expenditure is within the approved cost, the economic studies will not yield any
  significant change in the EIRR calculated earlier.

LESSONS LEARNED

Based on detailed discussions with the government project team and consultants on the lessons
learnt from the Project, the following inferences can be drawn for preparation and
implementation of similar projects:

Project Design and Preparation:
   · Project Design should include a component of social and environmental management
       along with mitigation/support measures.
   · Adequate orientation / training for PMO and consultants staff on the World Bank
       safeguards policies is very important.
   · A Communication Strategy and Program about canal closure should be part of the project
       preparation to ensure a smooth implementation of the Project.
   · A PMO fully staffed with competent specialists in all aspects/needs should be on board
       by project approval and a mechanism should be in place to avoid frequent staff turnover.
   · Key Borrower actions such as approval of PC-I, EIA, and convening of POE for review
       of feasibility study and engineering design should be completed before Bank's approval.
   · The procurement process for key works, goods and consultants services required during
       the first year of the project should be at an advanced stage by project negotiations, so that
       disbursements commence immediately after effectiveness of loan agreement. Likewise,
       issues such as processing and decision making about project procurements should be
       streamlined to avoid unnecessary delays.
   · Constructability of engineering design should be reviewed thoroughly in design phase for
       execution of the contract in accordance with schedule.



                                                41
   ·   An orientation/training for familiarizing the PMO staff and supervision consultants about
       World Bank procurement guidelines and safeguard policy at project launch would help
       improve project implementation.

Project Implementation
   · A high-level Project Steering Committee (PSC) and effective coordination mechanism in
       the government prove to be a main success factor in resolving key issues in a timely
       manner.
   · A Project Implementation Plan (PIP) prepared during project preparation would be a very
       valuable guide for all project staff to avoid ad hoc planning;
   · A well-thought out planning process is important for proactive environmental and social
       management;
   · Procurement for consultancy services and works should be done in time to avoid missing
       critical working periods such as annual canal closure/low flow period.
   · Supervision Consultants should be properly staffed with contract management, and
       Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) staff at site.
   · Contractor's relations with local community are important for smooth implementation.
   · International Panel of Experts (POE) is an effective way of independent review and
       quality enhancement.
   · Level of commitment and competency of Implementing Agency management and PMO
       core staff are critical to project success.
   · There should be certain mechanism built-in the contract document to ensure that the
       construction contractor fully complies with EMMP of the Project.
   · Implementation of resettlement action plan (RAP) and other project activities involving
       interaction with local communities should be implemented through the process of social
       mobilization. Involvements of rural support networks such NRSP, PRSP can provide
       valuable assistance. Implementing Agency (IA) role in such a case shall of a monitoring
       the progress.

Financial Management
   · It is essential that anomalies arising due to application of the Government procedures
      versus financing agency's procurement guidelines needs to be clearly defined.
   · It is necessary that Provincial Government including the Finance and the Audit
      Department understand the procedure and discipline intended for implementation of the
      project, subsequent audit observations discourage the pace of the project.
   · A sound financial management, accounting and reporting system managed by qualified
      staff is a key element for a smooth implementation of the project. Considerations should
      be given to out-sourcing certain aspects of financial management to professional firms,
      instead of setting up in-house system.

TRANSITION ARRANGEMENT TO ACTUAL OPERATION AND FUNCTIONING OF
TAUNSA BARRAGE

Before the Project Taunsa Barrage was being operated and maintained by Taunsa Barrage
Division. To ensure that the construction operations proceed smoothly, Taunsa Barrage Division
as a whole was transferred to PMO for Punjab Barrages. The Division has been operating the


                                              42
Barrage during the construction period and is handling the functional issues after completion
also. No additional operation or maintenance arrangements are needed. The Taunsa Barrage
Division will continue to responsible for the operation and maintenance for future also. The work
as such is not to be transferred to any other organization nor is such an organization needed to be
created.

If the PMO for Barrages is transformed into BMO (Barrage Management Organization) as
envisaged in the project preparation of PBIP II, the Division will keep functioning with the BMO
or else transferred to the original Irrigation Zone of D. G Khan. This will be only an
administrative change and will not require any new arrangement, both institutional and financial.
The maintenance funds will be continued to be released through Chief Engineer D. G Khan.


PERFORMANCE EVALUATION BY PMO

Bank performance

       Rating: Satisfactory

Right from start of the project till ending, the Bank performance remains satisfactory. All the
required NOL from Bank got well in time, withdrawal applications were processed in time by the
Bank, close co-ordination throughout the project implementation was the key for timely
completion of the project. The Bank performance during the project is therefore assessed as
Satisfactory.

Borrower's performance

       Rating: Satisfactory

PMO as implementation agency performed well. During the execution of the project, PMO
officers visited the site after every 15 days in order to have progress review meetings with both
the Contractors of World Bank funded and with Contractors of JICA Grant in-aid funded. They
also conducted co-ordination meetings of all the Contractors working at Taunsa Barrage along
with the Consultants of World bank funded and JICA Grant in-aid. The performance of
implementing agency during the project is therefore assessed as Satisfactory.

JICA's performance

       Rating: Satisfactory

During the execution of the project, the JICA also performed well. All the payments were made
timely and their co-ordination with the implementing agency, consultants and contractors were
excellent. The performance of JICA during the project is therefore assessed as Satisfactory.




                                                43
                             TABLE-I - PROJECT COST SUMMARY -COMPONENT WISE

                                       Description                            Actual Cost
Civil Works (ICB-01 Contract)                                                                4,539.91
Mechanical and Electrical (M&E) Works
B-1
                                                                                             1,687.05
ICB-02 Contract (World Bank Funding)

                                                                                              117.77
Variation due to Exchange Rate
B-2
                                                                                             2,778.84
(i) JICA Grant-in-Aid
(ii) Recipient Country's Share                                                                109.13
Sub - Total (i+ii)               = 2,926.89                                                  2,887.97
Sub - Total B, (B1+B2)                                                                       4,692.79
Project Management Support and Technical Assistance                                           383.23
Total Base Costs (A+B+C)                                                                     9,615.92
Physical Contingencies @3% on Civil and E & M Works                                                 -
Escalation @6% on Local and 2.5% on Foreign Currency Base Cost                                653.02
Taxes and Duties etc @ 12.5% of Foreign Exchange Component                                          -
Interest During Construction @ 9.23% on Local and 5% on Foreign                               207.00
Front end fee for World Bank Loan
                                                                                               36.59
(As per Loan agreement with Exchange rate of 1Yen = 0.5583 Rs)
                                 TOTAL PROJECT COST                                         10,512.54




                                                          44
                                         TABLE-II - ICB-01 CONTRACT

                                      Overall Physical Progress Summary

                                                                             BOQ
Sr No                             Item                            Units                 Total Work done
                                                                           Provision

 1      Earthwork Excavation                                       Cft     20,114,222     20,063,577

 2      Embankment                                                 Cft     8,452,500       9,293,468

 3      Dismantling of Existing Stone Pitching                     Cft      71,950          292,141

 4      Steel Sheet Piles                                           Sft     384,692         421,128

 5      Concrete Class A                                           Cft     5,967,100       7,156,984

 6      Concrete Class B                                           Cft     2,288,800       2,438,115

 7      Concrete Class D                                           Cft      254,397         456,144

 8      Concrete Class E                                           Cft      786,100         547,103

 9      Steel Reinforcement                                        Ton       5,604           6,666

 10     Dismantling of Concrete                                    Cft     1,259,260        820,482

 11     Drilling and Grouting                                     Inches    164,124         173,121

 12     Vibrating Wire Piezometers                                 No.        120            119

 13     Stand Pipe Piezometers                                     No.        14              11

 14     Stone Apron                                                Cft     4,175,700       5,136,238

 15     Filter Material                                            Cft      539,900         589,661

 16     PVC Water Stop Type A                                      L Ft.     9,348          85,539

 17     PVC Water Stop Type B                                      L Ft.    140,090          7,619

 18     Rawl Bolts                                                 No.      14,295           8,762

 19     Gate Equipment for Navigation Lock Bay                     Set         1              1

 20     Stop logs for Gate of Navigation Lock Bay                  Set         1              1

 21     Slide Gate Equipment for Fish Ladders                      Set         1              1




                                                     45
                                    TABLE-III - CONTRACT NO. CIVIL WORKS

                                                      SUMMARY

Sr.                                                                                        Total Work Executed
                                           Description
No.                                                                                           (Pak Rupees)
A                                               B                                                  C
1     General Items                                                                                 938,653,381
2     Sub Weir                                                                                     2,742,068,398
3     Guide Bank                                                                                    119,063,209
4     Repair Works of Existing Barrage                                                              397,066,002
5     Silt Excluder in U/S right Pocket                                                                37,589,900
6     Excavation of diversion channel                                                                   2,183,652
7     Remodeling of DG Khan Canal Head Regulator                                                        5,539,588
8     Remodeling of Fish Ladder Existing Barrage                                                       17,259,698
9     Gate Equipment for Sub Weir                                                                      24,445,019
                               Sub Total for BOQ Bill 1 to 9                                       4,283,868,848
1     Variation Orders                                                                              421,616,647
2     Provisional Sum/Prime Cost Items                                                                  2,219,626
3     Day work Orders                                                                                    148,816
4     Discount                                                                                     (346,655,823)
5                                                                              Sub-Total           4,361,198,114
6     Amicable settlement Amount                                                                    125,000,000
7     Deduction of Rent on account of Camp facilities used by the Contractor                         (4,928,000)
8     Miscellaneous items                                                                              58,636,400
9                                                                              Sub-Total           4,539,906,514
10    Price Adjustment under Clause 70.3 (Provisional Sum)                                          481,163,859
11    Total Amount (Rs.)                                                                           5,021,070,374
12    Other sums due under the Contract (Clause 60.1) DRB Expenses                                      5,987,015
13    Total Amount Payable                                                                         5,027,057,389




                                                             46
                  TABLE-IV - CONTRACT NO. MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL WORKS

                                                        SUMMARY


Sr. No. /                                                                                       Total Workdone (PKR)
BOQ Bill                                       Description
  No.
                                                                                                     BOQ Items
    A                                               B                                                    C
    1       General Items (Less Prov. Sum)                                                                159,441,318
                                                                                                          132,471,160
    2       Rehabilitation Works of Under-slucies Gates (Less Prov. Sum)

    3       Rehabilitation Works of Weir Gates (Less Prov. Sum)                                           633,343,627

    4       Rehabilitation Works of Canals Head Regulator Gates (Less Prov. Sum)                             48,592,756

            Modernization of Hoisting Mechanism and Installation of Discharge Monitoring
    5                                                                                                     121,647,083
            and Communication System

    6       Electro-Mechanical Works of Lock Gates                                                           18,874,214

    7       Electro-Mechanical Works of 11 Left & 4 Right Under-sluice Gates)                                57,921,893

    8       Rehabilitation Works of Canals Head Regulator Gates                                           164,247,732

            Installation of water Discharge Data Acquisition System /Modernization of
    9                                                                                                        14,682,138
            existing Gates Hoist Mechanism.

   10       Spare parts Tests & Mechanism                                                                    15,318,663
   11       Discharge Monitoring and Communication Network                                                   48,118,096

   12       Work Shop Equipment                                                                              18,436,565

            Equipment/Instrument Required for Survey, GIS Related Hardware, Software
   13                                                                                                        29,587,573
            and date Observation.

   14       Central Operation Control Room                                                                   10,928,006
                               Total Amount (Bill No. 1 to 14)                                           1,473,610,823
   15       Discount                                                                                      (14,810,560)

   16       Variation Orders                                                                               228,576,865
   17                                                                            Sub-Total               1,687,377,128
   18       Credit to Employer on account of Scrap material                                                  (328,320)

   19                                                                            Sub-Total               1,687,048,808
   20       Adjustment due to currency conversion rates                                                    117,770,089
   21                                                                                   Total            1,804,818,897
   22       Price Adjustment under Clause 70                                                              171,861,010

   23                                                                         Grand Total                1,976,679,907
Note:   1 US $ = Rs 59.90




                                                              47
48
       Annex 6. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None




                                      49
                         Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

                              Document                                         Date
Bank Mission Aide Memoires
Preparation Mission                                                   June 2004
Appraisal Mission                                                     September 2004
Project Launch Workshop and 1st Supervision Mission                   May 2005
2nd Supervision Mission                                               November 2005
3rd Supervision Mission                                               March 2006
4th Supervision Mission                                               September 2006
5th Supervision Mission                                               Oct/Nov 2006
6th Supervision Mission (MTR)                                         April 2007
7th Supervision Mission                                               September 2007
8th Supervision Mission                                               Mar/Apr 2008
9th Supervision Mission                                               November 2008
10th Supervision Mission (ICR)                                        January 2010
Resettlement Missions (2)                                             Aug-Nov 2005
Other Documents                                                       Date
Feasibility Study Report                                              2004
Design Report                                                         2004
Project PC-1 (Revised)                                                May 2006
Revised PC-1 for Integrated Rural Development Project for Poverty
Alleviation in Southern Punjab y PRSP                                 July 2007
Technical Annex                                                       February 18, 2005
Loan Agreement                                                        March 24, 2005
Project Agreement                                                     March 24, 2005
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment                            2004
Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan (EMMP)                   2004
Change Management Statement (CMS) - 1                                 2006
Change Management Statement (CMS) - 2                                 2007
Drilling & Grouting Report                                            2006
Quality Assurance & Quality Control Report                            2006
Monthly Progress Report                                               Various
Mid Term Review (MTR) Report                                          2007
Operation & Maintenance Manual                                        2008
Quality Assessment Report                                             2008
Drilling & Grouting Report ( Final)                                   2007
Standard Operation Procedure for Regulation of Silt Excluder          2007
Traffic Management Plan                                               2006-07
Quarterly Progress Reports                                            Various
Emergency Preparedness plan (EPP)                                     2007
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)                                         2005
Environmental Baseline Survey and monitoring for Taunsa Barrage
Project (Detailed Analytical baseline survey completion report WWF)   2006


                                             50
Environmental Baseline Survey and Monitoring of Taunsa Barrage
Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project (WWF)
Technical Progress Report                                              2006
Environmental Baseline Survey and monitoring for Taunsa Barrage
Project (Biological aspects)                                           2006
Environmental Baseline Survey and monitoring for Taunsa Barrage
Project (Socio Economic Aspects)                                       2006
RAP Implementation completion Report Final                             2006
Monitoring and evaluation report for dissemination of information on
annual canal closure                                                   February 2007
Terminal progress report by communication specialist (Field Survey
Report)                                                                April 2007
Impact assessment of remedial measures for extended canal closure      July 2007
Panel of Experts (POE) Report on Environmental and Social Issues       August 2007
Socio economic monitoring of Taunsa Barrage wild life sanctuary
(WWF) By: Sadia Ayesha                                                 March 2008
Detailed Air & Water quality monitoring report (WWF) By: Rizwan
Mehmood                                                                March 2008
Environmental Audit Report                                             October 2008
RAP Implementation Evaluation Report                                   December 2009
Project Completion Report by PBC                                       January 2010
Islam Barrage: Final Design Report                                     June 2009
Islam Barrage: Environment Impact Assessment Report                    September 2009
Islam Barrage: Project Report                                          September 2009
Islam Barrage: PC-1 Proforma (Final)                                   September 2009
Jinnah Barrage: Inception Report                                       January 2008
Jinnah Barrage: Environment and Social Assessment Report               July 2009
Jinnah Barrage: Project PC-1                                           August 2009
Jinnah Barrage: Design Report                                          September 2009




                                              51
                             Annex 8. Environment Management

Background


Prior to appraisal and in compliance of the Bank's policies and procedures and the provisions of
the Pakistan Environmental Protection Act 1997, an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of
the Project was carried out by consultants who had earlier prepared the feasibility study report
for the Project. The EIA included an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and a Social
Framework Agreement (SFA). A public hearing to discuss the draft EIA was held in Dera Ghazi
Khan on August 23, 2004, following which the Punjab Environment Department (PED) cleared
the EIA on September 6, 2004. The clearance was, however, subject to a number of conditions,
including requirements that (i) the results of monthly environmental monitoring be submitted to
PED, (ii) unskilled labor and, to the extent possible, the skilled labor, should be hired locally,
and (iii) trees should be planted. The EIA was made publically available at the office of the
District Officer (Environmental) in Dera Ghazi Khan, and in the Punjab Public Library, Lahore.
The SFA was signed with the community members residing in the vicinity of the Project site on
March 12, 2005. The Bank processed the Project as an environmental category B emergency
intervention.


The appraisal mission of September 2004 suggested certain amendments to be made in the EIA
of which the PED was to be duly notified. These were:


   ·   A clearer statement that winter flows in canals, and winter barrage pool levels, will
       remain within the maximum and minimum limits of the last five years;
   ·   An assessment of whether the currently identified borrow sites will be sufficient to
       provide the estimated requirement of 45.5 million cubic feet of fill material. If this is not
       the case, the final EIA will clearly identify any additional sites required to meet this total.
   ·   For all borrowed sites and work bases, the EIA will establish current usage, and provide
       for compensation if this is required to maintain livelihoods;
   ·   A requirement that the final EIA be provided to the National Council for the
       Conservation of Wildlife (NCCW), with a recommendation that since no ecological
       change is anticipated as a result of the Project, no notification need be sent to the Ramsar
       Secretariat;
   ·   A statement that the advice of the Panel of Experts was to not proceed with the proposed
       J-spurs, together with a recommendation that any such work within the boundaries of the
       wildlife sanctuary would require a more detailed ecological baseline and impact
       assessment;
   ·   A clarification that the proposed annual environmental audits be conducted by an
       independent third party.


                                                 52
   ·   Clause regarding environmental and social obligations will be incorporated into the
       bidding documents for work contracts and also in agreements with consultants. An
       additional requirement would be that the civil works contractor appoint an officer with
       full-time responsibility for Environment, Health and Safety (EHS);
   ·   More effective designs for migration systems for aquatic vertebrates will be assessed and
       if feasible adopted;
   ·   A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) will be signed between IPD and WWF to
       collect baseline data regarding the Taunsa Wildlife Sanctuary situated upstream of
       Taunsa Barrage over an area of 6,567 hectares, and subsequently monitor changes during
       Project implementation. This sanctuary is listed as a site under The Convention on
       Wetlands of International Importance i.e. the Ramsar Convention; and
   ·   Include an item in the supervision consultant's contract (a provisional sum) to develop
       designs for remodeling of the existing fish ladder as an example for other barrages, and
       an undertaking from IPD to remodel the Taunsa fish ladder in line with new designs.
The EIA, however, did not anticipate that (i) the communities living downstream (illegally on
government lands) of the Taunsa Barrage on both banks of the Indus River might have to be
shifted to provide space for contractors facilities necessitating their resettlement, and (ii) there
could be extended canal closures which would have resulted in reduction of rabi season water
supplies inducing lower crop production and shortage of potable water in the canal command
areas. Accordingly, a Resettlement Action Plan was not prepared as part of the EIA.


Salient Features of the EMMP


The Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan (EMMP), which was developed from the
EIA EMP, is a tool to implement the mitigation measures and monitor their progress and
impacts. The EMMP laid down mitigation measures and actions to be taken, parameters of
monitoring, functionaries responsible for monitoring and the frequency of monitoring in the
following areas of concern:

   ·   Land resources
              Sites for extraction of fill material
              Subsidiary weir
              Labor camp
              Access paths/roads
              Relocation of camps and approaches
              Contamination from diesel and other spills
   ·   Water resources
              Diesel and other fluids spilling over to river
              Water source for construction and other uses
              Subsidiary weir and other associated structures
   ·   Air quality and noise pollution
              Dust, smoke and other potential pollutants
              Smoke from burning of waste material or firewood


                                                  53
               Noise from use of outdated machinery
    ·   Biological resources
               Damage to biological resources in general
               Damage to Indus dolphin
               Disturbance to upstream wildlife sanctuary (a Ramsar site)
    ·   Socio-economic and cultural issues
               Education, health, electricity, drinking water, public gathering and religious
               congregation
               Tribal tension, local rivalries on running canals and use of aquatic life
               Adverse effects on archeological sites and graveyards
               Public safety at construction site
               Employment opportunities
               HIV/AIDS
    ·   Restoration

The EMMP also included an impacts monitoring plan, an emergency response and contingency
plan, a waste disposal plan, instructions on communication and documentation, change
management, training, and post­completion restoration and rehabilitation.

Change Management Statements

During the implementation of the Project, two Change Management Statements amended the
EMMP. The first statement was necessitated due to new land requirements and activities that
were not anticipated earlier and the recognition that the boundaries of the wildlife sanctuary
extended southward to the gate line of the barrage and not up to the north of the barrage guide
banks as earlier understood. Major changes were, therefore, required to be made in the EMMP.
The second statement was triggered by the fact that for carrying out Project activities, the three
canals emanating from the barrage had to be closed, in the rabi crop season, for longer periods
than the normal.

In Change Management Statement 1, the following changes necessitated determining of new
possible impacts and suggesting suitable mitigation measures: (i) shifting of a part of the
contractor's labor camp to a new site which will also house certain other facilities; (ii) work
places on the right and left side downstream will be expanded to accommodate certain other
facilities; (iii) construction of silt excluder and cofferdams on upstream side; (iv) installation of
piezometers; (v) fabrication and installation of gates; (vi) grouting activities; (vii) workplace for
ICB-02 contractor; (viii) construction of jetty; (ix) extended closure of D.G. Khan Canal; (x) lead
channel to feed D.G. Khan Canal; (xi) change of earth borrow areas; and (xii) upgrading of fish
ladders.
In Change Management Statement 2, the following factors became the cause for amending the
EMMP and for determining possible impacts and suggesting mitigation measures: (i) extended
canal closure of all the three canals off taking from the Taunsa Barrage; (ii) construction of
cofferdams on left side upstream; (iii) provision of pre-cast concrete blocks all along the left
bank worksite, (iv) provision of barbed wire fencing; (v) use of Chief Resident Engineer's office




                                                  54
building as residence of ICB-02 contractor; and (vi) social issues related to the left side work site
and dislocation of people.


Implementation of EMMP

Implementation was carried out by the staff of PMO (Deputy Directors of Environment and
Sociology), supervision consultants and contractors whose duties were defined. They would
ensure that actions were duly and timely taken and submitted daily, monthly and annual reports
to their superiors for information. A weekly summary of non-compliances was also submitted to
superiors so that they could take remedial actions. The World Bank supervision missions visited
work sites, reviewed and discussed reports and agreed on further actions.

The mitigation measures largely succeeded in reducing the likely adverse impacts due to Project
activities although the needed actions were sometimes delayed and not completely followed
through. Some of the indicators of success were: (i) sufficient water levels were maintained
upstream and downstream to allow free movement of the Indus dolphin to forage and to carry out
reproduction; (ii) there was no adverse effect of the Project on fish fauna because river discharge
and pond levels were suitably maintained; (iii) the various river water quality parameters were
found to be within safe limits during the Project period; (iv) air quality results were normal
except that particulate matter in the air remained high; (v) noise levels were generally within safe
limits; (vi) the Project has not caused any change in river bed configuration, its active flood plain
or the morphology of its channels so as to produce any adverse effect on downstream fishery;
(vii) the buffer zone between the river and the worksite on the right bank was enforced; (viii) a
traffic management plan was prepared and implemented; (ix) compensatory trees were planted;
and (x) safety measures adopted were adequate.


Non-compliance was reported relating to solid waste management, burning of fuel wood, and
review of fish ladders designs and their effectiveness. There was no adequate emergency
response system in place at the work site which once resulted in the breach of a coffer dam
causing extensive damage. For a short period, the supervision consultants did not have any
environmental expert and the expert when available was not site-based with the result that
response to emerging issues was delayed.


Some important incidents/accomplishments are mentioned below:

Indus Dolphin Incident: Death of two Indus dolphins in the vicinity of the Taunsa barrage was
reported in January 2006. Investigation was conducted separately by PMO staff, supervision
consultants, WWF and Wildlife Department officials. The final report by WWF concluded that
only one dolphin was involved and this was released into the river after becoming entangled in a
fishing net, although its subsequent survival was uncertain. Because of the incident, surveillance
was enhanced by appointing a person from the community, who was provided with a boat, to
patrol the area regularly. Also, one staff each of the contractor and supervision consultants, were
trained in dolphin handling by the Sindh Wildlife Department. The contractor also set up and



                                                 55
provided basic training to a Dolphin Rescue Team, and employed a game watcher to ensure the
protection of the Indus Dolphin and other species

Baseline Survey of the Taunsa Barrage Wildlife Sanctuary: WWF-Pakistan was contracted to
provide an environmental baseline survey of the Taunsa Barrage Wildlife Sanctuary. The final
version of this report was submitted to the PMO in August, 2006. The report noted a range of
threats to the wildlife sanctuary, including a variety of forms of resource extraction, as well as
hunting and fishing. In particular, the report noted that Hog Deer, endangered nationally, was at
risk of becoming extinct within the sanctuary, as the population was not viable and was not
connected to other populations. The report also recorded some 25 Indus Dolphins within 2.5 km
of the Barrage, and noted that these appeared to have been displaced by the disturbance arising
from project activities. The report concluded with recommendations for the Government of
Punjab to enhance the preservation of this valuable sanctuary and for IPD to minimize the
disturbance to the sanctuary due to construction activities under the Project. Not all
recommendations of the report were implemented.

Health and Safety at Construction Sites: It was noted that both contractor and supervision
consultants were ensuring implementation of the requirements of the EMMP and monitoring and
reporting performance including any safety incidents. Personal protective equipment comprising
hard hat, protective overall and site safety boots (except protective gloves) remained in use.
Training related to health issues, specifically HIV/Aids and Hepatitis awareness and prevention
was provided to all site personnel.

Panel of Experts on Environmental and Social Aspects: An international panel of experts,
comprising of two international experts and a local expert, reviewed Project activities in August
2007. The purpose was to assess the adequacy of the program for attending to the important
environmental and social issues and make recommendations on how to enhance the management
of environmental and social aspects and plan future investment Projects. The panel commended
the work done so far and made the following recommendations: strengthen PMO by establishing
a directorate of environment, headed by a director (new position) and manned by two sociologist
(one new position) and one environmentalist; improve the progress reporting system; foster
better communication with Project affected people, and carry out an environmental audit of the
Project. These recommendations were duly implemented.

Environmental Audit: The audit report was prepared by a locally hired consultant in October
2008. The report provides an account of environmental mitigation and management activities
during Project implementation. The main deficiencies pointed out were: the EIA did not
visualize that the squatter communities living on both banks of the river would need to shift;
extended canal closures were not anticipated; and the suitability and performance of existing fish
ladders was not assessed. Main recommendations made were: a program for monitoring the
performance of fish ladders be prepared and implemented; ground water table monitoring be
carried out on a regular basis; and the pending claims of displaced persons be settled. The auditor
certified that overall the environmental and social concerns were well addressed and, on the basis
of assessment made, the Project is environmentally and socially satisfactory. In compliance of
this report, claims of displaced persons were settled but no action could be taken on the other
recommendations.



                                                56
Lessons Learned

   ·   Project design should include a component of environment and social management along
       with mitigation and support measures;
   ·   For better monitoring of actions to be taken under the EMMP, an environmentalist should
       be stationed at the project site throughout the project period;
   ·   Project and consultant staff should be made familiar with World Bank safeguard policies
       and trained in their implementation.




                                             57
                Annex 9. Implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan

Background

The Taunsa Barrage Emergency Rehabilitation and Modernization Project did not expect to
require any land acquisition or involuntary resettlement during its preparation. Impact
screenings and surveys, carried out as part of the project feasibility study and detailed designs,
concluded that the project would not cause any land acquisition and resettlement impacts. This
finding was confirmed through the Environmental Impact Assessment.

However, at the mobilization stage for construction, the contractor requested a change of
working areas for their construction operations. This request would require the relocation of two
villages living on the embankment lands owned by IPD near the barrage on both sides of the
river. IPD agreed to this request without consulting the World Bank, rushed through the
relocation planning process and moved the two villages in June 2005 to two new sites within half
a kilometer distance. This process did not follow World Bank Operation Policy (OP 4.12) on
Involuntary Resettlement.

The World Bank learned of this through a local NGO in July 2005. The World Bank carried out
immediate investigative missions and reviewed the consultation, planning and relocation process.
The World Bank team concluded that the process was not in compliance with World Bank OP
4.12 and required the carrying out of necessary planning steps to develop a resettlement action
plan (RAP) in line with relevant domestic and World Bank policies. A RAP was developed with
assistance of local and World Bank experts and in consultation with the affected communities.
The RAP was finalized and approved by the IPD and the World Bank in November 2005.

RAP Summary

The objective of the RAP was to restore the livelihoods of the affected population regardless of
their legal status. Key features of the RAP included:

   ·   Social economic survey of project affected persons (PAPs). There were 160 households
       displaced (137 on the left bank and 23 on the right bank). These households were located
       on IPD embankment lands without titles. Their main occupations included working as
       fishermen on contractors' boats, odd job, broom and basket making. Identity cards were
       issued to all households.
   ·   Project impacts and entitlement. Major project impacts included loss of use of IPD land
       for residential purpose, residential structures and associated structures. A list of PAPs
       and an impact inventory was developed in consultation with community members and an
       entitlement policy was prepared. The entitlement package included compensation for loss
       of residential structures, new residential sites, income loss during shifting, vulnerability
       allowance, restoration and development of community facilities.




                                                58
   ·   Grievance redress. This system included a Grievance Redress Cell (GRC), a grievance
       registration book, an on-site public information office and a two-tier review mechanism
       to review and determined on grievances filed.
   ·   Institutional framework. A Resettlement Task Force headed by Head PMO was
       constituted to oversee the implementation of the RAP. Its members included
       representatives from the Assessment and Compensation Disbursement Cell (ACDC),
       Community Development Cell (CDC) and GRC.
   ·   RAP monitoring. Internal monitoring of activities was to be done by PMO through the
       Resettlement Task Force (RTF) while external monitoring was to be carried out by
       resettlement consultants hired by the PMO. The consultants were also to carry out a final
       evaluation of the resettlement work carried out.

Initial RAP Cost. It was estimated at Rs.12.42 million

RAP Implementation

Payment of compensation and allowances: In line with the entitlement policy in the RAP, all
household compensation funds and allowances were delivered to the entitled households.
Additional allowances were provided as a result grievances resolution.

Resettlement site development: The new sites on each side of the bank are located on IPD lands
about 0.5 km away from the old settlements. These were laid out on an area of about 2.8
hectares. The sites are next to the barrage and its management facilities, with good potentials for
employment and business development. Village layout plans of both sites were prepared and
shared with, and publically disclosed among, the resettled and host communities. On these layout
plans, the residential areas, community infrastructure and facilities were mapped.

Housing, community infrastructure and livelihood support: Individual house plots were
allocated among the entitled households. All households were able to build their own houses
with the compensation money received and moved into their new houses. In all, 137 households
were resettled on the left bank and 23 on the right bank.

While there was hardly any community infrastructure before, basic community infrastructure
were planned and provided at both sites. These included open sewage drains, community toilets
with showers, flushing latrines, household electricity connections, link road and paved streets,
mosque and schools. The communities were provided access to medical services set up by the
construction contractor during the construction period. The PMO established a 12-bed basic
health unit and turned it over to the District Health Department to service the local population,
including the resettled communities. The host communities also benefited from the
infrastructure development programs.

The main economic activities of these communities are broom and basket making and fishing. A
large number of people among PAPs were working as fisherman under the fishing contractors.
The project did not have any immediate impacts on their livelihood activities. The project gave
priority to eligible members of the communities in its construction jobs. About 136 local people
took up employment with the contractor, including 66 PAPs. The communities also requested


                                                59
IPD help to obtain concessionary fishing rights for them. Despite tremendous efforts, the IPD
was not successful due to conflicts with relevant local laws. A lump-sum of Rs 1.16 million was
provided to the community instead.
Public consultation and participation: The RAP followed a consultative and participatory
fashion for its implementation. This was managed through public meetings and individual
household interviews. Relevant project information, particularly the RAP entitlement policy,
was shared with both communities. All grievances and requests as well as resolution decisions
were disclosed to the community members. The project office kept its continuous presence in
the villages through its staff and experts from the supervising consultants. This provided direct
access to the community members over project progress and grievance resolution. Women
actively attended such community gatherings and were on the Resettlement executive committee.

Management set-up: The Project Management Office set up a Resettlement Task Force that
included the Assessment and Compensation Disbursement Cell, the Community Development
Cell and the Grievance Redress Cell. The Head PMO, assisted by his deputy directors
(environment and sociology), assumed the overall responsibility of the RAP implementation.
These units were staffed by PMO staff, IPD site engineers, consultant experts, supervising
engineer consultant and community representatives. Their responsibilities were gradually
expanded as the RAP implementation evolved. This system proved to be quite efficient in
managing the RAP program.

Grievances mechanism: The Grievance Redress Cell (GRC) was established comprising of
resettlement/supervision consultant, a sub-engineer stationed at Taunsa barrage, and a PAP
representative. An open register was available at the site Public Information Centre where all
grievances, both oral and in writing, were registered. The grievances were reviewed and
decisions were made at the GRC. A Second Tier Grievance Committee was later established at
the Planning and Development Department level to further review grievances that were not
resolved at the GRC. This system worked very well.

Resettlement cost: The total resettlement cost at completion was Rs.31.85 million, including a
compensation amount of Rs.14.7 million and Rs.17.15 million for additional community
infrastructure. The cost increase (above the initial estimate) was largely due to the additional
infrastructure required and additional allowances for the PAPs.

Monitoring and evaluation: The PMO played a very rigorous role in the RAP implementation.
The PMO Head took the RAP implementation directly under his responsibility and continuous
presence of PMO staff was maintained at the site and in the resettlement villages, including on
environment specialist and two sociologists to monitor and supervise the RAP implementation.
A sociologist of the supervision consultants, in the later stages, was stationed permanently at the
Taunsa barrage to do internal monitoring. A resettlement consultant was engaged externally to
monitor RAP implementation. The PMO prepared a final resettlement implementation
evaluation report in December 2009.

Performance Evaluation and Lessons Learned




                                                60
The PMO engaged an independent consultant to carry out an evaluation of the RAP
implementation. On the basis of the regular monitoring data, the evaluation was conducted
through a community survey, group meetings and interviews of key informants. The evaluation
concludes that the RAP program has managed to mitigate the adverse impacts of the project and
has improved the living conditions of the affected households through better residential housing,
improved and new community infrastructure and facilities, better social services and a brighter
prospect for development at the rehabilitated barrage, and an enhancement of social prestige as a
new community. The project experienced a quick turnaround from its initial problems to smooth
implementation in its resettlement program. These have yielded important lessons.

   ·   Realization that people affected should be assisted in mitigating the project adverse
       impacts regardless of their legal status is pivotal in this turnaround. This, partially for
       compliance with the World Bank policy, changed the PMO's attitude and approach in the
       resettlement implementation.
   ·   Quality in planning carries significant implications for implementation outcome in
       resettlement programs. The initial simplistic and rushed approach skipped the required
       planning steps and led to many of the grievances and cost increases later. The
       resettlement planning exercise immediately after laid a good foundation for its smooth
       and successful implementation.
   ·   Resettlement planning and implication requires continuous consultation with and
       participation of the affected communities. This mechanism ensured the ownership of the
       resettlement program by the affected communities and their support in its
       implementation.
   ·   Strong leadership and dedicated staff members are critical in resettlement program
       implementation. Since the RAP was prepared and ready for implementation, the PMO
       Director provided strong leadership throughout its implementation, providing guidance,
       supporting operating staff and coordinating inter-departmental policy matters. The PMO
       was also privileged with a group of very committed staff members, dedicated not only to
       the program implementation itself, but also trying to assist to improve the livelihoods of
       the affected people. These made the program outcome possible.




                                               61
                                                                                                      CHINA
                                                                                       74°
             TURKMENISTAN                                                                                                                                                    70°                                71°                                               r                 72°                                                           73°                                                          74°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ive
                                   UZBEKISTAN           TAJIKISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                           tR                      Up
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        pe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         a
             36°                                                                                   36°                                                                                                                                                                                       rS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sw
                                                                                             Approx.                                                                                                                                                                                           wa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tC




                                                                             P.
                                                                                          Line of Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               we                                  an




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lo
                                                                          .F.
                           AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                            Kabu                              r Swat Ca                        a




                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l                                      nal                                                                                                                                                                                      34°




                                                                       N.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                              JAMMU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R.
                                                                                               AND                                                                                                                                                                                                             TARBELA
                                                                    ISLAMABAD
                                                                                             KASHMIR
                                                                                                                         34°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DAM                                                                                                                           JAMMU &
                        Area
             32°       of Map                                                                       32°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         bul R                                                                                                                                                                 KASHMIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               . C.
                                                                        PUNJAB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Approximate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ISLAMABAD                                                                                                                  Line of Control
                                               PAKISTAN
                           BALOCHISTAN
             28°                                                                                   28°                                                                                                                             Kohat                                                                                                                                                                                                         SALAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DAM

                                                    SINDH
                                                                                INDIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MANGLA                                                                                          33°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  River                                                                DAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Soan
             24°    Arabian                                                                         24°
                                                                                                                         33°
                                                                                                                                                                                               N . W . F. P.
                      Sea
             62°                       66°                    70°                        74°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RASUL              Uppe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JINNAH                                                                                     BARRAGE                 r Jh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              elu Gujrat




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BARRAGE                                                                                                                    m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Rive
                                              68°                                                     69°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MARALA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    er                                                                                  BARRAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Mianwali                                                              Riv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHASHMA                                                                                                                               QADIRABAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BARRAGE                          KHANKI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BARRAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HEADWORKS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Cana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      32°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ve




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             k
                                                                    PA K I S TA N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R. Q.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ab




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Upper Chenab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            m C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      en
              32°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RAVI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Link
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jhelu
                        TAUNSA BARRAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SYPHON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              er




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Low
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Low




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Jhelum
                    EMERGENCY REHABILITATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            al




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Riv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lahore
                             AND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Thal Can
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ab




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Faisalabad




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  en




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Indus                                                                                                                                                        BALLOKI
                     MODERNIZATION PROJECT



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BARRAGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TRIMMU                                                                                                                                                                         31°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BARRAGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             na
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FEROZEPUR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Havel




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B. S.
              31°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    e                       Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Riv




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Link
                                                                           BENEFIT AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ri                                                           BARRAGE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               er B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      i




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Link
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             vi             Low




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Canal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   II
                                                                           MAJOR RIVERS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     na
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SIDHNAI                                                                 Sahiwal                                  al

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BARRAGE                                                                                Dip alpur C
                                                                           MAIN CANAL, BRANCHES AND RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                    r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          pu

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SULEIMANKE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ng


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ra



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T. S. M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        TAUNSA                                              Lin                                                                                                                                                            BARRAGE
                                                                           SYPHONS, BARRAGES                                                                                                           BARRAGE                                                  k

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     er
                                                                           SELECTED CITIES                                                                                                                                                                                     Multan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Can
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  al                              Riv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Link
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30°
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Canal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Vihari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      j                      al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C a nal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             patta                                                 tle                   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Br Can
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Muzaffargarh C




              30°                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                               Pak                                   ISLAM            Su                  h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   wa wah
                                                                                                                                                                                                          D. G. Khan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BARRAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         hn ai




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               rd d
                                                                           PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                    MAILSI                                                     Fo For
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                st
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sid




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SYPHON                                                      Ea
                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                            nal                                               na
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ca                                                Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ilsi                                            w       al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ma                                              ha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bahawalpur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PANJNAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BARRAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      29°

              29°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Cana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     s ia




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l           ba

                                                                                                                                  Pa                                                                       d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         na
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ab                         PUNJAB
                                                                                                                                        t Fe                                                             na
                                                                                                                                               ed e                                                    nj
                                                                                                                                                      r C a n al                                     Pu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Rahimyar Khan
                                                                                                                                    Desert Canal                                    GUDU
                                                                                          al                                      Jacabadad                                        BARRAGE
                                                                                       Can                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            28°
                                                                                ar                                 Bagari Canal
                                                                             rth                                                                                                          er
                                                                           Ki                                                                                                         eed
              28°                                                                                                                                                                 ki F
                                                                                                                                                                               hot
                                                                                                                 N.




                                                                                                                                                                              G
                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                     .C




                                                                                                                                  an
                                                                                                                                       al

                                                                                                anal                                                       SUKKUR
                                                                                        Watah C
                                                                                                                                                          BARRAGE
                       B A L O C H I S TA N


                                                        GE
                                                     RAN




                                                                                                                                                                                   RT
                                                                                        al




                                                                                                                                                                               E
                                                                                        n
                                                                                     Ca




                                                                                                                                                                            ES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        27°
                                                                                   e




                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                Ric




                                                    Hamal
                                                                                                                                     al




                                                     Lake
                                                                                                                                  Can




              27°
                                                                                                                                                                R                                                                                                                                                                                I N D I A
                                                    KIRTHAR




                                                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                                                  TH
                                                                                 l
                                                                        Dadu Cana




                                                                                                                         Khairpur




                                                                                                                                                              Canal
                                                                                                                                                         Nara
                                                                                                       R o hri
                                                                                                              Ca




                                                                    Manchhar
                                                                                                              na




                                                                                                                                                                                Chotiari
                                                                                                                   l




                                                                      Lake                                                                                                      Lake                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  26°
                                                                                                                                            Sanghar
                                                                                          Ind




              26°
                                                                                             us
                                                                                                    Riv




                                                                                                                                                SINDH
                                                                                                       er




                                                                                               KOTRI
                                                                                              BARRAGE
                                                                                                                                            Hyderabad

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      25°
                                                                                                                                                Lin
                                                                                                                                                   ed
                                                                                                                                                 Ca
                                                                                                                                 al




                                                                                                                                                   na




              25°                                                                       Kalri                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0            20         40         60       80        100 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                    Fule
                                                                                                                              Can




                                                                                                                                                     l




                                                                                        Lake
                                                Karachi
                                                                                                                                                         li




                                                                                                                             ri
                                                                                              l




                                                                                                                        ya
                                                                                             na




                                                                                                                 P in
                                                                                                                                                        Canal
                                                                                        Ca




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0                 20                40                60                     80                      100 Miles
                                                                                       lri
                                                                                     Ka




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                     Arabian                                                  DHANDS &
                                                                                                                                                                                               RANN OF KUTCH                                                                                                              judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                                        24°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          acceptance of such boundaries.
              24°      Sea                                                  COASTAL CREEKS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 33568
MARCH 2004




                                    67°                                                  68°                                                                          69°                           70°                                                               71°                                                                 72°                                                     73°                                                    74°
