Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9399
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1257-HA)
MARCH 7, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Gourde (G) 1   =   US$0.2
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFVP      -   French Association of Volunteers for Progress
BD        -   Cadaster Bureau
BME       -   Mines and Energy Bureau
CRDI      -   International Development Research Center
CTFT      -   Technical Center of Tropical Forest
DCA       -   Development Credit Agreement
EMAF      -  Agricultural and Forestry School
ENGREF    -   National School or Rural, Water and Forestry
Engineers
FAH       -   Haitian Armed Forces
FAMV      -   Faculty of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine
FB        -   Forestry Bureau
IDA       -   International Development Association
MARNDR    -   Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural
Development
PFN       -   National Forestry Project
SAC's     -   Agricultural Credit Societies
GOVERNMENT OF HAITI
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OmFCL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
YJico d oDecwe.cAew#al
Opmatiam EvauAlIOM
March 7, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Haiti
Forestry Prolect (Credit 1257-HA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Haiti - Forestry Project (Credit 1257-HA)' prepared by
the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
FOPESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1257-BA,)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   .. ........................                                        i
Evaluation Summary ..........................................  l  iii
Part I - PROJECT REVIEW PROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .............               1
Project Identity .................................................. 1
Project Background .........................................  1
Project Objectives and Description .........................  1
Project Design and Organization ............................  2
Project Implementation ........ .............................  2
Project Results ..... ...................... .......................  3
Project Sustainability ................................ #.....  7
IDA Performance ............. ...... ........... . ...........  8
Borrower Performance . ...................................  8
IDA/Project Relationship ......         ..      ................. .  9
Consulting Services ................................................. 9
Project Documentation and Data .............................  9
Part II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  .......*, 11
Part III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ............................ 31
Table 1 - Related IDA Credits         ............................ 31
Table 2- Project Timetable  ............................. 32
Table 3 - Credit Disbursements ........... ...........oe 35
Table 4- Project Costs  ...........................,,,.36
Table 5- Direct Benefits  ...........................,.,, 38
Table 6 - Status of Covenants                                   ... 40
Table 7- Staff Inputs                      .....................  42
MAP  -  IBRD 15925R
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance 
of their official duties. ItS contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wor:d Bank authorization.I



1i-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
(CMDIT 1257-SA)
Preface
1.       This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Forestry
Project in Haiti, for which Credit 1257-HA in the amount of US$4.0 million
was approved on June 3, 1982. The final closing date was
December 30, 1989, two and a half years behind schedule. US$4.2 million
was disbursed and the last disbursement was on February 13, 1990
(para. 6.10 and Table 3).
2.       The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations III
Division of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
3.       Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in April 1989, and is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development Credit Agreement;
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and
internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1257-MA)
Evaluation Summary
Obiectives
1.       The project was a pilot phase for a long-term program of forestry
development. The project was to define and begin institution building for
a systematic approach to reforestation and included the following
componentss (i) strengthening and restructuring of the Forestry Bureau;
(ii) forestry training in Haiti and abroad; (iii) pilot fuelvood plantings
and fuelwood species trials; (iv) management and improvement of about
20,000 ha of existing pine forests; (v) testing and promotion of cheap and
fuel efficient stoves; and (vi) preparation of a follow-up forestry project
(para. 3.01).
Implementation Experience
2.       The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) became effective on
December 14, 1982, almost six months after the DCA was signed (para. 5.01).
The final closing date for the project was December 30, 1989, two and a
half years after the appraisal estimate (para. 5.02). Past IDA experience
in the agriculture sector in Haiti has shown slow IDA disbursement and
project implementation, primarily due to lack of technical staff,
institutional weaknesses, budgetary constraints and slow authorization of
expenditures by the Government.  Coupled with these risks was the lack of
awareness of the rural population concerning preservation of wood
resources. The appraisal mission recognized these risks. The risk of
financial constraints was minimized, to some extent, by the use of the
Special Account. However, flexibility in implementation and close
supervision were not enough to minimize all the risks so that the project
could fully meet its objectives (para. 5.03). A negative influencing
factor for project implementation was the political turmoil during the last
four years of implementation (para. 5.04).
Results
3.       Total proiect cost was US$5.2 million (102Z of appraisal estimate
of US$5.0 million) (Table 4, page 1 of 2). Disbu:sement of credit funds
was particularly slow during the 1985-86 period (due to the political
uncertainty in the country), but thereafter increased to be more in line
with appraisal estimates (Table 3). The slow process of strengthening the



- iv -
Forestry Bureau has begun.   In spite of the fact that technical assistance
was slow to come into place, expatriate advisers were hired and took charge
of overall project supervision, management of the Foret des Pins, and local
training (paras. 6.02 and 6.03). The forestry training component was
satisfactorily implemented with most of the 60 mid-level forestry
technicians graduating from the program subsequently being enrolled in the
Projet Forestier National (PFN). Less satisfactory was the training
abroad for higher level forestry technicians, in part because of the high
costs involved (paras. 6.03 and 6.04). After a slow start, the pilot
fuelwood plantings program took off in 1985. In the beginning, results
were disappointing, in part due to lack of expertise among the staff.
However, in 1987 and 1988, plantings had reached 80% of the original target
of 500 ha. For the trials of fuelwood species, useful information has been
collected. However, viable technology and practical approaches for
large-scale reforestation programs have not been developed. Land tenure
conflicts with the local population, as well as an erratic rainfall
pattern, have hampered the effective implementation of this component
(para. 6.05). The management plan for the Foret des Pins has not been
completed primarily because of continuous political disturbances which made
operations in the Foret des Pins both difficult and datgerous. An
inventory has been completed for about 45Z of the Foret des Pins and the
forest limits have been demarcated. Without the project's continuous
presence in the Foret des Pins, this only remaining natural forest in Haiti
would have been subject not only to substantial encroachments from the
neighboring population, but also to wide scale illegal logging
(para. 6.07). The results from the testing and promotion of cheap and fuel
efficient sto-es have been disappointing.  A market survey was initiated,
however, with inconclusive results (para. 6.08). Preparation of a
follow-up proiect was undertaken during the last two years of project
implementation. Both IDA and FAO-CP staff worked closely with the Haitians.
A draft of future forestry legislation was prepared in 1985 but its review
was delayed due to political events starting in 1986 (para. 6.09).
4.       Since the project was a pilot operation, it has had no impact on
the overall wood and forestry situation in Haiti. However, the project has
enabled the Government to initiate the strengthening of the Forestry Bureau
in the MARNDR, and to initiate discussions with IDA and other institutions
on a follow-up project of a much larger scope. The project has had a
reasonable impact on development of human resources and has had a limited
contribution to improvement of the physical environment by developing some
fuelwood plantings and slowing down destruction of the natural pine forests
(para. 6.12).
5.       A financial and economic analysis was made at appraisal for the
Pine Forest management. At completion, this analysis has not been made
because: (i) the project was a pilot operation; (ii) the field trials did
not provide practical approaches for large-scale reforestation programs;
(iii) the component for Pine Forest management did not produce direct and
immediate cash income as anticipated at appraisal; and (iv) the financial
and economic analyses made at appraisal were based on general assumptions
in lieu of reliable actual data in the country, which at this time is tno
early to be ccnfirmed (para. 6.13).



Sustainability
6.       The project is not likely to sustain its activities throughout its
economic life unless a new external source of concessionary financing
becomes available. After disbursement under the project ceases, permanent
staff salaries may still be funded, but no budget would be available for
operational expenses and investments (para. 7.01).
Lessons Learned
7.       Given the circumstances in Haiti, particularly over the last four
years, the following lessons are apparent from the experience under the
project:
(i) Because of the human resource constraints, amplified by persistent
budgetary shortages, project objectives need to be modest, even
though the magnitude of problems to be addressed is large (para.
8.02).
(ii) The sustainability of projects cannot be assumed to follow, even
after a relatively successful project, because of the larger
institutional weaknesses across Government and the highly
constrained budgetary situation. Ways must be found to continue
to provide support since it is only through sustained eifort that
progress is achieved. The pilot project in this instance
succeeded in initiating a number of actions but their utility will
be lost if additional external support does not follow. (For
example, a forestry training capacity was established. Likewise,
a forestry departmer.t was established to implement programs and
provide employment for forestry graduates. Methodology was also
developed for working with farmers living within the pine forest
to replant denuded areas) (para. 7.01).
(iii) The cooperation and understanding of local communities must be
obtained before embarking on projects in these areas, even in the
absence of land tenure issues, in order that they appreciate the
purpose of the work and do not interpret things incorrectly. (For
example, the trials to measure the impact of restricting grazing
on regrowth was interpreted by localoi as part of a Government
effort to restrict their access to grazing land. Hence they broke
down the fences on the trial plot) (para. 9.03).
(iv) For forestry, or tree planting or even management of native
stands, some mechanism of enforcement must be institutionalized
because population pressures on the land are such that wood of any
form is at a premium. Protection must therefore be a critical
part of any forestry or environmental solution effort
(para. 9.03).



- vi -
(v) The project has confirmed again the importance of doing pilot work
when the technology or methodology is not known or, as was the
case on this project, neither the institutional mechanisms for
implementation nor oupply of trained manpower exist. The issue of
institutional strengthening is being addressed during the
preparation of a follow-up IDA project (para. 8.02,.
(vi) When it is clear that expatriate staff hired for a project are not
performing adequately, IDA should act promptly to replace such
staff. (In this project IDA decided not to renew the contract of
the expatriate forestry adviser who was perceived as not committed
to project objectives. His replacement proved to be more active
and dedicated to the project) (paras. 5.05 and 6.03).
(vii) The project highlights the importance of ensuring mutual
objectives within international cooperating agencies for project
implementation. In this case, CRDI, on whom there was an initial
financial dependency, did not have the same objectives as IDA, the
major project financing agency (para. 6.06).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1257-BA)
Part I
1.         Prolect Identity
Project Name:      Forestry Projet.
Credit No.:        1257-HA
RVP Unit:          Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:          Haiti
Sector:           Agriculture
Subsector:         Forestry
_.       Prolect Background
2.01     In 1980, it was estimated that 72% of the energy used by Haiti was
derived from wood. Today, wood covers over 83% of energy requirements for
the country. At the same time, agricultural production has been declining
because of erosion on cultivated lands in the hills and the absence of soil
conservation methods. A rapidly increasing rural population puts an
additional pressure on the land. This pressure, combined with weak public
services, absence of alternative land resources, and severe land tenure
constraints, has contributed to make Haiti a country completely devastated
by erosion. In 1978, natural pine or hardwood forests were estimated to
have covered no more than 8% of Haiti's total land area. The current
estimate is 4% (FAO/CP).
2.02     The project was one of three interventions of IDA in the
agriculture sector (Table 1) and addressed a group of problems which had
not previously been focused on by other major donors. The project was
consistent with Government efforts to revive erosion control and forestry
programs in an effort to halt the rapid disappearance of Haiti's forests
and the resulting soil erosion.
3.       Project Objectives and Description
3.01     The project was a pilot phase for a long-term program of forestry
development. Experience gained during this first phase was to be used to
determine long-term objectives. The objectives of the project were to



-2-
pro-'de technical assistance and help to prepate a large scale program
aiming at reversal of the trend towards depletion of Haiti's forest
resources. The project was to define and begin institution building for a
systematic approach to reforestation and included the following componentas
(i) strengthening and restructuring of the Forestry Bureau; (ii) forestry
training in Haiti and abroad; (iii) pilot fuelwood plantings and fuelwood
species trials; (iv) management and improvement of about 20,000 ha of
existing pine forests; (v) testing and promotion of cheap and fuel
efficient stoves; and (vi) preparation of a follow-up forestry project,
which required the improvement of policy aspects such as the enactment and
application of new forestry legislation, and definition of a national
forestry policy.
4.       Project Design and Organization
4.01     The project was simple, carefully defined in scope, and understood
by all relevant parties. It corresponded to a priority recognized by the
Government of Haiti and by all mrjor donors to Haiti. The project was well
prepared and the staff appraisal report provided a good guide for project
implementation. In retrospect, however, the expectations for the Foret des
Pins management plan were too optimistic (para. 6.12).
5.       Project Implementation
5.01     Effectiveness.  The DCA became effective on December 14, 1982,
almost six months after its signing, after a 3-month extension was granted
on September 13, 1982.
5.02     Implementation Period.  According to appraisal projections, the
original closing date was June 30, 1987. Several postponements brought the
final closing date to December 30, 1989, two and a half years later, due
to: (i) initial delays in technical assistance recruiting; (ii) political
disturbances since early 1986 which caused delays in carrying out training,
technical assistance, and the forestry programs; and (iii) the recurrent
shortage of counterpart funds. Despite these factors, staff continuity was
good and no major administrative difficulties were encountered.
5.03     Proiect Risks.  Past IDA experience in the agricultural sector in
Haiti has shown slow IDA disbursement and project implementation, primarily
due to lack of technical staff, institational weaknesses, budgetary
constraints and slow authorization of expenditures by the Government. The
appraisal mission recognized these same risks for this project. However,
the risk of financial constraints was minimized, to some extent, by use of
the Special Account and the availability to the Proiet Forestier National
(PFN) of some taxes collected from sales of wood products (charcoal,
lumber). The lack of awareness of the rural population concerning
preservation of wood resources was recognized at appraisal. It remained
evident throughout implementation and could only be overcome through
coercive measures (which were not always effective), to prevent illegal
logging in the forests and farmers invading fuelwood trials. Flexibility
in implementation and close supervision were not enough to minimize these
risks so that the project could fully meet its objectives.



- 3 -
5.04     Factors that Affected Prolect Implementation.  The factors that
most affected project implementation weres (i) the political disturbances
during the last four years of project implementation which affected not
only security of the operations, arnd the ability to protect State lands
against farmers' invasions and brushfires in the Foret des Pins, but also
illegal logging ordered by powerful officials; (ii) the help that the
project was expected to receive from the Association Francaise du
Volontaires du Progres (AFVP) that did not fully materialize due mainly to
the country political problems; (iii) the difficulties experienced by the
staff because of local work conditions caused by the continuous shortage of
Government counterpart funds, lack of vehicle maintenance, adverse road
conditions, administrative delays and shortfalls in salary payments; and
(iv) the logistical problems caused by the March 1988 fire which destroyed
the Forestry Bureau (FB) offices as well as most of the office building for
the Ministere de L'Agriculture des Ressoiirces Naturalles et du
Developpement Rural (MARNDR).
5.05     Decision Taken that Most Affected Project Implementation.  In
October 1987 IDA decided not to renew the contract of the expatriate senior
forestry adviser to the project, who was perceived as not being committed
to the objectives of the project. He was replaced by an adviser who proved
to be more active and dedicated and has provided the leadership necessary
to implement the project's objectives in the Foret des Pins (para. 6.03).
This decision was instrumental in permitting the PFN to reach most of its
targets, such as for the fuelwood planting program and the Foret des Pins
management plan.
6.       Project Results
6.01     This chapter compares actual performance with the targets
established at appraisal. It includes an analysis of implementation of
project components, assessment of project cost, disbursement, procurement,
reporting, auditing and compliance with the Development Credit covenants.
In addition, the project impact is evaluated. Because of its small size
and relative continuity of management, project monitoring has been
satisfactory in spite of the destruction of all records and archives in the
fire of March 1988.
6.02     Strengthening of the Forestry Bureau (FB).  The slow process of
strengthening the FB has begun. Although still a fledgling unit, the FB is
today one of the best departments in the MARNDR. However, institutional
strengthening of the FB was hampered by the shortage of Governinent funds
and the problems caused by the March 1988 fire. The component included
financing of three expatriate advisers, respectively in charge of overall
project supervision, management of the Foret des Pins, and local training.
In addition, the graduates benefitting from external and local training
were to be integrated into the PFN structure and necessary vehicles and
equipment for the FB were to be financed.



- 4 -
6.03     Technical assistance was slow to come into place.  The senior
forestry adviser lacked adaptability and commitment to the project
(para. 5.05) and the specialist for the management of the Foret des Pins
was the victim of a nearly fatal aggression motivated by some imprudent
decisions he made in the performance of his work. Both technicians were
replaced in 1987 by one adviser who managed to cope successfully with both
responsibilities. It was not until the fourth year of project
implementation (1987) that a qualified training specialist joined the
project. Most of the graduating mid-level forestry technicians were
subsequently enrolled in the PFN. In addition, an expatriate technician
worked on a program of applied forestry research linked with the pilot
plantings and trials of fuelwood species. While this work was initially
funded by the Centre de Recherche pour le Developpement International
(CRDI) from Canada, costs for this technician were subsequently financed
under the Development Credit when the Canadian agency discontinued its
assistance in late 1987. (The CRDI expert and the AFVP field volunteers
left the country after the shooting of the senior forestry adviser).
Purchase of the necessary vehicles and equipment for FB took place as
planned.
6.04     Forestry Training.  When the project was initiated, Haiti did not
have a locally trained forestry technician. To overcome this situation, in
1983 a Forestry School (Ecole Moyenne Agricole et Forestiere, EMAF) was
created to train mid level technicians. Altogether three groups of
trainees or a total of sixty individuals (SAR's target was only
fifty technicians) completed their training during the last three years of
the project. Overall, the component was satisfactorily implemented. In
addition, eight higher level technicians were trained abroad, two of whom
went to France to complement their education at the Ecole Nationale du
Genie Rural et des Eaux et Forets (ENGREF). However, this training was not
entirely satisfactory because it was more costly and not well adapted to
the specific requirements of the forestry situation in Haiti: it could
have been improved in terms of curriculum, course schedules, and selection
of candidates. The overall training program was suspended when project
resources came to an end because the MARNDR did not have the financial
resources to sustain the EMAF program. Contrary to the original intention,
which was to build a Forestry School at the Foret des Pins, it was decided
to install the Forestry School at Damien, close to the MARNDR offices
where, with Canadian assistance, a large educational complex had just been
completed for the Faculte d'Agronomie et de Medecine Veterinaire (FAMV).
This decision contributed substantially to the reduction of training costs
for t1-. local technicians. The primary school training of first grade
teachers in forestry education was cancelled to avoid duplication of a
USAID-supported project.
6.05     Pilot Fuelwood Plantings and Trials of Fuelwood Species.  Pilot
plantings of species with a suitable fuelwood potential were to be made on
250 ha of State lands. Species elimination trials, through planting and
seeding exotic and local species, were to be carried out over an additional
250 ha in different locations in the country. After a slow start, mostly



- 5 -
due to lack of staff, the program took off in 1985 when pilot plantings
were initiated in four locations (Cabaret, Jn-Rabel, Collora and
Colladere). In the beginning, results wAre disappointing for lack of
technical expertise among the staff. This problem was further compounded
by the political disturbances which led farmers to invade and damage
reforested lands with their cattle (para. 9.03). Subsequently, in 1987 and
1988, plantings were accelerated to reach 400 ha, or 80% of the original
target of 500 ha. In most cases, the subsequent development of the
plantings improved. Although viable technology and practical approaches
for large-scale reforestation programs have not been developed, this
component stimulated the: (i) production of seeds and forestry seedlings
for distribution to NGOs and local farmers; and (ii) creation of local
employment. However, useful information has been collected on the growth
and survival rates of a number of exotic and local species, as well as on
plantation techniques. Although this information requires further
confirmation, it should prove valuable for the selection of fuelwood
species in large scale plantations. Other serious difficulties, such as
land tenure conflicts with the local population and an erratic rainfall
pattern, have hampered the effective implementation of this component.
6.06.    A lesson to be learned from implementation of this component is
the importance of ensuring mutual objectives within international
cooperating agencies for project implementation. In this case, CRDI, on
whom there was an initial financial dependency, did not have the same
objectives as IDA, the major project financing agency. CRDI tended to
examine and make decisions on financing of the research component without
taking into account the overall project, including the components financed
by the Bank.
6.07     Management of the Foret des Pins.  The development of a long-term
forestry management plan of the Foret des Pins was not started until after
1987, when the first forestry technicians became available and could be
sent to the field. It was not completed because of continuous political
disturbances since 1986 which made operations in the Foret des Pins a
difficult and sometimes dangerous exercise. However, all replanting was
done in 1987 and 1988, covering 300 ha, exceeding the original target of
200 ha. A detailed inventory was completed for 11,500 ha, representing 45%
of the total area of the Foret des Pins, and the limits of the forest have
been physically demarcated with the support of the Bureau du Domaine
(Direction Generale des Impots, Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances).
Control of all activities, particularly by the 2,000 squatter families in
the forest and by illegal loggers, has been progressively tightened with
the assistance of the Forces Armees d'Haiti (FAH), which has maintained
some soldiers in the Foret des Pins. In the meantime, a significant number
of local workers have been employed by the project and received in-field
training. Without the project's continuous presence in the Foret des Pins,
this only remaining natural forest in Haiti would have been subject not
only to substantial encroachments from the neighboring population, but also
to wide scale illegal logging. Extension activities did not materialize
and were limited only to a partial census due to lack of local funds.



- 6 -
6.08     Testing and Promotion of Cheap and Fuel Efficient Stoves.  Results
have been disappointing for the testing and promotion of existing designs
of charcoal and wood burning cooking stoves, which was to be implemented by
the Bureau des Mines et de l'Energie (BME). The market survey was
initiated in Cayes, however, with inconclusive results. This component has
not achieved its expected impact because there was no coordination between
the BME and the PFN, the improved fuelwood stoves (at between US$8 and
US$20 per unit) could present an affordability problem, and the population
still need to be convinced that these stoves are, in fact, efficient.
6,0O'    Preparation of a Follow-up Project.  The follow-up project was
Fz.       in detail, in close contact with IDA and FAO-CP staff, during the
_   40o years of project implementation using the experience gained under
the ervject, and with the participation of the senior forestry adviser
attac,-*d to the project.
6.10     Credit Administration.  The total project cost was US$5.2 million
or 102% of the appraisal estimate of US$5.0 million (Table 4, page 1 of 2).
Disbursement of credit funds (about US$4.2 million) was particularly slow
during the 1985-86 period (due to the political uncertainty in the
country), but thereafter increased to be more in line with appraisal
estimates (Table 3). Since the Credit was in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs)
for a total of SDR 3.6 million, the fluctuations between the SDRs and the
US dollar increased, by about 20%, the resources in US dollars available to
the project. Local procurement was used for the equipment and vehicles
because there were no major items to be purchased for the project: this
procurement was done satisfactorily. Reporting also was satisfactory,
although some delays were experienced. Auditing was fulfilled by private
local auditors with some delays. Audit reports contained numerous
qualifications and the auditors have identified many deficiencies in the
accounting system; however, their recommendations generally have not been
followed.
6.11     The Borrower did not fully comply with the following sections of
the Development Credit: (i) Section 3.01(a), concerning the provision of
counterpart funding; (ii) Section 3.05, concerning the obligation for the
Government to recruit the eight staff trained under the fellowship program;
(iii) Section 3.06 concerning the provision of support services to the
farmers in the Foret des Pins; (iv) Section 3.07, concerning the revision
of the forestry legislation; (v) Section 4.01 concerning Audit Reports; and
(vi) Section 4.03 concerning the collection of an appropriate charge for
sawtimber (Table 6, pages 1 and 2). The above country-specific issues are
being addressed within the context of the follow-up IDA project now under
preparation.
6.12     Project Impact.  Since the project was a pilot operation, it has
had no impact on the overall wood and forestry situation in Haiti.
However, the project has enabled the Government to initiate the
strengthening of the Forestry Bureau in the MARNDR, and to initiate
discussions with IDA and other institutions on a follow-up project of a



- 7 -
much larger scope. The project has had a reasonable impact on the
development of human resources, through formal and in-field training of
staff at all levels. The project has had a limited contribution to
improvement of the physical environment by developing some fuelwood
plantings and by using the armed forces to slow down destruction of the
natural pine forests. However, the project has not been able to improve
soil and water conservation and production targets in the Foret des Pins
have not materialized because widespread illegal logging has forced the
Government to prohibit any commercial exploitation of forestry resources.
In retrospect, most of the appraisal estimates, in particular for forested
areas, growth rates, and potential for regeneration, were overly
optimistic. This is particularly so given the population pressure on the
land and the difficulties in controlling illegal logging brought about by
the political disturbances in the country.
6.13     Financial Analysis of Pine Forest Management.  At appraisal,
financial and economic analyses were made for the Pine Forest management,
the one component which would have direct cash income. At completion, no
financial and economic analyses have been made because: (i) the project
was a pilot operation; (ii) although the component for planting and trials
of fuelwood species identified some suitable species, it is still early to
assess the performance of them in terms of yields, production costs, and
annual sawtimber output (the field trials did not provide practical
approaches for large-scale reforestation programs); (iii) the component for
Pine Forest management did not fully produce direct and immediate cash
income as anticipated due to delays in developing the forestry management
plant and the country's political problems as already stated in para. 6.07;
and (iv) the financial and economic analyses made at appraisal were based
on general assumptions in lieu of reliable actual data in the country,
which at this time is too early to be confirmed (at least ten years is
required for full development).
7.       Proiect Sustainability
7.01     The project is not likely to sustain its activities throughout its
economic life unless a new external source of concessionary financing
becomes available. The Government of Haiti does not have the resources to
maintain project activities, even at the minimum level necessary to ensure
maintenance and protection of its physical achievements. After
disbursement under the project ceases, permanent staff salaries may still
be funded, although irregularly, but no budget would be available for
operational expenses and investments. Consequently, any extended
interruption in financing the most essential activities will jeopardize
past project achievements, and in particular endanger the survival of the
Foret des Pins. Ways must be found to continue to provide support, since
it is only through sustained efforts that progress is achieved. Issues,
such as adoption of a sound forestry policy and legislation, and
institutional strengthening, are being addressed during the preparation of
a follow-utp IDA project.



-8-
8.       IDA Performance
8.01     IDA performance was satisfactory in the preparation stage and
during most of project implementation. It must be emphasized that a large
percentage of project activities took place between 1986 and 1989, a period
of constant political disturbances. IDA acted flexibly in responding to
Government requests for DCA amendments, in particular, closing date
extensions on three occasions, increase in Special Account deposit, and
change in location of one trial area. IDA also agreed to cover the costs
of applied research after CRDI's pull-out. Clearly, the political
situation in the last four years of implementation made it difficult to
effectively supervise this project.
8.02     The main lessons of experience that may be relevant to other
IDA-financed projects in Haiti are: (i) because of the human resource
constraints, amplified by persistent budgetary shortages, project
objectives need to be modest, even though the magnitude of problems to be
addressed is large; and (ii) the project has confirmed again the importance
of doing pilot work when the technology or methodology is not known or, as
was the case on this project, neither the institutional mechanisms for
implementation nor supply of trained manpower exist.
9.       Borrower Performance
9.01     MARNDR's performance was not satisfactory due to its weak
managerial capacity. The project staff could expect little support from
MARNDR because of lack of continuity among higher level staff, poor
coordination with other Government agencies, absence of budgetary resources
for operations and investments, and unclear hierarchical relationships.
Overall, the project lacked sufficient and timely counterpart funds.
However, it must be pointed out that the Government, by recruiting most of
the forestry trainees, bore a financial charge greater than anticipated in
the determination of project costs.
9.02     Performance of the PFN, which acted as the project coordination
and management unit within the FB, became satisfactory after initial
indecisiveness. Project management has fluctuated and its performance has
been mixed. The problems which contributed to the indecisive performance
of the project during the first years were the following: (i) the Foret
des Pins was not originally under MARNDR's jurisdiction; (ii) MARNDR's
administrative procedures were very slow; (iii) frequent changes occurred
among expatriate staff; and (iv) there were delays in recruiting qualified
local professors for the forestry training program. Worthy of mention is
the fact that the project did provide better conditions for staff working
on the project than for other people in the MARNDR.  This, at times, led to
some jealousies that may have contributed to the slow approval process
within the MARNDR.
9.03     The main lessons for the Borrower that may be relevant for
follow-up forestry projects are: (i) the cooperation and understanding of
local communities must be obtained before embarking on projects in these



-9-
areas, even in the absence of land tenure issues, in order that they
appreciate the purpose of the work and do not interpret things incorrectly.
(This is also a lesson for IDA). (For example, the trials to measure the
impact of restricting grazing on regrowth was interpreted by locals as part
of a Government effort to restrict their access to grazing land. Hence
they broke down the fences on the trial plot); and (ii) for forestry, or
tree planting or even management of native stands, some mechanisms of
enforcement must be institutionalized because population pressures on the
land are such that wood of any form is at a premium. Protection must
therefore be a critical part of any forestry or environmental solution
effort.
10.      IDA/Project Relationship
10.01    Overall relationship between IDA and the Borrower remained cordial
throughout project implementation despite frequen': changes at the
ministerial level in Haiti. However, the lack of coordination between the
local institutions and their inability to influencc project performance
limited, to a large extent, the possibility of a more useful dialogue.
Promises by the Government to allocate sufficient counterpart funding were
not fulfilled, largely because the Government's financial situation dia not
allow it to channel the promised resources.
11.      Consulting Services
11.01    Technical assistance provided by expatriate consultants played an
important role in project implementation, reflecting the lack of local
expertise in forestry. The PFN hired several consultants at different
times, either directly or through private firms or public institutions
(Centre Technique des Forets Tropicales (CTFT), France). Their
performance, with one exception, was generally satisfactory (paras. 5.05
and 6.03). However, political instability and lack of security were
factors in shortening their tenure with the project. In one instance, a
consultant was savagely attacked and almost lost his life. Clearly,
forestry consultants in Haiti need a great deal of dedication to their work
and to the country when considering the adverse conditions mentioned above.
12.      Project Documentation and Data
12.01    The legal documents for this project were adequate and the
Development Credit Agreement was amended on four occasions (para. 8.01).
The Staff Appraisal Report provided a useful framework for IDA and the
Borrower during project implementation. Progress reports were informative,
as well as some special reports on applied research, soil surveys in the
Foret des Pins, the forestry training program, and the thematic maps for
the Foret des Pins (produced by Aerophoto, a Canadian firm).



- 11 -
Part II - Evaluation from the Borrowers Point of View
The Borrower has completed a Full Project Completion Report (PCR).
Attached is the unedited text of the Borrower's PCR from which we have
deleted the descriptive portions of the report. The full PCR and Annexes
are available in this Division.






-14-
The second of the experts completed his contract, and did so to
our total satisfaction. His work on EMAF's curriculum has been forwarded to
IDA.
A third manager was selected in October 1984. He was initially
assigned to the Fuelwood Component, but from February 1985 was required to
deal exclusively with the Research Component.
(c)   The integration of fellowship holders trained abroad and forestry
technicians trained in EMAF.
(1)   Eight young agronomists were trained abroad, six of them financed
by the project and two receiving fellowships from the French Cooperation
Agency. ENGREF (the National School for Rural Engineering, Water Resources
and Forestry) was selected for these advanced studies, but the training it
provided was not entirely satisfactory, for the following reasons:
* - The period of forestry training was too short.
-     lThe students received no training for the preparation of their
dissertations.
-     The training was too expensive in relation to the amount of
knowledge imparted.
Nevertheless, the experience enabled the students to become much
more sure of themselves and to develop their sense of responsibility. This
had a positive impact on the project over the last three years.
(2)   Sixty technicians were trained in EMAF, and 18 of them (the final
intake) will enter the Service in October 1989. The integration of these
young trainees was an additional factor enhancing project performance,
particularly with regard to inventory and planting activities in the pine
forest, and it also increased the Service's efficiency, especially in the
gathering of data for forest statistics. However, there have been setbacks,
since some of the technicians have chosen to leave the Service, and others
have simply been dismissed. The reasons are as follows:
-     Some of those accepted by EMAF had no clear idea of the hardships
encountered in forestry work.
-     Others were seeking the sort of high salaries that the country is
not yet ready to pay.
-     Others regard EMAF as a springboard to much higher qualifications.
-     Recruitment:  Candidates were recruited in the various
agricultural areas, and assumed that, after completing their
studies, they would simply return to those places to work, even
though there was no local forestry activity.



-15-
The following solutions must be adopted:
*     As regards recruitment:
(1)   screen candidates to ensure that they can adapt to forestry
work;
(2)   avoid selecting candidates who already possess the
baccalaureat, and who might therefore seek higher
qualifications;
-     provide "blind alley" training at EMAF, so that technicians will
not aspire to higher qualifications;
provide some sort of allowance within the Service and/or project
for positions involving hardships and/or isolation, and call for
volunteers for these positions.
(d)   Cost:  US$1,777,500.
This excludes the cost of training technicians and forestry
engineers.
2.          The Training Component
2.5         Constraints
one of the first problems with regard to EMAF was that the
training program had not been prepared in advance, and this shortcoming became
immediately evident when the School opened. It was discussed on a number of
occasions by the participating agencies (i.e. the World Bank, FAMV and the
NFP). The result was that the School went through an initial period of
experimentation, hesitating between training agroforestry technicians (who
would be better adapted to the socioeconomic conditions found in rural areas)
and forestry technicians (as required by the Agreement between the Government
of Haiti and the World Bank, and by the priorities of the NFP and the Forest
Resources Service).
Meanwhile, there w.s a delay in the arrival of the forestry
training expert responsible for cooperating with the School's Directorate on
the preparation of the curriculum. He arrived only in May 1987, i.e. about
three years after EMAF had opened. By this time, the School had finally opted
to train forestry technicians.
Moreover, training-was initially hindered by other constraints
resulting from the project itself or from institutional factors. Certain
essential items were not supplied in time. For example, the bus (for which
there was a budget allocation) was acquired two years after the School had
begun to function, and this delay hindered the field trips provided for in the



-16-
training program. The procurement of camping equipment, audiovisual items,
etc. was delayed as a result of institutional and/or administrative
constraints.
A notable constraint was the lack of any autonomy in the
management of the budget for training forestry technicians. Although it did
not have a major impact on the training process, some difficulties did arise
at the conclusion of operations because of the distribution of allocations
among the various line items, some of which had completely exhausted their
shares and overspent, whereas others had been overbudgeted and still had funds
to spare.
2.6         ImDAct
After being in operation for five years, EMAF has produced 60
forestry technicians. Initially, they are being used to strengthen the Forest
Resource Service, and are currently engaged in the various project components
(planting, research, etc.). The EMAF training they received is reflected in
the quality of their work in the field.
At national level, this initial period of EMAF's operations can be
regarded ar a pilot phase, giving it experience in the training of
intermediate-level forestry technicians, who act as the necessary link between
the planning stage and field work.
In addition to producing technicians, this experience resulted in
the preparation of a training program illustrated by field instruction sites
that are used as references in a meticulously prepared document.
EMAF now possesses the necessary course documentation for training
forestry technicians who can be deployed immediately upon graduation, after a
.training mainly based on forestry knowledge and expertise.
The various courses studied are listed in the Annexes. It should
be noted that there is a fact sheet for each of these courses, and there are
individual documents detailing the content of most of them.
These represent real gains for the NFP and for the Forest
Resources Service, which has been strengthened by this trained intermediate-
level personnel, and has thus increased its chances of successfully
implementing the forestry program over the coming years.
Insofar as:
a training program for intermediate-level forestry personnel has
been established and brought up to date;
a team of instructors has acquired experience in teaching the
various subjects relating to forestry;
r - _



-17-
-     fact sheets and detailed documents have been prepared for most
courses;
-     teaching materials have been prepared;
-     particular national sites have been identified and made available
for practical training;
the country can be proud that the NFP has provided it with the complete
organizational structure necessary for operating an intermediate-level
forestry school that can train not only forestry technicians, but also *- in
the future, and as the need arises -- lower-level forestry agents.
3.          The Pine Forest Max.a&ement Component
IMPACT
The most positive result is the gradual integration of the
community into forestry work.
The most important effect from the viewpoint of individual farmers
is the continuing presence of the Forest Resources Service.
We have traine" ;he temporary personnel necessary for producing
the forest inventory (20 laborers). Farmers have been trained in
reforestation, and about 61 EMAF students (three intakes) have
been trained in the field, together with FAMV students (through
short and long courses).
169 ha were planted in 1987, 124 ha in 1988, and 9 ha in 1989.
Tourism was encouraged by the provision of seven chalets, rented
by the tourism service.
Illegal cutting was gradually reduced as a result of the
surveillance provided by three military personnel from the Haitian
Armed Forces.  Enforcement of forest regulations must be
intensifi3d and reorganized, to provide maximum protection for the
remaining cover.
LESSONS LEARNED
Some technicians cannot endure the cold in the pi. forest, and
others cannot stand the isolation, because it is admittedly a very demanding
assignment. Technicians will be selected who can adapt to it, and efforts
must be made to increase the salaries of personnel serving in the pine forest.



-18-
Standard motorcycles are not suitable for difficult terrain, and
makes must be selected that have been tested in hilly country. As regards the
other vehicles (i.e. the pickup trucks), the make currently used is suitable
for the purpose, provided that the pine forest operation is provided wlth lts
own mechanLc (who can be penallzed for delays or careless repairs) and
possibly with an inventory consisting of the most easily broken spare parts
(e.g. windows, ball bearings, oil seals, etc.). Moreover, lt ls obvlous that
the vehicles used in a tropical developing country should be somewhat more
comfortable than the standard types, so as to provlde better working
conditions for the users.
Until December 1987, the advisors dld not accomplish -- or were
unable to accomplish -- very much in the plne forest. If any reforestation
work did take place, no maps were made avallable before 1987.
The work performed is summarized in a map of the various stands
dating from before the beginnlng of the project, and in a study of the
diameter/age ratio prepared at the beginning of the project (now available).
We did not reach the pine forest until the end of December 1986. A French
expert arrived there in January 1987. Changes began to be made, but the
expert was repatriated for health reasons in July 1987, and we cannot make any
assessment of the work he performed. The present advisor took up the post in
November 1987, and his work is outstanding for its practicality, the transfer
of appropriate technology, the rapid personnel training provided (i.e. of
laborers, technicians and agronomists), the preparation of the forest
inventory, and the soon-to-be-completed management plan.
4.    The Pilot Fuelwood Plantation Component
4.3   Project Execution
A.    Pilot Plantations
As already emphasized in the Introduction, the activities
relating to this component began only in December 1984, although the process
had been officially initiated by the signing of the Agreement in 1982. It was
only in 1983 that the project as a whole could be launched.
The first pilot planting was initiated in three areas -- Cabaret,
Jean-Rabel and the Central Plateau (Colladere/Colora) -- during the 1985/86
crop year. The results were thoroughly catastrophic, particularly in Cabaret,
the basic reason being a lack of professional experience at various levels.
The results in the three areas were even more disappointing after the events
of February 7, 1986, when the plantations were overrun by the neighboring
communities, who then used the land for grazing and illegal cutting.



-19-
In the 1986/87 crop year, conditions for planting were more or
less normal because of the introduction of new improved planting techniques
and an increase in the number of field personnel.
Conditions for planting in the 1987/88 crop year were the same as
for the previous year, and the following table shows the areas planted during
the project period.
TABLE I
FUELWOOD COMPONENT:  AREAS PLANTED
Location                 Planned (ha}       Actual Area (hal        Difference (ha)
Cabharet                       200                125                        85
Jean-Rabel                       60                 60                        0
Colora                         120                115                        15
Colladere                      120                 90                       _5
500               390                       105
As can be seen, the performance rate for these objectives was 78X,
the reason being that activities were intensified from FY85/86.
B.    Seed and Seedling Production
In addition to operating pilot plantations on state-owned land,
the component also included the production of forest seedlings and the
preparation of locally gathered forest seed, particularly in the Colora,
Collad&re and Jean-Rabel centers. During the project period, about 750 kg of
both exotic and local species were gathered and stored as part of this
component. Seed was distributed in accordance with needs. Distributions were
made to various NGOs and other institutions, but distribution to farmers was
very limited. This material was also given priority for use in project
activities.
In addition, about 200,000 seedlings of forest species were
distributed to farmers on land bordering the project areas.
In this case also, it can be considered that the objectives were
achieved.
C.      SainLng
This component also helped train project and nonproject personnel,
by providing assistance in the following forms:



-20-
intermediate-level practical courses during school vacations;
the opening of fields of activity to the new graduates, who were
assigned to the component so that they could receive practical
experience.
The following persons were trained:
60 agroforestry technicians;
5 agronomists;
20 FAMV students;
-     200 farmers.
In addition, the component was concerned with the dissemination of
the forestry expertise thus acquired, particularly through the organization of
"information days" in the field, with the participation of several other
institutions specializing in similar activities.
4.4         Social Impact
In addition to the direct benefits resulting from the component,
the following positive effects should be noted:
=     Job creation:  Labor accounts for over 65X of the component's
budget, representing a considerable number of jobs (about 40,000
man-davs over the entire project period). This employment
therefore makes a considerable contribution to the economy in
those areas where the component was implemented.
-     Training "or farmers:  The paid labor force is lOOX rural.  All
these wor-irs received instruction in seed collection, seedling
production and forestry planting methods. The 200 farmers
referred to above received direct and continuous training
throughout ttw- project, because they were its permanent labor
force. Honevar, casual workers were also affected because
training sessions were organized to prepare them for each of the
various operations.
-     In each of the areas, certain groups in the community showed
considerable curiosity regarding the plantations, and these were
the object of a number of recreational and educational visits.
-     Some of the farmers in the areas had the opportunity to
familiarize themselves with a new system of land use.



-21-
4.6         Constraints
From the beginning of the project, the Fuelwood Planting Component
encountered a number of constraints or major problems which severely affected
its results and perfoN-mance.  Some of these were as follows:
-     The Problem of Land Tenure
MARNDR (the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural
Development) has problems in maintaining control over the land it supervises.
Sometimes, the supervisors of the various centers seem powerless to oppose the
open hostility shown by the former occupants of the land. In the particular
case of Cabaret, the acquisition of 250 ha by the Forest Resources Service for
use as pilot fuelwood plantations caused discontent among the neighboring
population. The Forestry Service had to adopt strict measures in order to
carry out reforestation and protect the areas. Nevertheless, there was
unrelenting pressure, and this showed itself in acts of sabotage of all kinds.
Over the last year, these problems have been solved with the help of the local
civil and military authorities.
-     SocioDolitical Conditions in Haiti
These have never been favorable to our activities, especially
since February 7, 1986.
-     Climatic Factors
A series of events caused real problems for the satisfactory
execution of the project. The most significant of these were the long
droughts that followed planting, and the unfavorable distribution of
precipitation.
G razitng
The plantations were affected to a great extent by the grazing of
livestock, mostly belonging to the farmers who formerly occupied the various
project areas. This problem even affected the use of certain species that had
been regarded as promising because of their adaptability to those areas.
-     The Lack of Local Partici2ation
There was absolutely no local participation. All activities
received 100l financing, and were regarded by the local population with a
certain scorn.
-     Administrative Constraints
There were many such constraints, particularly -uring the first
three years. Administrative delays affected the disbursement of funds
allocated to the component. Project management was definitely too centralized
to provide for efficient planting. The usual delays in the payment of workers



-22-
also slowed down planting operations, so that the project lost its
credibility.
44.7   Lessons Learned
Through this pilot phase of the NFP, the component gained useful
experience in planting for the production of fuelwood. Several lessons can be
learned from this project:
-     It is not easy to manage the public domain in the current state of
relations between the forestry sector and the farmers in the
various project areas. So far, the only solution has been the use
of force, and enormous efforts must still be devoted to community
awareness and consciousness-raising. It is quite obvious that
there is no point in attempting to solve this problem unless the
farmers (who are the former occupants of the land) can be offered
some alternative to merely abandoning that land.
Experience in Cabaret clearly shows that plantations can be
properly established, maintained and supervised only if a system
of forest trails and roads is provided, and such a system is made
even more necessary by the country's difficult topography. These
trails and roads enable the various species to be clearly
separated, with a clear demarcation among the various units for
the purposes of work and supervision.
-     Haintenance is of vital importance for the first three years
following planting, particularly where the herbaceous vegetation
is especially invasive.
All planting projects must be granted a certain degree of
financial and administrative independence or autonomy.
-     A period for promoting awareness and for consciousness-raising is
a prerequisite for any reforestation program.
-     Five years is an insufficient period for the pilot phase of a
forestry project. Large-scale planting cannot be thoroughly
tested in this pdriod.
4.8   Recommendations
In light of the above, the following recommendations are made:
-     As far as possible, the local community should play an integral
part in reforestation projects.
-     Reforestation activities should be diversified, and contacts with
other sectors should be increased.



-23-
All reforestation projects should include an extension unit, which
must be properly supplied with the necessary equipment and
resources.
The expansion phase following pilot programs must not be delayed,
so that the enthusiasm of the trained personnel can be maintained.
Periodic evaluation is essential for reforestation projects.
The administration and financial management of this component must
enjoy a certain degree of autonomy and independence.
Reforested areas must be protected, and access to them restricted.
5.    Research on Fuelwood Species
The research component was financed and evaluated by IDRC from
June 1983 to December 1987, and financed by the World Bank from January 1988
until the end of the project.
The main objective of the research component was to select
promising fast-growing forest species for the production of fuelwood,
charcoal, forage and construction wood, while undertaking trials on the direct
seeding of forest species and various planting methods.
Of the 10 locations proposed at the beginning of the project, only
five were selected, representing three types of ecological area that are very
widespread in Haiti. Currently, only three sites are in operation, since the
others were seriously affected by political events.
The trials were initiated in Cabaret in October 1983 and May 1984,
in Jean-Rabel in June 1984, and in MiragoAne in October 1985 (see Annexes 2, 3
and 4).
In addition, an evaluation was made in 1985 of the species trials
conducted by FAO on eight different sites between 1975 and 1977 (see Annex 1).
This evaluation provided the information necessary for planning and
establishing trials of Eucalyptus microtheca and Eucalyptus tereticornis in
Cabaret in September 1987 (see Annex 5). A further trial (of material from
Gllricldla seplum) was also conducted in Cabaret (see Annex 6).
The research component also produced fact sheets on the most
promising species (see Annex 7).
Observation parcels were established in Cabaret in 1985 for
research on planting methods and various antierosion techniques.
In 1987, farmers' demonstration units were established on three
sites: Cazale, Trou-Chouchou/Petit-GoAve, and Meilleur (Bainet). Here,
research is being conducted on various planting methods and the adaptation and
acceptability to farmers of this species (document in preparation).



-24-
In addition, several other silviculture activities have been
undertaken. To this end, permanent parcels have been established, in both
plantations and natural pine stands (work in. progress).
Research on direct seeding has not produced encouraging results
because the climatic and soil conditions at the site of this informal trial
caused considerable problems.
The component was provided with the services of a consultant on
two different occasions, the purpose being to review the reports of
experiments and the codification system for trials.
As part of the research component, a computerized data base was
also established, using the information generated by the various trials, a
codification system, and reports on experiments relating to each of the trials
performed.
LESSONS LEARNED
-     The individual activities and forms of participation of the
cooperating institutions must be predetermined, otherwise they
will tend to act in isolation, thereby hindering progress.
In spite of the agreements made at the outset, AFVP withdrew its
participation as a result of the political troubles. Eight months
of work still remained to be done when the volunteer assigned to
the project (and specifically to the research component) was
repatriated.
On each of their visits, representatives of IDRC -- the donor
financing the research component -- examined this component alone,
without any reference to the NFP as a whole, and took decisions on
methodology, the main aspects of research, etc. without taking
into account the components financed by the World Bank. Although
applications were repeatedly made to IDRC for a continuation of
the financing, a favorable response was not forthcoming. IDRC's
evaluation schedule did not coincide with that of the World Bank.
*     At the beginning of the project, the head of research activities
was insufficiently experienced to undertake trials using a
scientific method. Care must therefore be exercised when
selecting personnel to supervise research.
-     The initial trials in Cabaret (1983/84) and Jean-Rabel (1984) did
not comply with even the minimum requirements for scientific
research.  Periodic evaluation and carefully planned monitoring
was performed only -after the departure of the expatriate
specialists who initiated the trials. These were abendoned, and
some of the material used was destroyed by livestock. The trials
established after 1985 were conducted according to scientific
methods and ranged from seed breeding, through nursery



-25-
cultivation, to the planting stage, followed by periodic
evaluations.
-     It is essential that expatriate consultants be scientists with the
necessary professional experience and intellectual capacity to
transmit their knowledge to the project personnel.
-     It is essential to motivate those members of the personnel who
have performed well. At the beginning of the project, IDRC
granted six fellowships enabling recipients to study for one month
at CATIE (the Tropical Agriculture Research and Education Center)
in Turrialba, Costa Rica. Currently, only three of the
agroforestry technicians who received fellowships are still
working on the project. The four (sic) others have left to work
with USAID-sponsored NGOs. It is recommended that fellowships be
granted as a form of incentive to the longer-serving members of
the personnel who have shown their worth in the Forestry Service.
IDRC had allocated a total of US$99,680 for the research
component, but changes were made to cover the costs of agroforestry
technicians at the end of 1987. The total granted was US$132,184, and
expenditures totaled US$131,149. From May 1980 to September 1989, the World
Bank allocated US$24,598.25.
6.          Fuel Conservation and Legislation
-     Results
According to BME's final report, these activities were successful.
Under laboratory conditions, the,improved charcoal stoves proved between 201
and 30X more efficient than conventional stoves. Field tests in Port-au-
Prince showed an average reduction of 24.81 in charcoal consumption for
cooking, while similar tests in the Northwest showed a 15.2X reduction. The
details of these studies and the results of research into the acceptability
and production costs of these improved stoves have been taken from BME's
report and are presented in the Annexes to this report. The current cost of
these stoves (between US$4 and US$5) makes them competitive. The final
success of these activities is likely to depend on the public; i.e. whether it
can be convinced that these stoves are efficient. Research on fuelwood stoves
produced similar results. Laboratory tests showed cooking time to be an
average of 401 shorter, with heat retention increasing by an average of 25X.
Field tests in the Northwest showed an average reduction in wood consumption
of 38.71. Details of acceptability and costs have also been taken from the
BME report and included in the Annexes. The cost of these improved stoves
(between US$8 and US$20 per unit) would probably make it difficult for them to
compete with the traditional three-stone fire as long as wood remains
practically freely available to rural communities. However, fuelwood is
already becoming scarce in certain regions, and before long it will probably
cease to be a "free good." In short, we can say that this subcomponent seems



-26-
to have been more than successful, because BME and other organizations
continue to promote the use of these stoves, even without financial support.
-  Constraint
The main problem with this component stems from a lack of planned
coordination with MARNDR and other agencies. There is, of course, a
coordinating committee, but its composition is entirely different from that
initially proposed. Although this has had no effect on BME's performance,
MARNDR has been somewhat disappointed at the failure to keep it informed of
the findings of the monitoring process. This sets a bad precedent for future
cooperation among the various agencies. If such cooperation is proposed in
future, perhaps it would be better at the outset to determine which agency is
to be responsible for execution (in this case BME), unless there are statutory
reasons for including others. The other members of the committee would be
selected as the project progresses. If the list of participants is specified
in the plan, changes should be made only for important reasons and with the
agreement of all agencies concerned. Moreover, a further problem affecting
all components was that the semiannual reports and audits required by IDA were
submitted late.
(b)   Legislation
-     Obiectives and Results
Action was taken on this subcomponent at the beginning of the
project, when the existing legislation, decrees, etc. relating to forest land,
transportation and forest product regulations were reviewed and summarized by
a consultant. In his report, he also referred to certain aspects of
legislation that could be reoriented or improved, making the Forestry Bureau
and the supervision of cutting more effective.
The report was submitted to the Government at the end of 1985, but
received no official response, probably because of the constant political
upheavals and the instability affecting the Government at that time.
The consultant's report draws attention to the complexity and
breadth of the existing legislation. The conclusion could be drawn that the
next stage for producing progressive legislative reforms must consist of the
consolidation and modernization necessary for establishing an efficient
Forestry Bureau (as planned), and a more thorough application of existing
forest legislation.
7.          Preparation of the Second Phase of the NFP



-27-
Results
When the project was completed (at the end of June 1989), this
proposal was reviewed by the project officer, at the request of IDA and the
FAO/CP representative. A project summary was prepared by IDA on the basis of
the revised project.
Constraint
Nevertheless, certain problems arose with regard to the Forestry
Advisor. Because he was the third to be hired (as late as 1987), he was to
some extent bound by the proposals previously made, even though account should
have been taken of developments in the project and of the new administrative
situation arising toward the end of the project. Fortunately, these changes
were acknowledged and rectifications were made after the initial revisions of
the first proposal, so that the necessary corrections could be made before the
end of the project.
Nevertheless, it has been pointed out that greater efficiency can
be achieved only through continuity in the post of Forestry Advisor.
Undoubtedly, the greatest problem was that the project was not thoroughly
rewritten and evaluated, and that the next phase had not been approved, before
the end of the preceding phase. This is the reason why many project
activities -- such as tle maintenance of pilot fuelwood trials and proper
management of the pine forest -- were delayed. Some members of the personnel
undertook other projects after the conclusion of the NFP, probably because of
the wage reductions. It is true that IDA and the Government endeavored to
minimize the potential problems during the interim period before the beginning
of the second phase. Possible solutions included IDA financing for completing
preparation of the second phase, and World Bank support in the form of a grant
for improving the environment.
IV.         INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Project performance was not very satisfactory until the end of
1985, for several reasons. From that date, the performance improved
considerably and continuously. By the conclusion of the project, all the
problems had been corrected or identified, and plans had been made for
eliminating them during project execution. Performance was weak for the
following main reasons:
(a) At the beginning of the project, the NFP.did not control the pine
forest.
(b)   At the beginning, the Special Fund providing immediate financing
for procurement and disbursements was not sufficiently large, and
thus it was impossible to make payments exceeding the amount it
contained. The lack of financing delayed the procurement of



-28-
equipment and services and payments to personnel, thus preventing
execution from proceeding on schedule.
(c)   In addition, purchases and payments were often delayed by the lack
of any agreed operating procedures between the NFP project officer
and those responsible for individual components.
(d)   Other serious time overruns were caused by the frequent changes of
ministers and other high government officials responsible for
giving approval to expendi:ures, contracts, etc.
(e)   In the initial years, contusion arose with regard to the roles of
coordinator and project manager. This problem was solved when the
manager was assigned the main responsibility for control.
(f)   Certain components did not go according to plan because of
frequent changes of expatriate personnel (i.e. the Forestry
Advisor and the Forestry Management Advisor).
(g)   The training program was not implemented as planned because two
full-time FAMV forestry specialists were not incorporated into the
training program for NFP technicians. However, this did not
prevent the program's implementation, because they were replaced
by several short-term temporary instructors. Two potential FAMV
members with advanced qualifications in silviculture, and who were
acceptable to IDA, were identified for project follow-up.
Most of these institutional problems were subsequently solved.
V.          THE BANK'S ROLE
The part played by the World Bank throughout the project was more
than satisfactory. The IDA project officers, other World Bank staff visiting
the country on supervision missions or for consultation, and the IDA
headquarters staff in Washington, D.C. were at all times helpful, cooperative
and constructive in their project-related activities.
VI.         IMPACT ON FOREST RESOURCES
As proposed, each component was to play its part in achieving the
overall project objectives, consisting of the establishment of a suitable
administrative and technical base for reversing the process of forest
deterioration. A Forestry Bureau has been established with an almost full
complement of staff, as a result of the hiring and training provided under the
NFP. As a result of research and pilot fuelwood trials, many species have
been selected for use in future plantations supplying energy needs.
Management methods are beginning to be applied to the pine forest. Objectives
(such as determination of the numbers of technicians to be trained locally and
abroad and the areas of land to be used for pilot fuelwood trials and new



-29-
plantations in the pine forest) were achieved as planned, although behind
schedule.
As regards the probable future impact of the first phase on the
production of construction wood and fuelwood in the pine forest and other
stands, the NFP Forestry Advisor's recent estimates of the benefit stream
(clrculaClon mondtaLre nette), costs, the internal rate of return and future
fuelwood output show that these are very close to the original estimates.
However, these estimates have taken account only of the years after 2011,
assuming that only an eight-year second phase would be implemented, and that
2011 would mark the end of the third cutting rotation on the new NFP fuelwood
plantations. Some output estimates were made for 1988, when the second phase
was likely to conclude. Most of the differences apparent in the output
estimates for two different periods result from the figures prepared by the
Forestry Advisor for the forest production areas, including the output from a
proposed government-controlled permanent forestry area. The following are
estimates of forest areas in the year 2011:
Stand                       1982 Estimate (ha)   Forestry Advisor's Estimate
(in 1989; ha)
Government plantations
for energy use                   81,000                      8,400
Mangrove                            20,000                    16,000
Dense deciduous forest             150,000                     2,000
Degraded deciduous                 691,000                    21,000
Pine forest                         69,000                    20,020
The 1982 estimates were overoptimistic with regard to the regeneration
rate for the dense pine forest.
As regards the pine forest, the benefit stream for the year 2011
was estimated at US$5.7 million, costs at US$165,500, and the internal rate of
return for the 29-year period from the beginning of the first phase was very
positive. If differences of area are disregarded, the Advisor's estimates are
very close to those initially made.
The benefit stream totaled US$3.6 million (taking into account
only cutting in dense forests), costs were US$200,000, and the rate of return
was over 300X.
The Forestry Advisor's estimates of fuelwood output are almost
identical to those prepared at the beginning of the project, if we disregard.
differences in the area and productivity of plantations for energy use. The
two sets of estimates are identical with regard to rotation and the growth
rate of natural forests.



-30-
The annexed tables show these estimates in detail. Those for the
beginning of the project are taken from the 1982 staff appraisal report, and
those of the Forestry Advisor are his projections (1989) for calculating the
cost-benefit ratio and the project's rate of return.



-31-                                        Part III
Table 1
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related IDA Credits /
First Rural Development           Rural      1977  Closed   The project faced Implementation problems from
Project In the North          Development                   the outset and was classiflid as a problen project
(Credit 676-HA)                                             nearly half of the Implementation period.  The
project oncountered serious problems of social,
og' cultural, and technical naturo by the weaknesses
of the regional services.   Agricultural targets
were not met, irrigation underwent substantial
reformulation during impl mentation, Infrastructure
components were carriod out as torgeted. ODN failed
to provide an analysis and a management overview of
imploeentation and issues. Excess turnover of
dir-ctore and technical staff.
Post-Hurricane Agricultural   Agriculture   1981  Closed   Project appralsed under *bbroviated procedures,
Rehabilitation Project                                      experienced major delays during the various
(Credit 1106-HA)                                            Implementation stages.  Limited capacity of the
implementation agency DARNDR to absorb financial
assistance, but no reasonable alternatives available
to the urgent need to rehabilitato agriculture in
the affected areas. Executed with a delay of more
than one year, the oporation was not successful and
confronted with limitation of counterpart funds,
serious Institutional constraints of DARNOR to
manage the project and SCA for delivering and
control credit operations.
1/ Approved before the Forestry Project.



Part III
-32-                              Table 2
Page 1 of 3
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT 1257-HA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Proiect Timetable
Item                    Date Planned      Date Revised      Date Actual
Identtiicatlon by Bank                                    -            Early 1978
Identification (FAO/CP and Bank)       -                               March 1979
Identification/Preparation (FAO/CP)                       -  -         August 1980
Preparation (FAO/CP)                 1/81                 _            January 1981
Preparation (Bank)                   1/81                 -            January 1981
Preparation Follow-up (Bank)         4/81                 -            April 1981
Appraisal                            6/81                 -            June 1981
Post Appraisal                       9/81                 -            September 1981
Credit Negotiations                  4/82                 -            April 1a-16, 1982
Board Approval                       6/82                 -            June 8, 1982
Credit Signature                     6/82                 -            June 16, 1982
Credit Effectiveness                12/16/82              -            December 14, 1982
Credit Closing                       6/80/87            6/80/88
8/80/89        December 81, 1989
Project Completion Report            12/31/89           8/30/90
1/ The Executive Project Summary was issued in October 1980.
The issues raised at each stage of project cycle were:
Identification/Preparation
- land for plantations and degraded forest in the North-West for management
need to be actually identified, including clear information on cwnership;
- recent decision by Government to remove existing contractors from the pine
forest will have to be actually enforced; and
- policy decision by Government is required on project organization.



Part III
Table 2
-33-                             Page 2 of 3
Preparation
- the area identified near Ganthier for fuelwood plantation is partly
occupied by a military training group; and
- the location of the field training station is to be decided upon.
Preparation Follow-up
- the participation of the population;
- the organization and management;
- the project impact in public finances; and
- the land tenure.
Appraisal
- the need to clarify and detail the project design with Government;
- the inclusion of field trails in the North-West;
- the promotion of fuel efficient cooking stove; and
- the amount of credit to be financed by IDA.
Credit Negotiation
- the appointments of Chief of Forestry Bureau, senior forestry consultant
and the employment of consultants;
- the sawtimber charge; and
- the ava!lability of land for trial planting.
Board Approval through Credit Effectiveness
- 250 ha of land has to be made available to the forest service;
- the Bureau has to appoint a field manager for each of the three project
areas;
- the Ministry has to designate a senior procurement officer;
- the opening of the Project Special Account; and
- the participation of both Ministries responsible for National Education
and Energy.



Part III
Table 2
-34-                            Page 3 of 3
Credit Closing
- the project activities are still affected by the political climate
prevailing since 1986;
- the illegal activities in the Foret des Pins (logging, cultivation and
cattle grazing) still contribute to the forest degradation in many places;
- the counterpart funding is still inadequate;
- the destruction by fire of the Ministry of Agriculture building in early
1988 has left the project without archives and accounting documents.
Auditing of the accounts is proved to be difficult;
- the pressure from surrounding farmers on the land still under forest
cover, in the Foret des Pins, is continuing;
- there is an inappropriate institutional framework with two Governmental
institutions who administer all the forest in Haiti and they do not
coordinate their actions;
- the forestry legislation is inapplicable;
- the absence of policy on national forestry; and
- the complex landowner system (land tenure conflicts are hindering
implementation of the forest management program).



-35-
Part III
Table 3
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT 1257-HA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Credit Disbursements
(US$'000)
-FISCA________-----------F I S C A L Y E A R (FY) 9 -------------------------
1983     1984    1986       1986    1987      1988      1989    1990
Appraisal Estimate    70.0     87.0    2.20       8,700    4,000    4,000     4,000    4,000
Actual                64.5     61.4   802         1,899    2,169    3,188     8,877    4,249 2
Actual as X of
Appraisal Estimate    79       69      86            88      54        80        97     106
Date of Final Disbursement: February 13, 1990
Cancelled Amount at Closing: US$ equivalent 107,000 (SDR 81,300)
1/   Bank FY (July 1st to June 30).
2/   IDA credit was granted in Special Drawing Rights (SDR).  The actual
final disbursement figure is higher than the original amount estimated
at appraisal because during project implementation disbursements were
made in US dollar equivalents of the then SDRs amounts of the IDA
credit which reflected the exchange rates existing at the time of each
disbursement.



Part III
Table 4
-36-                        Page 1 of 2
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT 1257-HA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
A. Project Costs
(US$'000)
Actual as Z
Components/Categories               At Appraisal      Actual 1/   of Appraisal
1. Reinforcement of Forestry
Bureau                                  722.0       1,543.9          214
2. Forestry Training                      2,112.8       1,346.1           64
3. Fuelwood Plantations                     685.0          921.7         135
4. Pine Forest Management                 1,194.6       1,336.4          112
5. Development of Cooking Stoves            149.4           36.5          24
6. Preparation of the Second Phase          213.0            3.7           2
Total                          5,076.8        5,188.3          102
========== =Feb  y         ==========
1/ Up to February 15, 1990.



Part III
Table 4
-37-                                Page 2 of 2
B. Prolect Financing
(US8'000)
Components/Categories              Government      IDRC 1/      AFVP  i       IDA      Total
At ApDraisal
1. Reinforcement of Forestry
Bureau                               28.8        0.0             0.0       698.2       722.0
2. Forestry Training                     44.7        0.0           116.7     1,952.4     2,112.8
8. Fuelwood Plantations                  79.4      160.6          212.0        248.0       686.0
4. Pine Forest Management                89.9        0.0          231.3        898.4     1,194.6
5. Development of Cooking Stoves          0.0      149.4            0.0          0.0       149.4
6. Preparation of the Second Phase        0.0       0.0              0.0       218.0       21a.0
Total                      217.8      800.0          669.0     4,000.0      5,076.8
Actual
1. Reinforcement of Forestry
Bureau                              200.6       58.1             -       1,285.2     1,648.9
2. Forestry Training                     47.9        4.7            -        1,298.6     1,846.1
8. Fu-lwood Plantations                 410.2       86.1            -          426.4       921.7
4. Pine Forest Management                94.6        1.0             -       1,240.8     1,886.4
5. Development of Cooking Stoves          -         88.6            -            -          86.5
6, Preparation of the Second Phase        -          -              _8 7                     8.7
Total                      758.6      186.4            -       4,249.4      6,188.8
3) IDREC - Canadian International Development Agency.
V/  AFVP  - French Assoclation of Volunteers.



Part III
Table 5
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT 1527-HA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
A. Direct Benefits
Component and Appraisal Targets                                          Actual Results
1. Strengthenina of the Forestry Service
(1)  recruitment of external consultants                                Done
(ii)  Integration of forest technicians
trained by the project                                            Done
(iM)  purchase of vehicles and equipment                                  Done
2. Forestry Training and Education
(1)  graduate training                               8                     8
(ii)  technical training                             60                    61
(il)  primary school training (toachers)            138 per              None
year
S.  Fuelwood Species Trials (No.)                        4                      8
4. Pilot Fuelwood Plantinps (ha)                       500                    400
5. Pine Forest Management
(1)  delimitation                                                       Done
(ii)  Inventory (ha)                            26,600                 11,600
(Ii1)  management plan                                                Incomplete
(lv)  replanting (ha)                               200                   S00
S. Development and Promotion of
Fuel-Efficient Stove
(I)  study and manufacture of model                              Study Done
(li)  market test                                                 Initiated in Cayes Inconclusive
results
7.  Preparation of Follow-up Prolect                                 Project identified
POLICY ASPECTS
(I)  Improve operations of forest                                Due to lack of funds operations not
service                                                     sustainable after project
(ii)  carry out extension activities                              None
(111)  enact and apply forest legislation                          Review carried out; no legislative
action taken
(iv)  develop viable reforestation                                Incomplete; additional approaches
technology                                                  involving people need to be tested



Part III
-39-                      Table 5
Page 2 of 2
B. Economic Impact 1/
Appraisal
Estimate             Actual
Economic Rate of Return (Z)                 Extremely Positive         N/A
C. Financial Impact 1/
Appraisal
Estimates            Actual
With stumpage at US$.21m3                   Highly Negative          N/A
With stumpage at US$.5/m3                   Highly Negative
With stumpage at US$10/m3                         1.4
With stumpage at US$12/m3                         9.88
1, The actual economic and financial rates of return have not been
estimated mainly because this was a pilot operation and it is too early
to assess the performance of field trials of fuelvood species
(para. 6.13).
D. Studies
The following studies have been completed during project implementation:
- the Management Plan of the Foret des Pins;
- the drafting of a detailed curriculum for the training of forestry
technicians;
- a report on the results of the Forestry Applied Research Program;
- proposals for establishing a Corps of Forestry Guards and improving
forestry legislation; and
- the Preparation R -ort for the follow-up Forestry Program.



-40-
Part III
Table 6
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT 1257-HA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Status of Covenants
DEADLINE FOR
COVENANT             SUBJECT                        COMPLIANCE                 STATUS
3.01 (a)  The Borrower shall carry out the       During project    Direct counterpart funding was
project and shall provide the          implementation.   very inadequate.  However, the
funds, facilities and services,                           Government is currently
promptly as needed, required for                          financing the cost of the
the purpose.                                              project local staff salaries
(about US$300,000 equivalent
per year).
3.05      Candidates for fellowships shall be  During project    Some of the forestry
satisfactory to IDA and after          implementation.   technicians were not
trained shall be recruited under                          contracted by the Government
the project-financed training                             in the early years due to lack
program.                                                  of sufficient local funds.
3.06      Government shall intensify                                Resources were unavailable.
agricultural support services to
farmers in the project area of La
Selle, in particular by provision
of credit and appointment of
additional extension agents.
3.07      Government shall review, for future  December 31,         Draft future legislation was
forestry projects preparation, the   1984.                prepared in August 1985.  Its
existing legislation and                                  review was delayed due to
regulations, exchange views thereon                       political events after
with IDA prior to the end of 1984,                        February 1986.
and thereafter introduce
modifications, as necessary.



Part III
-41-                               Table 6
Page 2 of 2
DEADLINE FOR
COVENANT             SUBJECT                         COMPLIANCE                STATUS
4.01 (c)  Audit reports of project accounts    Before April 30   Audit reports were generally
to be received by IDA within four    of each year         late and with many
months of the end of the Government  during project    qualifications.
fiscal year.                           implementation.
4.03      Government shall cause the Bureau    During project    Illegal commercial logging
to collect an appropriate charge       implementation.   took place during project
for sawtimber commercially                                execution.  In 1987, the
harvested in La Selle managed                             Government stopped all
forest.  Charge to be increased                           authorized commercial logging
periodically.                                             in order to control illegal
operations.



Part III
-42-                        Table 7
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT 1257-HA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
A. Staff Inputs
(Staffweeks)
FY       Preparation        Appraisal       Negotiations      Supervision         Total
1978          0.15                                                                 0.15
1979
1980
1981        32.18              14.40            9.89                              56.47
1982                           26.18                                              26.18
1983                                                              9.59             9.59
1984                                                             19.00            19.00
1985                                                             23.55           23.55
1986                                                             11.95           11.95
1987                                                             11.46           11.46
1988                                                              8.11            8.11
1989                                                             11.49           11.49
1990                                                              4.41 1/          4.42
Total     32.33              40.58            9.89             99.57          182.37
1/ Includes 4.09 staffweeks for PCR.



Part III
-43-                                Table 7
Page 2 of 2
B. Missions
Stage of                  Month    No. of      Days In  Specialization       Performance    Type of  i
Prolect Cycle               /Year    Person       Fleld    ReDresented 1,   Retina Status 2,  Problems
THROUGH APPRAISAL
Identification (FAO/CP)      03/79      2           7        b,d
Identification/Preparation
(FAO/CP)                   08/80       1          7         *,d
Preparation FAO/CP           01/81      4          21        *,d,d,d
Preparation Bank             01/81      2          11        *,b
Preparation Follow-up
(Bank)                     04/81       2          7         O,f
APPRAISAL THROUGH
BOARD PRESENTATION
Appraisal                    06/81      8          17        a,d,d
Appraisal Follow-up          09/81      2           6        b.e
SUPERVISION
Supervision 1                02/83      1           4        *                 2                   M,F
Supervision 2                08/88      2           s        *,g               8                   U
Supervision 8                10/88      1           2        *                 -                   -
Supervision 4                01/84      8          10        b,c.-             2                   U
Supervision 5                07/84      1           s        e                 2                  U
Supervision 6                01/85      8           7        b,-,e                                 U,T
Supervision 7                08/86      2          12        b,e               8                   U
Supervision 8                10/86      1          10        *                 2                   U
Supervision 9                08/86      1           8        o                 2                  -
Supervision 10               11/87      2           8        c,.               -                   -
Supervision 11               10/87      2           4        coo               2                   U
Supervision 12               04/88      2           9        e,f               2                  U
Supervision 18               09/88      1           6        *                 -                  _
Supervision 14               12/88      1           6        *                 2                  U
Supervision 16               04/89      1           4        *                 2                  U
a/  a = mission leader; b = forestry specialist; c   e economist or agricultural economist;
d = consultant; e = agriculturalist; f = civil engineer; g = financial analyst.
3/ 1 = problem-free or minor problems; 2 = moderate problems; 8 = maJor problems.
3/ F = financial; U = managerial; T = technical.



MAP SECTION
S.



.   '  e ,   A : ,  o . , :  . ,A                              /       A     N     /N          Cp e                    t     -     -              O     C     E    A     N                                                7 i
- 4k<                                                                                                                   . . Por,  de P3ix
| . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A R6 F.W.,       |
CUBA' -\L. 6                                                                                                                                                                      w 
H     BUEC IN T I                                                                                                       0%        A-_
FAMAICA                               RICO RT>it'   -'
Pinre    forest   eomooruent                                                                                     G        w         0              g9,                                                    W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI  f
C~ ~  ~    ~      ~    ~ ~~~6 Humi                                                                                                                SC rdeo.                                       - N'
HAITI                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C'
FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :
I  IPine forest component
fl Pine forest management hseadcotoarters
FvPel.ooad species trials and demronstrations                                                                                                                                                                                 cc
Ecological nones:
Humnid
'--Anneal oerage rainfall in millimeters                                                                                                                      Ssd
Risers                                                                                                      Gon&ve                                                    nrLLA Onrtlt                             nAn.             1O
-Main higheays
Scondapry roads
.    - - --  Tertiary roads
-    - International boundarp S3
K ILO M ET E R S   0  1 9  20     30      40      5 0                                                                               _6Lp
MILES 6            6o          io           So                                                                    <J4 C              >
400 >Jerdrnie~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
R.....,t-Au-P,o.e   R                                                                                                                                                                                  Z
A ...     D 'H ir.     1,                                                                                                                                                                                          0 0~~00 ,  onn dn a,n .
S.ats                      VACHe I                      C    a    r   /   6       b   e   a    n                5   e   a
Pv roaocnno  rrhnOn,nooa,adsnb.ndoo 606600 Su 660
cne. Qn.gn.f, n. OOOu P00 uonoOor,. Cno,   a                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IrS
06566 06M .060d. en vInnrno uunou06m00 Oufl=r  o



