v   kAS C hJ g ' 
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3252-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A
FORESTRY PROJECT
May 12, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.0       =  G (Gourde) 5.00
G  1.0       =  US$0.20
G 1 million = US$200,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                          British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                  =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)    =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)         =  2,205 pounds (lb)
1 cubic meter (m3)           =  1.3 cubic yards (cu yd)
ABBREVIATIONS
AVFP      -  French Association of Volunteers for Progress
BRH       -  Banque de la Republique d'Haiti (Central Bank)
CARE      -  Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere
CIDA      -  Canadian International Development Agency
DARNDR    -  Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources
and Rural Development
FB        -  Forestry Bureau
FAO       -  Food and Agriculture Organization
FAMV      -  Faculty of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine
HACHO     -  Organization of Haitian Communities
IDA       -  International Development Association
IDB       -  Inter-American Development Bank
IDRC      -  International Development Research Center (Canada)
IMF       -  International Monetary Fund
ODN       -  Development Organization for the North
OAS       -  Organization of American States
SHADA     -  Haitian-American Corporation for Agricultural Development
SONAMAR   -  Haitian Society of Friends of the Tree
PVO's     -  Private Voluntary Organizations
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development
VP        -  Volunteers for Progress (French)
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
t
I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Haiti
Amount:         SDR 3,600,000 (US$4.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description: The project would provide technical assistance and help to
prepare a large scale program aiming at the reversal of the
trend towards depletion of Haiti's forest resources. It would
define and begin institution building for a systematic
approach to reforestation and include the following compo-
nents: (a) strenghtening and restructuring of the existing
Forestry Bureau; (b) forestry training in Haiti and abroad;
(c) fuelwood species trials; (d) pilot plantings near
Port-au-Prince and in the Northwest; (e) management and
improvement of about 20,000 ha of existing pine forest in the
Southeast; (f) testing and promotion of cheap and fuel effi-
cient stoves; and (g) preparation of a full scale forestry
project.
Risks:         The risks of the project are limited experience in forestry
and reforestation in Haiti, institutional weakness and compe-
tition of potential forest land with agricultural uses. The
risks would be minimized by ensuring flexibility in project
implementation and close supervision by IDA missions.
Project Cost:
Local     Foreign      Total
…-------- US$' 000    …
Forestry Bureau                      45.6       528.8      574.4
Forestry Teaching/Training          537.9     1,145.7   1,683.6
Pilot Plantings (incl. trials)    143.8         411.1      554.9
Pine Forest Management              473.3       487.6      960.9
Stove Testing                        60.3        56.7      117.0
Project Preparation                   0.2        168.8     169.0
Total Base Cost                   1,261.1     2,798.7   4,059.8
Physical Contingencies               54.9         77.4     132.3
Price Contingencies                 322.8       561.9      884.7
Total Cost                        1,638.8     3,438.0   5,076.8
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Cost:
Local   Foreign      Total
-US$ 000     …
Financing Plan:      Government       217.8       -         217.8
IDA           1,250.0   2,750.0   4,000.0
IDRC            171.0      129.0      300.0
AFVP             -         559.0      559.0
1,638.8   3,438.0   5,076.8
Estimated
Disbursements:          IDA              Annual      Cummulative
Fiscal Years         -------US$'000--------
FY83                    70.0           70.0
FY84                   800.0          870.0
FY85                1,330.0         2,200.0
FY86                1,500.0         3,700.0
FY87                   300.0        4,000.0
Rate of Return:      Not quantifiable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 3776a-HA, dated May 12, 1982.
Maps:                 No. IBRD 15925 and IBRD 15926, attached in Annex.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI FOR A
FORESTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 3.6 million (US$4.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to the Republic of Haiti, to help finance a forestry
project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The last economic report on Haiti, distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 13, 1981, was Report No. 3444-HA entitled "Memorandum on the
Haitian Economy". Its main findings, updated and complemented with the
findings of recent missions to Haiti, are summarized below. Relevant social
and economic data are presented in Annex I.
3.        Haiti's GNP per capita stood at US$270 in 1980, the lowest level in
the Western Hemisphere. The dire poverty of this country is reflected in
data collected in 1976 that showed that almost 75 percent of the population
lived under conditions of absolute poverty; the rate of infant mortality was
about 150 per thousand live births; average life expectancy was 51 years;
there were low nutrition and sanitation standards (malnutrition and gastro-
enteric diseases account for over half of the deaths in the country) and the
adult illiteracy rate was about 80 percent. Open unemployment is about
16 percent and underemployment might have reached 60 percent of the labor
force in 1979. Income is distributed unequally: in 1976, the top 0.4
percent of the population absorbed 43.7 percent of national income, while
more than 80 percent of the people had an average per capita income of less
than US$100 per year. Extreme rural poverty and high pressure on
agricultural land (350 inhabitants per sq km) and the lack of development of
other sectors, in recent years, resulted in an acceleration of migration
within and out of the country.
4.        High mortality and migration have so far slowed population growth
(1.9 percent per annum during the 1975-80 period), but the natural desire on
the part of the Government is to improve health conditions.  Thus, health
improvements and growing difficulties imposed on emigration to neighboring
countries will aggravate the already unfavorable relation of resources to
population and Haiti will increasingly suffer from pressure of a steadily
growing population. The Government is aware of this painful situation and is
willing to initiate a constructive dialogue with the Association and other
bi- and multilateral agencies on the subject. We intend to review population
problems with Government during July 1982.
1/   All figures refer to the Haitian fiscal year ending September 30.



- 2 -
5.        Haiti's GDP expanded at an average annual rate of 4.4 percent or
2.7 percent per capita during the 1970-80 period. The pattern of growth,
however, was subject to cyclical fluctuations ranging from 5.4 percent in
1980 to zero growth in 1981. These fluctuations were influenced by the
performance and weight of agriculture, subject to the vagaries of weather and
external markets. Manufacturing and construction have shown a more even
performance.
6.        Between 1970 and 1980, agriculture provided employment for about
63 percent of the labor force, contributed on average 38 percent to GDP, and
grew at an average annual rate of 1.7 percent. The sector--which provides
most of Haiti's exports--is characterized by extremely low productivity. Its
weak performance is reflected in declining agricultural exports, which
decreased by 1.3 percent annually (in real terms) between 1970 and 1980.
Furthermore, the rapid disappearance of Haiti's forests and the resulting
soil erosion are reducing the availability of wood, the country's prime
source of energy, and leading to a shrinkage of the area of productive land.
In an effort to halt these trends, the Government has recently revived
erosion control and forestry programs.  It also has initiated programs to
introduce improved grain varieties, rehabilitate coffee plantations, restore
the major irrigated systems and develop agro-industries.
7.         Since 1970, manufacturing industries, construction and public util-
ities have emerged as the most consistently dynamic activities with average
annual growth rates of 6.8 percent, 14.1 percent and 9 percent respectively.
Their combined share in GDP represented 22 percent (in 1981) and their con-
tribution to GDP growth during the eleven year period was of the order of 42
percent of the GDP increment. The manufacturing sector owes much of its
expansionary drive to the export processing industries--which have a strong
potential for further development-- and to a rapid increase in output of con-
struction materials. Growth of locally manufactured products, other than
construction materials, for the domestic market was necessarily limited by
the thinness of this market, a reflection, in turn of the low income levels
of most of the population.  Construction, on the other hand, was fueled by
public investment in infrastructure.
8.        Gross investment reached 15 percent of GDP in 1981, compared to 10
percent in 1970. This progress was entirely attributable to the public
sector, whose share of total investment has increased from one-fifth in 1970
to two-thirds in 1981, as a result of an average expansion rate of 14 percent
per year in real terms. The Government's investment strategy, as stated in
its two Five-Year Development Plans (1972-76 and 1977-81), was geared to the
decentralization of economic activity in favor of rural areas and provincial
towns. However the Government's decision in 1980 to carry out three major
investment projects not included in the Five-Year Plan, has displaced or
delayed planned investments and has distorted priorities somewhat.
9.        The Haitian Government has prepared an inventory of public sector
development projects for the 1982-86 period as part of a new Five-Year
Development Plan which is being evaluated by the Bank. Agriculture, trans-
port, and energy rank high both in the number of projects and in the resour-
ces allocated to them, as was the case in the previous five-year period.



These priorities are in line with the country's most urgent needs for expan-
sion of the productive sectors and development of basic infrastructure to
support them; however, planned investments in soil conservation and refores-
tation may still be on the low side.
10.       The mobilization of domestic resources for investment is hampered
by a low average income level and institutional weaknesses in the capital
market and in public finance. During the 1979-81 period, gross national
savings (GNS) amounted to only 4.3 percent of GDP in spite of a more flexible
interest rate policy starting 1980. Foreign assistance, therefore, plays a
major role in supplementing domestic savings and in increasing the Govern-
ment's expenditure capabilities, as some two-thirds of public investment are
financed by foreign lending and aid.
11.       As regards public sector savings, the Government of Haiti has
undertaken during the period 1979-81 a major reorganization of fiscal manage-
ment: most public revenues have been integrated into the Government's
budget; the Treasury now centralizes all current expenditures and a signifi-
cant share of capital expenditures; tax collection is being consolidated and
parafiscal functions have been removed from the Regie du Tabac (State Trading
Monopoly); sound accounting procedures are being established in all public
institutions; customs duties have been consolidated and rates on luxury goods
have been raised; new taxes have been imposed on the lottery and on interna-
tional communications and the income tax law was amended to improve equity
and elasticity of income taxation.
12.       While there have been significant gains towards achieving the goals
of the fiscal reform, recent information suggests that resistance to these
measures remains: this is especially true of the business community's react-
ion to customs tariff increases. In addition, large extra-budgetary expendi-
ture authorizations in 1980 and 1981 have made expectations of a return to
fiscal equilibrium uncertain and the use of resources for efficient purposes,
unclear. The public sector deficit increased from 7.9 percent of GDP in 1979
to around 9.8 percent in 1981 and increasing recourse was made to central
bank financing.
13.       Haiti's coffee crop in 1981 was particularly poor.  This, coupled
with a drop in its world price and a decline in bauxite export revenues,
resulted in an overall decline of Haiti's merchandise exports of 28 percent
as compared with the level achieved in 1980. These low export revenues and
the demand pressures generated by the fiscal deficit produced a balance of
payments crisis and reduced Haiti's net international reserves to zero.
Furthermore, Haiti's drawing rights under an Extended Fund Facility (EFF)
with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), now expired, were interrupted as
ceilings on net domestic bank credit to the public sector and on net domestic
assets of the monetary authorities were exceeded.
14.       The continuing high proportion of grants and concessionary loans
extended to Haiti has helped the country maintain its debt-service ratio at
an estimated 8 percent for 1981. The rising level of private foreign
investment and of supplier's credits, however, will bring with it larger
factor payments in the form of dividend repatriation and interest payments.



- 4 -
15.        The ability of Haiti to maintain an acceptable growth rate in the
future will depend on successful efforts to improve substantially the
productivity of the agricultural sector and to continue diversifying the
economic structure, especially into export-oriented industry. Because of the
limited capacity to generate adequate levels of savings, Haiti will have to
continue relying heavily on foreign savings to finance a high proportion of
the costs of carefully selected development and institution building
projects. Moreover, such external assistance should continue being extended
on very concessionary terms in view of Haiti's low income level, modest
prospects for export growth and increasing dependence on imported energy.
But the terms, size and timing of the external assistance will depend very
much on Haiti's own efforts in exercising fiscal and monetary prudence, in
mobilizing domestic resources and putting them to good use.
16.        Recent changes in the composition of the cabinet have brought forth
a new capable economic team which is rethinking the organization of economic
decision making and is beginning to implement a very austere budget.
17.        The Association and the IMF are closely involved in Haiti's effort
to improve fiscal performance and economic management in general. The IMF
has helped design and is closely monitoring the authorities' short-term
program. The Association has been requested by Haiti to establish a sub-
group within the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development.
IDA is extending assistance to the authorities in the preparation of longer
term plans to mobilize the country's scarce resources for economic develop-
ment, including the priorities of public investments, identification of
bottlenecks in project execution and, more generally, institution building
efforts. The staff of the IMF will be closely monitoring Haiti's performance
in the months to come, and if the progress made in recent months is sus-
tained, the IMF would be in a position to give additional financial assis-
tance to Haiti.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
18.        The first Bank loan and IDA credit, in 1956 and 1962, respectively,
were for the highways sector. Since 1974, IDA has financed 13 projects in
Haiti. Two credits for highway projects were made in 1974 and 1975. In
1976  a credit was made for an education project, and, in 1977, credits were
approved for power and rural development projects. In 1978, credits were
made for a transportation project (roads and a pilot coastal shipping port
component); for a second education project and for a water supply project in
provincial towns. A credit for a second power project was approved in 1979.
In 1981, credits were made for a post-hurricane agricultural rehabilitation
project in the Southern Peninsula, for a port development project and for an
industrial credit project and in 1982, a credit for a sixth highway project
was approved. The total of credits outstanding is US$131.2 million of which
US$43.2 million were undisbursed as of March 31, 1982. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Group operations in Haiti and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects as of March 31, 1982. An IFC loan (US$3
million) has been approved for an integrated poultry project. The loan has,
however, not yet been signed. IFC is investigating possibilities of
investment in economically viable projects, including projects in
agroindustry and the construction industry.



- 5 -
19.       Various multilateral and bilateral agencies are active in Haiti.
The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has made loans for rural develop-
ment, transportation, industrial credit, rural education, water supply,
development of the Port-au-Prince harbor, and urban drainage in Port-au-
Prince. The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) is providing
assistance for integrated rural development projects, community development,
malaria eradication, maternal/child health care and family planning,
construction of feeder roads, highway maintenance, and coffee rehabilitation
following the hurricane of August 1980. In addition, USAID is assisting the
Government in its administrative reform efforts. The Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) has been supporting a rural development project in
the Southern Peninsula and is participating in a power project in
Port-au-Prince in connection with the Second Power Project assisted by IDA,
and is helping agricultural and technical education and the construction of
school facilities. CIDA has also completed a study of Haiti's water resource
potential for both irrigation and for power generation. France has financed
road construction and is financing seed production, educational planning and
research, tourism development, and equipment for provincial airports. The
Federal Republic of Germany is providing technical and financial assistance
for a regional development project in the Gonaives Plain, power facilities
for Cap Haitien and the Drouet - Saint M4arc areas, and, together with France,
is providing technical assistance for the execution of the IDA-assisted rural
development project in the Northern Plain. The Federal Republic of Germany
is also financing construction of water supply systems in two provincial
towns and participates in the IDA-assisted port development project.
20.       Recent and prospective IDA operations in Haiti take into account
the ongoing and planned roles of other official lending agencies. In line
with the Government's Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan
(1977-81) and with Haiti's development priorities (as expressed in the new
Development Plan 1982-86), current and planned IDA operations are meant to
support the improvement and expansion of basic infrastructure in transporta-
tion, power, sites and services and marketing of product; to expand educa-
tional opportunities and upgrade educational skills, to promote development
both in rural areas and provincial towns, and to create new employment oppor-
tunities in the directly productive sectors. As with ongoing projects, all
proposed operations would always include substantial institution building
components.  The proposed project would represent a second important
involvement of IDA in the rural development sector and address a group of
problems so far not included in the assistance programs of other major
donors.
21.       A third power project has been appraised and would include the
expansion of generating facilities in Port-au-Prince and rehabilitation and
renovation of the distribution and transmission networks. A third education
project, being appraised, would continue support for basic education, includ-
ing curriculum reform. The ongoing Rural Development Project provides for
the preparation of a second project which would extend the scope of the
Regional Development Agency's programs to additional areas of the Northern
Department. An urban project, being prepared with assistance from the
Project Preparation Facility, is expected to help the poorer segment of the



-6-
population through upgrading of a produce market in Port-au-Prince and sites
and services assistance in Port-au-Prince and two provincial towns.
22.       Disbursement performance is considered satisfactory.  Initial
disbursements normally take off slowly, but accelerate once a project has
become institutionalized. On several occasions, the lack of counterpart
funds has delayed disbursements. However, the establishment of working funds
in recent projects has brought improvement in this respect.
23.       The Bank Group's share in Haiti's external debt disbursed and out-
standing came to 25.6 percent as of October 1, 1981. The Bank Group's share
of external public debt service was about 2.8 percent and will decrease
during the coming years.
PART III - THt AGRICULTURAL AND FORESTRY SECTORS
Background
24.       Haiti occupies the western third of the island of Hispanola, with
an area of 27.750 km2 and a long and rugged shoreline of 1.530 km (about 1 km
per 20 km2 of land area). The interior of the country is mountainous with
about 40 percent of the land above 500 m. In 1980, the population of Haiti
reached over 5 million, of which about 25 percent are living in urban areas.
Port-au-Prince, the capital, has a population of over 750,000.
Energy Situation
25.       Wood currently meets about 72 percent of Haiti's energy needs.
About 95 percent of total wood consumption is transformed into household
energy for which demand is growing at an annual rate of about 3 percent.
Petroleum products supply 17 percent of the energy requirements, hydro-power
about 3.3 percent, and bagasse 7.7 percent. The urban sector consumes over
90 percent of the supply in electric energy and uses 50 percent of the pro-
duction of charcoal. Since 1973, petroleum consumption has increased at an
annual rate of 10.6 percent and was estimated to be worth US$45.0 million in
1979-80. Exploration for hydrocarbons has so far not been successful. The
hydraulic potential is limited. Of the assessed potential of about 150 MW,
close to a third is already developed. Lignite deposits have been identified
at several locations, however, the reserves have not yet been defined. They
will not alleviate pressure on the forestry resources in the near future.
Agricultural Production
26.       The agricultural sector contributes about 40 percent to GDP and
about 60 percent of total merchandise exports. Cash crops (coffee, sugar
cane, cocoa, sisal, cotton) account for 34 percent of total value of agri-
cultural commodities; food crops (rice, corn, plantains, beans, millet, sweet
potatoes) for 56 percent and livestock production for some 10 percent. Most
farmers keep a few heads of livestock; hogs are most important (though
currently affected by African swine fever), followed by beef cattle.



-7-
Land Tenure and Farm Size
27.       About 70 percent of the economically active population are engaged
in agriculture. Agricultural population density per hectare of crop area is
high (4/ha). About 46 percent of the farms have less than 2 ha of land; 73
percent of the farms are smaller than 4 ha and only about 8 percent are
larger than 10 ha. Larger holdings occupy the most productive flatland
primarily devoted to the cultivation of sugar cane. Smaller holdings are
normally fragmented with an average of three parcels per farm.  Few farmers
hold clear titles to their land. Wage labor in agriculture is common in some
parts of Haiti and many small land-owners/farmers try to improve their cash
income with earnings from other activities.
Agricultural Constraints
28.       The most important constraint is the low level of production tech-
nology, which translates directly into low yields of the main crops. It
imparts to Haitian agriculture one of its main and most paradoxical charac-
teristics: the under-utilization of the productive lowlands and the over-
utilization of the marginal uplands with resulting erosion. The five major
areas of technical problems are:  (a) use of low yielding varieties; (b) poor
crop management; (c) inadequate use of water resources; (d) insufficient
soil and water conservation; and (e) endemic pest problems. Some progress
was made over the last 20 years with the introduction of improved varieties
of sugar cane, cotton, rice and corn.
29.       Weed control generally is insufficient, and use of purchased inputs
(fertilizers, pesticides) is limited (most often justifiably, since local
varieties would not give an economic response). Coffee and sugar cane grow-
ing are little more than picking or cutting exercises, with little or no
management. Land preparation by hand is relatively poor.
30.       Some 226,000 ha of soils would be suitable for irrigation if suffi-
cient water were available; 66,000 ha are under some form of irrigation and
another 11,000 ha could be irrigated without major investment. However, only
a few thousand hectares benefit at present from full water control.
31.       The irrigation infrastructure is old and often damaged by seasonal
floods. Water intakes and canals have silted up as a result of erosion.
Drainage is poor as well, and lack of land levelling, the presence of
scattered trees in the fields, and inadequate organization of water distribu-
tion limit the efficiency of irrigation.
32.       Soil erosion affects most areas of Haiti; it results from heavy
population pressure on land and forests, scarcity of flat or moderately
sloping land, and poor utilization of soil resources, especially in the pro-
ductive valleys and plains. According to FAO estimates, the country loses
some 15 million cubic meters of soil yearly, corresponding to 6,000 ha of
land. Though most of the eroded land is still usable, especially for tree
planting, productivity is declining rapidly. Other erosion effects are:
(a) poor utilization of water because of excessive runoff and higher
fluctuations of the underground water supply, causing shortages of irrigation
water in dry areas; (b) disruption of irrigated agriculture; and (c) rapid
siltation of the Peligre reservoir, the country's major hydroelectric scheme.



- 8-
Institutional Constraints
33.       The general weakness of agricultural support services has been a
major constraint to improving agricultural performance. The most important
support elements are the various services of the Department of Agriculture,
Natural Resources and Rural Development (DARNDR) whose efficiency, however,
is hampered by insufficient funding. The low share in budgetary alloctions
compares unfavorably with the sector's important contribution to the national
economy.  The field structure of DARNDR is weak.  only 5 percent of the its
operational budget is reserved for field expenses and of 400 technicians in
DARNDR's services, only about 200 are assigned to the districts. Duplication
of effort, lack of coordination and lack of effective programs aggravate the
situation. Likewise, the activities of the various technical assistance and
voluntary agencies are not coordinated, which often results in poor utiliza-
tion of resources and programs.
34.       Another important aspect of the institutional framework relates to
the lack of an effective community structure. The Haitian farmer is strongly
individualistic, with no active cooperative tradition. Different informal
organizations, however, exist among rural neighbours and might be developed
to become instruments of rural development. A number of agricultural credit
societies have been created to secure credit and ensure collective
guarantees, and community improvement (road repair, maintenance of irrigation
works, school building and maintenance) through self-help. Some councils are
effective, while others seem unable to distribute benefits equitably among
their members.
World Bank Group Strategy in Agriculture
35.       In view of inadequate infrastructure, weak support services, espe-
cially at the central level, and lack of skilled local staff, the Bank
Group's strategy has been to support the Government's policy of regionaliza-
tion by financing regional development programs while other agencies like
FAO, OAS, USAID and IDB, are providing technical assistance to DARNDR to help
its institutional development.
Experience with the Rural Development Project (Credit 675-HA) in
the Northern Department
36.       The project, which started in 1977, is aiming at the improvement of
physical infrastructure (irrigation, roads, markets, water supply) and crop
production through applied research, credit and extension. After initial
delays in recruiting international and national staff, difficulties with
counterpart financing, and inadequate knowledge of the physical and human
environment, the project is now operating reasonably well. A successful
program of field trials is leading to the development of suitable technical
packages expected to stimulate increases in production; potable water
facilities are already serving about 35,000 people in the project area; road
construction is now advancing rapidly, and agricultural credit is being
supplied increasingly. The irrigation component, however, had to be reduced
because of institutional problems and inadequate data on water supply. The
problem of inadequate arrangements for cutting and milling sugar cane in the
project area remains unresolved. Some steps have been taken by Government
but further action is necessary. This matter is being pursued with
Government on the basis of a consultant study now in progress. A follow-up
project is under consideration.



- 9-
The Forestry Sub-Sector
37.       Former abundant forest resources of the country have been depleted
over the years. Currently forest lands comprise about 930,000 ha, or 33 per-
cent of the land area, but much of it is highly degraded, with only a few
trees per hectare. Of this total, broadleaf species in scattered clumps
occupy about 150,000 ha. Another 70,000 ha of humid highland are occupied by
highly degraded forests of West Indian pine and mangrove occupy some 20,000
ha of tidal marshland. The remaining 690.000 ha consist of degraded wood-
land, primarily on land with limited rainfall, scattered in various parts of
the country, especially the Northwest peninsula and the coastal areas along
the Gonave Gulf.
38.       Total estimated wood consumption for energy is estimated at 4 mil-
lion m3 annually, which is equivalent to about 80,000 ha of dry forest cut
every year. About half the production is in the Northwest peninsula. The
balance comes from other low rainfall areas. Near Port-au-Prince production
has declined as a result of heavy deforestation. Firewood for direct use is
collected as dry or dead wood for home consumption or for sale, and is used
mostly in rural areas. Wood for charcoal production is harvested green and
transformed to charcoal in pit kilns. Charcoal burners sell to inter-
mediaries who in turn sell to shippers who supply the urban areas. Charcoal
making is considered a living for people without other economic alternatives,
and incomes derived from this activity are extremely low. At present, about
50,000 people engage in charcoal making either full-time or as local farmers
working part-time in this occupation.
39.       Sawtimber production, until recently amounted to some 5,000 m3 per
year. There are four sawmills in the country but none of them is currently
operating. Cutting for these mills was indiscriminate, and led to waste and
to ecological deterioration. To put an end to this situation, the Government
in 1980 terminated all logging contracts with private interests, assumed the
management of existing pine stands, and prohibited cutting of pine trees.
Except for a few scattered hardwoods, including mahogany, pine forests are
Haiti's only potential source of commercial lumber.
Forestry Legislation and Institutional Responsibilities
40.       Current legislation includes the rural code of 1962, a number of
organic laws which have an incidence on forestry, and some 50 laws, decrees
or administrative decisions dealing directly with forestry. However,
legislation is practically never enforced, for lack of funds and personnel,
and because of institutional weakness. In 1975, FAO forestry specialists
submitted to the Government draft legislation on forestry development which
would imply a thorough reorganization of the existing legal situation.
41.       DARNDR has responsibility for forestry development.  It includes a
Division of Natural Resources and Irrigation with a Forestry Bureau (FB),
manned by two of the three public employees in the country with forestry
training. Of a field staff of 163, none has forestry training. Forestry
personnel, at all levels, is poorly paid and mainly concerned with police
functions and fiscal matters. Much of the forests and scrublands belong to
the state and are administered by the Land Division of the General Revenue



- 10 -
Service, an autonomous agency of the Ministry of Finance. DARNDR has no
jurisdiction over the land. Efforts to create a unified system of national
forests, managed by a forestry division, have been constantly opposed by the
Revenue Service for fear of losing revenues from forest utilization. State
forests are poorly managed while trees on private land are better protected
and cared for. Species such as mahogany and West Indian pine are predomi-
nantly preserved on private land.
42.       No forestry research is currently being undertaken by DARNDR.  Some
adaptation trials of imported tree species have been conducted under various
FAO projects, but with little or no follow-up after termination of the assis-
tance. There is no forestry education program in the country, except for a
course in forestry and soil conservation as part of the general curriculum of
the Damien Agricultural Institute.
43.       DARNDR'S forestry program is limited largely to the operation of a
tree nursery in each of the 12 agricultural districts of the country. Tree
planting programs under various projects, however, covered only 120 ha in
1978-79 and total area planted to date is only between 500 and 700 ha.
Current activities in forestry development include (a) reforestation and
stand improvement in the Northwest under the auspices of the Harmonisation de
i'Action des Communautaires Haitiens Organises (HACHO), sponsored by Germany,
on several hundred hectares; and (b) "Operation Double Harvest," with plant-
ing of fast growing leucaena and other species near Port-au-Prince. USAID
approved in July 1981 a grant of US$8 million to finance forestry development
by semi-governmental and private organizations, without involvement of the
Forestry Bureau, over a four-year period. In 1981, DARNDR created a Society
of Friends of the Tree (SONAMAR) with the intention to promote tree planting
and terracing all over Haiti. The proposed project would be the first
systematic approach to forestry in Haiti and would structure all subsequent
developments in the sector. It would try to coordinate forestry programs of
various agencies in Haiti and establish the future central role of the
Forestry Bureau of DARNDR in all forestry activities of the country by pro-
viding technical assistance to all important institutions in the forestry
sector and staff training at all levels.
44.       The main elements of the Government's emerging forestry development
policy include: (a) reforestation of critical areas for erosion control;
(b) reduction of sawtimber deficit through management of existing pine stands
and tree planting; (c) training of Haitian personnel in forestry and con-
servation and (d) updating of forestry legislation. A master plan prepared
by DARNDR aims at (a) creating a national forest domain; (b) reforesting;
(c) soil and water conservation; (d) control of logging; and (e) reinforce-
ment of the Forestry Bureau.  More recently, DARNDR has given top priority to
preserving the remains of the natural pine forests, especially the forest of
La Selle in the Southeast, and is preparing a program of conservation of
natural resources under the new five-year plan (1982-86).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The project would essentially provide technical assistance and
constitute a first systematic step towards a later full scale program, aiming



- 11 -
at the reversal of the trend towards depletion of the country's major energy
resource base. The project, in particular would define and begin institution
building for a systematic approach to reforestation and include the following
components: (a) strengthening and restructuring of the existing Forestry
Bureau; (b) forestry training in Haiti and abroad; (c) fuelwood species
trials; (d) pilot plantings near Port-au-Prince and in the Northwest; (e)
management and improvement of about 20,000 ha of existing pine forest in the
Southeast; (f) testing and promotion of cheap and fuel efficient stoves; and
(g) preparation of a full scale reforestation project.
Detailed Features
46.       Reinforcement of the Forestry Bureau:  A senior expatriate
forester would be assigned to the FB to provide technical support to the
various forestry activities under the project, to monitor and evaluate
forestry programs all over the country, and assist with the design of a
large-scale reforestation and forest management program as a follow-up to
this project. The selection of the senior expatriate forester would have to
be effected by September 15, 1982 (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Credit
Agreement) and a field manager would be appointed for each of the trial
planting areas in order to complement the senior forester and to organize
planting management and extension operations (Section 5.01(a) of the draft
Credit Agreement, Condition of Effectiveness).
47.       Forestry Training and Education:  The project would initiate train-
ing and education at several levels. (a) Graduate training: Six fellowships
would be established for graduates of the Faculty of Agriculture and
Veterinary Medicine (FAMV) or the School of Natural Sciences of the
University of Haiti, for training at forestry institutions geared to tropical
environments. The duration of the fellowships would be two years, or three
in justified cases. Assurances have been received from Government that
(i) the selection of candidates would be subject to IDA agreement, and
(ii) the graduate foresters would be appointed and retained in employment in
forestry for a period at least double the duration of the fellowship study
(Section 3.05 of the draft Credit Agreement). (b) Technical Level Training:
In the long run, Haiti would require a substantial increase in the number of
forestry technicians to carry out large-scale afforestation and management.
The project would initiate a training program within the existing Damien
Agricultural Institute.  In the first year of. the program, at least five
candidates would enroll in the training course and total annual capacity of
the course would be designed for 15-20 participants and a course duration of
two years. After one year of technical/scientific studies, the curriculum
would foresee intensive practical training, principally at the pine forest of
La Selle, and also at nurseries and fuelwood planting sites. Some minor
rehabilitation of existing buildings and complementary construction at La
Selle would be required for this purpose. Under IDA financing, the program
would require two full-time lecturers (Forestry Science/Forestry Management)
and one instructor (forestry technician) to be recruited internationally.
National specialists would be recruited as support staff. To ensure
continuity after the project, three graduates of FAMV would be appointed to
act as counterparts to the expatriate teaching staff and also receive
in-service training plus one year of overseas training. (c) Primary School
Training: In order to create an awareness and understanding of forestry



- 12 -
among the population, the Ministry of Education has agreed to introduce
forestry education at the primary school level. Besides classroom teaching,
the program would include the establishment of tree nurseries in rural
schools. Under the project, the technical forestry school would organize
training of rural teachers during the vacation period. Some 130 teachers
would receive training each year. The project would finance teacher training
costs, and also the seeds and teaching materials to be used by the rural
schools for an initial period.
48.       Fuelwood Species Trials:  Controlled trials would be carried out to
test both exotic and local species in areas representative primarily for
fuelwood but also for fruit or forage production and for industrial produc-
tion uses (guayule for rubber, jojoba for industrial oil, etc.). Trials
would be located on state land near Port-au-Prince and in the Northwest, near
Baie de Henne and Jean Rabel. The Government would make available an area of
at least 250 ha near Port-au-Prince and 50 ha each at Baie de Henne and Jean
Rabel (see paras. 53-56 below) for this purpose (Section 5.01(c) of the draft
Credit Agreement, Condition of Effectiveness). In addition to the field
managers (see para. 46 above), an expatriate volunteer would be appointed to
the principal planting area near Port-au-Prince and another to the Northwest
area. The project would provide funds for infrastructure, vehicles,
equipment, and operating costs for this component during the project period,
and direct seeding approaches would be tested in different environments of
the country, especially on rough inaccessible terrain.
49.       Pilot Fuelwood Plantings:  In order to test techniques for refores-
tation and subsequent management, and to develop the capacity of the Forestry
Bureau to carry out larger reforestation schemes, some 200 ha would be
planted near Port-au-Prince with the help of a volunteer technician. Seed-
lings for the project would be produced at the central nursery of DARNDR at
Damien. A seed laboratory for procuring seed internationally and nationally
and for testing and preparing seed for Haiti's needs would be established at
Damien as part of the training component. Planting and maintenance would be
carried out with hired labor. An area of existing shrub forest near
Port-au-Prince would neither be planted under species trials nor under pilot
reforestation and would be protected from fire, agricultural encroachment and
grazing. Sample plots would then be established to measure the growth of
natural stands with and without protection. The other aspect of this
component relates to the tree-planting activites to be carried out in the
Northwest on private farms. After establishing the trials in the first year,
each area field manager would initiate test programs for the distribution of
seedlings of promising species to demonstration farmers. A minimum goal for
the four-year project period would be to have three trial sites established
and an additional area of about 500 ha planted.
50.       Pine Forest Management:  For the remaining pine stands of La Selle,
the Forestry Bureau would set up two management units. Also, it would under-
take an aerial survey, to be interpreted by expert consultants, to classify
the stands by age, density and need of treatment, and to map agricultural
areas. Ground surveys would be carried out by FB personnel to confirm or
modify the results of the interpretation. The inventory established on the
basis of this survey would lead to the preparation of a preliminary manage-
ment plan for the rehabilitation of the stands. Actual management would
be initiated under the project and would consist of planting and seeding of
bare areas, sanitary cutting (removal of diseased trees), culling (removal of



- 13 -
dead and poorly formed trees), protective measures against agricultural
encroachment, fires and overgrazing, and release thinnings of dense, stag-
nated natural regeneration. The harvested timber would be utilized for fuel-
wood charcoal, poles, posts and construction wood.  It is expected that ten
years of such management would be required before large-scale commercial log-
ging could resume. The Forestry Bureau would gradually expand its management
activities on an area control basis to cover the 20,000 ha of the da Selle
forest within a ten-year period. Agriculture support provided by services
of the DARNDR would be intensified to help agricultural settlers to adjust to
the new forest economy.  The Government would provide credit to the farmers
of the area and to appoint additional extension agents for their support
(Section 3.06 of draft Credit Agreement). The employment generated under the
forest management program would give farmers an added source of income and
would help ensure more adequate land use. In addition, the project would
include the construction of technical buildings (for management unit 2 of La
Selle), the maintenance of the main logging roads through labor-intensive
methods, the supply of vehicles and equipment and the financing of
operational management costs. In order to start rational forest management,
the Forestry Bureau would collect a minimum charge for commercially harvested
sawtimber in the La Selle managed forest and such charge would be increased
periodically taking into account such elements as changes in the cost of
operations and the landed price of imported lumber (Section 4.03 of the draft
Credit Agreement).
51.       Development and promotion of Fuel Efficient Stoves.  Since the
improvement of cooking stoves (charcoal and wood) could substantially reduce
the fuel requirements and the demand on wood, the testing of efficient stoves
would be carried out under the project. The Directorate of Energy Resources
of the Ministry of Mines and Energy has developed a charcoal stove model and
has started work on improved wood stoves. Equipment for the Directorate
would be financed and consultant support provided through the project, to
conduct the necessary efficiency testing of a limited number of stove models
in laboratory and households. Also, a survey of cooking practices, which
could affect stove design, would be made both in Port-au-Prince for charcoal
and in rural areas for wood. A condition of disbursement against this
component would be the appointment of a staff member of the Directorate of
Energy to carry out the survey in Port-au-Prince and a member of DARNDR for
the survey in rural areas (Schedule 1, para. 3(b) of the draft Credit Agree-
ment).  Once the acceptance of specific stove models is established, a number
of stoves would be built by artisans and distributed to volunteer organiza-
tions for promotion.
52.       Preparation of a second phase:  Using the experience gained under
the project, and other forestry projects in the country, the FB would prepare
a larger scale project, with the support of the senior forestry consultant.
The second project is expected to include an expansion of fuelwood plantings,
continuation of pine forest management, and further technical assistance and
forestry training. This exercise would include a more precise definition of
a national forestry policy, the definition of the organizational set-up and
program of the Forestry Bureau, and the identification of potential
reforestation areas and methods. To this end, the Bureau would receive the
support of short-term consultants on forestry legislation, and forestry
institutions. Furthermore, the Government would review existing forestry
legislation, exchange views thereon with the Association prior to the end of
the second year of the project, and thereafter make such modifications as



- 14 -
shall be necessary or appropriate (Section 3.07 of the draft Credit
Agreement).  A rural sociologist would also assist in assessing the rural
population's receptivity to reforestation, and in developing and testing ways
to improve interest and participation in tree planting.
Project Forest Land
53.       (a) Fuelwood trial reforestation areas.  An area unsuitable for
agriculture of at least 250 ha would be identified close to Port-au-Prince,
in the foothills surrounding the Cul-de-Sac plain. This area is representa-
tive of the type of land which could satisfy most of the charcoal production
needs of the capital. The thin foothill soils used to be covered by dry
forests which were a major source of fuel, until this vegetation was
exhausted by abusive cutting. The area is easily accessible and making this
land available would be a Condition of Effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the
draft Credit Agreement).        1
54.       The same agreement has been reached regarding the availability of
two smaller sites for fuelwood and pilot plantings in the Northwest. Because
of its dry climate and predominance of hilly thin soils, the northwest
peninsula is the poorest section of the country--the Haitian Sahel. The dry
hills and arid plains are sparsely covered with dry tropical forest and
scrubland. Besides fishing along the coast, tree-cutting and charcoal manu-
facture are the only economic activities in those areas which are too dry, or
with soil too marginal for agriculture. The area presently produces about
half of the charcoal consumed in Port-au-Prince. A number of PVOs and
missionary organizations have been engaged in planting fast growing species
or are interested in initiating such programs.
55.       (b) Pine Forest management  would be carried out in the La Selle
highlands located in the southeastern corner of the country. The hilly
terrain has thin soil on the slopes but some flat areas and valleys have deep
soil suitable for agriculture. The rainfall is high, and the natural vegeta-
tion is that of the humid mountain forest, with West-Indian pine the dominant
species.
56.       Between 1941 and 1957, the La Selle forest was managed and logged
by the private Haitian-American Corporation for Agricultural Development,
(SHADA) which developed the region's infrastructure (roads, aerial cableways
for log/lumber extraction, housing, offices, water supply). In 1957 the
company terminated activities in Haiti and the logging concession was
transferred to private Haitian interests. This latter arrangement was
terminated in 1980 and the administration and management of the forest
entrusted to the Forestry Bureau. Logging of all pine has now been
prohibited in Haiti but some cutting and pit sawing is taking place illegally
with the lumber being sold mostly in Port-au-Prince. As would be expected,
the price of this lumber increased considerably after the official ban on
cutting, and consequent reduction in supplies.
57.       Currently, the pine stands are thinly stocked and degraded because
of overcutting, overgrazing, encroachment by agriculture, and frequent burn-
ing. Vigorous natural regeneration is visible in some areas requiring
release cuttings while in other areas planting or direct seeding is needed.



- 15 -
Some areas have failed to regenerate because of repeated burnings. The
stands are also characterized by a large number of fallen and diseased trees.
58.        The eastern portion of the forest is accessible by an all-weather
road linking Thiotte and the southeastern coast to Port-au-Prince. The
western portion can be reached only through Jacmel on the southern coast via
a difficult access road.
Project Costs
59.        The cost of the project is estimated to be US$5.08 million equiv-
alent; US$3.44 million (about 68 percent) are foreign exchange costs.
Project costs are based on projections for July 1982, assuming an inflation
rate of 15 percent from July 1981 to July 1982. The costs have been calcul-
ated net of all identifiable taxes and duties, from which agricultural devel-
opment projects are exempt. Total costs include physical contingencies
estimated at 20 percent of estimated costs for construction, and 10 percent
for equipment, forestry operating costs, supplies, and operation and mainte-
nance. Price contingencies were calculated by compounding annual price
increases over the implementation period as follows: for foreign costs, 8.5
percent for 1982, 7.5 percent for 1983/85 and 6 percent for 1986; for local
costs, 12% annually throughout the period. The average cost of short-term
consultant services is estimated at US$11,000 per man-month (including
man-month rate, travel and allowances). The cost of long-term consultants is
estimated at US$8.300 per man-month. All consultant services would have to
be contracted abroad and the cost estimates reflect present day requirements
for attracting highly qualified experts in forestry and other project-related
specializations.
Co-financing
60.        The French Association of Volunteers for Progress (AFVP) has agreed
in principle to supply five technicians. Discussions regarding the partici-
pation of the Federal Republic of Germany in paying for important elements of
technical assistance cost are advanced. USAID may be considering paying for
part of the local cost of the project. Canadian support, through IDRC, for
the research aspects of the project (US$0.3 million for technical assistance
for seed selection and trials as well as stove testing) has already been
agreed to in principle.
Project Working Fund
61.        Since experience with other projects in Haiti has shown that
budgetary constraints limit the capacity of Government to pre-finance
expenditures to be reimbursed under IDA credits, a working fund of US$50,000,
to be opened and maintained by withdrawal from the Credit Account, would be
established in a special project account opened in a commercial bank. During
negotiations agreement has been reached to this effect (Section 2.01(b) and
5.01(e) of the draft Credit Agreement, Condition of Effectiveness).
Procurement
62.        Procurement of vehicles and equipment to be financed under the
Credit would be grouped in packages wherever possible. Contracts for four-
wheel driven vehicles for a total of US$190,000 would be procured on the



- 16 -
basis of international competitive bidding procedures.  Other items costing
over US$25,000 and less than US$100,000 would be procured through local
competitive bidding (amounting to US$90,000). Contracts for less than
US$25,000 (amounting to US$290,000) would be procured by direct shopping on
the basis of at least three quotations from established suppliers. Smaller
building contracts (US$200,000) would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally. Services of consultants to be financed by the
IDA credit (US$1,220,000) would be obtained according to IDA guidelines. All
bidding packages would be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement docu-
mentation.
Disbursements
63.       The IDA credit would be disbursed over four years as follows:
-     100% of civil works costs (US$139,000).
-     100% of vehicles, equipment and furniture (US$494,000).
-     100% of incremental field forestry expenses, including
operating costs, inputs, surveys and seasonal labor
for fuel wood and pine forest management components
(US$1,184,000).
-     100% of expatriate and consultant salaries financed
by IDA, and of fellowships abroad, excluding the local
base salaries of the trainees (US$1,474,000).
-     Initial deposit in Special Account (US$50,000).
-      JUnallocated (US$659,000).
64.       Applications for credit withdrawals would be fully documented,
except for applications which would be against, certified statements of expen-
ditures, the supporting documentation for which would be verified by
independent auditors as well as reviewed by IDA supervision missions.
Accounts and Audits
65.       The accounting department of the DARNDR would keep separate
accounts for the project, maintained in accordance with acceptable accounting
practices to reflect the operations and financial position of the project.
The accounts and statements of expenditures (including the working fund),
combined with other internal controls, would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable the Association. The auditors' report would be furnished
to IDA not later than four months after the end of the Haitian fiscal year.
Assurances to comply with these auditing procedures have been received from
the government during negotiations (Section 4.01(c) of the draft Credit
Agreement).
Project Organization and Administration
66.       The Forestry Bureau of DARNDR would be strengthened to carry out
project activities, define policies, and pave the way for an expansion of
reforestation and silvicultural management programs. The Chiefs of the
reforestation and trial units of the Bureau would have direct responsibility
for field planting and fuelwood species trials. The staff of the Forestry



- 17 -
Bureau would be assisted by the senior forestry consultant and the Government
would appoint a senior procurement officer from the administrative section of
DARNDR acceptable to the Association to handle procurement and administrative
matters of the project (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement;
Condition of Effectiveness). The Dean of FAMV would be responsible for the
technical level forestry training program. He would coordinate the
fellowship program with the Ministry of Agriculture and the forestry program
in primary schools, with the Ministry of Education. The Director of Energy
Resources of the Ministry of Mines and Energy would have responsibility for
the cooking stove component.  As a Condition of Effectiveness, satisfactory
arrangements would be made by the Government for the participation of all
above-mentioned ministries in the proposed project (Section 5.01(d) of the
draft Credit Agreement).
Production and Market Aspects
67.       Current production of fuelwood from dry scrub forests is between
0.5 and 1.0 m3/ha/year. Fuelwood plantings of fast growing species at the
site near Port-au-Prince are expected to produce an average of 5 to 10 m3/ha
yearly, to be harvested in five-year rotations. This is equivalent to some
500 - 1,000 kg of charcoal/ha/year. With proper protection, the native scrub
forest is expected to yield between 1.5 and 2.0 m3/ha/year. During the
coming ten years, the harvest from the La Selle pine forest is expected to be
limited to an average of 30 m3/ha of which 12 m3 would be suitable for lumber
production. Once the full productive potential of the forest is restored,
production is anticipated to average 5 m3/ha/year, 70% of it as sawtimber,
and the remainder as fuelwood, poles and posts. The small amount of fuelwood
produced under the project would be readily absorbed by local consumers.
Charcoal would be shipped to Port-au-Prince. Since the demand for building
poles is high, and sawtimber has to be imported, all forest wood produced
under the project would find a ready market in Haiti.
Benefits
68.       The main direct benefits from the project would be the development
of a professional corps of foresters, at all levels, needed for large-scale
forestry development; the development of large-scale fuelwood reforestation
techniques to reverse the trend toward depletion of the country's major
energy resource base,and the restoration of the productive capacity of the
major remaining forest in the country. A major indirect benefit of the
project would be the improvement of the environment and soil and water con-
servation.  The improvement in fuelwood output, and the expected improvement
with efficient cooking stoves would help relieve the severe pressure on wood
resources and reduce the cost of imports of fuelwood substitutes such as
kerosene.
Economic Evaluation
69.       An economic and financial analysis of the proposed project has been
undertaken but no rates of return were quantified. Only the pine forest
management component would, after a longer period, produce cash returns and
with the project, timber yields would increase gradually and reach full pro-
ductivity after ten years. In the absence of the project, a severe fuel



- 18 -
deficit conducive to a virtual disappearance of the natural forests would
have to be expected. With the project on the other hand, the country's
reforestation capacity is expected to be 10,000 hectares per year, within ten
years.
Risks
70.       IDA's experience in the agricultural sector in Haiti shows a
serious lack of technical staff at all levels, institutional weakness,
budgetary constraints and slow expenditure authorization procedures by the
Government bureaucracy. There is the risk that the project may encounter
similar difficulties, though the establishment of a working fund would reduce
the risk of financial constraints. The lack of visible success of former
attempts at reforestation due in part to the lack of experience of the rural
population in this activity, together with the absence of a viable forest
service, and the resulting deterioration of the nation's forests, indicate
the particular difficulties of forestry projects in Haiti. However, the
projected critical fuelwood supply situation, and the continuing
deterioration of the environment, make it necessary to take these risks.
Environmental Impact
71.       Through its educational efforts at the elementary school level and
its extension work in rural areas, the project would lay the groundwork for
an improved appreciation by the population of the economic and ecological
benefits of reforestation and protection of watersheds. Its reforestation
component would reduce pressure on existing native forests as a source of
fuelwood and in doing so contribute directly and indirectly to reducing
erosion and enhance water quality and flow. Its forest management work and
complementary agricultural extension efforts would develop rational land use
practices and reduce destructive grazing and burning patterns while promoting
more profitable alternatives for the rural population.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Haiti and the Association and the recommendations of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted separately. Special conditions are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be that Haiti would
(a) appoint three field managers for the project's planting management and
extension operation; and (b); make available 250 ha of land near Port-au-
Prince, and 50 ha each, near Baie de Henne and Jean Rabel; (c) open a special
account in a commercial bank for the purpose of a project working fund; (d)
appoint a procurement specialist for the project unit; and (e) make
satisfactory arrangements for the participation of all ministries concerned
in the project. A condition of disbursement for the cooking stove component
would be that specialists be appointed by the Directorate of Energy and
DARNDR, to carry out a survey of cooking practices.



- 19 -
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
4                                                           A. W. Clausen
President
by E. Stern
Attachments
May 12, 1982.



- 20 -                                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
HAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             - MST RECENT ESTIMATE)L
TOTAL              27.8                                 MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       14.0               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US0)                   100.0       120.0      260.0   *               1616.2                      794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       36.3         34.5      65.9                    1324.1                     707.5
PUPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  3630.0        4235.0    4920.5    *
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.6          19.9       26.9                     64.2                      27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          8.1
STATIUNARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           17.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       130.6        152.3      177.0                     34.3                      55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    259.0         300.0      345.3                     94.5                     130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          40.9         42.9      43.4                      40.7                      46.0
15-64 YIRS.                         55.2         53.3      53.1                      55.3                      51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.9          3.8        3.5                      4.0                       2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.6         1.5        1.7                      2.4                       2.8
URBAN                               4.1          4.0        5.0                      3.7                       5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      44.7         43.1       40.8                     31.4                      46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       19.3        16.5       14.0                      8.4                      15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0         3.0        2.8                      2.3                       3.2
AUMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..       16.1
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        5.0
PU000 AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP POOD PRODUCTION
PER LAPITA (1969-71=100)          104.0        100.0      92.0                     108.3                      89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    88.0         87.0      93.0                     107.6                      92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           47.0         47.0       51.0                     65.8                      52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         17.0        17.0       18.0                     34.0                      16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       35.7        26.0       20.9                      7.6                      20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    44.4          49.1       53.1                     64.1                      50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..       150.0/c       ..                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPU LATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..       14.0                     65.7                      27.4
URBAN                                ..           ..       38.0                     79.7                      74.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..        7.0                     43.9                      12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..                     59.9
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                     75.7
RURAL                                 ..         1.0         ..                     30.4
POPULATIOIh PER PHYSICLAN          9230.5      11569.0    5936.5                    1728.2                   13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10342.3        7066.7    4230.1                    1288.2                    2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TUTAL                            1567.4       1194.6    1219.0                     471.2                    1028.4
URBAN                             298.0           ..     583.4                     558.0                     423.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..    3309.9                        ..                    3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOIAL                                ..          3.6        4.4
URBAN                                ..          2.2        4.2
RIURAL                                ..         4.3        4.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          1.9
URBAN                                ..          2.0
RURAL                                *           1.9
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TUTAL                                ..          4.1        2.9
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                                          Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
HAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 46.0         51.0      58.0                     101.7                      73.7
MALE                  50.0        57.0         ..                    103.0                      96.8
FEMALE                42.0        46.0         ..                    101.5                      79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  4.0          6.0       9.0                      35.3                      16.2
MALE                   5.0         8.0       13.0                     34.9                      25.3
FEMALE                 2.0         4.0        6.0                     35.6                      14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 21.0           19.0        8.0                     30.1                       5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            43.0         52.0      41.0                      29.6                      36.2
SECONDARY                          13.0         18.0         ..                     15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        15.0         23.3         ..                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARE PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          2.7       3.5                     42.6                       32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.8         19.6      20.6                     215.0                      69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.5          2.6       2.9                     89.0                        8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0         18.7       19.7                     62.8                      20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        1.2                      3.2                       0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1970.9       2104.4    2345.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   47.6         46.4      45.6                      22.6                      36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              80.0         74.2      73.7                      35.0                      56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  6.4          7.2       7.2                     23.2                       17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                54.3         49.7       47.7                     31.8                      37.2
MALE                                 58.4         54.3       52.7                     49.0                      47.1
FEMALE                               50.4         45.2      42.8                      14.6                      27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8         0.9        1.0                      1.4                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      169.0                       ..                     381.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..      144.0                    187.6                     156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      82.0                     513.9                     334.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..      73.0                     362.2                     137.6
ESTLMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      55.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      78.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1965-70 average.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population
estimates  shown in the 1981 World Bank                                                  May, 1981
Atlas are $270 (at 1978-80 prices) and 5,009.0
thousand.



-22 -                                                                    ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFltINIeTIN OF S0OCIAL IND0ICATORS
Notes; Although the data are draw   fra  sources generally judged the noe    th-ritati-e and reliable  it should also ha  -ood that theY eay not be ine--
nationally cony-able beca.ee o.f the lack of  _tadsdts-d daftlirtans and concpts cead by digoeret-  __cortain uId                cotogry  data.  Tb. date tee, none-
thalesa, usful to de-orbh  lder  If nagniouda, iadioate  -rede, end charaut-i-e  -t-ti  njor dtfferebttea
ThIrf tacegeua  eeIl  hesneconrygru  o2teeujeecontyan .ilsaure   gou    misoeba  betparrgaiwrehha   heucurygru
at the suhjaatcuouey  (eaceptfor ''ItyitSltuplus Oil Eap.arter" gr-p where "atddle fdauce  North AOnce nd Piddle Ocat' it chosen. heab       e      true
acuir-rultural affiatties) d.              f          I.,.d        i.dIn tba reference group date the toraesar  papaloei-  -eighed erithaeulc e.an   far tac  indIcatr  cd chant oly when
and Is ccc  aci fre, cauion nue  be eneeiard in erlatting ac-nre  of one indicatort-              nte.ghs   nrge  r   nyucoli                      prc   ttoolcc
cnc indiccrrr ,Anitt...eISgchecoc-try and rferet groups
LADO  AREA (eoeaden0 cc)Populatcun yeo Ocetta  ted -toe,  -rhu, adro                                                                                            Popuiniac(toal
Ttl-OtaI surfac  ara ocapristog land are  and inland eaes                                      rh, and rural)ijdtctded  'Ythier renyrr-tte  -uer of hoapitea1 hed
Agtutrl- Eta-ttt  of agriculturl coca ..eed  -aporartly or p.rnacecelya.. ana blah    In public  -rd yr Oaegred n-oc  at                                 hosyital and o-
tor  -rpa, panur-c, cracht cod kitchen garder  or to lia fe1lac; 197h doec                      hah,illaitcnoI naert..   Pttaatco  hcab            .ue-  parn.anrtly  -tffad
by at I.aa. Ic -,hy.iutin   CEoabliathoe.n  po'dug rltuipellycuat-
lNP PiR CAPITA (UIt) - lay yen ccitos ea aotsc  current carken yrce, ca1-                            dial cam  are cc.trla,dad   Rural hospitals. kocrur, itoluda health
culated by cane  -ocrtiac  _echd 00 World lank Atlas (1977-79 katie); 1960,                       and tedicad     ct1     co _pranrnl  aHafd by a  pynftot-  (hue hy
1970, and 1909 date.                                                                              ned ical a..siatt, _ure, eldiwrt, etc. ) ehichI fafTera-pat hea  aorac
dettan and yr-cide a liniard racg  of  cdtcal ta-tltttee._fa static-
051100Y CPPONSPTIIN PER CAPITA - annual c--uptr ofaeeuleegylcldcc1 pup.use. -rban h-apirale  inuad   Id  prtiaogeel hopliala,
ead lioice,  enrales, natral gu  and hydr-,- nular and gcherntl ale-                      an   ua   opnl   ca    r rura  hupe              cdedia   o Ia_era ty
ad            pt       .ttriratyl tr kiagrane of, cul couil-cen  per Cayitt; l96O, 1970, aod 1909  ca.er.. I ytutailtead hksytoal  rar  1,irudd only unde  r,tota.
dat.                                                                                            Addn.it ne car  ...attl taid -lclone  of  aadieti-n  roar dti-h-res
trehaiaedivided by rho conker cf hede.
POPULATION aol VITAL. STATISTICS
Tatt1 Population, gid-itu, Iocta--da) - he of July 1; 1960, 1971, end 1909                    HOcSItG
data.                                                                                         urere.e Sir of Ocatbal  (crnr  per lalibaueod      oa,uhn   n  rua  -
Urhan Porulati.o  (paroent of tonal) - Ratio of urban no rt.ti  ap1       ti                      A huahbad coriateS ofipnpa   rdiolduca, who chore lIning qutnre
diftarrat definition   odurabarca sy affect conparability If data                               and thi I at  neas   A  boarde  or lodger oar or n              b.cth  included In
a_o g-cutotell; 1960, 1(71, anId 1979 dare,                                                     the bhac.r.  for atania ical  ropoe
Parulatico Prale_ular                                                                           Ao...ruaefuehrca  p          Pac  toccnna.rao    orua-Aergn
Itota  papulartoc by .ag  and et  and their ecta  ryad  atiltty  rase                          - welinge, reep-ciotly.     eiligreatlde o-ennc                   ut.ree end
Prjd eutlo  Parasena-ra for  -otalitry ratat. coprta-of three -1 .cr       ..aeun             unc.tupied purra.
itnI life atyccernoyiat birorI it rio    th counry'. ga r cayina IIcI                        oes-   loriur)erenfuclte)-  tota,Erba,  nd  url
lee,  n  frel  Rt  ryoarcyciliting al 07.5 Vaaa.--  ihe  a-                                   CortonlduellSg  aith eac-triotty In ltitig quartera                  --a.E
fetece Oa  derail iy tare alto htne three         1.  .ee ..asuiag de-lica in- oa,uhr   n   urldelig   epccY.
fertilty ao_ordtng cc t-o.ne le-e  ard Past rosily plc...tig prance
lahck ..uatry I h.n.r aetige   onI   o  theta rice.    nk tln       f n_rtaiy,            EDUCATION'
and f-rtlltey tr.danefor yrjacrtc  pur~pose.                                                Ad(uttcd frluRo ction
Strarco.re   caoulcatt-I_na ataRaar   pclaraa  thee.a.c. rot  atnu                              Pra       cho      oal   aeed feucl  - DItte total, talc and tecal
notr             Theac. iki  I.achiene  only afte  fetclity caret decline to                   petanry  th-oa-aga   our. ce    c-al1         wlua   hlde1gd9-11
tt,repLa...r.. Ileo.. If ucrrceercurarta,oh,,each ...er.n tloo                                  Y_nr  butndju.ttd fordtffa...t lergtttcfprOtccyedu.antln;Ofcr
of ncnen colarer itelf awnotY.  Th  etettoary Poyico   lo   a                            cocucnt  ulseladu_tto   nolen   apeoa  101  p...cat
ea Iatdc  tha beai  of alt prod jetd  tahre-troictireat th   ouaingre                               rPupile ar  hbo. or  bhan  t hr cf fitl   tho    ge
Ic nba yea  20OP, ad the rana of de-lte at fertilicy rtat  to rrplre-                         lecwd-ry school -total, caRe ad frelae- Canputedaa                   ....aecdery
nenled                                                                                          rucicrqtra llectarver   rapcndrnayetr-ion;
Ysaearsatwt-rcn-2u1cticn itrra-hd - The yeur char ecci-toay poultinpr -ir   geerl  cut - tia.aI  creebrtIhrin                                             fwtut oetr pupRA
etar baa barn.. reachd.                                                                        u....i c1   f 12 no 10 yecra of  a g; ...r...p.rdecr carse  c  gecerlly
P.calati.n Dreeittoyodd
Pe Mo   n       id-yea- oultu  per squar  kiloee.ter 1101 he  Ice   f                   oteiana   eraietIett              o  atoder -F ndacatawl"RI           nu Id  oaI
otlae;19(0, 1900 and 11909 data,                                                          include neuheica,  nusral      , orabrporc hich opertel irdded-
Pe  u.h. curiculcu_   land -  cpuc-d as ahun  far agtu 1ua           -ad                     etyo   tOpreneo   eodr   nettaa
only; 196), 1970 and 1978 data.                                                               Pupil-nero her ratio  -1roino  and secondarY   T.tona   todente e-railed in,
Popuattan At   CrhereiecntI-fildrra  (0-14 peare), cokngae S1-                                       pe In ...ca   eaoday lenela djcided by   nb .ar Icf neererad tdd th
Iacian; 1960, 10,ed 1909 daua .                                                                 Rdult Ilte..acn rat   reou)-  ltrat  rdults fahb  no  eadad-rtI.
P.polatida Grannt  rate (pecet) -total - Annal gratb  -an- of ltatl aId-                            teprerg    ftota  tdut papulatica agad 15 peara and ener.
perpopulecac  for 1950-60, 1960-70 , and 1901-09.
P     G_lrtr  rt  Rante leru--) - urhac- Anual grot1h orea of urban yPu,               CONSZPO TfIt
lation. fr190-I  1960-701  and 1970-79,                                                       Pasat.a-gar.lt  loerntbcua..d rarulation) - Paa...sage  ore  coepries notr
Crue  ir  --ue  (eothcusand) - Annual lint biecka per th ...ard If erd-er                    care seaing lees tan eight pera...e; encIu1des aehul..cee, hease  an
yaptlarfto; 1960, 1700, and 1909 dree.                                                          ei     'Yerra_hre
Cruade leahratpeohead    - uc 1 dahrba pr th .....ds of aid-yearRadio RP-cetre    (par thouaa..d cco in      1  tpso   nen  :for radio
papuirnlan; 196, 1900, rod 199 daa                                                      broadatne to geeaI        pbic  e   b ed of  P.plnc;eacladae
Orce. Reyraduoni.a Pan e- Acer..gS  r-on- at daughtar.Ace-o  aill hear ic                         liene    .aeter  O  cucric  a  in yeara  hk,.retaeata  o  radio
IrInc,-Ireyr-duut-np-ruodifhabeea,rle.ce                 preacga-epeoIificfr-                   aesa   rfeedacto r r                    ycenrar  naynIIIheuc-parablesi...
cIli   rtates  usually fne-y-ce a-ragee ecditg ic 1960,1'9          970,ad10.                   acroutlealchdirecing.
Fanuly Plactiag-Auoce   nulOhuad)-Annual nabar of acceptar                                      TV Reoetcers (erpbosn          c     trleta   -T  rceneafa  hcdcasr_to
of birth-cowero  Ococe  under ..urpicre  If Ia..na  Ocaly olatnear proerco.                     gealcblcprnkaadPapaliroc   eoueatreend_                                rtinr
PaioFrntaOea. (_a-cenIo  _a_ete  cos)IPreng   f sacotd                                   it  -cucrica and tn year   he- regiatratica of TV sets ca  It effete.
_can   of child-braing  9t (15-00 pea,a)  hob ... birth-control d-odce to                      eaae   iruoin(a  nbrcardpoplet                        Shj-th     the acrege  Ir-
all carried woec ic eae ago group.                                                              Ioao    f ''dily gare.a  iners  teePaper". dafirad   Isps Ptad1ca
pwblicaticn denoted pricarily to r-cadieggerl  ea,t  ernIderetd
POOAN d   UTROITIOIRN                                                                                ta be "daily" if itrappeerea   laca  four tuneacesek.
Irde- of Food P-ad-uoc. yea Croite__(1969-71=100) - burr. of par capita  -o-ue                  Citue    Aeun1 Attendane_arCpia  e  ta-cased  cc the, aber of
pdutnofall ford oc-ndituec " "t.. .rduu      nludea sed  and.,d fee,d and                tiobet  sold daring tha y-,r  i-cludiag edaite_an  to dr_inei   iae
Ieorcaedcr Y.rkai.    Canrtodi tieo-rne  priory goda(a.   _uga...                               ard nohlsucint..
Onst-dt ecaao.)ebtiohar-edibls anduortcuoss(..cff-aand
nauacareagaprduo   price weighta; 1961-61, 19710,  .ad 1909 dera.                           ice   ao  ForEt hib.ua.de) -farial   cinpncs   nld
Far carita e.'cr1  of ocote(ecn   frciaecl-fCyoreId fra                                         atr  faos  an.d unseplyad bat.. eldleg h.ua.... s  studeta, etc.,
encrocola  of ar   odsplieaalbe  ncocype   aptIonre                                                uartin of all agee.  lefintitt-  in oarte  --nties are
per day.  Actai   cpltucpisdtst   odura,tyrels                                               nrc  _cp-rbla; 1960, 1970 and 190.d.       a
_p_tn., and uhcogra tc etool.  Iet aup ieenlda anin   feed, trade.                          Feeaia (rerrece) I - tleIabrfacea   pecetage of total labor tort..
untteusdifod      proesIng  md lousi itiui R. aquire-                               Arclur   oren-  -Lbrfrei   aing, fcra. tey, bu-rta  and
cetsweeesintd byPdbasedI cc plyOlgolnaa  o   onlac-fadhing                                           rreraaofeel labor .. ecu;a16   19701 a-d 1979 dens.
"'eY atd  betith rnida rtog      roy ....nreIt nprtuure  boy   eihts,te.dsr   oree -p lbor foreitcrtg Idrtrc6t0                                         r   anfruIng
and sea dicerb.ihuio  of papulaciac, cadd all-ctg 10 per_rn  for --es  at                     an,I eerr -p ctr and gas  s perec-ge of total labar f.arc; 1960,
h..thad leal  16-65. 1970, and 197  dat.97  end 1909 den.
Far ccria supploof yrceIn  e-eet rer dry) - Pro tein cotnIf per rapite                 Parcrta   aeIeonn       cr   o                   n   eale - Pertictratiac Ie
eec supply tO f.odf pertdy.Ne supy of food Is defined ne abon.  R.-                           ariciny ra,tes  re  tauce  as tree1, cla, and fena1e labor darcee
qutr-aneta for all... occrtac established by 0100 p-void  fornctc                             p-rcaneges of total, slal  ardfeaapulroofllgsreprie
eoa,   u    fI   rs   f  oa   rti   e  day td2   rn   faia   n                                1960, 1900, end 1909 data.  lbhat  are.. based on ILls. Pa.ilni    ae
puls p.t...c.       hih  0go  thatld be atic    petir.  Tb  .tee  tad-                       ref.ootig .ag-se   strutr   f seppi                ,and long ties trend.  A
aodeareloesrnhar.rhoerofosr~' 75  raeaaficeal1r.rccaie.d 23er.aetcf                     eetcace  ter  fr..ainleuos
narnelproesi  as anenerag  fo 1r the  lo,poae    y TA  ic eke Third             d      c...nic  tednrrat-RtIof prpalaei-nandso  17 ted 65 and roar
Wceld Faod lurn-;; 1961 -61S,1900 and 1970 daa                                                no  the total labor tfr-r
Per piet.  ......r eurol  fran acil Iad pulse-Protein  eapply of foo,d de-
riced froe  -nins-aupusstgrspoda;9t-, 19700 an d 17dat..                                  INOM  DISTRIBU1TO
Ibldh (en   1-6) O-rtellyo Rare  ,I bo hcroowd(  A- Atc1 deactha  pe  nt ,srd  i                  ecrt   fPrrn    ncone (ohaothedkn)- Recitned h  rchs
tee group 1-6years,to ohildr-n  On chic  Sag  grop  foI oe   eelpngt                      5 pe-cett, rIches  20 p at, p-rorat  20 percent, and poret  40 percen.t
totes deco dented fr..Ilif. rablee; 1960, 1900 and 1979 data-                                   cf hbcu..halds.
HEALTH                                                                                          POVE119 TARGET G0ROPi
ce  irch; 1960, 1970 tad10   en                                                                n   hul   eitrrtdct  oaedrabr cautio..
Infrnt , F..r.liy OatBrt (per huad - A-aue .. dearb ofFrf etf ltifda  orei year                 felad Ahclc  Fcrty   -'oc   lardi(PO. ......a..a) p-urhay andmel.                  -
nf age yer tboueard Itne 19trtde a.Abso.hlutpbnrn iccoer,                                                            lated  is  an - idcon b ae   en   no      ot
Acorns totafa gacr Irercethof rcuaeol-.  total ufec iand. ruIra  -. ta-rciitll    dqaedetpa   seet    a-odrquncst   a
bar of prcyls (canal, uchN,edrrletheatasc escnf                                         affod Ab,le.I_l
caerewpl  (ncuds  rete   ariceraer  conrand   utuncaaarard           falene  tlait  Pcoi  Iroe  enl  09  er  area  -uranan  rra_
cate  suka   htfo   rroe   cace,arna   e   rot                            el)e                    ua   eaiapcrymrsln)i  ceeebrdof  ceag   pe  ra  it
pe negao heir  Aeleclc   ppaaeca.  IanrInaeapEti
w...c ..able    thcat could  tpirt  that td e bcanif  or et.. bara. atekrouel                   aede rel-  peren  of pputt- luken. end thrural)- eba toe  ah.atiu
toe colleonuo  and d tacal     tch.o rih.-out .t Ita ..er,, I hf,hanata  1,ret                                                  OnoceiIad erns bPrt               1-itu
ltar ictailat-icfpepls.                           ..ray..I1991 
P ....l .f on  9a    t breci . -.P.p.ceic  dride)  -d by nnb r at pruicc   py
Poptlattar per Sturiaine    Parca-Papulanucdi,dicdd by    nanhedir of. prtetotphag                                                                      la 
cale  and fecale gradten  cu-n, prcii  ara,adasitnruea



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
HAITI - ECONOMIC DATA 1/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% in constant prices)
US$ Million      %                      1965-75 3/    1970-75 3/       1975-81 4/
GNP at Market Prices                  1,610,0    100.0                       1.4            3.8             5.0
Gross Domestic Investment               237.6      14.8                     11.8           14.2             5.1
Gross National Savings 2/                 34.2      2.1                     13.7           19.7            -4.4
Current Account Balance                -103.4       6.4                      -              -                -
Export of Goods, NFS 5/                 226.1      14.0                      1.2           11.9             4.8
Import of Goods, NFS 5/                 411.7      25.6                      4.7           10.0             7.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value Added
US$ Million
Agriculture                             335.0       32.7
Industry 6/                             235.2       23.0
Services                                453.0       44.3
Total/Average                  1,023.2      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 7/                 Central Government
G Million        % of GDP             G Million          % of GDP
1981       1975    1981               1981         1975    1981
Current Receipts                        1.173.4       13.1    14.4               657.8         9.3      8.1
Current Expenditures                    1,248.5       11.7    15.3               835.4         8.2    10.3
Current Surplus(+) or Deficit (-)         -75.1         1.4    -0.9             -177.6         1.1    -2.2
Capital Expenditures                      757.9        7.5      9.3              615.4         5.5      7.6
External Assistance (net) 8/              567.0         5.2     7.0              501.5         4.5      6.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1970    1976    1977        1978      1979      1980        1981
(Million G Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi-Money                         198.2   779.9   930.6   1,159.7   1,353.5   1,593.5   1,801.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  189.2   346.3   288.9       332.0     392.2      605.6      837.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  65.3   519.7   658.0       791.5     921.8   1,010.4   1,118.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money as % of GDP              10.0    17.7    18.5       22.5        23.0     22.2       22.1
Consumer Price Index (Base 1955=100)          124.0   247.3   264.4    257.5         291.0    343.7      402.1
Consumer Price Index in
Annual Percentages Changes                   3.3    10.2      6.9     -2.6        13.0      18.1       17.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   -2.1     8.9    16.6       14.9        18.1     54.4       38.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   9.9    15.2    26.6       20.3       16.5       9.6       10.7
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/     Date refer to FY ending September 30.
2/     Does not include current transfers
3/     INIS, Comptes de la Nation, 3/31/81.
4/     World Bank estimates
51     Net of imported inputs for assembly industry exports.
6/     Mining, manufacturing, public utilities and construction.
7/     Consolidated Accounts of Central Government and Public Enterprises.
8/     Net disbursements of loans and grants.
9/     N.A. is Non-Applicable.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
HAITI - TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                       MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1978-81)
US$ Million      %
1975     1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981
(US$ Million)                                 Coffee                                       56.4        34.2
Cocoa                                         5.2         3.2
Export of Goods, NFS               105.7    147.3    181.0    203.6    209.1    288.1    226.1            Essential Oils                                6.9          4.2
Import of Goods, NFS             -165.1   -225.5   -269.2   -292.2   -342.2   -414.0   -411.7             Bauxite                                      17.9         10.9
Resource Gap (deficit = -)         -59.4    -76.2    -88.0    -88.6   -133.1   -125.9   -185.6            Assembly Industry (net)                      30.3         18.4
Small Industries and handicraft              22.5        13.7
Interest Payments (net)              7.0     -7.2    -12.1    -14.7    -13.4    -14.3    -17.8            All Other Commodities                        25.6         15.5
Other Factor Payments (net)          ..        ..        ..       ..        ..        ..        ..           Total                                    164.8       1oo.0
Net Transfers                       39.4      65.0      63.5     67.9      79.8      77.3    100.0
Balance of Current Accounts       -27.0    -20.3    -36.6    -35.4    -66.7    -62.9   -103.4             EXTERNAL DEBT, SEPTEMBER 30, 1981  2/         US1  Million
Direct Foreign Investment            2.7       6.8      8.0      10.0      12.0      13.0      15.7       Public Debt including guaranteed                   277.3
Bet MLT Borrowing                   19.7      24.8     60.5      40.3      32.5      33.1      57.7       Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Disbursements                   24.9      33.3      68.9      49.5      39.5      43.0      66.0       Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Amortization                     5.2       8.5       8.4       9.2       7.0       9.9       8.3
Other Items n.e.i.                 -18.5       0.1    -19.1      -4.6      -36.2      5.0      -3.3       DEiT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981                          1
Increase in Reserves (-)            23.1    -11.6    -12.8    -10.3        -14.0    11.8       33.3
Public Debt, including guaranteed                    7.8
Gross Reserves 1/                    9.9     22.7      31.0      38.9       54.7    40.3       19.4       Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Net Reserves 1/                     -3.8       7.7     20.5      30.7       44.7    32.9       -0.2       Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                1BRD/IDA LENDING (March 31, 1982)              US$ Million
Imports                         12.9      17.1      23.6      24.5       34.5    63.0       61.0
Exports                           -         -         -         -          -        -                  Outstanding and Disbursed                          88.0
Undisbu rsed                                       43.2
Outstanding including undisbursed                 131.2
1/   Monetary Authorities.
Not Applicable.
Not Available.
2/   1981 Debt Figures are not available yet.
April 1982.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982)
…-- …US$ Million-------
(less cancellations)
Loan or
Credit                                                     Bank
Number        Year       Borrower           Purpose       Amount      IDA      Undisbursed
One loan and five credits have been fully disbursed          2.6      51.9
675-HA        1977     Republic of Haiti   Rural
Development            10.0          3.2
757-HA        1978     Republic of Haiti   Water Supply                6.6          3.2
770-HA        1978     Republic of Haiti   Education                  10.0          7.7
807-HA        1978     Republic of Haiti   Transporta-
tion                   15.0           1.2
895-HA        1979     Republic of Haiti   Power                      16.5          7.6
1106-HA       1981     Republic of Haiti   Argicultural                3.2          2.8
Rehabilitation
1121-HA       1981     Republic of Haiti   Ports                      11.0         10.7
1131-HA       1981     Republic of Haiti   Industrial Credit           7.0          6.8
Total                              2.6    131.2          43.2
of which has been repaid    2.6
Total now outstanding
Amount sold                        0.4
of which has been repaid    0.4         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA             131.2 1/
Total undisbursed                                        43.2
1/   One credit of US$14.0 equivalent for a highway project, was approved and
signed subsequent to the above date of Statement A; it is not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Type of     Amount in $ Million
Fiscal Year            Borrower                 Business    Loan   Equity   Total
Promoteurs et                 Integrated    3.00    0.15       3.00 1/
Investisseurs                   Poultry
Associes, S.A.
Total Gross Commitments                      3.00    0.15      3.00
Less Repayments
Total Commitments now held                   3.00    0.15      3.00
by IFC
1/   Not yet effective
J



- 27 -
ANNEX IT
Page 3 of 5
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION as of March 31, 1982 1/
Credit 675      Rural Development Project; US$10 Million Credit of January 14,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 27, 1977; Closing Date:
Originally December 31, 1981 postponed to December 31, 1982.
In the beginning, the project was facing major difficulties but has
taken off well recently. Disbursements now are flowing rapidly. While agri-
cultural field trials and rural water supply components have progressed beyond
appraisal expectations, implementation of the roads component is slightly behind
schedule. The irrigation component has been reduced drastically. A major
unresolved issue is the inadequacy of sugar milling capacity in the project
area and of the coordination of cutting and milling of sugar cane. Some steps
have been taken by Government to improve the situation, and a consultant
is now engaged in determining the present status of these problems and
identifying the further action necessary. The matter will be further pursued
with Government on the basis of his findings and recommendations. The
Government has expanded the financial autonomy of the project agency and has
established a revolving fund to help speed up the disbursement process.
Credit 757      Provincial Towns Water Supply Project; US$6.6 Million Credit of
January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: Originally December 31, 1981, postponed to
December 31, 1982.
This project is about 18 months behind schedule because of original
delays in the appointment of consultants; delays in issuing bid documents and
the need to rebid for three of the seven project towns. The technical assistance
component is proceeding well. KfW (Federal Republic of Germany) agreed to
finance two towns when it became clear that the UNCDF grant was not enough to
cover three towns. UNCDF has increased its allocation for the remaining town.
The total cost of the project is about US$1.7 million above appraisal estimates.
Because of poor contractor performance, a re-arrangement of contracts has been
undertaken.
Credit 770      Second Education Project; US$10 Million Credit of March 16,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 25, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project is about 18 months behind schedule due to a shortage
of local counterpart funds. However, IDB is providing such funds under a
post-Hurricane Allen loan to help Haiti meet local costs of IDB and IDA
projects. Construction has been stepped up under the supervision of the
Project Unit. Progress in the educational aspects of the project is also
satisfactory. An in-depth review of the project was carried out in September
1981 to ensure consistency of the project's educational aspects with recently
adopted educational reform policies.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects/investments in execution, and in particular to
report any problems which are being encountered, and the action being
taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit 807      Fifth Transportation Project; US$15 Million Credit of June 9,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1978; Closing Date:
Originally December 31, 1981, postponed to June 30, 1982.
(a)  Road Component:  Civil works have been completed and accepted by
Government. Studies for the preparation of a Sixth Highway Project
were completed and provided the basis for appraisal. The component
is almost fully disbursed.
(b)  Coastal Shipping Ports Component:  Construction of the three pilot
ports for coastal shipping is complete and the terminals are being
put into operation. The new facilities are efficiently administered
and experimental port charges are being collected from port users.
Consulting work on an accounting study for the National Port
Authority is progressing satisfactorily. The component is almost
fully disbursed.
Credit 895      -  Second Power Project:  US$15 Million Credit and US$6 Million
and EEC Special   EEC Special Action Credit of May 31, 1979; Date of
Action Credit 4   Effectiveness:  April 21, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project, co-financed by CIDA (Canada) under a grant of
Can$17.1 million, suffered an initial delay resulting from a disagreement
between Government and EdH on contract award for the diesel generators and
the subsequent dismissal of EdH's management and main consultants. Credit
effectiveness was delayed almost one year and the implementation of important
institutional and technical aspects up to 18 months. However, due to quicker
delivery of generators and IDA-arranged overlapping of consultant services,
overall delay will only be about three months. The main component, the expansion
of the Varreux power station, proceeded according to schedule. Cost increases
caused a slight reduction in project scope (distribution component). The
project is now advancing and disbursing in a very satisfactory manner.
Credit 1106   -   Agricultural Rehabilitation Project; US$3.2 Million Credit
of April 13, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
The project is emerging slowly, however, the Government has now set
up a revolving fund to expedite project activities. USAID has supplied five
thousand tons of fertilizer and ICB for more fertilizer purchases under the
project is being initiated. Procurement of tools is expected to be completed
soon. Design work for farm service centers has been completed and locations
for 16 centers to be built under the project have been identified. A nursery
program has been established and the Ministry of Agriculture has increased
extension staff strength in the project area from four at appraisal to ten
at present.
Credit 1121    -  Port Development Project; US$11.0 Million Credit of April 13,
1981; Date of Effectiveness:  November 16, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Processing of the major contract of the project, to construct the new
terminal in Cap Haitien, is very advanced. The contract for seven coastal shipping
ports is being awarded and the contractor is already proceeding with preparations



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
for precasting piles and other work related to the project. The feasibility
study for the expansion of the international terminal at Port-au-Prince has
been started by the consultants. The weak cash position of the National Ports
Authority due to slow procedures in collecting outstanding debts and delays
in Central Bank transfers may influence project performance in the future.
Credit 1131    -  Industrial Development Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 13, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: December 8, 1981;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
The Industrial Development Fund has completed preparation of its
Operations Manual and its Internal Regulations. A first project has been
approved and another 52 applications are under appraisal or processing. Lack
of qualified personnel is hampering the pace of operation of the project.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project identification:
(1) Sector mission:                         January 1978
(2) Identification mission:                 April 1979
(3) Further FAO identification:             August/September 1980
(4) Preparation mission:                    January 1981
(b)  Appraisal mission:                          June 1981
(c)  Post-appraisal:                             September 1981
(d)  Negotiations completed:                     April 15, 1982
(e)  Planned effectiveness date:                 October 15, 1982
II.  Special IDA Implementation Action:                None
III. Special Conditions: During negotiations agreement has been reached
regarding the following matters:
(a) Conditions of effectiveness:
(i)  The appointment of three field managers for the project's
fuelwood planting management and extension operation
(para. 46);
(ii) The appointment of a senior staff member of DARNDR to handle
administrative and procurement matters of the project
(para. 66);
(iii)  The establishment of a Special Account/Working Fund
(para. 61);
(iv) Availability of about 250 ha of land near Port-au-Prince and
of 50 ha. each near Baie de Henne and Jean Rabel for trial
plantations (paras. 48, 53 and 54);
(v)  Satisfactory arrangements for the participation of other
public institutions than the FB in the project (para. 66).



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) The selection of candidates for fellowships abroad would be subject
to IDA agreement and beneficiaries of fellowships would be
appointed and employed in forestry for a period at least double the
duration of the fellowship studies (para. 47);
(c) Intensification of agricultural support in the La Selle area and
appointment of additional extension agents to this area (para. 50);
(d) Introduction of a charge on sawtimber harvested in managed forests
(La Selle) (para. 50);
(e) Appointment of local specialists to undertake a survey of cooking
practices in Port-au-Prince and rural areas (para. 51; condition of
disbursement);
(f) The obligation of government to review forestry legislation (para.
52); and
(g) Introduction of adequate auditing procedures (para. 65).



I



BRD 1925
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                                                                                          7            2        iiHrccoe n'i
,USA.     - .                                                                              3W-A .   j |
REULIC       C                                                  SI N -0-
*06~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
JAMAICA                            -UERTO                                              ;      (                       .                         .           v-n-                                          *
. BombardopolisXo                                                                                            Obore os Bo-se  .L L e
74- _OMNitLAIc                        Mcs__rc s                     I, -                     o                            - R-  G  M.,
FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                  thC
IP- foreSt component                                                                                                               G                         <        s a  e         3i  s/~°Iiee   Y  
Pie forest management headquarters                                                                                              -                    l Mor                         
f FAelwod spec-s trils -d/ 1 -
Ecological zones;:L-LB                                                                s  _                                                                                . i M--                   BcoYA2        )        -i
i-Very humid ]--,i.stb    °v  
r: Annual average roinfall inmilimReters                                                                                                S otod)>                                u.d",5,<FnsiclStr\os 
Ri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e,s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~           ~           ~          ~          ~          ~         ~         ~        ~       0N  I             N> -W -t
_Main high.ays                                                                                              |                                                                                                 thac  Rvd 'iaone\0$  
Secondory roads;VeF '-'                                                                                                                                               '                             \      Thms
-,--- TerNary roHds ITe                                         e,                                                                                                                                 j    . sj!T  &oooneg)
-* Irternationol boundaJry:.                                                                                                                   j                       _             L.eoro.                       t          Z
KILOMETERS0 O    I      20     30     43      SO, GO5  .LE/                                                                      --.                     \     '        gC       a      e l      
MlLbS            °             l          2 30                                                                                       'M".;'''o>~  atblO\^ 
FnmaMorle g i MOron (t ,  ' _ PORESTRY PROJECT __s                                                                                                        AUI PRiNi
PineOhadonars foes  JoeonB                                   -voI 'iu  or 'qi                                                     ~     _    >amlC                       "         _Bleh>c2S 
P B oresta ageBt headqumarters                                                                                                                                                Moyen                     a.-_-Oc    rns di er - . . °2 -,i vT=   _.  ppv  
9   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n.                                                 6 -W.6
A  *D   FueIlcodseistil  n  einra                                                                                                                                    5Mee~
G,~ ~ ~~~o Atl                    .i ~       Zt~&~~cc               or  cc-
Ecological zones,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Frdw0                                                             BID1-2
Very eumid~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Humid ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    M6
Dry                             I~~~~~~~~~~C P 
Aecalavrag -rinal in mlliees                                                                                                                                                                  c occ-,
ci OMFOBBO 0  IC    20    20    tO  P                                                                                                                                          .               4'cNs"On~
Doneiton  frune.                                                                                                                               POR  AU  RINCTCredeB72or



I



BRD1592o
DOMINICAN                                         HAITI
REPUBLIC                                FORESTRY  PROJECT
PINE FOREST COMPONENT
dr                                                                                                                   f ... t
Cit.d.11.     VL
b-d-y
F Q                       Kd-.., 0     1,
0-                  2         3
J(
S
\411
jL
2
G   Ch t_'
Q
Z
L
_JI
DOMINICAN
T.E RAHAMAS                              All-
Z-
D?'m114 c
REPUBI IC
OW
HAITI
P&- p



