Document of                  4
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3776a-HA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
May 12, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Gourde (G) 1   =    US$ 0.20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFVP               -  French Association of Volunteers for Progress
BCA                -  Agricultural Credit Bureau
BRH                -  Bank of the Republic of Haiti
CARE               -  Cooperative for America Relief Everywhere
CIDA               -  Canadian International Development Agency
DARNDR             -  Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources
and Rural Development
FA                 -  Agricultural Fund (Germany)
FB                 -  Forestry Bureau
FAO                -  Food and Agriculture Organization
FAMV               -  Faculty of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine
GOH                -  Government of Haiti
GTZ                -  German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HACHO              -  Organization of Haitian Communities
IDA                -  International Development Association
IDB                -  Inter-American Development Bank
IDRC               -  International Development Research Center
NGOs               -  Non-Governmental Organizations
ODN                -  Development Organization for the North
OAS                -  Organization of American States
PVOs               -  Private Voluntary Organizations
SACs               -  Agricultural Credit Societies
SHADA              -  Haitian-American Society for Agricultural
Development
SONAMAR            -  Society of Friends of the Tree
USAID              -  United States Agency for International
Development
VP                 -  Volunteers for Progress (French)
GOVERNMENT OF HAITI
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ......................................                    1
A.   Project Background .............. . ...                         1
B. The Energy Sector.                                                1
C.   The Agricultural Sector                         .               2
Structure of Agricultural Production ...........            2
Land Tenure and Farm Size    ......2
Technical Constraints ................                      2
Institutional Constraints  .....................            3
World Bank Group Strategy in Agriculture.                   3
Experience with the Rural Development Project
in the Northern Department    .............              4
D.   The Forestry Subsector                          .               4
Resources                       .                           4
Fuelwood Production and Marketing                           5
Land Tenure.                                                6
Legislation            ................                     6
Institutions ....... . .... .*...........                   7
Research and Education                    . .7
Forestry Programs and Projects.                             7
Development Objectives and Strategies                       8
II. THE PROJECT AREAS....                                                  8
A.   The Foothills Area near Port-au-Prince (Cul-de-Sac).            8
B. The Northwest Peninsula                   .         .9
C.   The Pine Forest of La Selle.                                   10
III.   THEEPROJECT ............................................            il
A.   Objectives and Brief Description.                              il
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Haiti in June 1981 and a post-appraisal mission in September 1981. The
appraisal mission comprised Messrs.J. Pelissier (IDA), W. Beattie (IDA)
and H. Kernan (FAO Consultant), and the post-appraisal mission comprised
Messrs.Pelissier and Beattie.
This document has a-restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                           -    -
Page No.
B.       Detailed   Features   ......  .... ....                           ..........................                    13
Reinforcement of the Forestry Bureau  ..........    13
Forestry Training and Education  .............                                           ...             14
Fuelwood   Species   Trials   ........................                                                   15
Pilot   Fuelwood   Plantings                                .................... ...                     16
Pine   Forest   Management   .........................                                                   16
Development and Promotion of Fuel-Efficient
Stoves   .......................................                                                     17
Preparation   of   a   Second   Phase   ..................                                               18
C.       Project    Implementation   ........................... ..                                                      18
D.        Project  Cost    Estimates   .............................                                                     18
E.        Proposed   Financing   ..............                                  ................ ...                    19
F.        Procurement  and    Disbursement   .......................                                                     21
Procurement   .................................. ...                                                     21
Disbursements   ................................ ...                                                     21
G.       Accounts,   Audits   and   Reports   .........                              ..          ............            22
Accounts   and   Audits   ............                          ..         ...............               22
Reports                       ...........................    ...............                             22
IV.        ORGANIZATION   AND  MANAGEMENT   .............................                                                            22
A.        Organization   .......................................                                                         22
B.        Staffing   ...........................................                                                         23
V.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS ...... .......    24
A.        Production                ..............               ........... .................                           24
Fuelwood Plantings  .......... ..................                                                          24
Pine   Forest   .....                                  ...................................                 24
B.    Marketing  ..........................................                                                              24
Markets                       .....................                   ................                     24
Prices ....................................   24
C.        Income    and    Financial   Results                                .......................                    26
Income                     ...........................................                                     26
Government   Cash   Flow   .....                         ................ ........                         26
VI.         BENEFITS   AND   JUSTIFICATION   .....                                 ................... .....                         26
A.        Benefits   ........ ........ ..                           ....... ..................                           26
Direct   Benefits   .............................. ....                                                    26
Indirect   Benefits   ............................ ....                                                    27
B.    Economic Analysis and Rate of Return  ..............                                                     .         27
C.       Risks                       ..............................................                                      27
D.       Environmental   Impact   ... ......                          ..................... ......                       28



- iii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....    ...............   28
ANNEX 1. Terms of Reference for Expatriate Staff
ANNEX 2.  Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 1 - Financial Analysis of the Pine Forest
Management Component .....................   42
Table 2 - Costs and Returns of Pine Forest
Mana  e  ent   ...............................  43
Table 3 - Estimated Value of Fuelwood Produced at
the  Pine  Forest   ..........................  44
Table 4 - Estimated Incremiental Sawnwood Production
with  Project   .............................  45
Table 5 - Estimated Forest Area, Potential Fuelwood
Production and Fuelwood Balance .... ......   46
Table 6 - Retail Price of Charcoal and Kerosene ....    47
ANNEX 3.  Supporting Tables and Chart
1. Costs per Year, Reinforcement of Forestry
Bureau   .......................................  49
2.  Costs per Year, Total Training, and Education      50
3.  Costs per Year, Training and Education under
Project   ......................................  51
4.  Costs per Year, Fuelwood Plantations,
Port-au-Prince  Area  ..........................  52
5.  Costs per Year, Fuelwood Plantations,
Northwest  Area  ...............................  53
6.  Costs per Year, Pine Forest Management .... .....   54
7.  Costs per Year, Development of Improved
Cooking  Stoves   ...............................  55
8.  Costs per Year, Preparation Second Phase .......   56
9.  Account Category by Time .......................   57
10.  Account Category by Component ....    ..............   58
Chart 1.  Implementation Schedule ................. ..   59
ANNEX 4. Documents Available in Project Files
MAPS
Situation Map IBRD 15925
Project Area Map (Pine Forest) IBRD 15926






HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      In 1978, the Government of Haiti (GOH) indicated its interest in IDA
support of a forestry project. Following an agricultural sector review carried
out as part of the economic mission of 1978, the idea of a pilot project was
developed, and a project was identified by an IDA mission in 1979. Further
identification was carried out in 1979 by FAO/CP, and preparation completed
in 1981.
1.02      The project would essentially provide technical assistance, and would
constitute the preparatory stage of a full-scale program designed to reverse
the trend toward depletion of the country's forests which constitute its major
energy resource base.
B. The Energy Sector
1.03      In 1980 the population of Haiti with a land area of 2.8 million ha
was close to 5 million, of which almost 25% was urban, with 750,000 living
in Port-au-Prince, the capital. The IDA energy sector mission of 1980 esti-
mated that wood currently meets about 72% of Haiti's energy needs. About 95%
of the total wood consumption of the country is for energy, and consumption of
this category is expected to increase by 3% annually. Oil supplies 17% of the
country's energy requirements; hydro-power, 3.3%; and bagasse, 7.7%. The urban
sector absorbs over 90% of the electricity supply and uses approximately 50%
of charcoal production.
1.04      Petroleum consumption has increased at an average yearly rate of
10.6% since 1973 and was estimated to be worth US$45 million in 1979/80.
If present trends do not change substantially, oil imports will become a
heavy drain on Haiti. The hydro potential is limited. About a third of the
economically feasible mean annual generating potential has already been
developed.
1.05      There may be favorable prospects for hydro-carbon development and
exploration is underway. Lignite deposits exist in the Central Plateau and
the Southwest Peninsula. The extent of the reserves is still not well known,
but it is unlikely that they will be able to alleviate the pressure on
forestry resources. A major limitation is the high sulphur content, which
precludes the use of lignite in cooking stoves because of toxic fumes. In
view of these constraints relating to energy sources, the role of wood in
meeting the country's energy needs is likely to remain highly significant in
the foreseeable future.



C. The Agricultural Sector
Structure of Agriculture Production
1.06      The agricultural sector contributed about 40% of GDP and about 60%
of total merchandise exports from 1977 to 1979.   About 73% of the employed
population worked in agricultural activities as reported in the 1971 population
census.  However, declining agricultural exports and increasing food imports
indicate poor agricultural performance.
1.07      Cash crops account for about 34% of the total value of the production
of agricultural commodities, of which the most important are coffee, comprising
20% of the total value; sugarcane, 10%; and cocoa, sisal and cotton, an
aggregate of 4%.  The major food crops are rice, corn, plantains and beans,
which, together with millet and sweet potatoes, comprise about 56% of total
agricultural production, while livestock represents some 10%. Most farmers
keep a a few head of livestock; hogs are the most important (although currently
affected by African swine fever), followed by beef cattle.
Land Tenure and Farm Size
1.08      According to a 1970 survey, about 60% of all farms were owned by
farmer-operators, about 25% were rented and sharecropped from private owners,
and the rest were under other forms of tenure, with few farmers having clear
titles to their land; the lack of security of tenure is a constraint to
agricultural progress. This factor also affects forestry development, which
requires long-term investments. The average number of parcels per farm is
around three. Fragmented landholdings, particularly in different ecological
zones, are often sought by farmers because they provide some security
against crop failure in any one area. Wage labor is widely used in some
parts of Haiti. While evidence suggests that the number of landless
laborers is relatively low, many of those who occupy land have such small
holdings that they must supplement their farm earnings with income from other
sources. The agricultural population density per 100 ha of crop area is 400.
According to the 1971 agricultural census, about 46% of farmland was in farms
of less than 2 ha and 73% in farms of less than 4 ha. Only about 8% of farm-
land is in farms greater than 10 ha; the larger holdings occupy the most
productive flatland and are devoted primarily to sugarcane.
Technical Constraints
1.09      Haitian agriculture is characterized by low yields, the principal
causes being: (a) lack of improved varieties; (b) poor cultural practices;
(c) inadequate use of water resources; (d) insufficient soil and water conserv-
ation; (e) endemic pest problems and (f) little or no use of fertilizer.
1.10      It has been estimated that some 226,000 ha of soils could be suit-
able for irrigation. Of this area, 66,000 ha are currently under some form
of irrigation, primarily from surface water, and another 11,000 ha could be
irrigated without major investments.  Only a few thousand hectares benefit from
irrigation with full water control, and much of the irrigation system needs to
be rehabilitated.



1.11      Soil erosion affects most areas of Haiti; it results from heavy
population pressure on land and forests, scarcity of flat or moderately sloping
land, and poor utilization of soil resources, especially in the productive
valleys and plains. According to FAO estimates, the country loses some
15 million cubic meters of soil yearly, corresponding to 6,000 ha of land and,
although most of the eroded land is still usable, especially for tree planting,
productivity is declining rapidly. Other erosion effects are: (a) poor
utilization of water because of excessive runoff and higher fluctuations of
the underground water supply, causing shortages of irrigation water in dry
areas; (b) disruption of irrigated agriculture; and (c) rapid siltation of the
Peligre reservoir, the country's major hydroelectric resource.
Institutional Constraints
1.12      The general weakness of agricultural support services has been a
major handicap in tackling the technical constraints of the sector. The
various services of the Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources and
Rural Development (DARNDR) are not yet sufficiently funded. Its low share in
budget expenditures compares unfavorably with the sector's important contri-
bution to the national economy and it translates directly into limited outlays
for field expenditures. Of DARNDR's 400 graduate technicians, less than half
are presently assigned to the districts. Moreover, staff assigned to the field
lack the means to operate efficiently. Relatively adequate funding and staffing
of field programs are restricted to areas or projects supported by external
agencies.
1.13      Duplication of effort, lack of coordination, and lack of effective
programs aggravate the weakness of the agricultural support services. The
activities of the various technical assistance and voluntary agencies are not
coordinated, which often results in poor utilization of scarce resources, and
programs are often fragmented and lack firm orientation toward specific goals.
The absence of technical packages is due to the paucity of research data, which
itself reflects the lack of continuity of technical assistance programs. The
establishment of regional development agencies.such as the Development
Organization for the North (ODN), should help improve the situation by getting
all agencies within a region to move in the same direction and participate
together in well-planned regional programs.
1.14      Another important aspect of the institutional framework relates to
the lack of an effective community structure. The Haitian farmer is strongly
individualistic, and an active cooperative tradition is absent. Different
informal organizations, however, exist among rural neighbors and might be
developed to become instruments of rural development. A number of agricultural
credit societies (SACs) have been created to secure credit and ensure collective
guarantees, and community councils have been established throughout the country
for community improvement (road repair, maintenance of irrigation works, school
building and maintenance) through self-help. Some of these councils are effective,
while others seem unable to distribute benefits equitably among their members.
World Bank Group Strategy in Agriculture
1.15      Taking into account the inadequate infrastructure, weaknesses of
the support services, especially at the central level, and lack of skilled
local staff, the Bank Group's strategy, and that of other sources of external



assistance such as IDB and GTZ, has been to support the Government's policy
of regionalization by financing regional development programs. This strategy
is currently applied in support of the Rural Development Project in the Northern
Department (Credit 675-HA), details of which are given below. FAO, OAS, USAID
and IDB are providing technical assistance to DARNDR to help its institutional
development.
Experience with the Rural Development Project in the Northern Department
1.16      The project, started in 1977, aimed at the improvement of physical
infrastructure (irrigation, roads, markets, water supply) and crop production
through applied research, credit and extension. It has, however, experienced
serious problems during its early stages, because of: (a) initial delays in
recruiting international and national staff; (b) weaknesses of local staff and
participating agencies; (c) slippage in counterpart financing; (d) lack of
technical packages; and (e) inadequate knowledge of the physical and human
environment. The irrigation component was substantially reduced, mainly
because of institutional weaknesses, but a good beginning has been made
recently on the organization of farmers for effective water distribution.
With the input of effective technical assistance provided by the aid agencies
of France and the Federal Republic of Germany, a replicable regional develop-
ment institution has been established and staffed, and a regional coordinating
mechanism has been set up; this could lay the basis for sustained improvement,
provided Government funding and support are maintained at adequate levels.
Constraints to development in the region have been identified and though
Government support was slow until 1981, progress is being made. A successful
program of field trials is helping develop suitable technical packages; and
potable water supply systems are being established to serve thousands of
people in rural areas. The implementation of other components, especially
roads, has improved; the pace of IDA credit disbursement has accelerated;
and a follow-up project is under consideration. A major unresolved issue,
however, relates to the inadequacy of arrangements for cutting and milling of
sugarcane in the project area. Some steps have been taken by the Government
but further action is necessary. The matter will be pursued with the Government
on the basis of the findings of a consultant who is now engaged in determining
the present status of these problems.
1.17      The other IDA-supported project in agriculture is the Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1106-HA) which is intended to help restore
agricultural production in the area affected by hurricane Allen, through the
supply of inputs, credit, the expansion of nurseries and the construction of
farm service centers. The project became effective in October 1981.
D. The Forestry Subsector
Resources
1.18      Of a total of 2,770,000 ha of the total land area of Haiti, forest
lands comprise about 930,000 ha, or 33% of the land area; a total of 830,000
ha is cultivated and 500,000 is in pastures. Much of the forest land is
highly degraded, with only a few trees per hectare. Of the total forest land,
broadleaf species in scattered clumps occupy about 150,000 ha. Another 70,000
ha of humid highland are occupied by highly degraded forests of West Indian



- 5 -
pine (Pinus occidentalis), and some 20,000 ha of mangrove occupy tidal marsh-
land. The remaining 691,000 ha consist of degraded woodland, primarily on
land with limited rainfall, scattered in various parts of the country,
especially the Northwest Peninsula and the coastal areas along the Gonave Gulf
(Map 15925). The formerly abundant forest resources of the country have been
severely depl5ted over the years.3 Exports of mahogany, for instance, plummeted
from 18,600 m  in 1845 to 5,300 m   in 1860 and to zero in 1934.
1.19      The natural tree vegetation varies widely according to the ecology:
(a)  In the humid highlands (800 to 2,000 m elevation, and over
1,000 mm rainfall), the main trees are Didymopanax tremulum,
Brunellia comocladifolia, Ofcocanax capitatum, Weinmannia
pinnata, and Carya fagdenni; they also include the best
stands of Pinus occidentalis (West Indian pine).
(b)  The forests of the sub-tropical lowlands with high rainfall
(over 2,000 mm) include Didymopanax morotoni, Byrsonima spicata,
Alchornea latifolia, Guarea trichilioides, Buchenavia capitata.
and Pinus occidentalis.
(c)  The humid lowlands (1,000 to 2,000 mm) are the habitat for the
main economic hardwoods: Swietenia mahogani (mahogany),
Catalpa longissima (oak), Haematoxylon (logwood), Simaruba
glauca (ash), Colubrina ferruginosa (ironwood); other common
trees include Roystonea regia (royal palm), Anacardium
occidentale (cashew nut), and mangoes.
(d)  The dry subtropical forest (500 to 1,000 mm rainfall) occupies
large areas; the main tree species are Phyllostylon brasiliensis
(boxwood), Prosopis juliflora (bayahonde), and Guaiacum
officinale; the latter two are in high demand for charcoal.
Other common species include Coccoloba laurifolia, Metopium
brownei, Ouratea ilicifolia, Jacquinia, Leucaena glauca,
Amyria, Samyda, Crythroxylon, Exostema, and legumes of the
Croton and Capparis spp. In many areas, the desirable fuelwood
species (bayahonde, guaiacum) are subject to overcutting and are in
regression, being replaced by xerophytic species, especially Opuntia
antillana (cactus) and Euphorbia lactea (milkstripe euphorbia).
Fuelwood Production and Marketing
1.20      Total estimated wood co sumption for energy is estimated at 4 million m3
annually, of which some 640,000 m  are converted to charcoal.  They are equiva-
lent to some 80,000 ha of dry forest cut every year. The rate of natural
regrowth and the current rate of reforestation (para 1.27) are not sufficient
to keep pace with the rate of consumption. About half the production is in
the Northwest peninsula and the balance comes from other low rainfall areas,
especially along the Gonave gulf and portions of the Southern Coast on the
Caribbean Sea. Production has declined in the area near Port-au-Prince as a
result of heavy deforestation. Production increased in the Northwest because
of depletion of forests in areas close to the capital and the droughts of the
1970s which resulted in charcoal becoming a major source of income in the
context of crop failure.



1.21      Firewood for direct use is collected as dry or dead wood for home
consumption or for sale, and is used mostly in rural areas. It is sold
directly to the consumers by the harvester, or through a wholesaler. Some
wood for charcoal production is harvested green, either from public land, or
under a sharecropping arrangement on private land. Charcoal is produced in
pit kilns in which the wood is piled on the ground, and covered with an inside
layer of grass or leaves, and an outside layer of soil. Charcoal makers sell
charcoal to intermediaries who, in turn, sell to shippers who supply the urban
areas. Charcoal makers can be local farmers working part-time, or full-time
workers who are usually landless and otherwise jobless; in either case, they
usually have no economic alternative, and their incomes are extremely low.
It is estimated that charcoal-making and fuelwood and charcoal marketing
give employment to some 50,000 people.
1.22      Until recently, sawtimber production amounted to some 5,000 m3 per
year. Poles are commonly used in low-cost construction, but the amount so used
is difficult to estimate. There were four sawmills in the country but none
is currently in operation. Cutting for these mills in recent years was indis-
criminate, and led to waste and to ecological deterioration. In late 1980,
the Government terminated all logging contracts with private interests, assumed
the management of existing pine stands, and forbade cutting of pine trees.
With the exception of a few scattered hardwoods including mahogany, these pine
forests are Haiti's only potential source of commercial lumber.
Land Tenure
1.23      Much of the forest and scrubland belongs to the state and is admin-
istered by the Land Division of the General Revenue Service, an autonomous
agency of the Ministry of Finance. DARNDR has no jurisdiction over this land;
efforts to create national forests managed by a forestry division have been
opposed by the Revenue Service which is collecting revenues by renting land
to individuals. Yet some 164,000 ha of land have been declared classified
forests; these forests, however, have no well-defined boundaries and are not
adequately protected. In agricultural areas which include woodland, a majority
of farmers claim ownership of at least part of the land, but few can back
their claim with clear titles. As a rule, trees on private land are better
protected and cared for; for instance, species such as mahogany and West
Indian pine are preserved, as integral parts of the traditional agro-forestry
system.
Legislation
1.24      The current legislation includes the rural code of 1962, a number of
organic laws which have an incidence on forestry, and some 50 laws, decrees or
administrative decisions dealing directly with forestry. It provides for the
protection of natural resources, the control of logging, and the creation of
forest reserves. However, the legislation has not been effectively enforced,
for lack of funds and personnel, and because of institutional weaknesses. In
1975, FAO forestry specialists submitted to the Government a proposed law on
forestry development which would imply a thorough revision of the existing
legislation. The proposed text deals with institutions, forest classification,
forest management, funding, protection, and logging. It would be an objective
of the proposed forestry project to have a revised forestry law adopted for
Haiti by the end of PY4 (para 3.14). The FAO proposal would be revised or at
least serve as a starting point for a forestry legislation review by a consultant.



-7-
Institutions
1.25      The DARNDR has responsibility for forestry.  It includes a Division
of Natural Resources and Irrigation. One of the branches is the Forestry
Bureau (FB) manned by two of the only three employees in the country with
forestry training. The official field personnel list includes 37 forestry
agents, 96 forest rangers, 25 timber control agents, and five reforestation
agents, none of whom has forestry training. They are poorly paid and concern
themselves primarily with fiscal and police functions.
Research and Education
1.26      No forestry research is currently being carried out by DARNDR.  Some
adaptation trials of imported tree species have been conducted under various
projects, with external assistance, especially from FAO, but with little
or no follow-up after termination of the assistance. An inventory of the
pine forest resources by photo-interpretation was carried out in 1976/77
under an FAO sponsored project. There is no forestry education program in the
country, except for a course in forestry and soil conservation as part of the
general curriculum of the agricultural institute of Damien. Of the agronomists
who have received overseas training, three are employed in this field in the
DARNDR. In 1979 a center was established at Limbe in the North to train DARNDR
field staff in soil conservation techniques, but forestry as such is not
included in the program.
Forestry Programs and Projects
1.27      The program of DARNDR is limited largely to the operation of a tree
nursery in each of the 12 agricultural districts of the country. The nursery
program for 1980/81 provides for the production of 1.4 million trees, enough
for about 1,000 ha for the year. Tree planting programs under various projects,
however, covered only 120 ha, showing a wide gap between seedlings produced
and trees actually planted and surviving. The total area planted to date
under the various programs is probably between 500 and 700 ha. Current
activities in forestry development include (a) reforestation and stand improve-
ment in the Northwest under the auspices of the Organization of Haitian
Communities (HACHO) on several hundred hectares; the operation is carried out
by the German-sponsored "Fonds Agricole" and (b) "Operation Double Harvest"
with planting of fast growing leucaena and other species near Port-au-Prince.
USAID approved in July 1981 a grant of US$8 million to finance forestry devel-
opment by semi-governmental and private organizations, without involvement of
the Forestry Bureau. Over a four-year period, this project includes (a) support
of the Operation Double Harvest to develop seed and seedling production and
establish demonstration tree farms in a variety of ecological zones; (b) support
CARE/HACHO to establish three nurseries and implement agroforestry plantings
in the Northwest through private voluntary organizations (PVOs) and community
groups; (c) support the Pan American Foundation with an agroforestry extension
program, especially in the Southwest and near Port-au-Prince, through PVOs and
community groups; and (d) provide an overall project coordinator and backstop-
ping. The proposed IDA-supported project is designed to avoid duplication and
would complement the USAID project through institution building and technical
assistance. In 1981 the Government created a Society of Friends of the Tree
(SONAMAR) which is intended to (a) educate the population about soil conserv-
ation and forestry, and (b) promote tree planting and terracing by local
communities.



-8-
Development Objectives and Strategies
1.28      The main elements of the Government's emerging policy include:
(a) reforestation of critical areas for erosion control; (b) reduction of
sawtimber deficit through management of existing pine stands and tree planting;
(c) training of Haitian personnel in forestry and conservation; and (d) updating
of forestry legislation. A master plan prepared by DARNDR aims at (a) creating
a national forest domain; (b) reforesting; (c) soil and water conservation;
(d) control of logging; and (d) reinforcement of the Forestry Bureau. More
recently, the DARNDR has been giving top priority to preserving the remains of
the natural pine forests, especially the forest of La Selle in the South, and
is preparing a program of conservation of natural resources under the new
five-year plan.
1.29      Haiti faces a critical energy situation.  Prospects for altern-
ative sources at prices which the population can afford are in doubt (paras
1.04 and 1.05); the possible contribution of the lignite deposits and of solar
energy is not yet known. Assuming a growth in demand of 3% per annum, fuelwood
consumption would reach 4.6 million m3 in 1985, and 7.2 million m3 by 2000,
leaving a large deficit of 2.9 million m3 and 4.3 million m3, respectively,
even under the most optimistic assumptions for natural forest growth
and plantation establishment. This would lead to an accelerating depletion of
the remaining forest resources since the deficits will have to be made good by
cutting the growing stock to supplement the imports of energy sources which
will be required to fill the gap. It is therefore necessary to counter this
possibility through proper land-use management and large-scale reforestation.
However, given the lack of experience with such programs in the country, the
lack of trained personnel and the institutional weaknesses, the first steps to
consider are the strengthening of the Government staff, training, and pilot
programs in key areas, so as to provide the basis for a comprehensive larger
effort.
II.  THE PROJECI AREAS
2.01      The major forest resources of the country consist of (a) the dry,
degraded subtropical forests and scrubland prevailing in the northwest and
along the gulf of Gonave down to the foothills surrounding the Cul-de-Sac
plain near Port-au-Prince; and (b) the remnants of hardwood and pine forests,
in the humid higher elevations of the southern peninsula and the Central
plateau. The project areas would be representative of these types (Map 15925).
A. The Foothills Area near Port-au-Prince (Cul-de-Sac)
2.02      An area of at least 250 ha would be identified within 100 km of
Port-au-Prince in the foothills surrounding the Cul-de-Sac plain. This area
is representative of the type of land which could satisfy a good part of the
charcoal needs of the capital, as it did before large-scale deforestation.
While the Cul-de-Sac plain is devoted to irrigated agriculture, the foothills
are unsuitable for agriculture and are occupied by scrubland. The rainfall
ranges between 600 and 800 mm, with peaks in March-May and August-November.



- 9 -
The soils of the scrubland are thin, overlying limestone, and lie on land of
variable slope. Some pockets of deeper soil on flat land are cropped with
sorghum, cowpeas and melons.   The area has a high population density in
spite of the scarce resources. The area is also crossed by the main highway
going to the north, and by roads going to the Dominican Republic, the eastern
part of the Southern Peninsula, and the Central Plateau. The thin foothill
soils used to be covered by dry forests which were a major source of fuel,
until this vegetation was exhausted by abusive cutting and the source of
supply moved further north.
2.03      The sites for pilot fuelwood planting and species trial under
the project are yet to be selected but large tracts of land are Government
owned; a representative site would need to be selected for the project and be
transferred to the Forestry Bureau (para 3.06).
B. The Northwest Peninsula
2.04      Because of its dry climate and the predominance of hilly thin soils,
the northwest peninsula is the poorest section of the country -- the Haitian
Sahel. The driest sections, especially the central areas of the middle
peninsula, receive less than 400 mm average rainfall. Much of middle and
western sections of the peninsula receives less than 1,000 mm, except for the
plateau area of Bombardopolis which receives 900 to 1,100 mm and the mountain
ridge which crosses the peninsula. There is no consistent pattern of dry and
wet seasons, but rather one of wide variations within each year and between
years. The ratio between annual minimum and maximum can reach as high as
1 to 5.7. Generally, about half of the annual precipitation falls within four
months. The water deficit is high throughout most of the middle and western
portions of the peninsula.
2.05      The dry hills and arid plains are sparsely covered with dry tropical
forest and scrubland. Some subtropical forest vegetation remains in isolated
areas at higher elevations. Besides fishing along the coast, tree-cutting and
charcoal manufacture are the only economic activities in those areas which are
too dry, or with soil too marginal for agriculture. The major source of char-
coal is bayahonde (Prosopis juliflora). Guaiacum, which is the best wood for
charcoal, and which is also in demand for wood carvings, has largely disappeared.
Instances have been reported of people digging up guaiacum roots to make charcoal.
Other indications of the critical fuelwood scarcity are the use of cactus and
wood from old fences for making charcoal.  Charcoal is produced in traditional
earth kilns (para 1.21). According to an FAO study, the method is effective and
surprisingly efficient. It would be counterproductive at this point to try to
introduce portable metal kilns or other alternative technologies as these would
represent an investment beyond the means of the charcoal makers, and the charcoal
yields would not be significantly improved, if at all. All available resources
should be directed at rebuilding the natural resource base (woody plants) since
the very survival of the charcoal industry is already in jeopardy due to wood
scarcity. Pyrolitic conversion cannot be considered for this area because of
high investment costs.
2.06      The area presently produces about half of the charcoal consumed in
Port-au-Prince. Charcoal production is the main activity of people who have



- 10 -
no land suitable for agriculture and no alternative source of income. It is
literally an activity of last resort. Landless charcoal makers enter into
sharecropping arrangements with land owners, and receive credit from charcoal
dealers (para 1.21). The dealers operate collection points, from which
charcoal bags are shipped by truck or by sailboat to Port-au-Prince.
2.07      Tree plantings have been made for watershed protection in the
Jean Rabel area with USAID support. A number of PVOs and missionary organiza-
tions have been engaged in plantings of fast growing species, or are interested
in initiating such programs. One of the larger programs in this area has been
sponsored by the Fonds Agricole, with funding by the Federal Republic of
Germany (FRG). Plantings have consisted mostly of slow-growing native species
such as mahogany for sawnwood, and fast growing exotics for fuelwood, including
eucalyptus, Casuarina, neem, Leucaena, and Albizzia. Results in terms of areas
established have been generally poor because of lack of protection, poor
choice of site and inadequate site preparation. All plantings have been
heavily subsidized with food for work, on the assumption that no farmer will
plant trees unless he receives payment. Also, many of the PVO groups have
food distribution and nutrition improvement as their principal objectives,
with reforestation being simply a medium for that activity. Poor follow-through
on the reforestation is common. The Fonds Agricole program also includes a
project to clean underbrush from native bayahonde stands in order to improve
productivity. No measurements have been made, however, to determine the
effectiveness of these treatments. The creation of three charcoal producers'
cooperatives has also been carried out by Fonds Agricole.
2.08      Dry-land agriculture is carried out in the more humid areas, espe-
cially the Bombardopolis plateau which is intensively cropped with beans,
sorghum, castor beans, and perennial cotton. Agriculture is marginal in many
areas and subject to drought. The irrigated valleys, especially Jean Rabel,
are devoted to plantain and foodcrops.
2.09      The infrastructure of the region is poor, the road network is
limited, and truck traffic hampered during the rains. There is also some
coastal shipping. Many communities are served only by mule paths, and water
supply and medical facilities are poorly developed. The main development
activities in the region have been carried out by HACHO, with USAID financing.
Since the termination of USAID support, however, HACHO lacks the necessary
funds and staff to continue their programs at the desired level of activity.
C. The Pine Forest of La Selle
2.10      The La Selle highlands are located in the southeastern corner of
the country. They form the highest mountain chain in the country, with the
highest peak at 2,600 m. The hilly terrain is calcareous, with thin soil on
the slopes, but some flat areas and valleys have deep soil suitable for agricul-
ture. The rainfall is high--2,300 mm average at Fonds Verrette, just north of
the project area (Map 15926), with peaks in April-June and August-November.
The natural vegetation is that of the humid mountain forest, with West-Indian
pine (Pinus occidentalis) the dominant species. The La Selle national pine
forest area occupies some 32,000 ha of highland of which approximately 20,000
ha are in forests of varying density.



- il -
2.11      Between 1941 and 1957, the forest was managed and logged by the
Haitian-American Society for Agricultural Development (SHADA), a private firm
with American capital, which developed a sustained yield management program,
operated four sawmills, and developed the region's infrastructure (such as
roads, aerial cableways for log/lumber extraction, housing, offices, and water
supply). In 1957 SHADA terminated its activities and the logging concession
was given to private Haitian interests. This latter arrangement was terminated
in 1980 and the administration and management of the forest entrusted to the
Forestry Bureau. Logging of all pine has now been forbidden in Haiti but some
cutting and pit sawing is taking place illegally, with the lumber being sold
mostly in Port-au-Prince. As would be expected, the price of this lumber
increased considerably with the official ban on cutting and consequent reduc-
tion in supplies.
2.12      Currently, the pine stands are thinly stocked and degraded because of
overcutting, overgrazing, encroachment by agriculture, and frequent burning.
Vigorous regeneration is present in some areas and needs release thinning
while in other areas planting or direct seeding is needed. Some areas have
failed to regenerate because of repeated burnings. The stands are also
characterized by a large number of fallen and diseased trees. The larger
fallen trees, however, are not being utilized for fuelwood or charcoal,
since pine charcoal is softer and has a lower caloric value by volume than
charcoal from hardwood, although about the same value by weight. Also, the
abundant small sized firewood in the area is easier to collect and transport.
This contrasts sharply with other areas of Haiti where fuelwood scarity has
led to the collection of any available wood material, including stumps and roots.
2.13      Even though the entire forest is on state land, it contains a squatter
population estimated at over 15,000, primarily on non-forest areas estimated to
cover about 10,000 ha out of the total of 32,000 ha. Much of this area is
cultivated and almost all land in the reserve is grazed to varying degrees.
There are examples of good agricultural practices, including contour farming,
and temperate fruits and vegetables are produced in the valleys. An agricul-
tural extension agent operates in the area. Nevertheless, much of the agricul-
ture is marginal, including shifting cultivation on steep slopes and the
burning of forest land to produce better grazing conditions. As a result of
these practices, the humus soil has virtually disappeared, having been washed
away by rain in many areas.
2.14      The eastern portion of the forest is accessible by the all-weather
road which links Thiotte and the southeastern coast to Port-au-Prince. The
western portion can be reached only through Jacmel in the southern coast by a
road made difficult by the rough terrain and poor maintenance. Throughout the
area the infrastructure and services are limited. The farmers of the project
area have access to extension services (and receive the support of the Agricul-
tural Experiment station at Savanne Zombie) but not to agricultural credit.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Brief Description
3.01      Extensive reforestation is needed to meet the demand for fuelwood in
the absence of alternative sources of energy, and to stem the depletion of forest



- 12 -
resources and the subsequent deterioration of the environment. A large-scale
program is not feasible at this time, in view of the weakness of the Forestry
Bureau, the paucity of information on suitable species and the need to develop
efficient methods of seedling distribution and planting by the rural populace.
The absence of a fuelwood tree-planting tradition among farmers, who view
wood from natural stands as a "free good," and the prevalence of land tenure
problems are major impediments to reforestation on private lands. There are
also serious difficulties encountered in protecting trees from fire, grazing,
and uncontrolled cutting. All agricultural land in Haiti, and a good part of
the marginal land, are under cultivation, leaving only dry and shallow soils
available for reforestation. The project would aim at (a) building up the
operational capacity of the Forestry Bureau, including a strong extension
element, (b) enacting and applying new forestry legislation compatible with
the nation's forestry development goals and its socio-economic environment,
and (c) developing economically viable reforestation and forest management
practices for Haiti. The forestry management aspects would be concerned
primarily with protection from fire and grazing. On the consumption side,
the project would aim at promoting fuel efficient cooking stoves in order to
reduce demand for wood and charcoal.
3.02      This project should be considered as the first time slice of a long-
term program of forestry development, which, however, is difficult, at this stage,
to define in any but broad dimensions. It is estimated, on a rough reckoning,
that the overall program would aim at (a) the establishment of about 100,000 ha
by year 2000, and 300,000 ha by year 2020 of fuelwood plantations in various
parts of the country- with an annual rate of afforestation increasing to, and
leveling off, at 10,000 ha per year after 10 years, and (b) the management and
commercial logging of 30,000 ha of pine forest. The preliminary estimate of the
total cost is of the order of US$110 million spread over the next 25 years. The
Government has indicated its commitment to forestry development (para 1.28), and
a number of donors (USA, Canada, FRG, UNDP) are giving priority to forestry
and resource conservation in their aid programs.  Long-term goals would be
determined, and a plan designed for the following 15 years, building upon the
experience developed in this phase.
3.03      The principal objective of the proposed project would be to develop a
substantial reforestation and forest management capacity through the following
components:
(a)  Re-inforcement of the Forestry Bureau.  An international forestry
consultant, several short-term consultants, and forestry technicians
would be appointed to support the activities of the Bureau. The
Bureau would also be supplied with vehicles and equipment.
(b)  Forestry Training and Education.  Besides in-service training
of existing staff, the project would finance: (i) at the graduate
level, eight fellowships for studies in foreign forestry schools;
and (ii) at the primary level, the introduction of forestry and
conservation education in grade schools; and (iii) the creation and
operation of a two-year forestry curriculum at the Agricultural
School of Damien.



- 13 -
(c) Pilot Plantings and Trials of Fuelwood Species. Pilot plantings of
species of suitable potential would be made on about 250 ha of state
land near Port-au-Prince, and species elimination trials for planting
and direct seeding of exotic and local species would be carried out
at that site, at two sites in the Northwest (Map 15925), and also in
other ecological zones as the technical ability and resources of the
Forestry Bureau permit.
(d) Management of the Pine Forest. The pine forest of La Selle would be
demarcated and surveyed, and a comprehensive management plan would
be prepared and initiated for the 20,000 ha of forest on the 30,000-ha
area. Direct seeding tests and species trials for exotic pines
would also be carried out.
(e) Promotion of Fuel Efficient Stoves. Existing designs of charcoal and
wood cooking stoves, and the stoves developed by the Ministry of Mines
and Energy, would be tested and promoted.
(f) Preparation of a Follow-up Project. The preparation of a large-scale
forestry project would be undertaken by the Forestry Bureau, using
the experience gained under the proposed project and with the
assistance of the senior forestry consultant (para 3.03(a)).
B. Detailed Features
Reinforcement of the Forestry Bureau
3.04      The Forestry Bureau presently has a staff of only two professionals
with forestry training.  Its field staff is sizeable but untrained and has
purely regulatory functions. There has been no sector planning and the Bureau
has had no involvement in the forestry activities being carried out by PVOs.
The Bureau would be reinforced under the project by the assignment of a senior
expatriate forester, whose terms of reference are in Annex 1. This consultant
would be responsible for organizing and supervising the various forestry
activities under the project, train field personnel, monitor and evaluate
forestry programs in the country, and assist in formulating a large-scale
reforestation and forest management program as a follow-up to this project,
including staffing requirements of the Forestry Bureau. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the consultant would be selected by September 15,
1982. The Bureau would appoint three field managers for the project's planting,
management and extension operations described below (para 3.06), and each of
these would be supported by a forestry technician. The appointment of the field
managers would be a condition of effectiveness. The Forestry Bureau would be
progressively strengthened and built up as the recipients of fellowships and
students graduating from the technical level school (para 3.05) become available.
The necessary vehicles and equipment needed by the Bureau would be financed under
the project. It is expected that the Bureau would require continuing support,
possibly under a follow-up project, to carry out the long-term forestry
program after the completion of the proposed project.



- 14 -
Forestry Training and Education
3.05      In order to carry out the needed forest planting and management
programs in the country, it is necessary to improve the level of technical
competence of the field staff and the public understanding of the importance
of forestry to the country's economy and environment. The project would
therefore initiate forestry training and education at three levels.
(a) Graduate Training. At the present time, the only graduate training
in forestry available in the country consists of a course in silvicul-
ture given to fourth year students at the Faculty of Agriculture and
Veterinary Medicine (FAVM). To supervise the forestry technicians
(para 3.05(b)), it is estimated that the country needs to develop a
core of 10 to 15 graduate foresters over a few years to properly
administer reforestation and forest management. This number cannot
justify the establishment of a professional forestry school, since
it would take classes of at least 15 per year to justify the cost of
facilities and teaching staff. The immediate needs can be met by
sending eight students overseas for study during project implementa-
tion. Under the project, six fellowships would be established for
graduates of the FAMV or the School of Natural Science of the
University of Haiti to train in general forestry. The duration of
each fellowship would be two years. In addition, the two teaching
counterparts of the technical forestry school (para 3.05(b)) would
receive training in forestry education. Training would be arranged
at forestry institutions geared to tropical environments. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that
(i) the selection of candidates would be subject to IDA agreement,
and (ii) the graduate foresters would be appointed and retained in
employment in forestry for at least twice the number of years of
fellowship study.
(b) Technical Level Training. The country has no forestry technicians
at present and would need a sufficient corps to carry out in the
field large-scale afforestation and management programs outlined
in paragraph 3.02 with at least eight available to start a follow-up
project, building up to about 50 to carry out reforestation at the
rhythm of 10,000 ha per year after 10 years. Additional foresters
will be needed for forest management. There is need to strengthen
consciousness of the importance of forestry among DARNDR personnel.
A forestry curriculum would therefore be established at the medium-
level agricultural school operating at Damien near Port-au-Prince.
The yearly enrollment would be 15 to 20 starting with at least five
the first year; the forestry curriculum would cover two years, after
one year of scientific studies; about one-third of the forestry
curriculum would consist of practical training, including farm
forestry, principally at the pine forest of La Selle, and also at
nurseries and fuelwood planting sites. As construction and equip-
ment of training facilities (classrooms and student accommodations)
Damien would depend on the availability of funding through
additional co-financing, such costs are not included in the present
project. Meanwhile, teaching would start in the available facilities
at Damien. The project would include the rehabilitation of existing



- 15 -
buildings and complementary construction at La Selle for practical
training. The program would require two full-time professors and one
instructor (forestry technician) to be recruited internationally, and
nationals would be recruited for the support staff. To ensure
continuity after the project, three graduates of FAMV would be
appointed to assist in teaching and receive in-service training.
Two of them would be selected for one year of overseas training
before joining the teaching staff.
(c) Primary School Training. In order to bring about an awareness and
understanding of forestry among the population, the Ministry of
Education is preparing to introduce forestry education at the
primary school level. Besides classroom teaching, the program would
include the establishment of tree nurseries in rural schools and tree
plantings on grounds of the students' families. Under the project,
the technical forestry school would organize training of rural
teachers during the vacation period. Some 133 teachers would
receive training each year. The project would finance teacher
training costs, and also the seeds and teaching materials to
be used by the rural schools. It is expected that the SONAMAR
program (para 1.27) would help educate the population to appreciate
forestry problems.
Fuelwood Species Trials
3.06      Because of lack of reliable data on the performance of fuelwood
trees, especially on the marginal land available for fuelwood, controlled
trials would be carried out to test both exotic and local species in represen-
tative areas. The trials would test promising species, primarily for fuelwood
but also for fruit or forage production and for industrial uses (guayule for
rubber, jojoba for industrial oil, and such). A trial design has been prepared
and is available in the project files. One set of trials would be located on
state land near Port-au-Prince in connection with pilot plantings (para 2.01),
and two sets would be located in the Northwest, near Baie de Henne and Jean
Rabel. Land in these areas would be made available by the Government and the
identification of an area of at least 250 ha near Port-au-Prince, 50 ha each
near Baie de Henne and Jean Rabel, and the turning over of that land to the full
control of the Forestry Bureau would be a condition of effectiveness. A simple
soil survey (slope, depth, texture, pH) would be made on each site. An agronomist
would be appointed as field manager at each of the three locations and receive
in-service training. An expatriate volunteer would be appointed to the
principal Port-au-Prince vicinity site, and another to the Northwest area.
The project would include funds for the infrastructure, vehicles, equipment,
and operating costs at selected sites during the project period. Due to the
long-term nature of forestry research, the trials would be continued under the
larger follow-up project.
3.07      Because of the difficulty of ensuring, through planting, a sufficient
pace of reforestation to catch up with deforestation by planting, direct seeding
approaches would be tested in different environments of the country, espe-
cially on rough inaccessible terrain. The tests would include a number of
different species for each environment being evaluated for this reforestation
method. Special attention would be given to developing adequate protection of
the seeded areas from fire and free ranging animals.



- 16 -
Pilot Fuelwood Plantings
3.08      In order to test techniques for reforestation and subsequent manage-
ment of public land, and to develop the capacity of the Forestry Bureau to
carry out that reforestation, some 200 ha would be planted near Port-au-Prince,
on the area to be administered by the Forestry Bureau. Although precise
information on species performance is not available, a number of species are
considered promising and appropriate for pilot plantings. These include:
Leucaena leucocephala, Albizzia lebbek, neem (Azadirachta indica), Cassia
siamea, and other Cassia species, Acacia spp., Parkinsonia aculeata, Prosopis
juliflora (a native species) and other Prosopis species. The program would be
under the direct supervision of the field manager of the Port-au-Prince area
site (para 2.01) with the help of a volunteer technician. Seedlings for the
project would be produced at the central nursery of DARNDR at Damien. A seed
laboratory for procuring seed internationally and nationally and for testing
and preparing seed for Haiti's needs would be established at Damien as part of
the training component. Planting and maintenance would be carried out with
hired labor. Arrangements would be studied to contract labor for harvesting
the wood under a sharecropping agreement with neighboring farmers. An area of
existing scrub forest near the Port-au-Prince area site which would be neither
planted in species trials nor pilot reforestation plots, would be protected
from fire, agricultural encroachment and grazing.  Sample plots would then be
established to measure the growth of natural stands with and without protection.
The program would be supervised by the field manager assisted by a volunteer
technician.
3.09      In the Northwest, tree planting activities are being carried out on
private farms by PVOs with heavy subsidies, generally in the form of food for
work. These activities are to be expanded under the USAID-supported project
(para 1.27). The Forestry Bureau field managers appointed for establishing
species trials under the project would contact and monitor these PVO projects.
This monitoring would include exchange of technical information and have the
objective of assuring proper planting and follow through in the reforestation
activity.  After establishing the trials in the first year, each field manager
would initiate test programs for the distribution of seedlings of promising species
to demonstration farmers, using no direct subsidies. Farmers who are receptive
to trying new ideas and techniques and also are respected in their communities
would be sought for these demonstration plots. The seedlings could initially
be sold at low cost to encourage planting. Once such a program is developed
the Government role would only be to assure an adequate production of quality
seedlings and good planting techniques by the landowners. A minimum goal for
the four-year project period is to have three trial sites established and
500 ha planted.
Pine Forest Management
3.10      The remaining pine stands of La Selle (para 2.10), which have been
severely affected by overcutting, fire, and encroachment of agriculture, have
now been placed under the control of the Forestry Bureau which has set up two
management units totalling approximately 32,000 ha. Logging is now forbidden
by law, but, after rehabilitation and with proper management, these forests



- 17 -
could undergo controlled logging and become an important source of lumber.
Under the project, aerial photos at a 1:12,000 or 1:15,000 scale would be
produced and interpreted by an expatriate consulting group. The interpretation
would consist of classifying the stands by age, density and need of treatment and
of mapping agricultural areas. If necessary, soil surveys would be undertaken to
determine if an area is suitable for further agricultural development or if it
should be converted to forest. Field surveys would be carried out by Forestry
Bureau personnel to confirm or modify the results of the interpretation. The
inventory would lead to the preparation of a preliminary management plan aimed
at the rehabilitation of the stands. Actual management would be initiated
under the project and would consist of planting and seeding of bare areas,
sanitary cutting (removal of diseased trees), culling (removal of dead and
poorly formed trees), protective measures against further agricultural encroach-
ment, fires and overgrazing, and release thinnings of dense, stagnated natural
regeneration. The labor would be provided by four crews of 20 men each,
hired by the Bureau, and the harvested timber would be utilized for fuelwood
charcoal, poles, posts and construction wood. It is expected that 10 years of
such management would be required before large-scale commercial logging could
be resumed. The Forestry Bureau would gradually expand its management activities
on an area control basis to cover the 20,000 ha area within the 10-year period.
The proposed schedule is as follows: year 1, 500 ha; year 2, 750 ha; year 3,
1,000 ha; year 4, 1,500 ha; year 5, 2,000 ha; and years 6 through 10, 2,850 ha
each. Immediate revenues may accrue from some initial sawnwood cuttings in
mature stands and possibly from naval stores production (turpentine and rosin
extraction) if preliminary studies show its technical and economic feasibility.
3.11      The presence of some 2,000 households settled in the pine forest
would require careful attention. An estimated 2,000 ha of marginal lands
now used by them would be converted to forestry and the farmers encouraged to
carry out forestry-related work. Their crop cultivation activities would be
restricted to the arable land defined by the land use survey. To achieve
these results, agriculture support provided by the DARNDR services would be
intensified in the area.  Assurances were obtained from the Government that it
would intensify support services, in particular, by the provision of credit and
the appointment of additional extension agents. The employment generated under
the forest management program would give farmers an added source of income and
would help ensure improved land use.
3.12      The project would include the construction of new buildings in
management unit 2, the maintenance of the main logging roads through labor
intensive methods, the supply of vehicles and equipment, and the financing of
operational management costs. Each of the two management units has been placed
under the direct supervision of a field manager, who would receive the support
of an expatriate technician.
Development and Promotion of Fuel-Efficient Stoves
3.13      Because the improvement of cooking stoves (charcoal and wood) can
substantially reduce the use of fuel and the demand on forest resources, the
development of efficient stoves would be given impetus under the project. The
Directorate of Energy Resources of the Ministry of Mines and Energy has
developed a charcoal stove model and has started work on improved wood stoves.
Equipment for the Directorate would be financed and consultant support provided



- 18 -
through the project to conduct the necessary efficiency testing in the labora-
tory and in households. A survey of cooking practices, which affect stove
design, would be made both in Port-au-Prince for charcoal and in rural areas
for wood. The survey would be designed and data analyzed with the help of a
consultant   financed under the project.  A condition of disbursement under
this component would be the appointment of a staff member of the Directorate
of Energy to carry out the survey in Port-au-Prince and a staff member of DARNDR
for the survey in rural areas. The program would focus on the introduction and
testing of a few selected models of low cost stoves developed in other countries;
their acceptance by users and methods for promoting their adoption would be
tested in the field. If a favorable response is obtained, a number of stoves
would be built by artisans and distributed to volunteer organizations for
promotion.
Preparation of a Second Phase
3.14      Using the experience gained under the project, and other forestry
projects in Haiti (para 1.27), the Forestry Bureau would prepare a larger
scale project, with the help of the senior forestry consultant. This
exercise would include the definition of a national forestry policy, the
definition of the responsibilities, organization and program of the Forestry
Bureau and the identification of potential reforestation areas. The second
project is expected to include an expansion of fuelwood plantings, continua-
tion of pine forest management (para 3.02), and further technical assistance and
forestry training. To this end, the Bureau would receive the support of
short-term consultants on forestry legislation and forestry institutions.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would
(a) review the existing legislative and regulatory framework applicable
to forestry development; (b) exchange views on such framework with IDA at the
time of the review mission (para 3.15); and (c) make such modifications in the
framework as shall be necessary or appropriate. A sociologist would also
assist in assessing the rural population's receptivity to reforestation and
in developing and testing ways to improve interest and participation in tree
planting. The identification/preparation work by the Forestry Bureau, which
would be responsible for issuing the preparation report, would be supported
by the Programming Unit of DARNDR.
C. Project Implementation
3.15      Since most of the activities to be undertaken under the project
would be new initiatives, a start-up period would be needed to field the
staff, organize procurement, and order equipment. It is expected that the
local and expatriate personnel would be appointed promptly. An implementation
schedule is presented in Chart 1. An interim review would be carried out
at the end of the second year, and the project would receive close supervision
by IDA staff. The supervision missions would maintain close liaison with
other agencies involved in forestry, especially those participating in the
USAID-sponsored project.
D.  Project Cost Estimates
3.16      The cost of the project is estimated to be of the order of US$5.07
million, of which US$3.44 million (about 68%) are foreign exchange costs.
The costs are summarized below and detailed in Annex 3, Tables 1 to 10.



- 19 -
3.17      Project costs are based on projections for July 1982, assuming
an inflation rate of 15% from July 1981 to July 1982. The costs have been
calculated net of all identifiable taxes and duties, from which agricultural
development projects are exempt. Total costs include physical contingencies
estimated at 20% of estimated costs for building construction (because of the
absence of design), 10% for equipment, forestry operating costs, supplies, and
costs of operation and maintenance. Price contingencies were calculated by
compounding annual price increases over the implementation period as follows:
for foreign costs, 8.5% for 1982, 7.5% for 1983-85, and 6% per annum for 1986;
for local costs, 12% annually throughout the period. The average cost of
short-term consultant services is estimated at US$11,000 per man-month (includ-
ing benefits and subsistence). The cost of long-term consultants is estimated
at US$8,300 per man-month (including man-month rate, travel and allowances),
except for the volunteer technicians whose cost is US$2,000 per man-month.
Summary of Project Costs
% of     % of Total
Project Components                    Local   Foreign   Total  Foreign   Base Costs
-----US$ 000 
Reinforcement of Forestry Bureau    45.6        528.8      574.4    92.1        14.1
Forestry Training                    537.9   1,145.7   1,683.6\   68.1         41.5
Fuelwood Plantations                 143.8      411.1      554.9    74.1       13.7
Pine Forest Management               473.3      487.6      960.9    49.3       23.7
Development of Cooking Stoves         60.3       56.7      117.0    48.5        2.9
Preparation of Second Phase            0.2      168.8      169.0    99.9        4.1
Total Baseline Costs          1,261.1   2,798.7   4,059.8    68.9        100.0
Physical Contingencies           54.9       77.4      132.3    58.5        3.3
Price Contingencies             322.8      561.9     884.7    63.5        21.8
Total Project Costs                1,638.8   3,438.0   5,076.8    67.7        125.1
E. Proposed Financing
3.18      The United Nation Development Program (UNDP), which normally finances
this type of technical assistance, has no funds for this purpose. The French
Association of Volunteers for Progress (AFVP) has agreed in principle to
appoint the five forestry technicians with French government financing.  The
International Development Research Center (IDRC) of Canada has agreed in
principle to finance the research aspects (fuelwood trials and stoves). Financing
would be shared by IDA, IDRC, AFVP and the Government as follows:



- 20 -
Project Financing
(US$'000)
Project Component                   Government  IDRC    AFVP        IDA     Total
Reinforcement of Forestry Bureau    20.4           -        -       554.0    574.4
Forestry Training                     38.4         -      96.0   1,549.2  1,683.6
Fuelwood Plantations                  68.1       118.0   176.0      192.8    554.9
Pine Forest Management                60.0         -     192.0      708.9    960.9
Development of Cooking Stoves           -        117.0      -          -     117.0
Preparation of Second Phase             -          -        -       169.0    169.0
Total Base Cost                 154.5      235.0   464.0   3,173.9  4,059.8
Physical Contingencies             -        15.0       -      117.3    132.3
Price Contingencies              30.9       50.0    95.0      708.8    884.7
Total Project Cost                   217.8       300.0   559.0   4,000.0  5,076.8
Percentage of Total                    4.5         5.9    11.0       78.6    100
The proposed IDA credit of US$4.0 million, for financing about 79% of total project
costs, would be made available to the Government on standard terms. It would finance
about 80% of foreign exchange costs and about 76% of local expenditures, which
is justified on country grounds. The contribution of AFVP, in terms of the
salaries of the volunteers, and that of IDRC would be provided as grants. The
Government's contribution would meet the salaries of incremental Government
employees. If additional co-financing were to become available, it would
cover the building costs of the technical forestry school (para 3.05(b)) which
are not included in the above figures and project costs. Active discussions
are underway on this point with the OPEC Fund and bilateral donors (Canada,
France, FRG, and USA).
3.19      To ensure that funds would be available in a timely manner for efficient
implementation, a Special Account estimated to cover all local project expendi-
tures over a three-month period would be established for the project in a
commercial bank. IDA would make the initial deposit of US$50,000 into the Special
Account after the project had been declared effective. Subsequent replenish-
ment of the Special Account by IDA would be subject to submission by the Project
Unit of withdrawal applications. IDA would commence recovery of the initial
deposit when the amount undisbursed in the Credit is reduced to US$50,000. The
Special Account would be subject to audit each fiscal year in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by auditors acceptable to
IDA.  Establishment of the Special Account by the Government would be a condition
for Credit effectiveness.



- 21 -
F. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.20      Procurement of vehicles and equipment to be financed under the Credit
that are similar in nature and time of purchase would be grouped in packages
where possible.   Contracts for four-wheel drive vehicles for a total of
US$0.19 million would be procured through international competitive bidding.
Contracts for other items costing more than US$25,000 but less than US$100,000
(and totalling US$0.09 million) would be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding procedures, advertised locally, which are satisfactory to IDA. Contracts
for less than US$25,000 (amounting to US$0.29 million) would be procured by direct
shopping on the basis of at least three quotations. Contracts for civil works and
buildings are expected to be for less than US$0.2 million. As project experience
in the country has shown that contracts for less than US$1.0 million would not be
attractive to international contractors, they would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, for a total amount of US$0.14 million.
Services of consultants to be financed by the IDA credit (US$1.22 million) would
be obtained according to IDA guidelines.
Disbursements
3.21      The IDA credit of US$4.0 million would be disbursed over four years
under the following categories:
Category I   -  100% of civil works costs (US$139,000).
Category II  -  100% of foreign costs of vehicles, equipment, and
furniture (US$494,000).
Category III -  100% of incremental field forestry expenses for the
fuelwood and pine forest components, including
operating costs, inputs, surveys, and seasonal
labor (US$1,184,000).
Category IV  -  100% of foreign costs of expatriate and consultant
salaries financed by IDA, and of fellowships abroad
(US$1,474,000).
Category V   -  Initial deposit in Special Account (US$50,000).
Category VI  -  Unallocated (US$659,000).
3.22      Applications for credit withdrawals, including applications for
replenishment of the working fund, would be fully documented, except for
applications under Category V and those under Category III which would be against
certified statements of expenditures, the supporting documentation for which would
be verified by the independent auditors as well as reviewed by IDA supervision
missions. The schedule of disbursements shown below takes into account the dis-
bursement profile for IDA projects in Haiti, and especially the disbursement
record of the Rural Development Project in the Northern Department (para 1.16),
which reflects a slow start-up of operations. It takes into account the recent
experience in speeding up implementation (especially through the establishment
of a revolving fund and frequent supervision), and the substantial proportion
of project funds to be used for financing consultants. The estimated phasing
is as follows:



- 22 -
(US$ Million)
IDA FY              1983              1984              1985             1986            1987
Semester        1           2       1        2        1       2        1       2        1
During Sem.    0.05 1/   0.02    0.35    0.45    0.63    0.70    0.75    0.75    0.30
Cumulative      0.05      0.07    0.42    0.87    1.50    2.20    2.95    3.70    4.00
D.. Accounts, Audits and Reports
Accounts and Audits
3.23      The accounting department of the DARNDR would keep separate accounts
for the project, maintained in accordance with acceptable accounting practices
to reflect the operations and financial position of the project. The accounts
would be maintained separately for each of the components.
3.24      The accounts and statements of expenditures and the Special and
Project Accounts (para 3.19), together with the associated internal controls,
would be audited by independent auditors. The auditors' report would be
furnished to IDA no later than four months after the end of the Haitian fiscal
year. Assurances were obtained to this effect.
Reports
3.25      The Forestry Bureau would prepare and submit to IDA a semi-annual
progress report on the implementation of the forestry development aspects
within two months of the end of each semester. The same schedule of reporting
would be observed by the Directorate of Energy for stove development, the
Ministry of Education for the primary school forestry program, and the school
of agriculture for the forestry school development. Performance indicators
and format of the reports have been drafted and would be discussed with the
relevant services during the first supervision mission.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization
4.01      With only two employees who have received forestry training and
uneducated forest guards at the field level, the Forestry Bureau cannot
manage large-scale forestry development programs at this time.  Its role
remains to be defined, and its responsibilities to be established. It
should, however, eventually be given full jurisdiction over state forests.
The Bureau would be strengthened to carry out project activities, define
policies, and pave the way for an expansion of reforestation and silvicultural
1/   Initial payment to the working fund.



- 23 -
management programs. Because the Forestry Bureau needs strengthening, the
Director for Natural Resources would have overall responsibility for all
forestry activities and expenditures under the project and for the coordi-
nation with other agencies (School of Agriculture, Ministries of Mines/
Energy and Education) for related activities under the project. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that IDA would
be given an opportunity to comment on the appointment of any new chief of
the Bureau. The Chief of the reforestation and trial unit of the Bureau
would have direct responsibility for field planting and fuelwood species
trials. The staff of the Forestry Bureau would be assisted by the senior
forestry consultant. The preparation of a second phase project would include
a definition of the responsibilities of the Forestry Bureau and of the organi-
zation required to carry out the long-term forestry program.
4.02      The DARNDR would have overall responsibility for project implementa-
tion. The Dean of FAMV would coordinate the fellowship program with the
DARNDR and the forestry program in primary schools with the Ministry of
Education. The Director of Energy Resources of the Ministry of Mines and
Energy would have responsibility for the cooking stove component. A condition
of effectiveness would be the conclusion of arrangements satisfactory to IDA
for the participation of the Ministry of Education and the Directorate of
Energy Resources in the project.
B. Staffing
4.03      The Forestry Bureau has already appointed two agronomists to be
field managers for the pine forest. The Bureau would appoint three more
for fuelwood trials and pilot planting operations in the Port-au-Prince area,
Jean Rabel and Baie-de-Henne, respectively. Volunteer technicians would assist
at the site near Port-au-Prince and in the Northwest. While the volume of
operations cannot justify the assignment of a full-time administrator to the
Forestry Bureau, there is need to avoid slippage in project implementation
because of supply problems; to this end a senior procurement officer of the
administrative section of DARNDR would be assigned to handle procurement and
administrative matters under the project, in liaison with the Director of Natural
Resources and the Senior Forestry Advisor. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that a senior procurement officer acceptable to IDA would be assigned to
handle project procurement, as a condition of effectiveness.
4.04      The professional expatriate attached as an advisor to the Forestry
Bureau would assist in the implementation of the project throughout its
duration. Five volunteer technicians would be assigned to the Forestry
Bureau. The project's total consultant requirements, including volunteers,
are estimated at 34 man-years. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employment of the
long-term and short-term consultants would be subject to IDA agreement. Their
proposed terms of reference are in Annex 1.



- 24 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
5.01      At this time, no data exist in the country on which to base reliable
detailed production estimates. The estimates given below are approximations
derived from general knowledge of the production potential under comparable
environments in other countries.
Fuelwood Plantings
5.02      Current production of the dry scrub forest is estimated at between
0.5 and 1 m /ha/year. Fuelwood plantings of fast growing species ai the site
near Port-au-Prince are expected to produce an average of 5 to 10 m /ha yearly,
to be harvested in five-year rotations. This is equivalent to some 500 to 1,000
kg 1/ of charcoal per hectare per year. With proper protection, the native
scrjb forest, essentially Prosopis, is expected to yield between 1.5 and
2 m /ha/year.
Pine Forest
5.03      During the next 10 years, the harvest from the pine forest is
expected to be limited mostly to diseased, dead and over-mature trees and
small trees from thinnings. In those stands where sawtimber size trees exist,
sawlogs would be produced and gum and turpentine production would be estab-
lished if initial investigation indicates that it would be feasible. The
wood would be used for charcoal, posts, constructirn poles, and lumber.
An average of 30 m /ha would be cut, of which 12 m  would be suitable for
lumber production. Once the full productive poteniial of the forest is
restored, prodjction is anticipated to average 5 m /ha/year (or a total of
some 100,000 m /year), 70% of it as sawtimber and the remainder as fuelwood,
poles and posts.
B. Marketing
Markets
5.04      The small amount of fuelwood produced under the project would be
readily absorbed by local consumers. Charcoal would be shipped to Port-au-
Prince. The demand for building poles is high, and sawtimber has to be
imported. Thus, all forest wood produced under the project would find a
ready market.
Prices
5.05      Trees are being cut for charcoal free of charge, especially those
growing on state land. However, trees growing on private land are now often
l/   8 m  of wood = 1 ton of charcoal.



- 25 -
cut by charcoal makers under a sharecropping arrangement with the owner, under
which he would receive some charcoal. There are no reliable data on the
distribution of revenues in this case, but it is' generally believed that
the owner receives half of the charcoal produced.  With the value of char oal
at the production site averaging US$55/ton and a conversion factor of 8 m wood
to 1 ton charcoal, the value of wood can be estimated at US$11.00 per ton. From
this should be deducted the labor cost for collection, which, in the case of
plantations, would be much lower per unit weight harvested than collection from
dispersed natural forests.
5.06      Charcoal sells at an average price of US$150/ton to the consumer at
the retail level in Port-au-Prince, or approximately three times the price
at the collection points in the rural areas. The consumer price of kerosene is
US$1.24 per gallon. In caloric terms, these prices correspond to a range of
USJ6.7 to 11.4 per kcal for charcoal, depending on the type, and USell.3 for
kerosene (calculation in Annex 2, Table 6). Regardless of prices, charcoal
remains the poor man's preferred fuel supply, because the low income group
cannot afford the investment in kerosene stoves costing about US$15 each, while
locally made charcoal stoves cost only US$3 to US$5.
5.07      The retail price of charcoal does not reflect the value of wood to
the economy. Given the importance of encouraging conservation of available
fuelwood resources, and of involving the rural population in the reforesta-
tion effort, Government policies should aim at demonstrating the value of
fuelwood planting. Wood gatherers and charcoal producers, for example, would be
shown how their costs are reduced and productivity increased (in terms of quantity
of wood produced per hour of work) by the availability of concentrated supplies
of better quality fuelwood from plantations. During a second phase, considera-
tion would be given to a system of charge for fuelwood from plantings on public
land. The plantations on both public and some private land would eventually
become cash crops, and fuelwood and charcoal production elevated to a full-
time activity, not restricted, as at present, to persons with no alternative
income source.
5.08      Cutting of pine is now forbidden by law, but some logging and
sawing are carried out illegally.  Sawn timber cuyrently sells for US$0.65
per board foot in Port-au-Prince, or US$270 per m (conversion factor used:
412 bd ft per m ). This value essentially reflects imported lumber prices.
It should be poin5ed out, however, that the price which was around US$.45/board
foot, or US$185/m rose sharply after cutting was prohibited and the supply
declined. For purposes of the financial analysis of this component, it is
assumed that, when the pine forest lumbes re-enters the market legally, the
price will be US$.45/bd ft, or US$185/ m .  Since the only logging going on in
the country is illegal, no stumpage value is being paid. On the managed pine
forest, however, the stumpage value will at least have to cover the costs of
managing the forest. The prices of imported ti ber and the projected price
for pine forest lumber (US$270 and US$185 per m , respectively) are such that
stumpage values could easily reflect such costs without pricing the pine lumber
out of the market.  Basing estimates on the 3calculations shown in Annex 2,
Table 1, a stumpage price of US$12.00 per m of sawtimber during the first



- 26 -
10 years would cover all of the fixed and variable of pine forest manage-
ment during that period (i.e. yield an internal rate of return of 10).
During the disbursement period, much of the wood removed in stand improve-
ment cuttings would be suitable only for fuelwood and no charge would be
made to the local population who collected it. All commercial sawtimber
harvested, however3 would be subject to a minimum stumpage charge of
G 60 (US$12) per m by the Forestry Bureau and would be increased periodically,
taking into account factors such as changes in operating costs and price of
imported lumber. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government to this effect.
C. Income and Financial Results
Income
5.09      Over the four-year implementation period, the project would create
new employment and thereby distribute a total of US$330,000 in additional
wages paid to nationals involved in the execution of the project. Of
special significance would be the employment generated by the management of
the pine forest. The income from the sale of pine, assuming a US$12.00
stumpage fee, would be about US$554,000 over the four years and would help
defray some of the project expenditures. A financial analysis of the pine
forest component is given in Annex 2, Table 1.
Government Cash Flow
5.10      At the end of the disbursement period, recurrent costs required
to maintain the project would amount to an average of about US$195,000 per
year, including replacement costs for vehicles and equipment. This amount
does not include costs that would be incurred under the medium-term afforesta-
tion program (para 3.02) estimated at US$110 million, most of which is expected
to be supplied by external donors.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits
Direct Benefits
6.01      The main direct benefit from the project would be the development of
of large-scale fuelwood reforestation approaches to help reverse the trend toward
depletion of the country's major energy resource base, the restoration of the
productive capacity of the major remaining forest in the country, and strength-
ening of forestry staff. Du5ing the implementation period, the pine forest
would provide some 600,000 m of wood for charcoal, building poles, fuelwood and
lumber. These activities would generate employment and income for the rural
population settled in the forest area. Over the four years of implementation,



- 27 -
the pine forest component would generate about 360 man-years of employment for
unskilled labor and 40 man-years for skilled labor. The project would pave the
way for a resumption of commercial logging for pine sawtimber. It is estimated
that 10 years after initiation of the proposed management activities the pine
forest would annually produce sawtimber, which as lumber would have a market
value of US$18.5 million and an economic value, in terms of import substitution,
of US$27 million. The fuelwood component would make it possible to reduce kerosene
imports; each hectare in full production would yield the equivalent of US$250 worth
of kerosene annually. This component would generate about 200 man-years of employ-
ment for unskilled laborers for every 1,000 ha planted and pave the way for the
establishment of increasing areas of high yielding fuelwood species. The long-term
afforestation program (para 3.02) would generate substantial additional employment.
Indirect Benefits
6.02      A major indirect benefit of the project would be the improvement of
the environment and soil and water conservation. The improvement in fuelwood
output and the expected improvement with efficient cooking stoves would
help relieve the severe pressure on wood resources and reduce the cost of
imports of fuelwood substitutes such as kerosene. The project would also
help develop positive attitudes toward forestry and the environment among
the population and develop approaches to expanded afforestation and manage-
ment of timber stands. Finally, it is expected that the pilot fuelwood com-
ponent would help coordinate afforestation programs supported by PVOs and other
donors and thus improve their effectiveness.
B. Economic Analysis and Rate of Return
6.03      An economic and financial analysis, made for the pine forest manage-
ment, the one component which will have direct and immediate cash income, indi-
cates a favorable outlook. It is feared that the pine forest would virtually
disappear in about 30 years without the proposed project. With the project, on
the other hand, timber yields would increase gradually and reach full productivity
after 10 years, at which time sustained commercial exploitation would begin. In
the case of fuelwood planting, it is premature to make credible projections on the
impact of the proposed component, which is designed to supply the data for large-
scale reforestation. However, while in the absence of the project a severe fuelwood
deficit, leading to a virtual disappearance of the natural forests, is expected,
with the project, the country's reforestation capacity is expected to grow to
10,000 ha per year within 10 years, and help reduce the deficit by some 20%.
Details are in Annex 2.
C. Risks
6.04      IDA's experience in the agricultural sector in Haiti shows slow
disbursement and implementation, primarily because of lack of technical
staff, institutional weaknesses, budgetary constraints and slow authorization



- 28 -
of expenditures by the Government bureaucracy. There is the risk of similar
difficulties developing with the proposed project. However, the establishment
of a special account (para 3.19) would reduce the risk of financial constraints.
The lack of success of attempts at reforestation to date, due in part to the
unfavorable attitude of the rural population, and the absence of a viable
forest service together represent a negative trend which can only be overcome
through vigorous efforts. However, the projected critical fuelwood supply
situation and the continuing deterioration of the environment justify the
efforts proposed under the project, while the risks are sought to be minimized
by ensuring flexibility in implementation, and by close IDA supervision of the
project.
D. Environmental Impact
6.05      The project and the program to follow would have a very positive
impact on the Haitian environment. Through the educational efforts at the
elementary school level and its extension work in rural areas, the project
would lay the groundwork for an improved appreciation by the population of the
economic and ecological benefits of reforestation and protection of watersheds.
6.06      Reforestation would reduce pressure on native forests as a source of
fuelwood and in doing so contribute directly and indirectly to reducing erosion
and enhancing water quality and flow.
6.07      Pine forest management work and complementary agricultural extension
efforts by the DARNDR in the pine forest and other areas would help develop
rational land use practices and reduce destructive grazing and burning patterns
while promoting more profitable employment alternatives for the rural populace.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM_ENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government on
the following principal points:
(a) the senior forestry consultant would be appointed by September 15,
1982 (para 3.04);
(b) the selection of candidates for fellowships would be subject to
IDA agreement and the foresters receiving fellowships would be
appointed and retained in employment in forestry for at least twice
the number of years of fellowship study (para 3.05(a));
(c)  agricultural support services would be intensified in the pine
forest area, in particular by the provision of credit and the
appointment of additional extension agents (para 3.11);
(d) the Government would review the existing legislative and regulatory
framework applicable to forestry development, exchange views on such
framework with IDA at the time of the review mission (para 3.15),
and make such modifications in the framework as shall be necessary
or appropriate (para 3.14);



-29-
(e) the auditors' report would be furnished to IDA no later than four
months after the end of the Haitian fiscal year (para 3.24);
(f) IDA would be given an opportunity to comment on the appointment of
any new chief of the FB (para 4.01);
(g) the qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employment
of the long-term and short-term consultants would be subject to IDA
agreement (para 4.04); and
(h) the Forestry Bureau would levy a minimum charge of US$12.00 equivalent
per m3 for sawtimber as soon as harvesting of commercial sawtimber
begins and the charge would be increased periodically, taking into
account factors such as changes in operating costs and price of
imported lumber (para 5.08).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)  the appointment by the Forestry Bureau of three field managers
for the fuelwood component (para 3.04);
(b) the official transfer of at least 250 ha of land near Port-au-Prince
and at least 50 ha each near Baie de Henne and Jean Rabel to the full
control of the Forestry Bureau (para 3.06);
(c)  the establishment of a Special Account by the Government (para 3.19);
(d) the conclusion of arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the participa-
tion of the Ministry of Education and the Directorate of Energy
Resources in the project (para 4.02); and
(e) a senior procurement officer of DARNDR satisfactory to IDA would be
assigned to handle project procurement (para 4.03).
7.03      A condition of disbursement against the stove component would be the
appointment of a staff member of the Directorate of Energy to carry out
a survey of cooking practices in Port-au-Prince, and of a staff member of
DARNDR to carry out the survey in rural areas (para 3.13).
7.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA Credit of US$4.0 million on standard terms.
May 12, 1982



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
Terms of Reference of Internationally Recruited Staff
A. Senior Forestry Consultant
Duties
1.        The incumbent will undertake a four-year assignmnent in support of
the Forestry Bureau, to give such advice, information and guidance as may be
necessary for the successful completion of this project. He will have an
office in the Forestry Bureau and will deal directly with the head of that
agency. He will have access to project files and accounts, and will co-sign
expenditures for the project working fund. He will furthermore:
(a)  collect and evaluate all the avalable information on forestry
in the country;
(b)  give such advice, information and guidance to the Forestry
Bureau and other agencies of the Haitian Governiment as may
be requested;
(c)  train Forestry Bureau personnel, especially the field managers;
(d)  advise upon the selection, timing and support of short-term
consultants;
(e)  supervise the work of the technical volunteers3
(f)  prepare a second-phase forestry project consonant with a
long-range forestry development plan approved by the
Government of Haiti;
(g)  collect and organize such economic information regarding
forestry and forest products as may clarfy and support
such a plan; and
(h)  carry out such other activities appropriate to the objectives
of this project.
Qualifications
2.        The candidate must have the ability to read, write, speak and
understand French fluently. He must have a graduate degree in forestry
and have had at least 10 years' professional experience and at least five
in developing countries. His specific areas of expertise should be fuel-
wood plantations and pine forest management. He will also be expected to
advise the Haitian Government on general forestrv subjec--s such as forest
policy and law, watershed management and seed procurement and should be
familiar with the basic concepts of economic analysis, administration and
public relations/extension.  He will have to acquire a thorough knowledge
of the Haitian countryside and its people and wIii  be corcerned with bringing
the benefits of forestry to the Haitian peoplec



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
B.   Professor of Forest Management
Duties
3.        Under the general guidance of the Director of the School of
Agriculture at Damien, the incumbent will teach two-semester courses in
ecology and foretforest management, and one-semester courses in dendrology,
agro-forestry, extension methods and law. Each semester will normally
consist of 16 weeks of instruction, including two examinations. Instruction
will consist of lectures, assigned reading, assigned reports and field trips.
Field instruction will be no less than 30% and use will be made of the
forest teaching facilities at La Selle. The incumbent will be assisted
in field teaching by the instructor in forest technology. During the school
vacation, he will participate in giving instruction to primary school teachers
in forestry and conservation. In the course of his assignment, the professor
will train a counterpart, who will be an agronomist assigned to FAMV for
in-service training.
Qualifications
4.        A graduate degree and at least 10 years' professional experience,
lncluding teaching. Fluency in French.
C. Professor of Forest Science
Duties
5.        Under the general guidance of the Director of the School of Agri-
culture at Damien, the incumbent will teach one-semester courses in serveying,
inventory, wood technology, wood utilization, reforestation and soil conserva-
tion. Each semester will normally consist of'16 weeks of instruction, including
two examinations. Instruction will consist of lectures, assigned reading,
assigned reports and field trips. Field instruction will be no less than
30% and use will be made of the forest teaching facilities at La Selle. The
incumbent will be assisted in field teaching by the instructor in forest
technology. During the school vacation, he will participate in giving
instruction to primary school teachers in forestry and conservation. In the
course of his assignment, the professor will train a counterpart, who will be
an agronomist assigned to FAMV for in-service training.
Qualifications
6.        A graduate degree and at least 10 years' professional experience,
including teaching. Fluency in French.
D. Instructor in Forest Technology
Duties
7.        Under the guidance of the Director of the School of Agriculture
at Damien and the senior Professors, the incumbent will teach a one-semester



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
course in machine mechanics and a one-semester course in nursery practice.
The instruction will be entirely in practice and demonstration with no
lectures or examinations. The incumbent will also help the senior
professors in the field instruction of their courses. During the school
vacation the incumbent will participate in giving instruction to primary
school teachers in forestry and conservation.
Qualifications
8.        Technical degree in forestry.  Fluency in French.
E. Forest Management Assistants
Duties
9.        Under the general direction of the senior forestry consultant,
the incumbents will assist the Haitian managers in carrying out the project
activities specified for the two management units of the La Selle forest.
Among the activities will be:
(a)  surveying and marking the boundaries of the state-owned
pine forest of La Selle;
(b)  on the basis of ground observations and information supplied
from aerial photo-interpretation under contract, making a
work schedule for thinning, sanitation cutting and planting;
(c)  making a road and trail construction and improvement program;
(d)  making a fire control program;
(e)  hiring, organizing and supervising the work of approximately
80 forest workers;
(f)  dealing with and supervising the utilization of the products
of thinnings and cuttings;
(g)  supervising the development of a naval stores industry;
(h)  supervising and training forest guards;
(i)  establishing and monitoring good relations with the local
inhabitants;
(j)  cooperating with the forestry education and training aspects
of the project, which will have installations and sessions in
the forest of La Selle; and
(k)  cooperating with the senior forestry consultant in preparing a
second phase of this project and a long-range development and
management plan for the forest.



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
Qualifications
10.       Graduation from a forestry technical school.  Fluent command of
French. Ability and willingness to learn and communicate in Creole.
F. Reforestation Technician
Duties
11.       Under the general direction of the senior forestry consultant,
the incumbent will assist the Haitian assigned to the reforestation
component of the project. Among the activities included are:
(a) surveying and marking the boundaries of the reforestation
area;
(b) identifying the areas for planting, for agriculture and
for protection;
(c) identifying the areas for planting 200 hectares during
the project period;
(d) providing for seedlings either by arrangement with an
existing nursery or by establishing one;
(e) supervising the site preparation, planting, protection,
aftercare and monitoring of the tree plantings.
Qualifications
12.       Graduation from a forestry technical school.  Fluent command of
French and willingness to learn and communicate in creole.
G. Reforestation Technician, Northwest
Duties
13.       Under the general direction of the senior forestry consultant, the
incumbent will assist the Haitians assigned to this component of the
project to initiate and supervise fuelwood planting trials in the Northwest.
He will also assist them in monitoring other fuelwood plantings in the area,
and will investigate and compare different schemes for bringing about fuelwood
plantings on private land.
Qualifications
14.       Graduation from a forestry technical school.  Fluent command
of French. Ability and willingness to learn and communicate in creole.



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
H. Consultants in Rural Sociology
Duties
15.       Under the general direction of the senior forestry consultant, the
incumber will design an agricultural and demographie survey of the La Selle
pine forest, and will train enumerators. He will organize, evaluate and
report upon the results, making recommendations regarding the most appropriate
ways to coordinate intensive management of the pine forest with the existing
agricultural activities, with such changes as may be necessary.
Qualifications
16.       The candidate must have a graduate degree in sociology with competence
in economics, statistics and demography and 10 years' professional experience,
at least five in developing countries.  He must be fluent in French.
Duties
17.       Under the general direction of the senior consultant, the incumbent
will study and report upon the social implications of reforestation in the
Northwestern peninsula of Haiti, with the purpose of finding out what motivates
farmers to plant and protect trees and what impedes them.
Qualifications
18.       The candidate must have a detree in rural sociology and experience
in developing countries, and be fluent in French.
I. Soil Survey Consultant
Duties
19.       Under the general direction of the senior forestry consultant, the
incumbent will design land use surveys fot the Fine forest of La Selle and
the fuelwood reforestation area in enough detail to classify the soil capability
for agriculture and for forestry (based opn slope, depth, texture and erodibility).
He will train field crews and will prepare maps on the basis of the information
gathered.
Qualifications
20.       The candidate must have a graduate degree in soil science, with profes-
sional experience in the design and carrying out of soil surveys, and be fluent
in French.
August 1981



- 35 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 1
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
Financial and Economic Analysis
A. Financial Analysis of Pine Forest Management
Financial Costs
1.        The estimated financial costs of the project are detailed in
Table 1.
Financial Returns
2.        The price of the wood on the stump in the forest must be at least
enough to cover all recurrent management costs. It will be the only direct
revenue from the forest. 1/ These costs are estimated to be an average
of ibout US$195,000 per year. if the 20,000 ha can be developed to produce
5 m /ha/y5 by the end of year 10, this implies a total annual production of
100,000 m of which 70% will be saXtimber. The minimum saw-timber stumpage
price would therefore be US$2.80 m , which is quite low in view of the current
price of US$270/m3 for pine sawnwood in Port-au-Prince and the projected
price of US$185/m when production starts up again. 2/ It is probable, there-
fore, that a higher price, sufficient to cover operating costs and amortize
all investments could be charged without pricing the wood out of the market.
Any stumpage charge would have to be backed by an effective surveillance
system to prevent continued pilfering of trees (at zero stumpage) from
the forest.  In the financial analyses, the stumpage price is varied to
test the sensitivity of the internal rate of return to changes in this
variable and to determine the minimum stumpage price necessary to amortize
all costs through year 10 (the end of the forest rehabilitation period) and
through year 50 (the end of the first full rotation).
1/   Naval stores may be produced in the forest but preliminary tests must be
carried out first to determine feasibility. There will be no charge for
wood residues and other wood destined for fuelwood or charcoal.
2/   A survey of pine lumber vendors yielded an average price of US$0.6 per
board foot of lumber; using a conversion factor of 412 bd ft per m the
price per cubic meter is obtained   Before th ban on cutting pine, the
price was US$0.45/bd.eft. or 185 m which is approximately the present
border price for southern pine of equal quality, imported from the US.
It must be kept in mind that there is a 50% conversion factor from logs
the lumber.  In other words each two cubic meters of logs will yield 3
one cubic meter of sawnwood.  The minimum stumpage price of US$2.80/m 3
would therefore account for US$5.60 of lumber's final price of US185/m



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
B. Economic Analysis of the Pine Forest Management
Economic Analysis Assumptions
3.        To correctly measure the impact of the pine forest management
component, the "with and without project" concept is applied. The basic
objective of the project would be to create a sustained increase in the
quantity and quality of the wood produced in the pine forest. With the
project, the cutting of pine would be permitted within the guidelines of the
management plan, as outlined above. It is assumed that the cutting of timber
would also be permitted without the project, without any controls as
to volume and timing of cuts.
4.        Without Project.  The FAO study of the pine forests of Haiti indicated
that "dense" stands in La Salle were decreasing at a rate of over 330 ha per year.
By 1977, the stands of central Haiti had virtually disappeared. It will be
assumed that, without an effective management and protection plan, the remaining
forest would continue to be degraded at the same rate. This means that in 31
years from the time of the FAO study (1977), the La Selle pine forests would
for all practical purposes cease to exist. That year, 2008, coincides with the
25th year of the project.  It is also assumed that valuable trees would be
removed more quickly and cut areas would be burned and grazed or placed under
marginal agricultural cultivation. This would interfere with natural regen-
eration and effectively reduce the absolute size of the forest. Although the
potential v31ume of timber which  could be 3removed from the forest is high
(about 40 m /ha over 9,000 ha or 360,000 m ), a large portion would be lost
to fire, insects, disease and indiscriminate clering.  In the best of circum-
stances, it is 1ssumed that a maximum of 8,000 m of sawtimber or the equiva-
lent of 4,000 m of sawnwood would be produced annually without the project
through the year 2008. The economic value or boarder price of this wood per
3
cubic meter has been calculated at US$75/m as follows. Retail price in
Port-au-Prince is equal to the opportunity cost or the border price of
imported lumber 3f equivalent quality. This has been calculated to be approx-
imately US$185/m . Economic costs of transport and handling of the wood from
La Selle tVrough the retail dealer in Port-au-Prince are calculated at   3
US$28.50/m . Economic cost of sawing the lumber in the forest is US$10/1
based on the assumption that a two-man pit saw operation can produce l m in
a five-day period.  The opportunity cost of labor is estimated at US$1/man-day.
The net economic value of the wood on the stump in tVe La Selle forest is
therefore US$185 less US$38.50, or US$146.50 for 2 m of round wood
(for conversion factor from logs to lumber is 23to 1).  The net econSmic
stumpage value of pine is, therefore, US$73.25/m or rounded, US$75/m .



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
5.        With Project.  Table 2 shows the production estimated economic value
of sawtimber and sawnwood produced each year with (and without) the project.
The economic value of firewood in the La Selle region is zero because of its
abundance there. The value of fuelwood, which would be converted tS charcoal
and shipped to Port-au-Prince, however, is calculated at US$17.75/m . Despite
its lower quality as a fuelwood, pine could provide considerablS volumes of
charcoal to the Port-au-Prince market.  It is assumed that 50 m  of non-
sawtimber wood wil be removed per hectare over a 40-year rotation of which
one hird, or 16 m would be used for local fuelwood needs 1/ and another
16 m would be used for posts and other purposes. These products would be free
of charge to local people. Because of their relative abundance in the pine
forest area their opportunity cost is ass med to be zero.  The amount
available for charcoai would then be 18 m /ha. This is equivalent to a total
production of 9,000 m /year on the 20,000-ha forest. To this must be added
sawmill residues (slabs and edgings which make up about 40% of the log volume
with sawdust being another 10%) ad tops and branches of trees (forest residues)
which will yield another 40,000 m of wood annuall3. Assuming a 50% conversion
ratio (wood to charcoal by volume), about 25,000 m or 6,250 tons of charcoal
could be produced per year. This is about 8% of Haiti's present annual
consumption. Without the project it is assumed that only enough wood to
satisfy local demand will be produced. At the present value of G 7.00, or
US$1.40 per 30-kg bag in the forest, this by-product of forest management would
create a lgcal income of Sver US$290,000 per year. At the economic value of
US$17.75/m , the 49,000 m of wood suitable for charcoal production has a
value of US$869,750/year after year 10 (Table 3). The net "with project" less
"without project" economic value of this fuelwood on the stump is shown in
Table 4.
6.        Agricultural Production.  With respect to overall agricultural pro-
duction, it is assumed that this will be the same with and without the project.
With the project, 2,000 ha of marginal lands will be taken out of cultivation or
grazing, and it will cost the equivalent of US$100 per lost hectare to increase
the productivity of the remaining agricultural land and maintain total agricultural
production at a stable level. Efforts will be made to employ those marginal
farmers in forestry activities. Once the proposed forest area is under effective
1/   Assumes 0.8 m  annual per capita consumption x 10,000 people, or 8,000 m
per yea3 over 20,000 ha.  This is equivalent to 0.4 m /ha/yr over 40 years,
or 16 m /ha total over the rotation.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
forestry activities. Once the proposed forest area is under effective manage-
ment 10 years hence, the Forestry Bureau could consider adding other non-
agricultural lands to the National Forest's domain. The expansion of marginal
agricultural activities without the project will be an important factor in the
reduction of the total forest area. These activities would consist principally
of extensive burning of forests (ostensibly to improve grazing conditions),
and shifting agriculture. While the burning will kill natural pine regeneration
and have a considerably negative impact on the area and productivity of the
forest, it will not add to total agricultural production. This is because the
soils and understory vegetation in the forest are so badly degraded that
"improvements" through burning will be negligible. The same is true for
shifting agriculture which has a relatively constant yield but destroys forest
cover with every move. The economic costs and benefits and analysis are shown
in Table 2.
Other Indirect Benefits and Costs
7.        Soil conservation and erosion control would improve with the
project and deteriorate significantly without it. The deterioration would be
evidenced by the constant agricultural production from the area despite an
increase in the cultivated and grazed area in the "without" project situation.
The reduction of erosion with the project would have benefits which must be
kept in mind by Haiti's planners but which cannot be quantified or have
an economic value placed on them at this point. These benefits include:
improved water flow and quality from pine forest watersheds through the year;
reduced road maintenance costs; reduced river bank erosion control costs;
improved crop yields as sheet erosion and top soil losses are reduced.
8.        Haiti's balance of payments situation will improve to the equivalent
of the value of the lumber produced with the project. "With project"
estimates of sawtimber and lumber production are found in Table 4   Without-
project production of lumber is estimated at a maximum of 4,000 m per year
through year 25. As the table indicates, the potntial net foreign exchange
savings with the project from not having to import an equivalent amount of
lumber would be an average of US$1.5 million per year for years 1 through 10,
US$5.7 million for years 11 through 25 and US%6.5 million from years 26 through
50. This is significant for Haiti, which has very serious balance of payments
and trade problems. Despite improvements in export earnings, imports increased
37% per year between 1978 and 1980, and the balance of trade for 1980 has been
estimated at negative US$76.8 million. 1/
C. Economic Analysis of Fuelwood Reforestation
9.        The lack of reliable statistics in the country make it difficult
to make quantitative estimates of the economic impact of the project. However,
reasonable assumptions can be made because the general trends are clearly
identified.
1/   World Bank, Memorandum of the Haitian Economy, Report No. 3444-HA,
May 13, 1981. The post-appraisal mission will investigate imported
lumber prices and forest products trade statistics.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
Assumptions - Without Project
10.       In the absence of a fuelwood project, the present deterioration of
the fuel supply is expected to continue unchecked. Deforestation would continue
to outspace regrowth, and the deficit in the fuelwood balance would continue
to increase. With a  annual increase of 3%, fuelwood demand is expected to
exceed 7.2 eillion m by the year 2000, compared to the current demand of
4 million m .
il.       The fuelwood supply in 1980 came from a total "forest" area of
930,000 ha (1980) of which approximately 69,000 ha were pine, 150,000 ha
scattered groves of closed hardwood forest, 20,000 ha mangrove, and 690,000 ha
of open degraded woodland (scrub and brush with a few scattered trees). 1/
There were also some 1,500 ha of plantations scattered t roughout the country.
Annual yields per ha are 1 m3 for degraded woodland, 5 m for "closed" forests
including mangrove, and 10 m for plantations.
12.       Without the projec5 the supply from existing forests is estimated
to approximate 1.9 million m matters by the year 2000, assuming annual plant-
ings of about 900 ha with international support and aggregate plantings
stabilizing at 10,000 ha from 1990 onward. This means a large and growing
deficit of some 5.1 million cubic meters of wood fgr the year 2000, as
compared with the current deficit of 2.4 million m .
13.       A grave situation can be anticipated.  The low income families,
which make up the overwhelming majority of the country's population, do not
have the means to switch to alternative sources of energy. The use of
kerosene or gas requires an investment in a stove which is beyond the means
of most families. It is expected, therfore, that the deficit will be made
up mostly by cutting the growing stock in the forests, and reducing their
area and production accordingly. The 691,000 ha of open degraded forests,
for example, a5e assumed to be capable of indefinitely supporting the
renewal of 1 m  of wSod per year.  If we assume that these forests have a
total volume of 30 m per ha, and if all the deficit is made up by cutting
this wood, then the 691,000 ha would disappear in less than 10 years. The
fuelwood deficit in subsequent years would become more severe as these
forests are eliminated.
14.       The virtual disappearance of the natural forests would lead to the
use of crop residues and dung in the countryside. This would lead to a
1/   Estimates of forest cover in Haiti vary widely.  The above figures are
adapted from: Sayn-Wittgenstein, L. "Haiti Energy Mission - Report on Forestry
Related Sections", The World Bank - November 1980; and Berry, M.J. and H.D.
Mangrove, "Reboisement et lutte contre l'erosion: Etude qualitative et
quantitative de l'evolution du couvert forestier entre 1955-1958 et 1977 en
Haiti." FAO, Rome, 1978.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
depletion of the soil organic matter, and a further deterioration of
agricultural productivity. The per capita fuelwood consumption may be
reduced by preparing fewer cooked meals or cooking food less thoroughly.
This latter activity is apparently already responsible for an increase in
gastro-intestinal diseases in some rural areas. Migration of the rural
populace to urban centers is likely as fuelwood becomes more difficult to
come by, but it will not significantly reduce demand, since urban dwellers
use charcoal which is essentially wood in an easily transportable form. The
supplies of charcoal will of course also dry up. The growing fuel deficit,
combined with the growing food deficit, and the decline in exports, may
result in increased outmigration, and/or increased requirements for concessionary
assistance, including massive food and fuel and programs to deal with the crisis.
Assumptions - With Project
15.       If the pilot plantings and species trials described above are
successfully carried out, it is considered a reasonable assumption that by
the end of the project, Haiti could be planting about 2,000 ha per year.
Of this, 1,000 ha would be Government planting on Government (Forestry Bureau)
land and 1,000 ha would be on private lands. A follow-up project would have
the objective of multiplying fuelwood reforestation efforts using the technology
and organizational expertise developed in this project. It is expected that
trained manpower will be available in the form of fellows returning from over-
seas graduate studies and the graduates of the technical school established
by the project. Land will be made available by the Government for planting
through the systematic identification and requisition of suitable areas by and
for the Forestry Bureau as part of a program to build a National Forestry
Estate for Haiti.
16.       With the proposed project, additional or incremental reforestation
will grow at the rate shown in Table 5. Existing international assistance
projects will plant approximately 900 ha per year with or without the project.
17.       It is assumed that if reforestation development efforts begun by
this project are well executed, Haiti's reforestation capacity could rise
to about 10,000 ha per year within 10 years (by 1992). This would be
divided evenly between direct Government planting programs and private
plantings with Government-produced seeds or seedliegs.  It is assumed that
the plantations will have an average yield of 10 m per hectare per year
and that a cycle of four clearcuts every five years for 20 years will be
followed before replanting is necessary. Total area reforested will therefore
level off at 210,000 ha (10,000 ha x 20 years plus 10,000 ha maintained by
private groups outside of the proje5t) in 20 years. Total wood production
will then reach about l million m per year.
18.       Haiti has large areas of marginal land suitable for reforestation,
specifically the 691,000 ha of open degraded forest which has relatively
limited rainfall, and much of which is said to be Governnent land. This land
is non-agricultural, and competition with agricultural crops is limited.
There is a large surplus of labor available for reforestation. In addition,
there is scope for farm woodlots for the family fuel supply, and for plantings
of dual-purpose trees which can produce forage or fruit or serve as wind breaks,
in addition to yielding wood.  The 576,000 farm families in the country would
be motivated to plant at least some 600 trees each (0.4 ha), which should allow
firewood self-sufficiency for a total of 230,000 ha. Planting costs are
estimated at some US$325 per ha, including maintenance for the first two years.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
19.       Even with the project, however, it would not be realistic to envisage
annual reforestation at a rate faster than 10,000 ha per year, given the
administrative and technical constraints. As shown in Table 4, the projeSt
would make it possible to reduce the fuelwood deficit by some 1 million m
or by nearly 20%. While unable to completely resolve the Haitian energy
situation, the project would help relieve the pressure on forestry and
agricultural resources, reduce the fuelwood substitute import costs, ease
the severity of social problems and reduce the social costs to be incurred
as the result of a growing fuelwood shortage.
20.       The impact of the project could be substantially increased if the
direct seeding trials are successful and can lead to faster reforestation at
moderate cost. However, the outcome of the trials cannot be anticipated
at this time, since the aerial seeding experience in reforestation is cur-
rently limited to industrial countries and temperate environments.
Economic Value of Fuelwood on the Stump
21.       Using the relative calorific values of charcoal (7,800 kcal/kg)
and kerosene (10,300 kcal/kg) and the relative thermal efficiency when used
in Haitian conditions (0.20 for charcoal, 0.3 for kerosene), it is calcu-
lated that 1 Kg of charcoal is equivalent to about one-half Kg of kerosene
(Table 6). With imported kerosene priced at US$.41 per kg, fob Port-au-
Prince, the economic opportunity cost of charcoal is US$0.20 per kilogram.
The economic cost of producing charcoal and transporting it to Port-au-
Prince is US$22.85 per ton (using US$1.00 per manday as the opportunity
cost of labor).
22.       The net value of wood on the stump is therefore the opportunity
value of charcoal (US$200 per ton) less the economic costs of3production and
distribution (US$58.00 per ton) divided by eight (assumes 8 m of fuelwood
consueed per ton of charcoal produced). This yields a value of US$17.75
per m wood on the stump.
23.       Financial costs of charcoal production and marketing are shown in
Table 7.
October 1981



taS - - a SS.1 atata ot aW ataaa noatt
tata  latta  tata,    ttta  Watt-i    <tata  <tata  a tata  tata  <tata    total  <tata  tata-      Oaa,       atti         <'ta        tact        att         tttt-<t                    -    Stt   9lOti-      tact-                      caatt         1,.
-t ------                 aa--0  t-----ta- -------            att-----------att   --------t--tata- -Oa      -a-va         tata---------tata            ---tata       --------- a-att--Ta--tat       tai  -------       -a-a----   tac-----  Oa- ---------    t----- -tt--
'1a'1t    a-att       tata0'    t-ara          Stat'           9'          7' tat  a-att  a-t    tata        5'vZO'    0'190a         5'6t0'       a-Tai'    a-t           5'99        oa           a           taa aSta                 a-ta'51  '-  taZ9-       a-ta,-      taSSt-                    5*/ttZ-9
-av        '75        Z19           'Z  a-tv  0-~   t-at  t-va8 aZt a-Ta             a-it        a-ta         'tva       0 a-ta       att7         a-at-      a-t          tas-1        a-t a551                t-oaa-zz     ata         aaat-        tati-       t-att-      t'9ts-                    ,'/at t         _~a at
tata   aa7ta   tatta  a-oss                     a-t- 7         tat    aaaaaZ   aaa6tat    attaI 05            't   0 7ta               67laII                             5aa    a5tta  a  ZIt    t a 0Z taa   att-  a'aSt    a-aZIt    Tva                        atta 5'OZ                                     --68  -5S
17a       a-'67   t    ' t-taa    aa  O'OZ            a'7   a a        a-t'67       a-alla      0'0         5'7 0a~  t-aa    7       5atta  9aa   tata  a   tati           a- tva        06-tv     I Ztta       attaz       O'ZZt        0-att       a-at1-      t-taZ        t-atS                     Setaa   -       - z
- att     t-att       a-att        a-att        Otta 0o  l   att    a-oaa       tataZ     taat        Tata        tata        a-att 0      a-aoa       ataaZ      a-taa        t-tat       toat        a- tat0      t-att       a-as95       a-at        t-Os,       t-ta0 50  o             tataz. a -      -i
'005      0ta          t-at        a-att       a-Oaa 0'00       t       a-att t'0      utD       a-att       a-att        O'aaS       0'00t        aOaaO       t-ta1       v-at1        tatI        v-tal       tat1         a-taI       t-at         a-t,        a-ta        a-t 0a  a/ tS   at_
OOZ      O -OZt       O OOZ        tataO       a-attOZ       tatOO       aaO        taitO       -tata aO ta              a-oaa       t-oaa        t-att       t-att 5      a-att9      a-att        t-att         99        0 a-Oaa        9Ztata   Za-at,        a-tvaztlZtS                                        'ta  tatta
-ta  a-ta  a-tv  oaa  a-ta  a-at  a-ta  a-ta  a-ta  a-ta  att  a-at    a-at        a-st         t-at        t-ta        a-at         a-at        a-at         a-ta        t-at        t-ai         a-t,                      aaatttaaa9.v+taa659/Z140)6
-ta1       attS        a-atr       t-ta1        ata1        Oaa         a-t          a-ta 9l      uo-to        '59 a- tt     ai1      t-ta1        a'-ta       a-ta1        a-ta        065 a-atI a-at               z a-o1              S'-ta  t-t   a-tt        t-taZ        6'tat                                  *-0 
a!         Et           ta          aa           ta         ta           at           ta          it          va           ta          ai            t          ta          a            t           a           a            s           v                        i           i
_           ____          ____       ____       ____      ____      ____    ____    ____    ____    ____    ____    ____    ____    ____    ____    ____    ____atattatat   ____    ____    ____   
atttt   t8a~t   oaa-tas   aat aaz  ta  aiaaaaaa  atatta
tastata tazsttat



- - --  -   ---         -    -- --  - --   -- --  -       - --      - -- - - -      - -- 1     - -- -- -- -  --  ----   -  --  --  ----    - -- --  -- -  --  --  --  - --  --  ----    -  -- --  --  -  -- --  --  -  --  -- --  --  -  --  -- --  -  ---   - -- --  -  --  -- --  -  --  --  -- -  --  --  ----       - -- -   -  --  --  -- -
1.  .2      1 . 0 1 2.2             1 0.         1     .     1     .     1[ 0           2           1.0           2.            22           20           22          202         2. 22                     12.2        i 12.2       12.0          12. 12 012 2                           2.          22.          2.           1.
'2.2  .22.  102.  1220122.122.  1222  1220       22.2         20.2         22.2        12.2          02.           <.2.2 02.2 02.01 2.0                               02.2         22.2        122.         122.         [222        [2222222222. 122.502.
.2.2  22.2  02.2  00.5    ~~ 5.051.52o.022.0      02.5         12.0          22.252.022.012.200.222.5                                                     02.2         23.2         26.0        20.0 21.5                 22.2200.0                 02.2        02.2         22.5         52.0
.2.2  I.1  22..  20.1  150  5502220 111.2 250.0     222.2         22.5         20.0         22.         10.2          2 5.212 .5111.                       2202         150.         102.         .25.         100.        215.         250.         125.         202.         100.
>2.0  200.2  220.2  200.0  222.0  220.2202.2  200.0  022.0  222.2      000.2        220.0        200.2        210.2        200.2        022.2        020.0        020.2        202.2       000.0        202.2        222.0        222.0        222.5        222.2       020.2        220.2~'l '
'0.2  202.2    200.2        20.05         2.           2.          0.           0.           2.         222.2          0.          2.           2.            ,.           0.          0.           0.           2.           0.           0.           2.          2.           2.           2.           2.           2.          0.



*005  000*50g-0      000* p0           no  I 0i*OOd  O00o*g0.g  o.oon.  50 g.OO 5ggoddg  ......g
'.g'gogosgg.;ggg..45            '.g
<IWggoA .o; .ggg g..5-5g .' go
*005 1OJ Sg...oo.. .go.og. gogu
ggs       zoo' s      505 g      050 O      0000       000 O       ttO  O      0000        050 O       0000       000<0       500<0      000<000,0              0000        0000        00 O      5000        000<0      Cgt         000        000-        000-                          .gtg.g og.ooggg ss
00<0      oses        800.0      000<0       OstO       Osg<0       000<0       000<0       5505       8000        000<0      SsO<0       0000        000<0      000<0       0000        ostO       05s<g       ugo        ooog        go,        000         0(0<
09, L? 0000 oso, 000<0   ELWC   -g--   <' 0000 oso<o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .,0t<0n0.so0
gt        ogo         ggt        ooo         000        00         000                     000        OU          000        ggo         50         sot        Ogoogo                 000         000        00.         ta          go         g,          90                                       00-1-<1
Oooo<otsog goos >0 *<0g00
.00        000        000         000         000        000         000         OOo        ooo         os        050         ooo        ooo         oit         gos        oot         loI        oog         000         ogo        050         lot        ut,
5Lf        W          STW       Er--       551         000         000        000         000        000         000        000         000        000         000         000        000         000        000         000         000        000                o O00flgOj'tO  50 sggoggg4.000
googl. Og..0000g go *o.o0
          s                     os         s,          os         os          os          os         s,          os         go          os         os         so          so          50         go          go          5o         os          or                          *oggddos,og.gg.ggos
os         g          g         go          os         Os          00          go         go          os         gO          OS         os          go          gO         Os          55         05          gO         000         000        000         000
go         go          g'         go          go          go         gg          go         go          go         s'          go         go          go          go         go          g o g o g 0                        go         go          go         oCO
-          -           000        -           -          -           -           os'        -           -          -           -           000        -           -          -           -          000         -          -           -           -          090                      g/00gg5,..goggo
-          -           -          os          os                             !7500000000010g
(0         b           to         0g          60         t'.         t0         n           W          W           t>         W           W          W           t          I           i           t           T          1                     T           T
0000<0000>
sg...0.tt0o000OoA0t<1d00P0'O' go..g0000000000
1000004 0obsbs0



-   -   -  ----   ---     ----    -     -   ------  -   -------      ------$22             --- - -   -------------   ----------   - ----        ---         ------------------------------------------------------------------------    ---------------------- - ----------------------- -  -       ---
2 2 23222 i2   2 2 22  2                                                           22    22    22    22    22                                   2           22 22                          2-2   22 2                              22'-                      2 122     22                        2          22 .2
$2          $     2           52                Z $2        32         $2          52         I2           32          22          $      2           52   $2           32          52          $2          $      2          52                '2 ,         2          52          52          $2          $2          52
52          5s         2$           2'         23          $2            $6       23         2 2 2 5 1s             s2             $6           23         23           22 3I  M                            e           2 Il2 $ 2 2 2 2 2 24                            22          2           *$          $2          $3
26          $60         220  2       20  2r      20o       220         220         220         220e        220         22$S        2s           22      0         220   220         222         $60         2222        222         22$         22          220e        222         220         220         220         220
$26         $22         322        252         222         $26         222         262         322         225         222         320          262        $22          205         22$         $22         26$         222         322         225         37 22226310                                     l 322  2   2 2 2
323         522         322         222         523        222         522         522         229          32a        222522                4  2 222222                7            22 2a       2a          2           z       2257S 222  22 53       22        52                 22        225223323
____                   _____       ____        ______s20 s20    s         s0        s20         s2s             s       s20          sN ______  ____         $223        5.2 3f         5   232  2.2            222      $ 252         232s      2zf 22        252       3 222       $ 252      _ ____ 
320s2      5.222        5,222       5,s22       5,262       5,262       3,653      5,522       5,2         2,2 s           6           s        ssg           s7        sE9         f62          .s            0           7  69 5,2  5,62  2,2  2,22  5.6  2,62  5,2  5,52  s,S  $622  5,6  5,2  ,2 5,2 52 3 62        s.52a



44-                               ANNEX 2
Table 3
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Value of Fuelwood Produced at the Pine Forest
Local                        Balance        Value of
Firewood         Fuelwood        for         Balance at
Year             Consumptio-    Produced/l  Charcoal   US$17.75/m
- - - - - - - - - US$'000 mi
1982                8.0              9.0           1.0            17.7
1983                8.0             13.5            5.5           97.6
1984                8.0             18.0           10.0          177.5
1985                8.0             27.0          19.0           337.2
1986                8.0             36.0           28.0          497.0
1987                8.0             51.3           43.3          768.5
1988                8.0             51.3           43.3          768.5
1989                8.0             51.3           43.3          768.5
1990                8.0             51.3           43.3          768.5
1991                8.0             51.3           43.3         768.5
1992-2032           8.0             49.0           41.0         727.7
1/ Firewood demand and population in the pine forest are assumed
to remain constant throughout the project as it is one of the
objectives to prevent expansion of population into the forest
area.
2/ Assumes 30 m3/year production of wood of which 18 m3 are
fuelwood quality. Also assumes treatment of the following
areas from years 1 through 5 respectively: 500 ha; 750 ha;
1,000 ha; 1,500 ha; 2,000 ha; and 2,850 ha through year 10.
After year 10, the annual fuelwood production is estimated
at 49,000 m3 per year.



HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Incremental Sawnwood Production wltlh Project
11 through
Item/ Year              1        2        3       4        5        6        7        8       9        10          25          26-50
WILth Project
llectares harvested
or trimed              500      750   1,000   1,500   2,000   2,850   2,850   2,850   2,850   2,850               2,000         2,000
Sawtimber
yield (m3)           6,0Q0   9,000  12,000  18,000  24,000  34,200  34,200  34,200  34,200  34,200                70,000       70,000
Lumber
yield (M3)           3,000   4,500   6,000   9,000  12,000  17,100  12,100  17,000  17,100  17,100                35,000       35,000
Without Project
Sawtimber
yield (m3)           8,000   8,000   8,000   8,000   8,000   8,000   8,000   8,000   8,000   8,000                 8,000          _
Lumber
yield (m3)           4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000                 4,000          -
Net Yields
with project
Sawtimber (m3)        2,000   1,000   4,000  10,000  16,000  26,200  26,200  26,200  26,200  26,200                62,000       70,000
Lumber (m3)           1,000      500   2,000   5,000   8,000  13,100  13,100  13,100  13,100  13,100               31,000       35,000
Net Economic
value with
project
(US$'000)
Sawtimber
stumpage
(US$75/m3)              150       75     300      750   1,200   1,965   1,965   1,965   1,965   1,965               4,650        5,250      O x
Lumber
(US$185/m3)             185     92.5    370       925   1,480   2,423.5 2,423.5 2,423.5 2,423.5 2,423.5             5,735        6,475



- 46 -
RAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Forest Area, Potential Fuelwood Production and Fuelwood Balance with the aorestry Project
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    19
TYPE OF FOREST
Open Degraded Foreats
Area                            691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691
Fuelwood Production 3/          691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691.00  691
Open Degraded Pine Porests
Area                             69.00   69.00   68.50   67.75   66.75   65.25   63.25   60.40   57.55   54.70   51.85   49.00   49.00   49.00   49.00   49
Fuelwood Production 3/           69.00   69.00   68.50   67.75   66.75   65.25   63.25   60.40   57.55   54.70   51.85   49.00   49.00   49.00   49.00   49
Dense Pine Foresta 1/
Area                              -        -       0.50    1.25    2.25    3.75    5.75    8.60   11.45   14.30   17.15   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20
Fuelwood Production 2/            -        -       9.00   22.50   40.50   67.50  103.50  154.80  206.10  257.40  308.70  360,00  360.00  360.00  360.00  360
Closed Rardwood Forests
Area                            150.00  150.00  150.00  150.00  150.00  150.00  150.00  150.00  150.00  150.00  150.00  150.00  150.00  150.00  150.00  150
Fuelwood Production 4/          750.00  750.00  750.00  750.00  750.00  750.00  750.00  750.00  750.00  750.00  750.00  750.00  750.00  750.00  750.00  750
Mangrove Foresta
Area                             20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   20
Fuelwood Production             100.00  100.00  100.00  109.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100
Plantations (non-project) 6/
Area (cumulative)                 1.50    2.40    3.30    4.20    5.10    6.00    6.90    7.80    8.70    9.60   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10
Fuelwood Production
Plantations (project created) 6/
Area (cumulative)                 -       -        0.05   0.125   0.225    0.35    1.00    2.50    5.00    9.00   14.00   21.00   30.00   40.00   50.00   60
Fuelwood production from
ail plantatin areas             -       -        -       -       75.00   45.00   47.50   48.75   50.00  136.25  122.50  167.50  218.75  295.00  446.25  497
Total
Total Fuelwood Production        1,610   1,610   1,619   1,631   1,723   1,719   1,756   1,805   1,855   1,989   2,025   2,118   2,169   2,245   2,396   2"'
Estimated Fuelwood Demsnd 5/   4,000   4,120   4,244   4,371   4,502   4,637   4,776   4,920   5,067   5,219   5,376   5,537   5,703   5,874   6,050   6,:
Fuelwood Balance (1000 n3)    -2,390  -2,510  -2,625  -2,740  -2,779  -2,918  -3,020  -3,115  -3,212  -3,230  -3,351  -3,419  -3,534  -3,629  -3,654  -3,
1/   The figures in this table refer  to dense pine forests brought ino production by the project according to the management plan. Without the project tt
gradsally disappear (see teat).
2/   Assumes 18 a3 of felwood removed per hectare in forest rehabilitation phase.
3/   Assuaeo 1 n /ha/year of fuelwood produced an this forest type.
4/   Assones 5 m3/ba/year af fuelwood produced on this forest type.
5/   Assuoes 0.8 n  af woad per capita pet year, 5 million papalation and a 3 percent per year increase in de=end.
6/   For plantations, the fuels-ad production figures correspond ta areas planted five years befare sincn we assume a five year grawth period befare the



A2NFX 2
Table 5
Area in 1,000's of hectares
Fuelwood in 1,000's of cubic mters
1996    1997    1998    1999      2000        2001       2002       2003      2004     2005      2006        2007       2008      2009     2010       2011        2012
691.00  691.00  6Sl.O0  691.00    691.00      691.00     691.00     691.00   691.00   691.00    691.00       691.00     691.00   691.00   691.00      691.00      691.00
691.00  691.00  6S1.00  691.00    691.00      691.00     691.00     691.00   691.00   691.00    691.00       691.00     691.00   691.00   691.00      691.00      691.00
49.00   49.00   49.00   49.00     49.00       49.00      49.00      49.00    49.00    49.00      49.00       49.00      49.00    49.00    49.00       49.00      49.00
49.00   49.00   49.00   49.00     49.00       49.00      49.00      49.00    49.00    49.00      49.00       49.00      49.00    49.00    49.00       49.00      49.00
20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00     20.00       20.00      20.00      20.00    20.00    20.00      20.00       20.00      20.00    20.00    20.00       20.00       20.00
360.00  360.00  360.00  360.00    360.00      360.00     360.00     360.00   360.00   360.00    360.00       360.00     360.00   360.00   360.00      360.00     360.00
150.00  150.00  150.00  150.00    150.00      150.00     150.00     150.00   150.00   150.00    150.00       150.00     150.00   150.00   150.00      150.00      150.00
750.00  750.00  750.00  750.00    750.00      750.00     750.00     750.00   750.00   750.00    750.S0       750.00     750.00   750.00   750.00      750.00      750.00
20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00     20.00       20.00      20.00      20.00    20.00    20.00      20.00       20.00      20.00    20.00    20.00       20.00      20.00
100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00    100.00      100.00     100.00     100.00   100.00   100.00    100.00       100.00     100.00   100.00   100.00      100.00      100.00
10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00     10.00       10.00      10.00      10.00    10.00    10.00      10.00       10.00      10.00    10.00    10.00       10.00      10.00
70.00   80.00   00.00  100.00    110.00      120.00     130.00     140.00   150.00   160.00    170.00       180.00     190.00   200.00   200.00      200.00     200.00
642.50  743.75  820.00  971.25  1,022.50   1,167.00   1,268.75   1,345.00   896.25   977.50  1,120.00   1,220.00   1,295.00   845.00   900.00   1,000.00   1,050.00
2,593   2,694   2,770   2,921     2,973       3,117      3,219      3,295    2,846    2 928      3 070       3,170      3,245    2,795    2,850       2,950      3,000
6,419   6,611   t,810   7,014     7,224       7,441      7,664      7,894    8,131    8,375       8,626      8,885      9,152    9,426    9,709      10,000     10,300
-3,826  -3,917  -4,040  -4,093    -4,251      -4,324     -4,445     -4,599   -5,285   -5,448    -5,55S       -5,715     -5,907   -6,631   -6,859      -7,050     -7,300
approximstely 9,000 ha of dense pine forests alresdy existing vill be exploited ir ediately and
first cut and five years between subsequent cuts.



- 47 -
ANNEX Z
Table 6
BAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
Retail Price of Charcoal and Kerosene (Port-au-Prince, June 1981)
Retail         Caloric    Price in gross                       Price per
Price          Value      kwh  1/              Thermal         useful kwh
US$/kg        Kcal/kg    US /kwh               Efficiency 2/  USi/kwh
Charcoal 3/     0.155          7,800           1.71            0.15 - 0.25    6.84 - 11.40
Kerosene 4/     0.408         10,300            3.41               0.3             11.36
lj   1 lkh =860 kcal
2/   Thermal efficiency is the efficiency of converting fuel to beat.  It varies
for d.fferent fuels and for differezt users.
3/   Retail price if charcoal delivered to the user.
4/ Retail delivered price, corresponding to US$1.24 per gallon, or a CIF price
cf US$1.09 per gallon.



- 48 -
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
ANNEX 2
Financial Price of Charcoal                  Table 7
-r ton              per bag (30 kg)
- ___-----(US $) -)               
Charcoal delivered to shipping point        53.32                       1.60
Tax                                1.65                      0.05
Loading                                      1.20
Transport to Port-au-Prince  I1             33.33                       1.00
Agent's margin                              21.80
Price delivered Port-su-Prince             111.30
Unloading                                    1.20
Wholesaler's margin                         18.50
Wholesale Price                            131.00                       2-2.8
Transport Market                             6.60                       2-.3
Retailer's margin                            9.00
Retail Price                               146.60
l/        Cost of truck shipping.  Transport by sail boat costs - $0.30 per
bag or $10 per ton.
September 3, 1981



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
HAITI                                                 Table  1
FORESTRY PROJECT
Reinforcement of Forestry Bureau
Detailed Cost Table
(S '000)
Quantitv                              Base Costs                Pht.  For.
------------------------- Unit ---------------------------------  Cont. Exch.
Unit   1982 1983 1984 1985 Total Cost  1982   1983   1984   1985  Total  Rate  COmp.
I. CAPITAL COSTS
A. SALARIES
1. LOCAL
SECRETARY                                MANYEARS    1    1    1    1         4  3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6   14.4          0     0
DRIVER                                   MANYEARS    1    1    1    1         4  1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    6.0          Q     O
Sub-Total LOCAL                                                                             5.1    5.1    5.1    5.1   20.4
2. INTERNATIONAL
FORESTRY CONSULTANT                      MANYEARS    1    1    1    1         4  100  100M0  100.0  100.0  100.0  400.0          0      1
Sub-Total SALARIES                                                                           105.1  105.1  105.1  105.1  420.4
P. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
4-IHEEL DRIVE                                  UNIT       3    -    -    -       3   17   51.0        -       -       -   51.0      0   0.9
OFFICE FURNITURE AND ElUIPMENT 1/              UNIT       -    -    -    -       -         13.0       -       -       -   13.0   0.1   0.9
OFFICE SUPPLIES 2/                                        -    -    -    -       -          2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    8.0   0.1   0,9
Sub-Total VEHICLES ANO EOUIPMENT                                                              66.0    2.0    2.0    2.0   72.0
C. FELLOWSHIPS
SEMINARS ANO STUDY TOURS 3/                    UNIT                      5-    5,0                           .        -   10.0      0      1
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                              171.1  112.1  112.1  107.1  502.4
II. OPERATING COSTS
VEHICLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                           -    -    -    -        -         10,0   18.0   22.0   22.0   72.0   0.1  0.75
Total OPERATING COSTS                                                                             10.0   18.0   22.0   22.0   72,0
== ==== =Z=== = == ==== == ==== ======
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                              181,1  130.1  134.1  129.1  574.4
1/ INCLUItES CALCULATORS AND TYPEWRITERS
2/ INCLUDES PUBLICATIONS
3/ FOR HAITIAN FORESTERS
Februars 12, 1982  10:31



-4'  bcluto  4'  .    -          -     -,
z-   ----            c             t    c
n                                                w                         n'i43ti                             c,trcflC4430  -":3
43                 i-icnn                                                        ire                                                               i c-
Ccii-' nwt  -
%t44-              mnc,t-41i-ct40  te                                                    -ci-inn,,    -
c-r'-t 
toi-no   =                                                         mn,0 tiniincc-                                      i-c  >c--nt  0
-n                                                                                 4   I
<a,i-       S      -;0          C  r-  t-ni-n                    ci-oi-tn4n        ttttit4'                   i--c                    c,o   iCI' iii
toi-n O         i     ni-i-ilo    Or    t,ec-i-nbi-4fl-tr                            .-    n-i t         i 003
-    -n-ne                    cfli  40     Cc, 5;      5-.    n          n      -r       ni  -nia,    non   o-nietw    r  ici              nZii5
c    c-  mcc>   iii 40                                          c, cci    t    to          r  ci-i  ni  40:4.4                      ,..   
c                      tci-ettitr                            S    '-' S'-c, no43to-cn;t 435t.  s
O     C                               ci =          -i  o,          n                S            c-n  ci            -ni
B                                  O          -  t            t               40  r       i t o                  i mc,  ru43i-3  t  ci-
s                                  ci-    int   i   434-Ot  dr           n,4340
r  s                                 n            n          oto      5'            Cc
r,                                                                            t     o           n              i    4              -o  i
-                 n      i-  [c-.--
ci                                                                                                                                 ci.
or 2
c                                  on             tt                                -c-c-c
O-                                               55         555555                                                                  t
H
-t Q
0             i  i    40             i            ni,                -            I  i              liii                  ,                                     r,ci
-n -i 4- -
c              -c
-n  n           i  c  43i               ni           -43        4ccni-i--               iii             iiiiii              iiiiIiii                                H
o              4
c                  e               on    ii-'i i i i    iiiiii   iiiiiii'                                                                                      on
i4n
B
ZS                    43           -43                                                  iii                                           :    r00< I
n              -  -
S               -c           tt                               uc-e              iiii              iiiiiiii                               c.c
o                                                                                                                                                               B-
o              -4                                                                                                                                               o
4'             O  -                -i-n          430                                 ti                                                                         O
t               4343                     -ctc-c-tc-              c-                                                                         0
c- uni                        '  :                                              i              i  i                                                             n
C  utc                    iii             43i43i  43                          ni               i  i                                                             i'-
tn t   i  -           i O  i  i      t   i 43  i 430  43                 43  i 43  t-c  4-3  i  i              43  i                                       O
-  :1?-:: -' :  v    "   h Y I  :               et    i-n  4.443i4.4t 0     - i t  c-e    t i-ci ni43-i-  434uii-04344340043
i  i <n i ci   O       i 43      t i c ut    t, etc-c-to             titi Oc    O iCi 00            Oc,   t i 43o430c-4300
  crI   :               ii  i   i       43i  43i  43                          i           43  i  i                ci
c ::-chM->Y 54   c'  3ititO443-ctc-                                    tic-ni
iizoii-ci-co-c  t      iii   i i*     titit         t,-ctc-c-tt          -c i-c-ci i   43i-citOO-c             i3i-c cti-c43t3
  ::,::-:                -c    i        43i43i  43                            i            -ui  i                 i-i
Oic. c  t                 i43  te>    cIl 443i-34Ncc           :                                   -c i
            43    t       i-uic i$3-3
::v:0':t--c    :r--                               - i- -         - i  i
n cIi-cc-c  c      o i           t i c i Cc    t  ttc-c-to           -ci oir, i i   t iiiiiiii            -c i t ct4043t4 O
o  i.-ii-               :::-c:  -c   ms:                                 nu               i  i
2- I:-c:w:-cs-,  S       iI4u   nu   cuititt    iil.i-ii43i-iict c-         tit              i  i
                 o   ii$cic,: b  cioc   tetc-c-oe                         titi i i
-   i  i        i   i          i
O- djucIi                 n           cic,   t        I                  43ii-         41i   i
ntitt43   c-       nOiOif3    e  i -ce          ,                    i ec4tui    ci-c,  -
--  i   o i njot          n43i---          c- i c- e-c--c-ct-ct-e             i ttc-t    ci-ci-c40-ct  43,40   43i430430ci43cI 43                i - i
o  i.  ici oct  c           ,           c- i cite     c-i tc-ttt            t i 0-tO      t ici totO   -c-c    ci 00000000                       i  i
c          c-cc  c                                                                ce                oece   et           ccccoecc                                   tic
-                                                                i cO            O-Z
40         i-.-   t                cc            ec         tcttcc                i-ttc             434343434343       4343434343434343            i  -            i-c-
ni-n eX



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
HblITI                                                    Table  3
FORESTRY PROJECT
Training and Education under Project
Detailed Cost Table
0$ 'SUR)
ouantito                              Bese Costs                Ph%,  For,
---------------------------- Unit ----------------------------------- ont, Exch,
Unit  1982 1983  1984  1985  Total Cest  1982   1983   1994   1985  Total   Rate  Comp.
1. CAPITAL COSTS
A. INFRASTRUCTURE
S, BUILDINGS - D4AIEN   1> r   NCLLI)ED  IN  PROJECT COST AND FINANCIN(: 1/
2. BUILDING - LA SELLE
DORHITORY/20 STUDENTS -- 128.2  2/                  2                      2.0   13.0                             -      -    15.0   0.2   0.7
FACULTY SUARTERS FOR 3    3/                       r2                                             2.0   13.0       -      -    15.0   0.2   A.?
KITCHEN AND DINING ROOH
FOR 25 -- 3 D2 EACH                              2        -1.0    3.0                                          -       -      4.0   0.2   07.
CLASSRODH FOR 20 UIUPENTS    2.5 2 EACA             2        --1.0    8.0                                          -      -      9.    9.2   0.7
WAREHOUSE -- 3U.2                                  e2                                             2.0    9.0       -      -    11.0   0.2   0.7
GARAGE - 3Um2                                       2                                            1.0    4.0       -      -      5S0   0.2   0.7
Sub-Total BUILDING - LA SELLE                                                                        9.0   50.0       -       -    59.0
Sub-Tatal INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                9.0  50.0                     59.0
B. VEHICLES ANS EQUIP1ENT
4-iHEEL DRIVE                                        UNIT       3            -            3   17   51.0        -      -       -    51.8      O   0.9
20-PASSENGER BUS                                     UNIT       1         -         -     I   46   46.0        -      -       -    46.0      0   8.9
FURNITURE - 15% OF BASE COST                         UNIT                          -      -            -   28.0   50.0        -    78.0   0,1   0,9
EQUIP. AND HATERIALS                                                                                24.0   36.0   30.0   14,0   104.0   0.1   0,9
SBb-Total QEHICLES ANS EOUIPtENT                                                                      121.0   64.0   88,0   04,8   279.8
C. SALARIES
1. LOCAL
ADHINISTRATUR                                   HANYEARS    1       1     I     1      4    6         6.0   6.0 68    6,0    24.0        0      0
CONTROLLER                                      1ANYEARS    1       1     1      1     4  4.8    4,8    4.8    4.8    4.8    19.2         0     0
SECRETARY                                       NANYEARS    O       1     1     1      4  3.6    3,6    3,6    3.6    3.b    14.4        0      0
LIBRARIAN                                       HANYEARS    I       O     I      1     4  3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    14.4         0     0
PROPERTY MANAGER                                HANYEARS    1       1     I      1     4  2.4    2.4    2.4    24    2.4         9.6      0     0
ORIUERS                                         HANYEhRS    2      2      2     2      N  1.5    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    12.0        0      0
SBb-Total LOCAL                                                                                     23.4   23.4   23.4   23.4    93.6
2. INTERNATIONAL
FROFESSORS                                      HANYEARS    2      2      2     2      E  100    -    200.0  200.0  200.0  600.0          0     1
JOLUNTEER INSTRUCTOR                            MANYEARS    1       I     I     1      4   24   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0    96.0        0      1
Sub-Total INTERNATIONAL                                                                             24.0  224.0  224.0  224.0   696,0
Bob-Total SALARIES                                                                                     47.4  247,4  247.4  247.4   789.6
D. FELLOiSHIPS
FORESTRY TRAINING                                    UNIT       -      3     6      3    12    12      -   36.0  72.0  36D 0144.0            0     1
INSTRUCTOR TRAINING                                  UNIT       -     -      2     -      2    12      -      -  24.0        -    24.0    O        1
Sub-Total FELLQiSHIPS                                                                                     -  36.0  96 .0  36.0  168 .0
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                      177.4  397.4  423.4 297.4  1,295.6
Il. OPERATINS COSTS
STUDENT SUBSISTENCE                                              25    45    68    60   190  0.4   35.0   63.0   84.0   84.0   266.0   0.1           0
TEACHER PARTICIPANT
SUBSISTENCE                                                    -   133   133   134   400 0.07         -    9.3    9.3    9,4    28.0   0,1        0
VEHICLE O I H                                                                                         10.0   20.0   26.0   26.0    82.0   0.1  0.75
SUPPLIES 4ND PARTS                                                                                     2.0    3.0    3.0    4.0    12.0   0.1  0.75
Total OFERATING COSTS                                                                                     47.0   95.3  122.3  123.4   388.0
Total BSAELINE COSTS                                                                                      224.4  492.7  545,7  420.8 L 6S3 . 6
1/ Costs detailed in Table 2.
2/ 6 .2 PER STUDENT e U5S125 PER %2 INCLUDING Sl'E AORN AND ARCHITECT FEE
3/ 40 2 FOR EACH FACULTY MEHBER
Febroars 12! 1982  10:19



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT                                                 Table  4
Fuelwood  Trials  and  Pilot  Planting  - Port-au-Prince  Area
letailed Cost Table
V$ '000)
Quantita                               Base Costs           PhF.  For.
-Ta_ __ __        _ ---  --            -------------------------- Cont. Exch.
Unit   1982 1983 1984 1985 Total Unit Colt I82 1983 1984 1985 Total  Rate  CTor.
I. CAPITAL COSTS
A. INFRASTRUCTURE
RESIDENCE AND TOOL SHED FOR CARETAKERS (120 h2>               K2       24   96    -    -   120        0.125  3.0 12.0    -    -   15.0   0.2   0.7
WELL FOR DRINKING/IRRIGATION YATER                           UNIT       I    -           -     1        2.3  2.3    -                 2.3   0.2   0.7
Sub-Total INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                         5.3 12.0    -    -   17.3
B. VEHICLES AMI EOUIPMENT
FOUR WHEEL DRIVE PICK UP                                     UNIT       1    -    -    -        1        17 17.0    -    -    -   17.0         0   0.9
FENCING                                                      LOT        1    -           -     1        2.3  2.3    -    -    -    2.3   0,1   0.9
HAND TOOLS AND OTHER ERUIPhENT                               LOT        1    -           -     I        2.3  2.3    -    -    -    2,3   0.1   0,9
Sub-Total VEHICLES AND EGUIPMENT                                                                                21.6    -    -    -   21.6
C. SURVEYS
1. SOIL SURVEY
LOCAL SOIL SPECIALIST                                   MANKONTH    6    -    -                      0.6  3.6    -    -    -    3.6        0      0
Sub-Total SURVEYS                                                                                                3.6    -    -    -    3,6
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                                30.5 12.0    -    -   42.5
Il, OPERATING COSITS
A. SALARIES
1, LOCAL
FORESTER  FOR GANTHIER TRIALS /DAMIEN SEED LAD    MANYEARS               2          2      8        3,5  7.0  7,0  7.0  7.0   28.0        0      0
CARETAKER                                              MANYEARS    1    1    I    1        4      0.875  0.9  0.9  0.9  0.9    3.5        0      0
DRIVER                                                MANYEARS    1    1    I    1         4        1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5    6.0        O      O
LABOR                                                 MANTEARS    5   10   15   20    50            0.7  3.5  7.0 10.5 14.0   35.0        0      0
Sub-Total LOCAL                                                                                             12.9 16.4 19.9 23.4   72.5
2. INTERNATIONAL
VOLUNTEERS                                             MANTEARS    1    1    1    1        4         20 20.020.0 20.0 20.0   90.0         O      I
CONSULTANT DIRECT SEEDING                             MANMONTH    2    2    -    -         4         14 28.0 28.0    -    -   56.0        0      1
Slb-Total INTERNATIONAL                                                                                    48.0 48.0 20.0 20.0  136.0
Sub-Total SALARIES                                                                                             60,9 64.4 39.9 43.4  208,5
B. MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
TRACTOR RENTAL FOR RIPPING                                 25 HA       1    2    3    4    10          1.5  1.5  3.0  4.5  6.0   15.0   0.1  0.75
VEHICLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                                      -    -    -    -       -             2.0  4.0  5.0  5.0   16.0   0.1  0,75
SPARE PARTS                                                                                                 0.5  0.7  0,8  1,0    3.0   0.1  0,95
SEEDLINSS FERTILIZER AND DTHER MATERIALS  1/                                                                 1.3  1,0  1.5  2.0    5.8   0.1  0,95
Suob-Total  MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES                                                                              5,3  8,7 11.8 14.0   39.8
Total OPERATING COSTIS                                                                                             66,2 73.1 51.7 57.4  248.3
Total OASELINE COSTS                                                                                                96.7 85.1 51,7 57.4  290.8
1l  SEEDLINGS PROVIDED Dr DARNDR'S DAMIEN NURSERY e USS,05 A PIECE
Februara 12, 1982  10:31



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
HAITI                                                      Table  5
FORESTRY PROJECT
Northwest Reforestation Trials and Reforestation Monitoring
Detailed Cost Table
(I '000)
Quantits                                 Base Costs            Fhs.  For.
------------------------                 --------------------------- Cont. Exch,
Unit    1982 1963 1984 1965 Total Unit Coest 1982 1983 1984 1985 Total  Rate  Cor&,
I. CAPITAL COSTS
A. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
FOUR UHEEL DRIVE PICK UP                                UNIT         1    1    -    -         2         17 17.0 17.0       -    -   34.0        0   0.9
HAND TOOLS AND OTHER EJUIPMENT                            LOT        -    -    -    -         -              2.3     -    -    -    2.3   0.1    0.9
FENCING                                                   LOT        1    -    -    -         1        2.3  2.3      -    -    -    2.3   0.1    0.9
Sub-Total  VEHICLES AND EOUIPMENT                                                                              21.6 17,0    -    -   38.6
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                                21.6 17.0      -    -   38.6
Il. OPERATING COSTS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
A. SALARIES
1. LOCAL
FORESTERS AT BOMBARDOPOLIS, JEAN RABEL             MANYEARS    1    2    2    2          7        3.5  3.5  7.0  7.0  7.0   24.5           0      D
CARETAKERS AT BOMBARDOPOLISe JEAN RABEL            MANYEARS    1    2    2    2          7      0.875  0.9  1.8  1.6  1.6         6.1      0      0
LABOR AT BOMBARIIOPOLISe JEAN RABEL                MANYEARS    1    2    2    2          7        0.7  0.7  1.4  1.4  1.4         4.9      O      O
Sub-Total LOCAL                                                                                             5.1 10.2 10.2 10.2   35.5
2. INTERNATIONAL
VOLUNTEERS                                         MANYEARS    1    1    1    1          4          24 24.0 24.0 24.0 24.0   96.0          0      1
CONSULTANT IDIRECT SEEDING                        MANMONTH       2    2    -    -        4          14 28.0 28.0      -    -   56,0        0      1
Sub-Total INTERNATIONAL                                                                                    52.0 52.0 24.0 24.0  152.0
Su'b-Total  SALARIES                                                                                          57.1 62.2 34.2 34.2  187.5
B. MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
VEHICLE OPERATION ANOI MAINTENANCE                                  -    -    -    -         -              2.0  6.0  9.0 10.0   27.0   0,1  0.75
SPARE PARTS                                          MANYEARS       -    -    -    -         -              0.5  1.2  1.5  2.O       5.2       0  0.95
SEED FERTILIZER AND OTHER MATERIALS                  MANYEARS       -    -    -    -         -              1.3  1.0  1.5  2.0    5.8          0     0
Sub-Total MATERIALS ANDt SUPPLIES                                                                              3.8  8.2 12.0 14.0   38.0
Total OPERATING COSTS                                                                                              60.9 70.3 46.2 48.2  225.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                82.5 87.4 46.2 48.2  264.1
== == ==== ==== ===  ======
Februars 12, 1982  10:31



-  54  -                                                     ANXIEX  3
HAITI                                                       Table  6
FORESTRY PROJECT
Pine Forest Management
Detaoled Cost Table
(S '000)
Ruanstat                                   Bsse Costs                 Phs.  For,
------------------------               ---------------------------------- Cont, Ench,
Unit   1982 1983  1984 1985 Total Unit Ctst  1982   1983   1984   1985  Total   Rate  Coa.,
I. CAPITeL COSTS
A. INFRASTRUCTURE
BUILD}IGS FOR UNIT 11
OFFICEIIOO N2>                                      N2       20    80    -           -       DO 0.125    2.5   10.0     -       -    12.5   0.2   0.7
RESIDENCES (200 H2)                                 H2       40   160    -    -   200        0,125    5.0   200         -       -    25,0   0.2   0.7
MAINTENANCE BUILDINGS S GARAGE (200 H2)             H2       40   160    -    -   200        0.125    5.0   20.0        -       -    25.0   0.2   0.7
Sub-Total BUILDINGS FOR UNIT 11                                                                          12.5   50.0       -       -    62.5
Sub-Total ONFRA0CT0URE                                                                                      12-.5  50.0       -            625
B. 9EHICLES I EGUIPMENT
FOUR  *EEL BIVE PICK UP                               UHIT       4      -    -    -      N         17   68.0        -      -       -    65.0      O   0.9
TOGLS 3 EOUIPHENT                                     SET        -                                       12.0      -       -       -    12.0   0.1   0.9
CHalN  SANG                                           OMIT       G      -    -    -      R       0.05    2.8       -       -       -     2.8   0,0   0.9
RADIOS                                                UNIT       4      -    -    -      4       1,25    5.0        -      -       -     5.0   0.1   0,9
0ub-Total VEHICLES t E9UIPKENT                                                                              87.08      -7-7.8
C. SURVEYB
1. AERIAL PHOTO COUERAGE                            NANYEARS -5.0    -    -    -   5.0   0   1
2. PHOTO IHTE00RETATION                             HiNYEARS                      -5.0                              -      -       -     5.0      0      1
3, STAND CLASSIFICATIGN                              1NYEPARS -2.0    -    -    -   2.0   0   O
4. SOIL SURVEY
CONSULTANT                                       HANHONTH    I      -    -    -       1         14   14.0       -       -       -    14.0      0      1
LOCAL SOIL SPECIALIST                            NANHONTH    6      -    -    -       6        0.6    3.6       -       -       -     3.6      0      0
FOREST INVENTORY                                  100 HA    20    20   20   20    80           0.6   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0    48.0         O      T
Su0-Total SOIL SURVEY                                                                                    29,6   12.0   12.0   12,0    65.6
5. POPULATION  AGRIC. CENSAIS
0ATERIALS,TRANSPORTATION AND SUBSISTENCE                               -              -               10.0      -       -       -    10.0   0.1  0.75
CONSULTANTS                                      NANYEARS    2       -    -    -      2         14   20.0       -       -       -    20.0      O      I
LOCAL CENSUS TAKERS                              NANYEARS   40                  -    40        0.3   12,0       -       -       -    12.0      0      0
NATERIALS,TRANSPORT ANH  SUBSISTANCE                          -                       -               10.0                           10.0   0.1  0.75
kSb-Total POPULATION I AGRIC,  CENSUS                                                                    60.0       -      -       -    60.0
Sub-lotal SURVEYS                                                                                          l0l.6   12.0   12.0   12.0   137.t
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                           201.9  62,0   12.0   12.2   2e 7.s
Il. OPERATINO COSTS
A. SALARIES
1. LOCAL
FORESTERS                                       0ANYEh0S    2      2    2    2                          -       -      -       -        -     T 
FORESTERS                                       KNOYEARS    2      2    2    2       R                  -      -       -       -        -     O      O
FOREST GUARDS                                   9ANYEARS   10    10   10   10    40                     -      -       -       -        -     O      O
FOREST 0UARDS                                   hh0YE0RS I0       10   10   10    40                    -      -       -                      O O
HECHANICS                                       KANYEARS    4       4    4    4    16         1.5    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    24.0         0      0
DRIVER5                                         HNAYEARS    6      6    6    6    24          1.5    9,0    9.0    9.0    9.0    36.0         0      0
LABOR                                           MANYEARS   90    90   90   90   360          0.75   67.5   67.5   67.5   67,5   270.0         0      0
Sub-Total LOCAL                                                                                        02.5   82,5   82.5   82.5   330,0
2. INTERNATIONAL
VOLUNTEERS                                      HANYEARS    2      2    2    2       8         24   48.0   48.0   40,0   40.0   192.0         0      1
SOb-Total SALARIES                                                                                        130.5  130.5  130,5  130.5   522.0
P. NATERIALS a SUPPLIES
VEOICLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                                                                       13.0   25.0   32.0   32.0   102.0   0.1  0,75
SPARE PARTS                                                                                              5.0    A.5    0.0    0.5    29.0   0.1  0.95
AOOD PRESERVATIVES I OTHER                                                                               5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    20.0   0.1  O.95
5u-Total HAIERIhLS I SUPPLIES                                                                             23.0   36.5   45.0   46.5   1510,
Total OPERATINS COSTS                                                                                         153,5  167,0  175.5  177.0   673.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                           355.4 229.0  187.5  189,0   960.9
Februare 12, 1902  10:31



- 55 -                                      ANNEX  3
HAITI                                      Table  7
FORESTRY PROJECT
Development of Cooking Stoves
Detailed Cost Table
(s '0001
Quantitu                         Sase Costs          Phu,  For.
------------------------- Unit -------------------------- Cont. Exch,
Unit   1982 1983 1984 1985 Total Cost 1982 1983 194 1985 Total  Rate  ComF.
I. OPERATING COSTS
A, SALARIES
1. LOCAL
SALARY SUPPLEMENTS                   MANYEARS    -    -    -    -       -        1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0    4.0   0.1       O
ENUMERATORS--10 MANYEARS             HANYEARS    -    -    -    -       -        4.0  4.0    -    -    8.0   0,1       O
Sub-Total LOCAL                                                                     5.0  5.0  1.0  1.0   12.0
2, INTERNATIONAL
STOVE CONSULTANT                     HANMONTH    2    2    1    1       6    2  4.0  4.0  2.0  2,0   12.0   0.1        1
Sub-Total SALARIES                                                                     9.0  9,0  3,0  3,0   24,0
B. OPERATIONS
TESTING EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES                       -    -    -    -      -       40.0 10.0    -    -   50.0   0.1   0,3
SUPPLIES FOR TEST STOVES                             -    -    -    -      -          -  2.0  4.0 20,0   26.0   0.1   0.9
STOVE TESTING                                        -    -    -    -      -        2,0  2.0  1.0  1,0    6,0   0.1   0.5
SOCIOECONOMIC SURVEY                    MANYEARS    -    -    -    -       -        1.0  1.0    -    -    2.0       0   0,3
ACCEPTANCE TESTING                                   -    -    -    -      -          -  1,0  1.0  1.0    3,0   0.1   0.3
ARTISAN TRAINIING                                    -    -    -    -      -          -  2.0  2,0  2.0    6.0   0.1   0.3
Sub-Total OPERATIONS                                                                  43,0 18,0  8.0.24,0   93.0
Total OPERATING COSTS                                                                    52,0 27.0 11.0 27,0  117.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                      52.0 27,0 11.0 27.0  117,0
Februarv 12, 1982  10:31



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
HAITI                                        Table  8
FORESTRY PROJECT
Preparation of Second Phase
tietailed Cost Table
(s 'OOci'
Quantitl2                           Base Costs            phy,  For.
U----------Unit----------------------------- Cont. Exch.
Unit    1982 1983 1984 1985 Total Cost 1982 1983  1984  1985 Total  Rate  Comi.
I. OPERATING COSTS
A. SALARIES
1. C'ONSULTANTS
FORESTRY LEGISLA,TION        MANMOHNTHS    -    1    3    -        4   14    -14,0   42.0    -   56.0            0     1
FORESTRY INSTITUTiONS    HNtlHoNTHS    -    -    2    -            2   14    -    -   28.0    -   28.0           0      1
OTHERS                       MANHONTHS    -    3    3    -         6   14    -42.0   42.0    -   84.0            0      1
Sub-Total CONSULTANTS                                                             - 56.0  112.0    -  168.0
Sub-Totai SALARIES                                                                   - 56.Q  112.0    -  168,0
P. OPERATIONS
PREPARATION REPORT                             -    -    -    -        -          -    -    1.0    -    1.0   0.1  0.75
Total OPERATINO COSTS                                                                    - 56.0  113.0         169.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                      -56.0  113.0    -  169.0
Februar? 12Y 1982 10:31



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
HAIT4                                              Table  9
"Il,",88 PRQJECT
Sus.ars Account bN Tise
Fase CosEs
1982    1983    1984    1985   Iotal
I. CAPITTL OOSTS
A. ITFRASTRUCTURE
AUIL3INGS                                                             24.5  112.0         -        -  136.5
AH.LL                                                                  2.3        -       -        -       3
Sub-TotaI INFRAP8R6 CTURE                                                26.8  112.0         -        -  138.8
Phosical Testsaonoes
Frise Continsencks
Sub-Trtal INCLU81N3 CNTHINGENCIES                                        34.4  156.8          -       .  190.4
Forieis Eooooroe
a. VENICLES
4-NH, PRIVE VEHICLES                                                 204.0    17.0        -        -   21.0
BUS                                                                   46.0        -       -        -    46.0
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                      250.8   1;, -7                    267. 0
Frite Coooinsaesaeo
Sub-Tstal INCLUOI1N  CONTINtENCIES                                      262.7   19.6         -        -  282.3
Poreisn Erchanse
C. EQUIPhENT
TOILE                                                                 19.4        -       -       -    19.4
F:481GS                                                                S.O        -       -        -     S.O
FURNITURE                                                             13.0    28.0    S0.O         -    91.0
TRAI4NING #TERIALS                                                    26.0    3.8   132.0    16.0   112.V
Slb-Iota! EQQIPhENT                                                      63.4    66.8    42.0    18.0   227.4
Ph4ssal Tantin4enooes                                                 6.3     6.6      8.2      1.6    22.7
Prki  Cssooserooes                                                    3.6    Il.1    23.0       6.3    44,8
Lob-Total INCLULING CONTIN6ENCIES                                        73.3    83.7   113.2   223.    394.1
Fo are  0ooThare                                                      65.8    10.1   101.2    21.2   263.5
O. EXP9TRIATE STAFF AND   CONSULTA4NT
F5REST ENGINEERS                                                     180.8  356.0   412.0   308.0 1.168.0
18CHNICIANS                                                          144.0   1448,    116.0   116.0   520.0
SNORT-TERh CONSULT4NTS                                                24.0    28 0        -        -    56.0
Slb-Iota! EYPATRIATE STPFF 4ND   CONSULTANTS                           272.0   528.0   528.0   416.0 1.744.0
Price Canirseroies
CUL~~~~ ~ ~                                           _                   _-
Sub-Teoa1 INCLU8iNE CONTINEENCIEI                                      279.9   606,9   658.4   557.5 2,102.8
Fer-ien Pochan-e                                                     49806   606.9   658.4   557.5 2,910.5
E. LOCAL STAFF
MA4N0E4GE4I STAFF                                                     21.3    24.8    24.8    24.8    95,7
SUPPORT 8IAPF                                                        107.7   112,7   916.2   119.7   456.0
SUFVEYS                                                               86.2    13.0    12.0    02.0   120.2
.ATEREILS 4NV SUPPLIES                                                 1.8      2.2     3.0      4.8    il.O
Sub-Total LO^AL STAFF                                                   217.0   152.7   156.0   160.5   686.2
Peice Co rtinsencies                                                  12.5    28.5    513    78.2   170.6
S         ILt-T UaDe 11L014NG CONTINGENCIE5                             22.4   181.3   207.3   33.836.8
For-ios EHchasse                                                      55.4     1.7      1.8     2.7    61.4
F. FELLOWSHIP
9                                                                        -    4010  101.    36 .0  178.0
Sub-lotaI FELLOIS0IP                                                        -    41.0  101.0   36.0  178.0
Price Ceoharserooes
Sub-TeLa! INCLU81N8 CONTINEENCIES                                           -    44.7  128.6   48.1  22L4
Foreisn Hoohasce
Ttali CAPITAL COSTS                                                        829.2  916,7 787.0   62&5  3,241.4
Phss-oal Costitaeroaes                                                  829.2 916.7  867.0   628 .5
Prite Conishaencies
Ttoal 1NiLU151N6 C0 6TI 1GENCIES                                         879.7  1,092.2 1,059.2 876.6  3,947.7
Farcis, ExoPasse                                                      1,C36.0 1.030.  r!O33.2  66U.7 3870.7
Il. OPERATING COSTS
SALARIES                                                                44.0    90.3    96.3    6.4   318.0
VEHICLE 049                                                             37.0    70.0    94.0   9I.8   297.1
AISCELL4NEOUS                                                           26.6      3.0     0.0      4.0    36.
OPER8TIONS                                                              42,0    17.0      9.8    24.0    92.0
H4TER19LS t SUPPLIES                                                    13.3    16.2    19.8    23.5    72.8
Total OFERATI4"  COSTS                                                     1612.9   190.5   222.1   242.9   814.4
Ph'ssial Cantinsencies                                                   16.3    18.1    22.2    24.3    81.8
Frite Toetiuaesoies                                                       79.    358    7116   11I.6   228.9
Iota! INCLUDIN3 COOTINGEJCIES                                              189.!   245.4   315.9   378.? 1,129.1
FPeojei   Eohon,                                                         49,8   104.3   135.0   172.2   531.2
Tal 84SELINE 1OSTS                                                        992.1 1,707.2 1,08a1  87L4 4,059.8
Total PROJECT C85TS                                                      1,068.8  1,337.8 1,415.1 1,255.3 3,076.S
=_==a===-- 12= 1982  101        ===        =
Feras12. 1982  10:31



- 58 -                                                       . 0ANN7  3
BAITI                                                        rable  10
FORESTRT PRF3ECI
So tera Ocooutr  b  Pro- gtConeot
(s~ ~ ~~~~0073 '0F0
1RDMGT1N OF
REI4FO1E4ENT OF FORESTRE   FELW4000   PINE FOREST  C33019E    FEPiF0F. N OF
F00ESTR0 BUREAU  TfiiNIN3 PLAN9ATIONS MANA1E0ENT    ST0uES     SECOND eNASE 3  tal
I. CAf11iL COS1S
A. 
BUILDINGS                                                          59.0        15          62.5            -              -  136. 5
uELLS                                                        -        -         2.3           -            -                    2.3
Sab-Total INFRiSTRULEtRE                                        -    59.0         17.3        62.5            -              - 138.8
Photital Contaat,enoaeo                                      -     11.8         3.5         12.5           -                  27,8
Prote Cortiroeaat,eo                                         -    13.0          2.7 7_                     -                  23 ._ 
Sob-Total INCLUDIN3 CONTIN6ENCIES                               -        R4 h     23.4        87, 3           -                190. 3
P. VENICLES
4-ts. DR1V(E JEHICLES                                     51.0    51,3         51.0        t8.3            -              -  221,0
14(0                                                         -    4t,0            -           -            -              -   46.0
544053   ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~------- ------  -------------    ------ --------  ----
lob-Total UENICLES                                           51.0     072         51,0        68.0                           -  267.0
Prite Cootoooeoaaeo                                        2.t      4,9         4.3          3,5           -              -  153
S.b-Total INCLUDIN0 COTTIN6ENCIES                            53,.    101.9        55.3        71.5            -              -  282.3
C. EOUTIPENT
TOOLS                                                        -        -         4,6        34.0            -              -    13,4
RATISID                                                               -           -         5.0            -              -     5.0
FURIIITORE                                                1330     78             -           -            -              -    71,0
TRAININO  hATERiALS                                        8.0    104.9           -           -            -              -   112.0
Sub-Trtal EEUIPhENT                                          21.0    182,0         4.o        89.9            -              -  227,4
Phosoc-l Cmbeo -c-es                                      2.1     18,2         0.5         2.0            -              -   22,7
Otite  4ontoeoaea                                          2       4            0.        _                       _ _           4.0
lob-total I1KCL03l1e CONTINOENCIES                           25,0   240,3         5S3         22,9            -              -  294.1
Forexto Exobatohe                                         23.0   .15,1          4.8        203.            -              -  2t3.5
8. EXPATRITTE STAFF itO   CONSULTANTS
FOEST ENOINEERS                                         400.0   600.0            -           -                       169.0 11.68.0
TECNNICIAN8                                                  -    9S,0        232.0       192.0            -              -  520.0
SHORT-TERN CONSULTANTS                                       -        -        50.5           -            -              -    5t,0
Saab-ttal EXAPATRWE STAFF AND  CONS0ULTANTS                 400.3   89o.0        289.        192.0            -           018 1,744.0
Price Cootaoonoaoo                                        78.7      0 SoS      05,1        37,8            -           38.0    358.8
Slb-tota  IkCCLU8IN5 CONTINEENCIES                          470.7   856.5        333T        229,8            -          204,0 2,102.9
E. LOCAL STAFF
MANAGEMENT STAFF                                             -     43.2        52.5           -            -              -    95.7
StOARF   STAFF                                            20,4     50.4        55.5       330.0            -              -   456,3
SURI0TS                                                      -                  3.- tIlt                 2,0              -   12322
hATERIALS AND SUPPLIES                                       -        -        11.0           -            -              -    11.O
lob-Total LOCAL STAFF                                        28.4     O1.t       122.t       447.0          2.0              -   t86.2
Prite  toterooeo                                           5.4     24,0        35.t       134.4          8.2              -    70.t
Slb-Total INCLUDIAS CONtINSENCIES                            25.3   111.5        158.2       152.3          2.2              -  85t,9
Foreioo OxtbanOr                                             -        -         8,l        54.8          70,              -    tl.4
F. PELLOS4S9T
X                                                         33.3   288.0            -           -            -              -   298,0
3u0-74001 FELLDtSN3FP                                         O0    160.0 1                -            -                    -  378.0
Prote fooS,oaaeraaoeo                                      2.0    41.4            -           -            -              -   43.4
Sulb-TaSl INCLUDINS CONTIN9ENCIE9                            12.0   209.4            -           --                                 .
Foreoto ExobWse                                           12.0   353.9                         -              -               370.9
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                            502.4 1,295.0        403.5      789.9           2.0          108.0 3,240.8
Total INCLU8IFS CONIINOENCIES                       ;      ;595.7 1,6iL.2           571.1       958. 5         2.2          204.0 4, 29 7.9
F-roeoo Eu.ohaooe                                           561.8  2,125,0       410,7       5t8.5          0,7          204.0 3,070.7
Il. 0PER07AT0 COSTS
SALARIES                                                       -    294.3           -           -         240.              -   318.0
SEHICLE 01h                                                 72.0    82.3         43.0       182.0            -              -  299.0
NISELLANEOUS                                                  -     12.0         4.0        20,0            -              -   36.t
0PERAT1S1-                                                              -           -           -         OI.             1.8   92.0
MAlERIALS 3 SUPPLIES                                           -        -        23.8        49.0            -              -    72.8
Total 07ERATINS COST                                           73,3   3ES.0         71.4       1713         115.0            1.8  818.4
Foorjoal Loontioooraas                                        7.2     78.0         7.1        17,1         11.5            0.1   91.9
Fritt Coetiaoeoaaoos                                         18.3   127.0         19.2        40.t         22.5            3.3  228.9
Total IRCLUDING CoNTI40EaCIES                                   9D,5   553.8         97.7       228.7        149,0            1.4 1,129.1
.    =    == ===== =    ==  ---   == == == = --- ---   -- = -- =--- -- =.- :::==:========- =======
Forotaa E- coanoo                                            72.7    95.2         75.3       102.0         74.1            1.8   531.2
Total M8SELINE CO8TS                                            574.4 1,683.0        554.9      960.9         117.0          169.84.059.0
F -ostoal Cootootere                                           9.3     os.8        11.1        31.4         11.5            S1   132.2
Pri,etCo tnorotoor                                           113.1    412.7       137.0      194.7          22.7           36.3   884.7
Total PROJECT CDISS                                             694.2 2,164.5        6731.    1,187.2         151.1          205,. 5,076.8
Pebr--r- l2r=1==2=:8:== ==32===-= -          =  =.     = ----- ,======== = .      ==.
Frbru,,-  12, 1982  10 32



r                    '' . -                                                 33  sp=1
i3   j R   330      a a zO~                    OO       -  -  -m   -  _  _                                              
33   <   g ~ a1 a   I   g                   g   g-s
L~~~~3 S00 g &g                   g11   t  3



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
HAITI
FORESTRY PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
A. Working Papers
Forestry Development
Ai - Fuelwood Trials and Plantings.
A2  -  Management of the Haitian Pine Forests.
Forestry Training
B"   -  Foreign Fellowships in Forestry for Training at the Graduate Level.
B2  -  The Work and Qualifications of a Forestry Technicians in Haiti.
B3  -  Description of Subjects of Study Recommended for Training Forestry
Technicians.
B4  -  One Year Specialization in Forestry.
B5  -  Primary Education and Training.
Development of Cooking Stoves
Cl  -  Development of Efficient Cooking Stoves.
B. Related Documents
1.   Proposal for the Protection and
Management of the Acul River
Wstershed (Integrated Agricul-
tural Development Project)
2.   Methode d'utilisation des Lignites    Suzie Nonez Philippe-
d'Haiti                                 Auguste et Max Tiphaine
3 . Considerations sur les aspects
sociologiques et organisationnels
de Projet Forestier Pilote
4.   Women in Forestry for Local             Marilyn W. Hoskins
Community Development



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.   Loi du 17 aout 1955 reglementant       DARNDR                    Sept 1955
la coupe, le transport et le
commerce du bois et four a chaux
6.   CARE - Project involving 4,000         CARE Proposal
small peasant farmers in northwest
Haiti in tree-growing activities
7.   Agroforestry and Natural Resources   USAID/Haiti
Management
8.   Erosion du Sol et Reaction Sociale   Laurence A. Lewis           1975
un Plan d'Action pour le               et Stephen L. Feldman
Developpement d'Haiti
9.   Reboisement et Lutte Contre            J.E. Raeder-Roitzsch    1975
l'Erosion - Planification,             F. Zenny
Politique et Legislation
Forestieres
10.  Reboisement et Lutte Contre            FAO - D.E. Earl           1976
l'Erosion - Le Charbon de Bois,
Combustible Renouvelable
11.  The Northwest Agricultural             Dr. Wolf Donner           1976
Development Region
12.  Method of Inventory, Pine              M.J. Berry and            June 1977
Forests of Haiti                       K.D. Musgrave
13.  The Qualitative and Quantitative       M.J. Berry and            Sept 1977
Changes in the Forest Cover of         K.D. Musgrave
Haiti between 1958 and 1977
14.  Renewable Resource System for Use    Rogr D. Moeller            Oct 1978
of the Haitian Forests
15.  Draft Environmental Report on Haiti  The Science and             Jan 1979
Technology Division,
Library of Congress,
Wash. D.C.
16.  A Study of the Fuelwood Situation    Frederick J. Conway         1979
in Haiti
17.  Terraces, Trees, and the Haitian       Gerald F. Murray          1797
Peasant: An Assessment of Twenty-
Five Years of Erosion Control in
Rural Haiti
18.  Essais d'Introduction d'Essences       W. Van de Moortele        1979
Forestieres en Haiti: Interpretation
aes Resultats Apres Deux Ans de
8roissance



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
19.  Prospects for Energy Conservation       Elizabeth Cecelski        April 1980
in a Low Income Developing
Country: The Case of Haiti
20.  Centre de Formation en                  FAO                       Aug 1980
Amenagement de Bassins Versants -
Projet
21.  Social Dimensions in Local              Marilyn W. Hoskins        Oct 1980
Forestry/Conservation Efforts
22.  Service de Conservation du Sol,         DARNDR                    1980
des Forets et de la Protection
de la Faune - Work Programme - 1981
23.  Agroforestry & Nat. Resource            AID                       1980
Management
24.  Haiti Energy Mission                    L. Sayn-Wittgenstein    Dec 1980
25.  Evaluation du Programme                 Dr. J. von Braun          Dec 1980
d'Assurance Alimentaire - Haiti         Prof. Dr. W. Achtnich   Dec 1980
26.  Trees and Charcoal in Haitian           Glenn R. Smucker          Jan 1981
Peasant Economy
27.  Operation Double Harvest -              AID                       Mar 1981
Grant Details
28.  Programme National de                   DARNDR                    Feb 1981
Conservation du Sol et de
Reboisement
29.  The Potential of Charcoal               Ronald Smith              Mar 1981
Plantations for Haiti
30.  Projet Forestier Pilote -               M. Simeon - FAO/IBRD    April 1981
Rapport de Preparation
31.  La Formation et le                      Andre Elkrief             May 1981
Recyclage des Cadres Techniques         UNESCO
Forestiers - Republique du Niger
32.  Protection et Amenagement du            Jean Nicole Jean Louis  June 5, 1981
Bassin Montagneux du Limbe
33.  Centre de Formation en Amenagement    DARNDR/FAO                  June 1981
des Bassins Versants
34.  Comments on Developing Forestry/        Michael D. Benge          July 1981
Agroforestry Projects in Haiti












BRD 15925
'i  S A                                                                                                                                                    3        .           , '2                                                                                               DFCFMBLR iffY
<07                                             -20                                                                                                                                    ';'           /                                                                 20'fi
-E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0
7'                                                                                                                             Port de Prix
CUBA;                                                                                                                         I/,S~~-_-~o                            $\\ -              cFlu
DOMINICAN                                                                                     -    .raonRobai                                                     o Bosgno
REPUE PU                                                        Mole NrUicor,                        I                                N                           LNY
HAITI                                                                                                                                                                                                              Hin        3
JAMAICA                                    PUERTO)
7I'~~~~~~'
r                      H ~~~~~~A 1 T 1R                                                                                                                                                             <p.;E  
FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                          ,                                                          -7 `                                                                                             j-f5  \.. o'>
IPine forest compoxent                                                                                                                                                                                                                t                   j                   >       D)
*    Pne forest management headqssrtors                                                                                                                          Goedioeo                                       Es Rophoal s   ,r"'   '             Volirrs "             '>
0    Fuelwood species trials ond demonstrations                                                                                                                                                                            f k                 '6roonr.
Ecologicail zones:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4C
f       Very humid                                                                                                                                                       '                                                   47
Humid                                                                                                                                              G-dr
-   Dry                                                                                                                                                                                                               "-
ArAnnual average rainfall in millimeters                                                                                                                                ISode'                        \            Mos9                      hCerco leS7ouc
*  Rivers                                                                                                                                                                                          R,PitudL'Arrib-no                             .               5
Main highways                                       itmarc
Secondary roods                                                                                                                                                                                          \                                               Thomass-_a'
r     ----  ~~Tertiary roaids                                                                                                                                                                                        yoEorro
International bouedary                                I                                                                                                                                                                             -   - \            do
KILOMEIRRS O         10       20       30       40       50-                                                                                                                                                 Lohelo            Nt                                     Iodr"r
MILES O              1              0             3
<~~~~~~~ -                     %       ,\>MrEl.        \~           Le C ,,ehoRes
10  0  lU  dD  3f) G Vi V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Acori0                                                                                             /       '           OL        ;         \         Bopi sraoe
.. ' t  k      Jrmie                   GOAva                                                                                                                                            f5   1002 _PA N
D.   M-             u      r f         (-                                                                                                                                                    POR  A                                            a                                  Z
Anse L Cohooono9                ,-                         Mnhe                        -   - - -   Ane  V-                                                   L.
Le51r~~~~~oi ''&  re~t P2q'aBierir0r"O    -                               ,                                                  '                                      O  -   _                ;IM ^  2soff g oidtl ^ IBR 52 
O  .     dos,d              V'aos Bourg dAusoin   7'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fr ..i    IRD152
:~~~~~0                                                                                     '                                                                                                         AqCb    ;=2H1/       
Rolhe mB hotssY" Lbep#  drhWses Cayes                                                                      OCosasde F0,                  -            Nr   
ofO.rs ada,s ofresoo,erion ofrrO,is si'o1choo Theo dD m  rt,orIssdedrdrt,  "5  St Sa
0c,0e,,arccc,o,ws gn thnsorodo noor 0m0(0 on rhe o<,ic 551 f d Wo d he.0od ,o  Port  0 J  So u J nan                                                                                                                                                                       \ 72
g                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~70'                                                                               73'                                                                                             72'\                                   j






r              u i                 + 0           f  0    t f :;                ;                  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  DOiN, CMANCA
/xMAICP  4a; ",X   28O1D,   |   ~~~~~~~';    ;   <\  || '-   \\   `   `t  -  +W   )<2   XSuvonneomb               2        REPUSLEP    CLI  1-IAI
'- 11 C .. 0 AL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORESTRY' APX 'ROJ>`'-sECT`



