rOFICIAL       DIT NUMBER 1257 HA
DOCUMENTSE
Development Credit Agreement
(Forestry Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUM"ER 1257 HA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                     , 1982,
between the REPUBLIC OF    ITI (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association).
ARTICLE I
GeneraL Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings thereia set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible
for forests, at the date of this Agreement, the Ministry of
Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development;
(b)  "Bureau" means the Forestry Bureau of the Division of
Natural Resources and Irrigation of the Ministry; and
(c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borro-
wer, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agree-
ment set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,600,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Associa-
tion shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open a Special Account in a commercial bank on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association. Payments out of the Spe-
cial Account shall be made exclusively to pay the reasonable
costs of goods and services required to carry out the Project and
to be financed under this Agreement in accordance with the provi-
sions of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 here-
to.
(c)  The Association shall, as of the Effective Date, with-
draw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and depo-
sit in the Special Account an initial amount in the currency of
the Borrower equivalent to SDR 50,000, as provided in Category 5
of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of this
Agreement. Thereafter, at the request of the Borrower, the Asso-
ciation on behalf of the Borrower shall further withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amounts as
shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts
equal to payments made out of the Special Account for expendi-
tures for the Prcject eligible for financing under this Agree-
ment, but only to the extent that the amount of any such deposit,
together with any amount remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of SDR 50,000. Except as the Association
shall otherwise determine, each such deposit after the initial
deposit shall be withdrawn from the Credit Account under the same
Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, and in the same respective amounts, as have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such depo-
sits furnished pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section.
(d) Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower
for a deposit into the Special Account, the Borrower shall fur-
nish to the As.ociation in respect of each payment out of the


﻿-3-
Special Account such documents and other evidence as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made
to pay the reasonable cost of goods or services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in
accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(e)  If the Association shall have determined that any pay-
ment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure
or in any amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal from
the Credit Account; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon such notice from the Association and, unless
otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further deposit
in the Special Account, deposit in the Special Account or refund
to the Association an amount equal to the amount of euch payment
or of the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be made
(i) when the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals can be made directly by the Borrower from the Credit
Account under Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement, (ii) when the
total amount withdrawn from the Credit Account, plus the amount
of any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Association
and of any special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall have
reached the equivalent of SDR 3,550,000, or (iii) after September
30, 1985 whichever shall be soonest. Withdrawal from the Credit
Account of the remaining amounts of the Credit for the Project
shall follow such procedures as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association and shall be made only to the extent
that the Association shall be satisfied by the evidence submitted
in support of the applications for such withdrawals that all pay-
ments by the Borrower out of the Special Account and out of the
proceeds of the Credit were made on account of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Jan-
uary 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1992, and ending Jan-
uary 15, 2032, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic, financial, administrative, agricultural and forestry
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
(b) The Borrower shall select a senior forestry consultant
by September 15, 1982 as provided in Section 3.02 below.
(c) The Borrower shall, prior to the appointment of any new
Chief of the Bureau, exchange views with the Association on the
qualifications and experience of the proposed candidate.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the opera-
tions of the Bureau, in training, in forest management and
reforestation and in conducting surveys of soils, the Borrower
shall employ consultants and experts, whose selection, qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the prin-
ciples and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards ini-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance auy
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)    The Borrower shall cause all goods and        services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement


﻿-6-
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Credit and the goodo and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to br derived from it, the performance by the Borrow- er and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.05. Candidates for the fellowships included in
Part B of the Project shall be satisfactory to the Association;
the Borrower shall employ in the Bureau, for a period of at least
double the duration of training under such fellowships, each
trainee successfully completing such training.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the agricul-
tural support services, provided by the Ministry to farmers


﻿-7-
benefitting from the Project in the pine forest area of La Selle
be intensified and in particular by the provision of credits and
the appointment of additional extension agents.
Section 3.07. As part of the preparation for future projects
in forestry development comprising Part F of the Project, the
Borrower shall review tl-- existing legislative and regulatory
framework applicable to such development, exchange views thereon
with the Association prior to the end of the second year of the
Project and shall thereafter make such modifications in such
framework as iall be necessary or appropriate.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   Without limitation    to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year a 'ter the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c)   The Borrower shall: (i) have the Special Account and
the accounts referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
audited, for each fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audits by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested, including
without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to


﻿-8-.
in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure were used to make payments for goods
received, or works or services performed, and that such goods,
works and services were eligible for financing under this Agree-
ment and were used in the carrying out of the Project; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the
Special Account and said separate accounts, records and expendi-
tures and the audits thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall continue to furnish such
funds, land and personnel as shall be required to carry on the
fuelwood species trials after the termination of their financing
under Part C of the Project.
Section 4.03. Until the completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause the Bureau to collect an appropriate charge
for sawtimber commercially harvested in the La Selle-managed
forest; such charge shall be initially fixed at at least G 60 per
cubic meter and shall be increased periodically, taking into
account such elements as changes in the costs of operations and
the landed prices of imported lumber.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a)  the Bureau has appointed a field manager for each of
the three areas included in Part C of the Project;
(b)  the Ministry has designated a senior procurement offi-
cer in its administrative section acceptable to the Association
to be responsible for procurement under the Project;
(c) an area of at least 250 ha of land near Port-au-Prince
and areas of 50 ha each at Baie de Henne and at Jean Rabel have
been made available by the Borrower to the Bureau for use in the
trials included in Part C of the Project;


﻿-9-
(d) Arrangements satisfactory to the Association have been
made by the Borrower for the participation of the Ministry
responsible for national education and the Directorate of Energy
of the Ministry responsible for energy, respectively, in Parts B
and E of the Project; and
(e) the Special Account has been opened.
Section 5.02. The date )                 2 /       is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of State responsible for finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretairerie d'Etat des Finances
et des Affaires Economiques
Palais des Ministeres
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
Cable address:                             Telex:
SECRETAIRERIE D'ETAT DES FINANCES          2030347
ET DES AFFAIRES ECONOMIQUES
Port-au-Prince, Haiti


﻿- 10 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
89550 (WUD) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Carribbean


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1) Civil works                130,000                   100%
(2) Vehicles, equip-           450,000                   100%
ment, furniture
(3) Field forestry           1,070,000                   100%
costs, inclu-
ding inputs,
surveys,
seasonal labor
support staff
and operation
costs
(4) Consultants'             1,330,000                   100%
services; fellow-
ships
(5) Initial deposit             50,000
in Special
Account
(6) Unallocated                570,000
TOTAL    3,600,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied


﻿- 12 -
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for expenditures
(a) made prior to the date of this Agreement or (b) under Part E
of the Project until the Directorate of Energy Resources of the
Borrower's Ministry of Mines and Energy and the Ministry have
each appointed a person to carry out surveys of cooking practices
affecting stove design, in Port-au-Prince and in rural areas,
respectively.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentage set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit than allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Associa:ion shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to develop a substantial capability
for forest management and reforestation in Haiti, to encourage
conservation and to prepare future projects in forestry develop-
ment. The Project includes the following:
Part A:     Strengthening the capabilities of the Bureau through
the employment of additional expert staff, the acquisition of
vehicles and equipment and the training of field personnel;
Part B:      Carrying out a program of education and training,
including, the granting of 8 fellowships for training outside
Haiti at the graduate level and the introduction in grade schools
of education in forestry and resource conservation, with the
cooperation of the relevant services of the Ministries of Agri-
culture and National Education;
Part C:    Pilot plantings of species of suitable potential on
about 250 ha of state land near Port-au-Prince; conducting
species elimination trials for planting and direct seeding of
exotic and local species at that site and in the Northwest in at
least two other ecological zones for at least 100 ha of plant-
ings;
Part D:    Demarcation and survey of the pine forest at La Selle;
preparation of a comprehensive management plan for the 20,000 ha
of forest on the 30,000 ha area; conducting species trials for
exotic pines;
Part E:    Testing and promotion of improved wood and charcoal-
burning cooking stoves by the Directorate of Energy Resources of
the Ministry responsible for energy; and
Part F:   Preparation of a future large-scale project of forestry
development with particular emphasis on reforestation.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
3.     For the purpose of inviting bids, similar vehicles and
equipment shall be grouped in lots.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pursu-
ant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 15 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works or construction may be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally.
2.   Items other than vehicles which, after grouping, are valued
over $25,000 but not over $100,000 may be procured on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally.
3.   Items costing $25,000 or under may be purchased on the basis
of the lowest of at least three competing quotations.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)    After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report made
with the assistance of the consultants referred to in Section
3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the
said consultants and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 16 -
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Associaton.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of          ,
198  .
FOR SECRETARY


