VA'
RESTRICTED
Report No. Ap-3: VAN
ThisReprt a ben repredfor
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK       cusius otheBank.
APPRAISAL
OF THE
MULTIPROJECT LOAN
TO
VANUATU
NOVEMBER 1985



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of 30 September 1985)
Currency Unit           -          Vatu (Vt)
$1.00                   -          VtlO3.92
Vtl.00                  -           $0.0096
Since 10 September 1981 the Vatu has been pegged to the
Special Drawing Right (SDR) managed by the International Monetary
Fund.  Effective 1 April 1985 the rate was adjusted at VtllO.00 -
SDR1.00. For the purposes of calculation in this Report, an exchange
rate of VtlO5.00$1.00 has been used which was the rate prevailing at
the time of appraisal.
ABBREVIATIONS
ADAB   -   Australian Development Assistance Bureau
FNDP   -   First National Development Plan (1982-1986)
GRT    -   Gross Registered Tons
IDA    -   International Development Associ.ation
LGC    -   Local Government Council
ODA    -   Overseas Development Administration
PCC    -   Project Coordination Committee
PWD    -   Public Works Department
SPRO   -   South Pacific Regional Office
NOTES
(i) In this Report, "$" refers to US dollars.
(ii) The Fiscal Year (FY) of the Government ends on 31 December.



PROJECT FOCUS, DESIGN AND RATIONALE
Development in Vanuatu has been constrained by: (i) its
remoteness from centers of world trade and industry; (ii) its
fragmented, small-island configuration; (iii) a dispersed population;
and (iv) the difficulty of attaining appropriate economies of scale
given the small domestic market. To overcome these disadvantages the
Government has prepared a fifteen-year development program to be
implemented in three phases.   The First National Development Plan
1982-1986 (FNDP) is the first phase of this program and its objective
is to concentrate on developing the productive sectors so as to
generate domestic savings and earn foreign exchange, increase exports
and substitute  for certain  imports.   This involves promoting the
export sector, which is basically agricultural and creating the
necessary physical infrastructure to support the export sector. Such
infrastructure includes wharves, landing stages, storage sheds and
access roads (from inland areas to the coast) in the outer islands
where most of the exports originate.
In  the  education  eector,  the  main  objective  of  the
Government is to unify the dual English and French educational systems
inherited at the time of independence in 1980 and to improve the
general  standard  of  educational  facilities  in  the  country.   An
immediate requirement, however, is the need to reconstruct and, in the
process, upgrade school buildings which were destroyed by two major
cyclones which hit the country in January 1985.
In line with the above objectives, the Government has
identified a number of small, high-priority projects in the
infrastructure and education sectors for which financing is required
on an urgent basis and it has requested Bank assistance for these
projects. In view of their small size, the multiproject loan approach
was considered to be the most economical and appropriate way of
preparing and implementing these projects.
The Multiproject loan (the Project) will provide for (i) the
construction of wharves or landing stages at six sites in the outer
islands; (ii) improvements to existing roads leading to these six
sites and construction of a short paved by-pass road at Santo Port;
(iii) detailed    engineering    design    for    Santo    Port;    and
(iv) reconstruction and, in the process, upgrading of school buildings
destroyed by cyclones at nine selected primary schools.



The total cost of the Project is estimated at $6.4 million,
of which the foreign exchange cost is estimated at $5.0 million and
the local currency cost at $1.4 million equivalent.   The foreign
exchange cost is proposed to be co-financed jointly by a Bank loan in
the amount of $3.0 million equivalent and a credit from the
International Development Association (IDA) of the World Bank credit
in the amount of $2.0 million.  The Government will make available
from its own resources all funds necessary to implement the Project in
addition to those provided under the Bank loan and IDA credit.
The Executing Agency for the Project will be the Public
Works Department  (PWD).  To assist the Government in preparing the
necessary appraisal reports for each subproject and to facilitate the
smooth implementation of the Project, consultant services will be
required.   The  foreign exchange  cost of the consultant  services,
estimated at $270,000, w'll be financed by a Bank technical assistance
grant.
The infrastructure facilit:es to be constructed under the
Project will help to facilitate the e.port of agricultural products,
particularly copra, from the outer islands and reduce the transport
costs of general cargo imports from the two international ports in the
country  to  the  outer  islands.   The Project will also  facilitate
social, educational and health services in the villages and support
the Governme.at's program in the education sector by reconstructing and
upgrading selected school buildings.
The major risk in the Project is a delay in implementation
of the subprojects. The likely delays are expected to be in obtaining
necessary approvals from Local Government Councils on land and land
rights required for the subprojects and in preparing the appraisal
reports for the individual subprojects. To minimize such a risk, the
Government  has  initiated  action  to  obtain  the  approvals  and
commitments of Local Government Councils on land and land rights;
substantial   progress   towards   compliance   with   implementation
arrangements  has already been  achieved.   Further,  to  assist  the
Government in the preparation of individual appraisal reports for the
subprojects and to support PWD through advisory services during the
physical implementation stage, technical assistance is to be provided
by the Bank.



(i)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Map - Location of Project Facilities                        (ii)
I.   INTRODUCTION                                                  1
II.   BACKGROUND                                                    2
A.   General                                                  2
B.   Transport Sector                                         4
C.   Education Sector                                         8
III.   THE PROJECT                                                  10
A.   Objectives and Scope                                    10
B.   Description of Subprojects                              11
C.   Cost Estimates                                          14
D.   Financing Plan                                          14
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                       17
A.   Executing Agency and Project Coordination               17
B.   Procurement                                             18
C.   Consultants                                             19
D.   Implementation Arrangements                             19
E.   Operation and Maintenance                               20
F.   Reports, Accounts and Audit                             21
G.   Environmental, Energy and Women Considerations          21
H.   Co-Financing Arrangements                               22
I.   Loan Administration                                     22
V.   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                         23
VI.   JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS                                   24
A.   General                                                 24
B.   Economic Evaluation                                     24
C.   Risks                                                   25
VII.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                              26
APPENDIXES                                                   28



( ii )
168°E                                  170'E
TORRES ISLANDS
MRMWNU P' 
MOTA LAVA
uw      BANKS ISLANOS                                   FWt
VANL,A LAVA                                                    El
-1405                                                                                      NEW CALEDOSIA   140S
SANTA MARIA
OMERE LAVA
NEW ZEALAM
Na___  MAE WO      GtEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION
a,Shaft Ut  
ESPIRiTU SANTO                               & AMI_W.   r
5wra5  S        AM0AE
AORE 
MIALO              _", ^  4, PENTECOST
P1                  .6r
AMBRYM
MALAKULA
DrA PAAMA                     L .
BelpO                     50 so    00
EPI                           Klometers
SHEPHERD ISLANDS
EFATE
-a0s                                                                                                       1605-
VANUATU
LOCATION OF PROJECT FACILITIES
ERROMANGO
ANIWA
L E G E N O
S     Wharf/Landing stage Construction          TANNA
*     School Rc,.onsttuction                       L#f@&.I              FUTUNA
O2S                                                                                                       205S
ANATOM
1660E                                  168°S                                   170°S



I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of the Republic of Vanuatu has requested Bp,k
assistance to finance small public sector projects of high priority.
These projects -- treated as subprojects for the purpose of this
Report -- include the construction of wharves and landing stages,
improvement of roads in the outer islands and at Santo Port, detailed
engineering design for Santo Port and reconstruction and upgrading of
selected s(ilool buildings in the northern part of the country
destroyed by cyclones in January 1985. The Government's request for a
Multiproject loa . (the Project) is consistent with the Bank's approach
to operations in the South Pacific. 1/
2.        The Project was formulated during the visit of a Fact-
Finding  Mission  to Vanuatu  in  July  1985.  An Appraisal Mission
comprising E. A. Nonis (Senior Project Economist), Mission Chief,
J. W. Head  (Counsel),  T. Kondo  (Project Engineer)  and 0. S. Ward
(Country Officer) visited Vanuatu from 18 to 30 September 1985. The
Project was jointly appraised by the Bank Mission and a mission from
the  International  Development  Association  (IDA).   Assistance  was
provided by the Bank's South Pacific Regional Office (SPRO).  This
Report contains the Mission's findings which are based on its
discussions in the field with Government Ministries and Departments
concerned, on a review of rele ant reports and on a visit to some
selected sites.
1/ Doc. R157-8, A Review of Bank Operations in the South Pacific
Developing Member Countries,  daled  14 December  1978,  read  in
conjunction with Working Paper 6-,3 dated 14 November 1978 and
Revision 1, dated 19 October 1983.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
3.        Vanuatu is an archipelago of some 80 islands spread ovLr a
distance of about 850 kilometers (km) in the southwest Pacific Ocean.
It has a total land area of about 12,20C sq km but its territorial
waters cover almost 450,000 sq km.   The total population of the
country was about 130,000 in 1984. The islands other than Efate and
Espiritu Santo, which have about 20 per cent and 17 per cent of the
total population, respectively, are referred to as the "outer islands"
[see Map on page (ii)].
4.        The islands in Vanuatu form part of an active volcanic
chain. About 4,000 earthquakes were recorded in the country between
1961 and the first half of 1985 and no year has passed dur_ng this
period  without  a  number  of  shocks.   In  addition,  the  islands
frequently experience major tropical cyclones. 1/ Between 1961 and
the first half of 1985, the Meteorological Department in Vanuatu
recorded 43 major tropical cyclones passing through the country. The
cyclones usually affect Vanuatu from November to April, the most
frequent occurrences being in January.
5.        Development in Vanuatu has been constrained, as in the case
of most other South Pacific developing member countries, by: (i) its
remoteness from centers of world trade and industry; (ii) its
fragmented, small-island configuration; (iii) a dispersed population;
and (iv) the difficulty of attaining appropriate economies of scale
given the small domestic market.  The main natural resource of the
courtry is the land itself; an estimated 5,500 sq km or 45 per cent of
the total land area is potentially arable. About 17 per cent of the
total land surface is currently utilized. Both the climate and soils
are conducive to the development of agriculture, livestock and
forestry.   Tne  territorial  waters  are  regarded  as  an  important
potential resource for fisheries and minerals.
6.        Shortly after Vanuatu gained independence in July 1980, the
Government embarked on the preparation of its First National
Development Plan (FNDP) covering the period 1982-1986.  FNDP is the
first of three phases of a 15-year development program. Under FNDP,
total capital requirements of the various sectoral development
programs and projects have been estimated at Vtll,500 million ($109.5
million) of which Vt6,187 million ($58.9 million) or about 54 per cent
is expected to be financed by grant aid and the rest from conces-
sicnal loans and other sources. Priorities in the allocation of these
1/ A major tropical cyclone has been defined by the Meteorological
Department in Vanuatu as a storm with an average wind speed of 48
knots per hour or more.



-3-
resources are for agriculture (about 29 per cent of total projected
national development expenditure) followed by infrastructure (23 per
cent), social services including education (15 per cent) and forestry
(7 per cent).
7.        Grant aid has been the country's major source of development
finance in the past and this is likely to continue during FNDP.  The
donors expected to contribute to FNDP are Australia (38 per cent of
total grant aid), United Kingdom (31 per cent), France (10 per cent),
New Zealand (5 per cent), Canada (1 per cent), the European
Development Fund (13 per cent) and non-governmental organizations (2
per cent).
8.        The main economic objective of the Government, as stated in
FNDP and reconfirmed in a mid-term review carried out by the
Government in 1984,- is to concentrate on developing the productive
sectors which will in the future generate domestic savings and earn
foreign exchange, increase exports and substitute for certain imports.
This involves promoting the export sector which is basically
agricultural and creating the necessary physical infrastructure to
support the export sector. Such infrastructure includes, among other
things, wharves, landing stages, storage sheds (for collection of
copra) and necessary access roads (from inland areas to the coast) in
the outer islands wnere most of the copra exports originate.  High
priority is therefore being given by the Government to necessary
investment in the infrastructure sector to facilitate economic
development.
9.        In  the  education  sector,  the  main  objective  of  the
Government under the FNDP is to unify the dual English and French
educational systems inherited at the time of independence in 1980 and
to improve the general standard of education and facilities in the
country. Of immediate priority is the need to reconstruct and, in the
process, upgrade school buildings damaged or destroyed in January 1985
when two major cyclones hit a wide belt of the northern half of
Vanuatu, seriously affecting nearly 20,000 people (or about one-sixth
of the total population of the country) living on the islands of
Espiritu Santo, Ambae, Maewo and Pentecost and causing severe
destruction to properties, facilities and crops on these islands.
10.       The damage caused by the cyclones is expected to seriously
affect Vanuatu's balance of payments and budget in 1985. The loss of
copra production/exports is expected to be substantial. Production in
1985 is forecast by the Government to fall by as much as 35 per cent
from tize 1984 level of 49,000 tons and the loss in export earnings is
likely to be about Vt900 million or $& 6 million (more recent
estimates, however, indicate a lower decline in production of about
20-25 per cent from the 1984 level).



-4-
B. Transport Sector
1. Ceneral
11.       Given Vanuatu's archipelagic and geographic characteristics,
an integrated transport system is important and basic to the economic
and social development of the country.   At the village and island
levels, the transport requirements vary.  Sea and land transport are
used for the collection of copra and other agricultural products and
for distribution of inward general cargo. These two transport modes,
together with air transport services, are also needed to improve
social,  educational and health services  in the villages.   At  the
national level, the primary transport task is the shipment of copra,
which in 1984 accounted for about 62 per cent of the country's export
earnings, from the various production areas in the outer islands to
the two international ports in the country located at Port Vila on
Efate island and at Santo on Espiritu Santo island for onward export
to overseas destinations and the transport of general cargo imports
from these two international ports to the outer islands. Measured in
terms  of  traffic  volumes  and  contribution  to  production  and
consumption, sea transport is by far the most vital transport mode in
Vanuatu. Road transport plays a limited role in the country due to
the small size of the islands and the generally difficult terrain in
the  bigger  islands.   Air  transport  provides  a  link  mainly  for
interisland and international passenger traffic.
2. Sea Transport
12.       The volume and pattern of Vanuatu's international seaborne
trade over the last ten years is shown in Appendix 1. About 70 per
cent of the imports to Vanuatu are handled over the wharf at Port Vila
and the remainder over the wharf at Santo.  In the case of exports,
however, Santo wharf accounts for about 70 per cent of the cargo
traffic while Port Vila handles the remaining 30 per cent. The import
and export cargo proportions between the two international ports in
Vanuatu are likely to remain broadly constant over the next decade.
13.       The total international seaborne trade of Vanuatu over the
period 1975-1984 has fluctuated widely on a year-to-year basis.
General cargo traffic grew at about 5 per cent per annum from a level
of about 140,000 revenue tons in 1975 to about 154,000 revenue tons in
1978. Cargo traffic began to decline rapidly from 1978 as the country
approached independence, reaching a low point of about 82,000 revenue
tons in 1980. Since then, cargo traffic volumes slowly recovered to
pre-independence levels.  By 1984, general cargo traffic reached a
record level of about 157,000 revenue tons.
14.       A major feature of international shipping in Vanuatu is the
large number of cruise ships that call at Port Vila (and to a much
lesser extent at Santo).  Most of the cruise ships berth at the main



- 5 -
wharf and stay alongside from 10 to 16 hours. In 1984, a total of 38
cruise ships called at Port Vila and 6 at Santo.  At an average of
1,100 passengers per ship, about 42,000 short-stay visitors came to
Port Vila by sea in 1984 (see Appendix 2).
15.       The  interisland shipping  fleet of  the country  currently
consists of 41 ships with a total capacity of about 3,600 gross
registered tons xGRT).  Thirty of these interisland ships, totalling
about 2,800 GRT, are owned by the private sector and the rest by the
Goverument  (see  Appendix  3).  I/   There  is  heavy  dependence  on
interisland shipping services (mainly provided by the private sector)
for cargo and passenger transport between the outer islands and Port
Vila  and  Santo.   The  Government  ships  are  used  mainly  for
administrative and health services and to provide a link to the small
and remote islands in the countrv.
16.       The main interisland shipping problems relate, among other
things, to long sailing distances, small cargo volumes, difficult
coastlines, shortage of suitable anchorages, inadequate infrastructure
and slow turnaround times of ships.   The result has been a heavy
concentration of shipping activity around Port Vila and Santo while
the outer islands, especially in the fringe areas, experience both
irregular  and  infrequent  services.   To  overcome  some  of  these
problems, the Covernment has given high priority to the development of
necesbary  physical  infrastructure  to  support  interisland  shipping
services to and from the outer islands.
3. Road Transport
17.       At present there is a total of about 1,300 km of roads in
Vanuatu  (see Appendix  4).   Except  for roads in and around urban
centers in Efate, Espiritu Santo,, Malakula, Pentecost and Tanna, most
of the roads in the country are unpaved and are often no more than
fair weather tracks. Road construction is generally undertaken by the
Public Works Department (PWD) or by private contractors although, in
some cases, roads have been constructed by local village groups at
their own expense. The roads are maintained for the most part by PWD.
18.       In 1984 there were about 6,400 vehicles in the country, over
80 per cent of which were operating on the islands of Efate and
Espiritu Santo. About 3,500 of these vehicles were passenger cars and
120 were buses of various sizes. Almost all the carn and buses were
in Port Vila and Santo. In addition, there were about 2,200 utility
trucks, 350 heavy duty trucks and 230 tractors operating throughout
the country.  Of the total number of vehicles in Vanuatu, about 700
belonged to various Government departments while the rest were owned
and operated by the private sector.
19.       Taxes are payable for the import of motor vehicles into the
country and for the use of these vehicles (tirough import taxes and
duties on vehicles and motor fuels and registration and annual road



- 6 -
license fees). The purpose is twofold: to raise revenue and to make a
contribution to annual road maintenance expenditure.  In 1984 revenue
resulting from import duties on vehicles totalled about Vt58 million
(about  $550,000).   Total  revenue  from vehicle  registration,  road
license fees and fuel taxes in 1984 was estimated by the Government to
be about Vtl50 million ($1.4 million) while expenditure on road
maintenance in 1984 amounted to about Vt57 million ($540,000). Given
the need to improve domestic resource mobilization, this level of cost
recovery is considered satisfactory.
4. Air Transport
20.       International air transport services in Vanuatu operate out
of  3auerfield  airport  located  on  Efate  island.   In  1984  seven
international airlines operated a total of 20 International flights
per  week  from  Bauerfield  airport.   Of  the  estimated  40,000
international passenger arrivals in 1984, about 34,000 were visitors
to the country while the remainder were returning residents.
21.       In 1984 there were 22 airfields in the country located on 14
islands.   Domestic air transport passenger and cargo services are
provided by Air Melanesiae which operates about 150 flights per week.
No data are available on the number of passenger or cargo kilometers
flown.
5. Need for Investment in the Transport Sector
22.       The main deficiencies of the existing transportation system
relate primarily to inadequate internal transport in most of the
copra-producing islands (lack of access roads, wharves or landing
stages and consolidation and storage facilities) and poor interisland
shipping services (irregular sailings, low frequency, slow turnaround
times and high freight charges). In the absence of wharves or landing
stages in the outer islands, produce is collected and distributed from
over 150 anchorages throughout the country.  The interisland ships
anchor offshore and use very small boats (normally carxied on the
interisland ships) as lighters.  These boats usually have no fixed
place to berth and hence they use beaches to effect the transfer of
cargo. This method of loading and unloading cargo is both slow and
costly. Another factor which increases turnaround time (and reduces
the number of voyages interisland ships can make each year) is the
absence of storage facilities at the port sites, resulting in ships
having to wait for cargo. These deficiencies have a serious impact on
the local and national -economy in terms of collection, marketing and
distribution.
23.       To improve marketing and distribution arrangements and to
stimulate increased production, the Government has started a program
to establish Regional Collection Centers in some of the outer islands
which are major producers of copra and other agricultural products.
The specific aims in setting up these Centers are to provide storage



-7-
facilities for copra and other agricultural products, facilitate the
sale and storage of consumer goods and agricultural Inputs and
stimulate the expansion of banking, savings and credit facilities.
however,  corresponding iuvestment is needed in the construction of
wharves and landing stages and improvement of roads to the port sites
if such Centers are to be fully effective.   In view of this, the
primary objective of the Government for the transport sector under
FNDP Is to promote an integrated transport network to support the
Regional Collection Centers by ensuring that sea, road and air
transport policies, programs and projects complement one another.
24.       In preparing FNDP, the Government recognized that investment
in transport facilities will be a prerequisite for achieving the Plan
objectives and the lor4ger term goal of economic self-reliance.
Accordingly, a significant proportion (about 18 per cent) of the total
national development expenditure during the Plan period has been
allocated for developing transport facilities.
6. External Assistance to the Transport Sector
25.       In  recent years  assistance  for  the  development  of  the
transport sector has been provided by the United Kingdom, Australia
and Japan.  In 1982 under assistance from the Overseas rDevelopment
Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom, a feasibility study for
the development of wharves and landing stages in the outer islands was
carried out. I/ This was followed by provision of road construction
and maintenance equipment for the construction of a north-south road
on the island of Pentecost to support a forestry project.  Similar
equipment is being provided for road construction on the island of
Malakula. Pile-driving equipment for the construction of bridges and
mobile maintenance units for repair of road construction equipment are
also being provided by ODA. Training of the Public Works Department
(PWD) staff in the use of the pile-driving equipment and in repairing
and maintaining road construction equipment is also being provided.
Under assistance from the Australian Development Assistance Bureau
(ADAB), a feasibility study for the development of the international
ports at Port Vila and Santo was undertaken. 2/ In view of the acute
shortage of storage facilities for copra exports at Santo (due to the
dilapidated  condition  of  three  existing  storage  sheds),  ADAB
assistance for the construction of a large new storage shed has been
obtained.   Work on the construction of this shed is expected to
commence shortly.  Also, under ADAB assistance, work has commenced on
the construction of a Regional Collection Center on the island of Epi.
Assistance has also been obtained from Japan for detailed  engineering
1/  The study was carried out by Posford, Pavry and Partners, UK, in
association with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co., UK.
2/ The study was carried out by Maunsell and Partners Pty. Ltd.,
Australia, in association with Dwyer Leslie Pty. Ltd., Australia;
the final report was submitted in March 1984.



design of wharves on the islands of Tanna and Malakula (covered under
the OnA feasibility study) and for the construction of Regional
Collection Centers on the islands of Tanna, Malakula, Ambae and Efate
and cold storage facilities at both the port and airport at Port Vila.
C. Education Sector
1. General
26.       Education  in  Vanuatu  is  in  its  formative  stage  of
development.  Prior to independence in 1980, two distinct systems of
education were in operation -- the English educational system and the
French educational system administered by the British and French
administrations,  respectively.   The two systems varied not only in
language but also in:  (i) the cost of instruction;  (ii) curricula;
and (iii) access to post secondary educational opportunities.
27.       The Government recognizes that it faces a problem not only
of developing and financing an educational system to meet its future
needs, but also of removing the constraints created by the dual
system. Since independence, the Government's major objectives in the
education sector have centered on unifying the two systems and
improving the general standard of educational facilities in the
country.   In  line  with  these  objectives,  the  Government  has
restructured the Ministry of Education, introduced more uniform
salaries and terms of employment for teachers, instituted a uniform
teacher education program and created an Institute of Education to
develop common curricula and examinations. The Government is studying
ways and means of improving further the conditions and services of
teachers and the general standard of education and facilities in the
country.
28.       The  strongest  feature  of  the  education  system  is  its
accessibility to the population, particularly at the primary level.
Although primary education is non-compulsory and fees are collected at
primary and all levels of education, primary school enrollment in 1984
was high, at about 87 per cent of the relevant school-age population.
In 1984 there were 244 primary schools (with English as the medium of
instruction in 140 schools and French in the remaining 104 schools)
and 10 secondary schools (with English as the medium of instruction in
7 schools and French in the remaining 3 schools).  Primary school
enrollment in 1984 totalled about 23,400 (about 12,700 English medium
and 10,700 French medium) of which female students accounted for 46
per cent. Secondary school enrollment was about 2,100 (about 1,110
English medium and 1,000 French medium). At the secondary level,
limited places restrict access. In 1984 secondary school enrollment
was only about 10 per cent of the relevant school-age population.
29.       Post-secondary educational opportunities within the country
are at present limited to the University of the South Pacific,
Extension Center in Vanuatu, the Vanuatu Teachers College, the Nursing



-9-
School (run by the Ministry of Health) and the Agricultural College
(which falls under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture).
Some selected senior secondary school graduates continu, their
education  overseas  on  Government-sponsored  scholarships.   In  1984
about 200 students were studying abroad under such scholarships.
2. Need for Investment in the Education Sector
30.       Under FNDP, the capital requirements for the development of
the education sector have been estimated et Vtl,327 million (about
$12.6 million) which represents about 75 per cent of the total social
services  sector  requirements.    About  60  per  cent  of  capital
requirement in the education sector is for the construction of new
schools or for additions to existing schools.  The remainder is for
school equipment, curricula development and overseas scholarships.
31.       An immediate requirement in the education sector, however,
is the need to reconstruct school buildings destroyed by the two major
cyclones which hit Vanuatu  in January  1985.  Many schools on the
islands of Espiritu Santo, Ambae, Pentecost and Maewo were heavily
damaged or completely destroyed as a result of the cyclones, forcing
the Government to relocate students in temporary sheds or to transfer
students to other schools.   Some of the buildings in these schools
need to be reconstructed urgently and, in the process, upgraded to a
cyclone-resistant standard.



- 10 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scope
32.       The  Project  consists  of  high-priority  public  sewtor
subprojects in the transport and education sectors, as follows:
(i) construction of three wharves and three landing stages at six
sites in the outer islands; (ii) improvement of about 62 km of
existing roads leading to these six port sites and construction of a
short by-pass road at Santo Port; (iii) detailed engineering design
for Santo Port; and (iv) reconstruction and upgrading of school
buildings destroyed by cyclones in 1985 in nine selected primary
schools (see paras 34 to 37). The subprojects, when completed, will
create a part of the necessary transport infrastructure to facilitate
the collection and export of copra and other agricultural products and
improve the distribution of inward general cargo in several key outer
islands. At the same time, they will support the Government's efforts
to provide improved access in the outer islands to educational, health
and administrative services and to reconstruct and upgrade school
buildings  destroyed  by  cyclones.   Considerations  governing  the
selection of the subprojects included the following:
(i) the subprojects should be accorded high priority by the
Government;
(ii) the subprojects should prima facie be technically feasible
and economically viable and suitable for Bank financing;
(iii) the subprojects should serve the development needs of the
outer islands to promote balanced economic and social
development in Vanuatu; and
(iv)  the  subprojects  should  not  require  further  detailed  or
time-consuming feasibility studies.
33.       Each subproject selected for inclusion in the Project is
prima  facie  suitable  for  Bank  financing.   However,  before  final
approval is given, individual appraisal reports will be prepared by
the Government with the assistance of consultants to be engaged under
the proposed technical assistance from the Bank (see paras 65, 66, 67
and 68). The appraisa] report for each subproject will be submitted
to the Bank for review and approval before any funds are made
available  for the subproject and in sufficient time to allow the
agreed implementation schedule of the Project to be maintained. 1/
The appraisal reports for the wharf and landing stage construction and
road improvement subprojects in the outer islands will include, among
other things, the following: (i) a description of the objectives and
1/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, paras 2 and 4.



- 11 -
scope of the subproject; (ii) confirmation of the technical soundness
of the subproject and that the most cost-effective solution was
selected; (iii) detailed cost estimates showing the foreign and local
costs  and  physical  and  price  contingencies;   (iv) a  detailed
implementation schedule; (v) economic, social and (where appropriate)
financial evaluation and justification of the subproject; (vi) a
description of the organizational and staffing arrangements for the
construction, operation and maintenance of the subprojects; and
(vii) an assessment of the environmental impact of the subproject and
proposals for minimizing any adverse environmental effect during the
construction and operation of the subproject. 1/ The appraisal report
for the subprojects relating to the by-pass road at Santo Port,
detailed engineering design for Santo Port and reconstruction and
upgrading of primary school buildings will include: (i) the scope of
work  to  be  undertaken;  (ii)  the  implementation  schedule;  and
(iii) staffing arrangements relevant to the subproject.
B. Description of Subprojects
1. Outer Island Wharves and Landing Stages
34.       The ODA feasibility study  (see para 25) covered 19 port
locations on 12 islands and recommendations, as appropriate, were made
for the various proposed port development schemes.   Based on the
recommendations of the ODA study and on supplementary investigations
by the Government and Bank missions, the six port sites listed in
Table 1 have been identified as requiring a wharf or a landing stage
Table 1: Outer Island Ports Selected for Subprojects
Island                 Location of Port           Type of Facility
(i)  Vanua Lava           Sola                       Wharf
(ii)  Maewo /              Narovorovo                 Landing Stage
(iii)  Ambae-               Nduindui                   Wharf
(iv)  Ambaea/              Lolopuepue                 Wharf
(v)  Paama                Liro                       Landing Stage
(vi)  Epi                  Lamen Bay                  Landing Stage
a/  The northwest coast of Ambae is one of the largest copra producing
areas  in Vanuatu.   Due  to rough  terrain  and an  inhospitable
coastline, a road to link Nduindui and Lolopuepue cannot be
economically  constructed.   Accordingly,  both ports need to be
developed to serve their hinterlands.
1/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 4.



- 12 -
on a priority basis (see Appendix 5). These port sites were selected
considering, among other things, the volume of existing cargo traffic,
the potential of the hinterland for increased copra collection and the
size of the population to be served. 1/
2. Improvement of Roads to Port Sites
35.       The existing roads leading to the six port sites listed in
Table 1 are fair weather tracks which can only be used by four-wheel
drive vehicles. Improvement of these roads to an all-weather gravel
road standard up to the port site, together with minor extensions, is
essential if the full benefits of the proposed investment in wharves
and landing stages are to be realized.   Accordingly,  the required
improvements to the roads to the six port sites have been included in
the Project.  About 62 km of roads would be improved under these
subprojects (see Appendix 6 for details).
36.       At Santo, the main road between the airport and the city at
present runs through the back of the port area.  This restricts the
area available for port operations, including the storage of
containers and other cargo and it poses a danger to both city and port
traffic.   To improve traffic conditions,  a by-pass road about 300
meters in length and about 6 meters in width needs to be constructed
to divert city traffic from the port area. After construction of the
by-pass road, the existing road and surrounding area will be used
entirely for port purposes.   The proposed by-pass road will be a
necessary part of port development at Santo and construction of this
road has been included as a subproject.
3. School Upgrading
37.       Thirty-four out of about 80 primary schools in Espiritu
Santo, Ambae, Maewo and Pentecost suffered varying degrees of damage
as a result of the cyclones in January 1985. Two of these schools are
being  reconstructed and upgraded with assistance  from ADAB.   The
Government requested Bank assistance for the reconstruction of the
remaining 32 primary schools.  After detailed discussions between the
Government and the Bank missions, it was found that in nine main
schools, some buildings which were completely destroyed by the
cyclones require reconstruction (and upgrading to the same standard as
the remaining portions of the schools) on a priority basis. 21 These
are  long-established  primary  schools  serving  relatively  large
communities. They have relatively large enrollments of up to 150
1/ Two other priority ports in the outer islands (Litslits on
Malakula and Lenakel on Tanna) are being developed with assistance
from Japan.
2/ While most of the concrete structures in these schools withstood
the cyclones, the buildings constructed with indigenous materials
were destroyed.



- 13 -
students.   The majority of the other primary schools require only
minor repairs (part of this work has already been carried out) while a
few schools with very small enrollments are to be closed and the
students  transferred  to  other  schools.   The  subprojects  will
include construction of classrooms, dormitories and/or teachers'
houses as found necessary (see Table 2 and Appendix 7).
Table 2: Primary Schools Selected for
Reconstruction and Upgrading
Island                                School
Espiritu Santo                          Shark Bay
Espiritu Santo                          South Santo
Ambae                                   Lolovoli
Ambae                                  Naivele
Maewo                                   Asanwari
Pentecost                              Lisasanamal
Pentecost                              Qwatnapni
Pentecost                              Gamalmaua
Pentecost                              Atavtabanga
4. Detailed Engineering Design for Santo Port
38.       At Santo Port (where about 30 per cent of the country's
imports and about 70 per cent of its exports are handled), the main
wharf, 140 meters in length (of steel sheet pile caisson type) was
constructed 30 years ago.  It is severely corroded beyond repair and
has reached the end of its economic life. The wharf structure has
started to fail and is now vulnerable to collapse. The only transit
shed and three of the six small storage sheds in the port area are in
a dilapidated condition.  To plan for the repair or replacement of
this wharf, consultants were engaged to carry out a feasibility study
(see para 25). The consultants recommended that a new wharf, together
with necessary ancillary facilities, be constructed on an urgent basis
to replace the existing wharf.
39.       In view of the above, preparatory work for construction of a
new wharf at Santo is urgently needed to ensure that copra exports and
imports of general cargo for the northern part of Vanuatu, can
continue to be handled efficiently. Detailed engineering design for
an earthquake-resistant concrete wharf about 120-140 meters in length,
capable of handling general cargo and containers, needs to be carried
out and this has been included under the proposed Project.   It is
tentatively estimated that a subsequent investment in the order of $6
million will be required in the future for the construction of the new
wharf and ancillary port facilities at Santo.  The financing of the
design of the port does not commit the Bank to financing construction
of the port facilities.



- 14 -
C. Cost Estimates
40.       The total cost of the Project is estimated at $6.4 million
equivalent (incluuive of taxes and duties) of which the foreign
exchange cost is $5.0 million (about 78 per cent) including $70,000
for service charge on the Bank loan during construction and the local
cost is $1.4 million (about 22 per cent).  The cost estimates have
been prepared based on the ODA feasibility study for the wharves and
landing stages and adjusted to reflecc mid-July 1985 prices and on
actual costs incurred recently by PWD in similar works for road and
school building construction.   A summary of the cost estimates is
given in Table 3 (see Appendix 8 for details).
Table 3: Summary of Cost Estimates
Foreign        Local      Total
Item                   Exchange Cost      Cost      Cost
($'000)       ($'t00)   ($'000)
(i) Outer Island Wharves
and Landing Stages             1,480            320      1,800
(ii) Outer Island Road Improve-
ment and By-Pass Road
at Santo Port                  1,710            640      2,350
(iii)  School Upgrading                     530            120       650
(iv) Detailed Engineering Design
for Santo Port                   300             60        360
Subtotal             4,020          1,140     5,160
Physical Contingencs a/              500            130       630
Price Contingencies-                 410            130       540
Service Charge on Bank Loan c
During Construction                70-           -          70
f          .
Total-               5,000          1,400     6,400
a/  About 13 per cent on average.
b/  About !O per cent on average.
c/ Excluding the cost of the service charge on the IDA Credit,
estimated at $30,000, which IDA does not include as a Project cost
and which the Government will finance.
df  Excluding the cost of consulting services to be provided under the
Bank's technical assistance (see paras 65, 66, 67 and 68).
D.  Financing Plan
41.       The financing plan is shown in Table 4.  Under the plan:
(i) the foreign exchange cost of the subproject for detailed
engineering design for Santo Port, the subprojects for upgrading
school buildings and the service charge on the Bank loan will be



- 15 -
financed by the Bank; (ii) the foreign exchange cost of the oether
subprojects will be co-financed jointly by the Bank and IDA in an
equal amount; and (iii) all funds necessary to implement the Project,
in addition to those provided under the Bank loan and IDA credit, will
be provided by the Government.
Table 4: Project FinancingPlan
($ '000)
Source      Foreign Exchange Cost   Local Currency Cost   Total Cost
Bank Loan              3,000                                     3,000
IDA Credit            2,000                     -                2,000
Government               -                     1,400             1,400
Total              5,000                   1,400              6,400
4Z.       It is proposed that the Bank provide a loan of $3.0 million
equivalent from the Special Funds resources which represents about 47
per cent of the total cost of the Project.  The loan would finance
part of the foreign exchange cost of the Project including the service
charge during construction on the Bank loan. The proposed IDA credit
amounting to $2.0 million which represmnts about 31 per cent of the
total cost of the Project would finance the remaining part of the
foreign exchange cost of the Project. 1/
43.       The Borrower of the Bank loan would be the Republic of
Vanuatu. The Government has assured the Bank that all tunds necessary
to implement the Project, in addition to those provided under the Bank
loan and IDA credit, would be made available on a timely basis from
its own resources.   For this purpose,  the Government has already
included necessary funds in the national budget for the 1986 fiscal
year and would do so for the future years. 2/
44.       The amount allocated for each subproject is tentative at
this stage and the actual allocation will be determined after the
subproject has been appraised by the Government and approved by the
Bank. Reallocation of funds between subprojects, if required, will be
made by the Bank from within the total amount of the Bank loan and IDA
credit.
45.       If, after review of the individual appraisal reports by the
Government or the Bank, it is found that a subproject is, for any
reason, not suitable for implementation, it will be deleted from the
I/ See footnote c/, Table 3.
2/ Loan Agreement, Section 4.02 and Schedule 4, para 14.



-16 -
present list. A substitute subproject may be included in the Project
upon agreement between the Government and the Bank provided: (i) that
it meets the selection criteria that have been applied in identifying
the subprojects (see para 32); (ii) that it is appraised under the
procedures is found suitable for inclusion in the Project after such
appraisal (see para 33); and (iii) that the required financing is
consistent with the limits of the proposed financing available under
the Bank loan and and IDA credit. 1I
1/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 8.



- 17 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Executing Agency and Project Coordination
46.       The Executing Agency for the Project will be the Public
Works  Department  (PWD).   PWD,  which  is  under  the  Ministry  of
Transport,   Communications  ar.d  Public   Works,   undertakes   both
construction  and  maintenance  work  for  the  Government.   PWP  is
responsible for all major construction works covering land, sea and
air transport as well as construction of new Government buildings in
Vanuatu. It either undertakes such works itself or puts them out to
tender.  In the latter case, PWD is responsible for supervision of
contractors.   PWD has had experience in construction of roads and
school buildings throughout the country but not in the construction of
wharves or landing stages. I/ Operationally, PWD is responsible for
maintaining Government transportation infrastructure and buildings,
urban water supplies, Government plant and vehicles and outer island
electricity supplies. PWD is also the Government's purchasing arm and
operates the Government's stores.
47.       PWD is headed by a Director who is sulpported by a Deputy
Director and five Heads of Departments (Civil Engineering, Structural
Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Architecture and Accounting/
Administration).   Technical and administrative staff support these
Heads of Departments.  In addition, depots are maintained at Santo,
Malakula and Tanna, each headed by a Senior Foreman (see Appendix 9
for an Organization Chart of PWD).
48.       The  Director  of  PWD  will  be  the  Project  Coordinator
responsible for the overall coordination and execution of the Project.
The Project Coordinator will oversee the preparation of the appraisal
reports to be submitted to the Bank for each subproject. During the
implementation stage, he will supervise the procurement of equipment
and the construction of all the Project facilities. 2/
49.       To oversee the day-to-day implementation of the Project, a
Project Manager, who will be a suitably qualified and experienced
official of PWD, will be appointed by the Government, after
consultation with the Bank. The Project Manager will report to the
Project Coordinator and will work on a full-time basis on the Project.
In the event that it becomes necessary to replace the Project Manager,
a suitably qualified and experienced replacement will be appointed
after  consultation  #ith  the  Bank.  3/   The  appointment  of  the
Project Manager will be a condition of effectiveness of the loan. 4/
1/ The wharves at Port Vila and Santo were built by foreign
contractors.
2/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 1.
3/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 2.
4/ Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b).



- 18 -
For construction supervision for the wharves and landing stages, PWD
will appoint, on a full-time basis, a supervisor (who will report to
the Project Manager) responsible for monitoring progress of works on
the outer island wharves and landing stages. 1/
50.       In  carrying  out   his   responsibilities,   the   kruject
Coordinator will be assi.ted by a Project Coordination Committee
(PCC).  The Project Coordinator will be the Chairman of PCC, which
will include senior officials from the National Planning and
Statistics Office, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport,
Communications and Public Works, the Ministry of Education, the Ports
and Marine Department and the Department of Local Government.  PCC
will meet at least once a month to review and monitor the progress of
the individual subprojects and of the Project as a whole and to
provide  general  guidance  on  Project  implementation.   2/   The
establishment of PCC will be a condition of effectiveness of the
loan. 3/
B. Procurement
51.       Procurement of goods and services for the Project will be
carried out by PWD in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement.   Each  supply  cont:ract  for  equipment  or  materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more will be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures.  The
only supply contract presently expected to cost more than $300,000
will be for road construction equipment required for road improvements
under the Project which will be grouped into one package for this
purpose.  Supply contracts for items expected to cost less than the
equivalent of $300,000 will be awarded on the basis of international
shopping procedures. 4/
52.       Civil works required  for the construction of the outer
island wharves and landing stages will be grouped into one package
suitable for international competitive bidding. Road improvements in
the outer islands will be undertaken largely on a force account basis
by PWD, with support from the Local Government Councils (LGCs)
concerned. The construction of school buildings and the by-pass road
at Santo Port will also be carried out largely on a force account
basis by PWD. However, where it is considered cost effective, PWD may
engage qualified local contractors to execute the construction of
roads and buildings in accordance with existing Government procedures
for local competitive bidding which are acceptable to the Bank. 5/
1/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 13.
2/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 3.
3/ Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c).
4/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, paras 3 and 4.
5/ Loan Agreemer,t, Schedule 3, paras 3 and 5.



- 19 -
C. Consultants
53.       In addition to the consultants to be provided under the Bank
technical assistance grant (see paras 65, 66, 67 and 68) consultant
services will be required to carry out detailed engineering design for
Santo Port. The foreign exchange cost of the consultant services for
design of Santo Port, including contingencies, is estimated at about
$340,000 and will be financed under the Bank loan. The local currency
cost, inclusive of contingencies, to be financed by the Government is
estimated at $80,000 equivalent.
54.       The consultants required for the design of 3anto Port will
be engaged by PWD in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Use
of Consultants. A total of 20 man-months of consultant serv:-ces will
be required for this purpose in the fields of port engineering, soil&
engineering, and structural engineering (see Appendix 10 for terms of
reference).
D. Implementation Arrangements
55.       In view of the important role which LGCs are expected to
play in the construction and maintenance of the Project facilities,
the Government will ensure that before the commencement of appraisal
of any subproject, all necessary approvals and commitments of the
concerned LGCs have been obtained. 1/ In particular, for subprojects
relating to wharf and landing stage construction and road improvement,
the Government will provide, at the time of submission of the
appraisal report of the relevant subproject, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that the concerned LGC has confirmed: (i) that it agrees to
the site proposed for development under the subproject; (ii) that it
has obtained from the customary land owner(s), all lands or rights in
land required for the subproject; (iii) that it guarantees freedom of
access  to,  and  usage  of,  all  facilities  by  PWD,  contractors,
consultants  and  other  officials  involved  in  carrying  out  the
subproject; (iv) that it takes responsibility for the operation and
maintenance of all facilities and equipment pr(cided or upgraded under
the  subproject   (except  where  maintenance  is  to  remain  the
responsibility of PWD or the Ministry of Education); (v) for
subprojects involving wharves and landing stages, that it has
authorized the agency constructing the wharf or  landing stage to
collect sand, gravel, coral and rocks from below high-water levels
1/ After independence, the Government under the Decentralization Act
of 1980 established 11 LGCs to be responsible for "the good
government of its region and the weltare of its citizens". Among
other things, LGCs are responsible for the planning and location
of schools, clinics, water supply, roads, wharves, landing stages
and markets in their region.



- 20 -
and/or to open up an inland quarry; and (vi) that it authorizes the
establishment of a construction camp at a suitable location near the
site of the wharf, landing stage, or road construction works. 1/
56.       Substantial progress has already been made toward compliance
with these requirements.   All the four concerned LGCs - Epi, Paama,
Banks/Torres and Ambae/Maewo - have submitted mem;randa to the
Department of Local Government confirming most or all the points noted
above and further follow up action will continue.
57.       Under the implementation schedule, the subprojects for the
outer island wharves and landing stages and the subprojects for road
improvements to port sites are eApected to be completed in about three
years from the date of approval of the appraisal reports.  The other
subprojects are expected to be completed in about two years or less
(see Appendix 11).
E. Operation and Maintenance
58.       The Government will ensure that the equipment and facilities
provided, constructed or upgraded under the Project will be adequately
operated, managed, maintained and repaired in accordance with sound
practices.   For this purpose,  the Government will make available,
promptly as needed, sufficient funds and other resources required for
the proper operatica and maintenance of the Project equipment and
facilities.  21   In  particular:   (i) the  LGCs  concerned  will  be
responsible for the operation of the wharves and landing stages r': the
outer islands constructed under the Project; 31 (ii) PWD will be
responsible for maintenance of all roads improved under the Project
using the equipment procured under the Bank loan and IDA credit and
for maintenance of all wharves and landing stages constructed under
the Project; (iii) PWD will be responsible for maintenance af road
construction equipment procured under the Project (the Government will
ensure that adequate funds are available for the procurement of spare
parts, lubricants and other items necessary for this purpose); and
(iv) the Ministry of Education will be responsible for maititenance of
school buildings upgraded under the Project. 4/
59.       The Government will, with assistance from the consultants to
be engaged under the proposed technical assistance grant from the
Bank, work with the concerned LGCs to establish by a date to be agreed
upon between the Government and the Bank, levies and tariffs for the
use of wharves, landing stages and storage sheds, to be cons-
tructed under the Project, at lavels that are (i) adequate to recover
I/  Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, paras 6 and 7.
2/ Loan Agreement, Sections A.02 and 4.09.
31  Actual maintenance work may be carried out by PWD upon request of
the LGC concerned.
4/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 9.



- 21 -
initially the cosr of operation and maintenance of such facilities;
and -(ii) within a period to be agree,d upon by the Government and the
Bank, adequate to recover capital, operation and maintenance costs of
the facilities. The rates of such levies and tariffs shall be set by
the Government after consultation with the Bank.1/
F. Reports, Accounts and Audit
1. Reports
60.       The  Project  Coordinator,  with  assistance  from  Project
Manager, will be responsible for monitoring the progress of Project
implementation and the overall impact of Project activities and for
submitting to the Bank: (i) quarterly progress reports on Project
implementation; and (ii) a Project Completion Report within three
months after the physical completion of the Project. 2/
2. Accounts and Audit
61.       PWD will maintain separate accounts for the Project and for
each subproject. Such accounts will be audited annually in accordance
with sound auditing standards by auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
audited financial statements and the reports of the auditors relating
thereto, will be furnished to the Bank within nine months after the
end of the fiscal year to which they relate. 3/
G. Environmental, Energy and Women Considerations
62.        The wharves and landing stages will be constructed at sites
which are already being used as lighterage ports.  Ecological values
such as the presence of coral reefs and other sensitive habitats will
be considered during the layout and design stage and later during the
construction stage.  The effect of the road subprojects on physical
resources will be kept to a minimum level by improving existing tracks
and by following proper engineering design and construction practices
such as provision of drainage works and planting of vegetation over
embankment  slopes  to  prevent  soil  erosion  where  necessary.   No
significant adverse environmental effects are therefore expected to be
caused  by  the  subprojects  in  terms  of  ecological  and  physical
resources.  In the implementation of the Project, the Government will
ensure that adequate attention will be given to minimizing any adverse
effects  of  the  subprojects  on  the  environment.   Since  appraisal
reports will be prepared for each subproject, any environmental impact
of considerable importance not foreseen earlier will be reflected in
the appraisal report. Further provisions for giving attention to the
possible impact of the wharves and landing stage construction on the
1/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 10.
2/ Loan Agreement, Section 4.07.
3/ Loan Agreement, Section 4.06(b).



- 22 -
environment will be included in the tender specifications for civil
works. I/ Diesel fuel requirements for the construction of facilities
in the outer islands will have to be shipped from Santo Port and these
costs have been included in the Project costs.  The Project has no
gender-specific implication.
H. Co-Financing Arrangements
63.       The Government has agreed to take all necessary further
action to negotiate and finalize the IDA credit. The execution of the
IDA Credit Agreement will be a condition of effectiveness of the
loan. 2/
I. Loan Administration
64.       The L ik's South Pacific Regional Office  (SPRO) will be
responsible for overall supervision of the Project and for loan
administration. The Bank's headquarters staff will review and approve
the  individual  subproject  appraisal  reports  submitted  by  the
Government, engage the consultants under the Bank's technical
assistance and provide any other assistance needed by SPRO on
technical matters.
ll Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 11.
2/ Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(a).



-23-
V. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
65.       The  economic,  social  and  (where  appropriate)  financial
justification of the subprojects and implementation details need to be
prepared as part of the individual appraisals to be carried out by the
Government.   In addition,  the wharves,  landing  stages,  roads and
school buildings to be constructed or improved under the Project all
need technical preparation and design. This work cannot be done with
the expertise presently available within the Government. In order to
ensure the timely completion of the appraisal reports for the
subprojects   and  to  facilitate  the  smooth  implementation  of  the
Project (including an assessment of levies or tariffs for the use of
wharves and landing stages), consultant services will be required. In
view of its limited resources, the Government has requested technical
assistance from the Bank for consultant services on a grant basis.
66.       It is estimated that 18 man-months of consultant services in
the  fields  of  civil  engineering  (including  port  design  and
construction) and transport economics/financial analysis will be
required to assist the Government and PWD in the tasks mentioned in
para 65 (see Appendix 12 for terms of reference).
67.       The consultants for the technical assistance will be engaged
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants.
The total cost of the consultant services is estimated at $320,000 of
which the foreign exchange cost proposed to be covered by a technical
assistance grant from the Bank is estimated at $270,000. The foreign
exchange cost includes the cost of the consultants' remuneration, per
diem, international travel, communications and contingencies (see
Appendix 13 for details).
68.       The  local  currency  cost  of  the technical assistance  is
estimated at $50,000 equivalent and includes the cost of office
accommodation, domestic transport, services and facilities and
contingencies.   The  Government  has  agreed  to  provide  the  local
currency cost of the technical assistance.   The execution of the
technical  assistance  agreement  will  be  a  condition  of  loan
effectiveness.



- 24 -
VI. JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS
A. General
69.       The multiproject loan approach is designed to assist the
Government in implementing small, high-priority public sector
subprojects, individually of a size not appropriate for direct and
separate financing by the Bank.  The subprojects meet the selection
criteria described  in para 32.   The Project gives due regard  to
economy and efficiency and the package approach will facilitate
processing and administration by the Government, IDA and the Bank. By
using the existing technical capacity and administrative system of PWD
and LGCs and by providing consultant assistance where necessary, the
Project aims at promoting both self-reliance and institution-buitding.
With the modest total investment under the Project, the subprojacts
will meet some of the important and diverse needs for econoimic
development in the country.
70.       The Project will cover the northern half of Vanuatu, with
subprojects in the islands of Espiritu Santo, Ambae, Maewo, Epi,
Paama, Pentecost and Vanua Lava. These seven islands have a total
land area of about 6,100 sq km (or about 50 per cent of the total land
area) and they account for over 40 per cent of the total population of
the country. They are the main areas of copra production and have
excellent potential for further development not only in copra
production but also in the export ot other products such as forestry,
beef cattle, pepper and cocoa.
71.       Although each of the subprojects is prima facie suitable for
Bank financing, individual appraisals will be carried out by the
Government to confirm their suitability before Bank and IDA funds are
made available. In considering the justification for each subproject,
the Bank will also take into account any special factor relating to a
particular subproject, such as a basic need for certain facilities or
the remoteness of a certain region of the country.
B. Economic Evaluation
72.       Full details of the benefits expected from the Project will
be available only after the subproje'-ts have been fully appraised.
However, the Mission made some preliminary estimates of the likely
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the wharves, landing
stages and roads subprojects. The EIRR estimates rauge from 10 to 14
per cent. Broad assumptions made for the EIRR calculations are given
in Appendix 14. The EIRR for Santo Port is tentatively estimated at
around  17 per cent.   No EIRR estimates were made for the school
upgrading subproject.



- 25 -
C. Risks
73.       The major risk in the Project is a delay in implementation
of the subprojects.   To minimize such a risk, the Government has
initiated action to obtain the approvals and commitments of LGCs on
land and land rights and substantial progress towards compliance with
implementation arrangements has already been achieved.  Further, to
assist the Government in the preparation of the individual appraisal
reports for the subprojects and to support PWD through advisory
services  during  the  physical   implementation   stage,  technical
assistance is to be provided by the Bank.



- 26 -
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
74.       The  size  and  geographical  conditions  of  Vanuatu  pose
considerable difficulties for a balanced development of the country.
Individual projects necessarily have to be small to be consistenc i-ith
needs.   In  this  -ontext  the  Project  has  been  formulated  as  a
multiproject loan and the subprojects have been designed to create
significant development impact with modest financial assistance. The
proposed loan of $3.0 million from the Bank's Special Funds resources
and an IDA credit of $i.0 million are considered suitable for this
purpose.
75.       Under the proposed Project, a number of high-priority public
sector subprojects have been selected for financing. Prima facie, the
selected subprojects are technically feasible and justified from the
economic and social viewpoints. Subproject selection was undertaken
in accordance with specific criteria and the overall package gives due
regard to economy and efficiency.
76.       A technical assistance grant in an amount of $270,000 is
proposed to finance consultant services to assist in the preparation
and appraisal of the subprojects, preparation of tender documents and
other aspects of Project implementation.
77.       In addition  to the standard provisions and requirements
embodied in the Bank's loan documents, specific assurances have been
received from the Borrower with respect to the following:
(i) each subproject will be subject to individual appraisal and
actual financing of a subproject under the loan will be
subject to approval by the Bank of the Bank loan (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, paras 2 and 4);
(ii)  if  after  appraisal,  a  subproject  is  not  considered
satisfactory, another suitable subproject may, upon approval
by the Bank, be substituted, provided it satisfies the
agreed selection criteria, is appraised under the agreed
procedures and is consistent with the limits of Bank and IDA
financing   (Loan   Agreement,   Schedule   1,  para 3  and
Schedule 4, para 8);
(iii)  as conditions of effectiveness of the Bank loan, a Project
Manager will be appointed in consultation with the Bank to
oversee day-to-day implementation of the Project, and a
Project Coordination Committee will be established to
provide general guidance on Project implementation (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01 and Schedule 4, paras 2 and 3);
(iv) the execution of the IDA Credit Agreement will also be a
condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01);



- 27 -
(v)  the Borrower will ensure and provide satisfactory evidence
that all necessary rights in land and other approvals and
commitments of the concerned LGCs have been obtained  (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 4, paras 6, 7 and 12);
(vi)  the Borrower will establish levies or tariffs for the use of
the wharves and landing stages to be developed under the
Project, at rates to be agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 10); and
(vii)  the Borrower will appoint a full-time supervlsor to monitor
progress of construction works on outer island wharves and
landing  stages  and  to  provide  on-site  guidance  to
contractors (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 13).



- 28 -
APPENDIXES
Appendix                                                            Page
1          Vanuatu:  Imports and Exports                         29
2          International Shipping Services to
Vanuatu in 1984                                    30
3          Inter-Island Shipping Fleet in
Vanuatu in 1984                                    31
4          Distribution of Roads by Island in 1984               32
5          outer Island Wharves and Landing Stages               33
6          Improvements of Roads to Port Sites                   35
7          Upgrading of Schools                                  36
8          Project Cost Estimates                                37
9          PWD Organization Chart                                38
10          Broad Terms of Reference for
Consultant Services for Detailed
Engineering Design for Santo Port                  39
11          Vanuatu Multi-Project Loan
Implementation Schedule                            41
12          Broad Terms of Reference for Consultant
Services to be Financed Under
Technical Assistance                               42
13          Technical Assistance Cost Estimates                   46
14          Broad Assumptions for EIRR Calculations               47



VANUATU: IMPORTS AND EXPORTS
(Revenue Tons)
Year  :Imports                  :Total      Imports                 Total
Exports                           Exports             : Imports    Exports    Toa
1975  : 42,730       50,614      93,344  : 18,213      29,272      47,485 : 60,943       79,886    140,829
*     1976  : 38,953       53,063       92,016  : 21,391      37,292      58,683 : 60,344       90,355    150,699
1977  : 41,401       39,127      80,528  : 26,170      47,212      73,382 : 67,571       86,339    153,910
a     1978  : 38,106       37,730       75,836  : 21,405      40,885      62,290 : 59,551       78,615    138,126
0     1979  : 39,421       23,947       63,368  : 17,500      35,343      52,843 : 56,921       59,290    1X6,211
1980  : 33,494       17,357      50,851  : 14,794       16,531     31,325 : 48,288       33,888      82,176
1981  : 31,388       15,386      46,744  : 14,124      34,528      48,652 : 45,512       49,914      95,426
x     1982  : 37,834        10,810      48,644  : 13,232      28,268      41,500 :  51,066      39,078     90,144
1983  : 56,805       17,022      73,827  : 26,036      31,229      57,265 : 82,841       48,251    131,092
4  : 57,824        20,931       78,755  : 30,855      47,849      78,704 : 88,679       68,780    157,459
Notes:
X0     1.  Imports:    (i)  The above figures are for dry general cargo only.
0                     (ii)  Up to 1981 the figures include imports through Forari Port under "Port Vila"
0                           and/or imports through Palekula Port under "Santo".
(iii)  Sources:   1973-1976 Wilton  &  Bell  Report;  1977-1981  Bureau  of  Statistics;
1982-1984 Ports and Marine Department.
2.  Exports:    (1)  Up to 1981 included under the "Port Vila" figures are manganese shipments and/or
fish shipped through the Palekula Port under the "Santo" figures.
(ii)  Sources:  1973-1981 Bureau of Statistics; 1982-1984 Ports and Marine Department.



INTERNATIONAL SHIPPING SERVICES TO VANUATU IN 1984
Cala  e-ar    CaLls/Year
Shpim   Line             Flag                T5mpe of seivke             n1n           n                      Rot
o      C.GL              Prptli                  Conaine. Gneral Cargo           9             9        BMW
Sofraa                                   Containe, Gu.ra Cargo           19            19        Nw/
a      P & 0 cruies      Briti                   Fassi                          20             2 2talia
slaw Crise        PFssi                                                  11             -Aut
rt    D113w Twks         Fiji                   lbdrer                          16            16        Fijt
Br=S              P141                    Toker                           3             3    i     44
Toyota            Japan                   Car Carrier                     8             8        Japan
0°     J. svilT           British                Caitainr, Gnria Cargo            7             7        H!mg Kcvg
0
e      Polish Lines      Poladi                  Genera Car                       5            5         &hre
Bali Hat          Joint Briti/p           catalne                         5             5        Japa
0      Ccbmbus           SW=                     Geeral Car.p                    3             4         Bare
C.T.C.            U.S.S.R.                Passe_e                         6             4        Austrlia
Bak TLim          British                 General Car                     5             6         Eahpe
Poya Vikig        Noiwlan                                                 1 _er  I      -         iWbrld Cruse
FMrM Line         Bohmms                 GeInal Caqp o10                                -        New Zealand
Source:  Ports and Marine Department



- 31 -                       Appendix 3
INTERISLAND SHIPPING FLEET IN VANUATU IN 1984
Ship           CRT            ~~~~~Length      Draft
Ship                      GRT            (meters)       (meters)
A. Private Sector StHps
Henry Bonneaud                   396            45.03           2.93
Koi4anda                         414            44.51           2.64
Atchin Star                      192             35.00          3.00
Xismet                           274            32.50           2.36
Lebon                            165             28.35          2.43
Mbela                            120             25.00          3.00 /
Vleronique                        67             23.17           1.21-
Astronaut                         94             22.90          3.50
Dedele                           110             22.-86         2.29
Roena                             58             22.26           1.221/
Lal                             115             21.62           1.71
Aurora                            97             21.04           2.59
Mauna                             78             20.82           2.44
Fatukai                          115            20.52           2.59
Pacific Seal                      69             19.82           1.37
Saratoga                          58             18.90           1.75
Biliki                            58             18.90           1.75
Misima                            62             17.01           2.32
Bol Boi                           48             16.77           1.22
Kerulehi                          46             15.52           2.13
Inagle                            44             15.24          2.06
Pacifique                         27             14.63          1.25
Auri                              19             14.63           1.22
Tamata                            22             12.80           1.07
Marata                            31             12.50           1.67
Meleun                            21             12.41           1.53
Marum                             30             12.00           2.00
William Anderson                   8              8.53          0.76
Rani                              12              8.23          0.76
Ahiana                            12              8.23          0.76
B.  Government Ships
Mala                             125             29.25           1.40
Alize II                         142             26.14          2.28
Artois                           105             21.86          2.20
Roimata                          136            21.04           3.29
Euphrosyne II                     93             20.33          2.16
Savinfana                         50            15.50           2.00
Rocinante                         35             14.63          1.52
Mangaru                           35             13.72           1.52
Moli Vatur                        21             12.50           1.22
Lopevi                            15             10.00          1.09
Tekoni                             9              7.62          0.76
a/ Landing Craft.
Source: Ports and Marine Department
(Reference in text: page 5. pars 15)



- 32 -                       Appendix 4
DISTRIBUTION OF ROADS BY ISLAND IN 1984
Land Area     Road Distances        Population
Island                (sq km)            (km)          (1984 estimate)
Torres Group                 120                5                 400
Banks Group                  760               30               5,500
Maewo                        300               37               2,200
Ambae                        400               70               9,000
Espiritu Santo             4,200              250              21,000
Pentecost                    500              112              10,800
Ambrym                       650               50               7,200
Malakula                   2.000              180              17,400
Psama/Lopevi                  60                5               2,500
Epi/Lamen                    440               58               3,000
Shepherds Group               80               56               5,000
Efate                        920              216              26,000
Erromango                    890               20               1,200
Tanna                        560              150              17,300
Anatom                       180               15                 700
Aniwa                         10               10                 400
Futuna                       160                3                 400
Source:  National Planning and Statistics office ard PUD
(Reference in text: page 5, para 17)



- 33 -                      Appendix 5
Page 1
OUTER ISLAND WHARVES AND LANDING STAGES
1. Sola
1.        The proposed development is expected to consist of a wharf
and causeway. The wharf is expected to have a width of about 7 meters
and a length of about 50 meters to accommodate the larger interisland
ships which have a depth requirement of 3.5 meters below chart datum.
The alignment is likely to be in a north-south direction and parallel
to the sea-bed contours and the superstructure of reinforced concrete
supported by steel tube piles. Some cost savings may be achieved by
constructing a shorter wharf with a mooring dolphin(s) at the end
which can be investigated at the final design stage. The causeway, to
be built over a shallow reef measuring about 150 meters, is expected
to be single lane with coLcrete pavement. A small copra storage shed
needs to be constructed at a suitable locaticn. It is essential that
detailed investigations and surveys be condtcted to determine, among
other things, the optimum location and most cost-^ffective type and
size of structure before any construction work commences.
2. Narovorovo
2.        The  proposed  development  is  expected  to  consist  of  a
concrete landing facility about 6 meters long and 5 meters wide with a
depth of about 2 meters alongside to accommodate small boats used as
lighters. The landing facility will be connected to the shore by a
rock causeway about 50 meters long. The causeway is expected to be
connected to an access road which is to be constructed under the road
improvement subproject. A asmll storage shed is needed. Detailed
investigations and surveys are needed to determine the optimum
location and type and size of the required structure before any design
work starts.
3. Nduindui
3.        The proposed development is expected to consist of a wharf
30 meters long and 7 meters wide with a depth alongside of about 3
meters to accommodate interisland ships. A causeway about 50 meters
long will connect the proposed wharf to the access road to be improved
under the road subproject.  The construction scheme is likely to
provide a concrete facing on the existing natural rock ledge for
berthing  of  interisland  ships.   However,  the  existing  outcrop
alignment is irregular and trimming of ledges may be required.  A
small storage shed is also needed.
4. Lolopuepue
4.        The proposed development is expected to consist of a wharf
about 30 meters long and 7 meters wide with a depth alongside of 3
meters to accommodate interisland ships. The berthing face of the
(Reference in text: page 12, para 34)



- 34 -                       Appendix 5
Page 2
wharf is likely to be aligned to the existing rock ledge in order that
precast concrete panel8 can be firmly positioned. An in situ concrete
slab extending about 7 meters back from the berthing face can serve as
an apron. A small storage shed is needed.
5. Liro
5.        The proposed development may consist of the construction of
a landing stage and a causeway to the shore. The landing stage is
expected to be about 6 meters long and 5 meters wide with a depth
alongside of about 2 meters. The causeway is planned to be about 4
meters wide and 45 meters long extending from the shoreline joining
the short access road.
6.        The construction scheme may consist of a double sheet piled
wall cofferdam with a concrete capping beam forming a vertical face
for the fendering system along the line of piling. A concrete slab
can be placed between the capping beam supported by the backfill
materials placed between the sheet piled wall. A small storage shed
is needed.
6. Lamen Bay
7.        There  are  two  possible  alternative  sites   for  the
construction of a landing stage. The first is at the northern part of
the bay just off the edge of the reef where there is good protection.
This may involve the construction of a short causeway and a landing
stage consisting of rock filled gabions with a deck slab about 2.5
meters wide and 12 meters long. The likely scheme will be to provide
a capping on the gabions with a solid concrete deck slab for
durability of the structure.   The depth alongside can be about 2
meters.
8.        The second site is south of the first and is located almost
at the center of the bay and is nearer the village but is less
sheltered as 9be landing is directly aligned to the entrancs; of the
bay.   Its location will be more favorable to the villagers.   The
proposed construction scheme can be similar to that for the first site
except for its dimensions which may be 6 meters wide and 5 meters long
capable of accommodating one boat on each side at the same time. The
depth alongside can be about 2 meters. A small storage shed is needed
at the selected site. Detailed investigations and surveys are needed
to determine the optimum location and type and size- of structure
required before any design work st!~ ts.



- 35 -                       Appendix 6
IMPROVEMENTS OF ROADS TO PORT SITES
1.        The  likely  length  of  road  improvement  in  each  of  the
identified locations is as follows:
(i) Sola, Vanua Lava - About 9 km starting from Mosina to the
airport via Sola up to the port site.
(ii) Lamen Bay, Epi - About 10 km starting from Cape Foreland
passing through Ringdove to Lamen Bay up to the port site.
(Iii) Liro, Paama - About 6 km only within Liro district up to the
port site.
(iv) Narovorovo, Maewo - About 14 km starting from the vicinity
of Kerembei going southward to Narovorovo up to the port
site.
(v) Lolopuepue, Ambae - About 13 km starting from the Lolowai
area to Lolopuepue up to the port site.
(vi) Nduindui, Ambae - About 10 km starting from Devil Rock
passing through Walaha to Nduindui up to the port site.
2.        The work is expected to consist of improvement of existing
tracks including grading, leveling and compaction of roadbed,
construction ot drain and culverts, placing of 20-cm thick sub-base
material and surface dressing with gravel base coarse material about
15-cm thick. The specified thickness will be subject to modification
based on the final design analysis.
3.        The by-pass road needed at Santo Port will be about 300
meters in length and 6 meters in width and will follow the course ot
an existing track already located on Government-owned land, well
behind the port area.
4.        The road construction equipment to be procured to carry out
these subprojects is listed below. Spare parts, in total about 10 per
cent of the cost of this equipment, will also be procured.
Road Construction Equipment
Description                    Capacity                   No. of Units
Bulldozer                     180 Drawbar HP                       4
Vibratory Roadroller          10-12 tons                           2
Grader                        160 Drawbar HP                       2
Tipper Truck                  5 cu m                               6
Front-end Loader              I to 1-1/2 cu m                      2
(Reference in text: page 12, para 35)



- 36 -                       Appendix 7
UPGRADING OF SCHOOLS
1.        The various facilities to be constructed at each location
are as follows:
School Location             Facilities/Buildings
1.  Shark Bay               3 - Double Classrooms
2 - Teachers' Houses
2.  South Santo              2 - Teachers' Houses
1 - Dormitory
3.  Lolovoli                 2 - Teachers' Houses
I - Double Classroom
4.  Naivele                  1 - Double Classroom
5.  Asanwari                 1 - Double Classroom
6.  Qwatnapni                2 - Teachers' Houses
1 - Double Classroom
7.  Lisasanamal              1 - Double Classroom
8.  Gamalmaua                3 - Teachers' Houses
1 - Double Classroom
9.  Atavtabanga              3 - Teachers' Houses
1 - Double Classroom
School Building Specifications
2.        The buildings to be constructed under the school upgrading
subprojects will be permanent structures. Concrete materials, tiuber
trusses and corrugated galvanized iron sheet roofing will be used.
The buildings will have the following dimensions:
Double Classroom     -      19.5 m x 9.0 m
Teacher's House      -       9.5 m x 6.3 m
Dormitory            -      15.0 m x 8.0 m
(Reference in text: page 13, para 37)



- 37 -                            Appendix 8
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(flooo)
dgW           Ouwrency       Total
Clost        cost          cs
1. Oeter Island 1haves and
Ld     Stages
Sola                                         710           140           850
Narwvoro                                      109           21           130
Nduird                                        234           46           280
.olopuepw                                     193           37           230
Liro                                          142           28           170
LaienBay                                      92            48           140
Subtotal                       1,480          320         1,800
Eyical Cotfrgeicy (15%)                       220           50           270
Price C 1tiqpny (1(%)                         180           30           210
Subtotal                       1,880          400         2,280
£1. Outer Idaxd Road  tprmwent
Vanua Lava (9 la)                             274          102           376
Maewo (14 Iou)                                418           157          575
Aibae (Nduindui, 10 6ki)                     255            96           351
hibae (Lolopuepue, 13 km)                    332           124           456
Paw  (6 kn)                                   153           59           212
Epi (10 k)                                    254           96           350
Subtotal (Road huproveDent)    1,686          634         2,320
By-Pass Road at Santo Port                    24             6            30
Subtotal (Roads)               1,710          640         2,350
Physical Catningency (13%)                    230           60           290
Price Contingency (9%)                        180           80           260
Subtotal                      2,120           __9 2,900
III. School Upgrading
Shark Bay                                    104            24           128
South Santo                                   54            12.5          66.5
toloroli                                       62           13.5          75.5
Naivele                                        32            7.5          39.5
Asanwari                                       32            7.5          39.5
Lisasanamal                                 32             7.5          39.5
Qatnapoi                                      62            13.5          75.5
Gwalmo] n                                     76            17            93
Atavtabanga                                   76            17          .93
Subtotal                         530          120           650
Physical Contingency (6%)                     30            10            40
Price Contingency (6%)                        30            10            40
Subtotal                        590           140           730
IV. Detailed &igneerng Design for
Samto Port                                   300            60           360
Phsical Contirgeicy (8%)                       20           10            30
Price Continency (8)                           20           10            30
Subtotal                        340            8            420
V. Service Charge on Bank Loan Dhurtng Construction  70            -            7
Tam                      5,000       1,400a!        6,400
a/  Includes taxes and duties estimated  at about 47 per cent of the
total local currency cost.
(Reference in text:   page 14, para 40)



PWO ORGANIZATION CHART
Director
I~ .                                                                         I
rD                                                                                 Deut Die
fD
e5                            ~~~~~~~~~~Civil E ng.      St ructural E ng.               MechanicalI E ng.            A rch t ecituJe          Accountisng/Admrn.
Department                  Department                      Department                  Department                  Department               Oo
Ea Bngineers /              Engineers/                      Engineers/                 Architects/               Accounts/Adm.
Draftsmen                   Draftsmen                       Draftsmen                   Draftsmen                    Clerks
t                    r
Store Section              Roads Section                                          Repair           Supply                   I
41   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Scin                                           Section            Setion
Santo Depot                 Malakula Depot                 Tanna Depot
Senior Foreman               Senior Forerman               Senior Foreman
Roads/Motor                  Roads/Motor                   Roads/Motor
Repair/Water                 Repair/water                  Repair/Water
Supply/Bldg.                 Supply/Bldg.                  Supply/Bldg.
Sections                     Sections                      Sections



_ 39 _                       Appendix 10
Page I
BROAD TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANT SERVICES
FOR DETAILED ENGINEERING DESIGN FOR SANTO F9RT
A.  Objectives
1.        The main objective of the services  (which relate to the
development of alternative port facilities for handling Imports and
exports at Santo Port) is to undertake detailed engineering including
the preparation of detailed designs, cost estimates, tender documents
and related detailed drawings suitable for international tendering and
consistent with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Documents for
the invitation of applications for prequalification will also be
prepared.
B. Scope of Services
2.        The  consultants  to  be  provided  under  the  technical
assistance will:
(i) review all available information relating to the design of
the   proposed   port   facilities   including   soil   data
investigations and reports, topographic/hydrographic surveys
and other engineering data and/or information;
(ii) carry out additional surveys and investigations as necessary
so as to obtain adequate information for the design of the
port facilities;
(iii)  based on  the 1eqults  of surveys and  investigations and
analysis of the data collected, prepare design criteria to
be adopted for the various facilities;
(iv) consider alternative designs for the facilities taking into
account seismic effects and recommend the most appropriate
alternative utilizing economical, effective and suitable
engineering concepts and design standards consistent with
the need for efficient operation of the facilities to be
constructed;
(v)  undertake  detailed  engineering  design  of  the  proposed
facillties;
(vi)  prepare   all   necessary   plans,   construction   drawings,
specifications, bills of quantities, etc.;
(vii) prepare detailed cost estimates with breakdowns into foreign
and local cost components based on the quantities of work to
be executed (the foreign and local cost requirements for
each of the main cost components will be shown; the local
cost would be divided into two components, one excluding and
(Reference in text: page 19, para 54)



- 40 -                      Appendix 10
Pag 2
the other including all taxes, Import duties and levies
which are chargeable within Vanuatu; the estimated allowance
for physical contingency and price escalation under each
year during the construction period of the Project would be
indicated separately);
(viii) prepare draft tender documents suitable for international
competitive tendering, including all necessary detailed
drawings, bills of quantities, instructions to tenderers,
conditions of contract;  specifications and other related
documents for the required works in adequate detail and
consistent with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement; and
(ix) prepare all necessary documents for the invitation of
applications for prequalification and the evaluation of such
applicatlons.



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULtE
DURATION   (INMONTHS)
J|F|M|A|M|JIJ|A|SIO|DNJ|IF|M|AIM|J|JIA|S|OIN|OJlFFO!!'!!J        A:lI,iliAII'J!J| A|s'¢. 01J11]1JJAS0N
1985                   1986                    1987                    19o8                   1989
A. PROJECT COMPONENTS   .               I                                     i  {II{i                     i                   I i |                       1
SantoPort Development                       |                                            79I7    gL1I    l|||77   ||l 
2. Construction of Santo 8y-pass Road    I j  
4                                                                          I,l  !!1  'Al ^Dl.' Io il    I             '1 1l           '''11i" 
3. ProcurementotRoadEquipment          I                             A                  U _
::1 4. OLiter Island Road Construction                                          HOEI
5. Outer Island Wharves and                I
Landing Stages                                                                                                                         '
tTi         6. School Buildings
N                                     | j ' i, .,   ;, j   {   .;   I t  ' . t   i i  ,                '  ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~i  I    -.                .'
-        B. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                            I |
i    I ,                                          I I I I  I  ,  ' SIr
2. Civil Engineer                                 ;         5              +               i          J      ;'t36   a             I 41   "
2. C_i Engineer                                   S     S       '            S,                      i,IPar             jt T           1me er' i  |
SC -   Selectlon of Consultants            DE   Detailed Engineering Design                          .. ..,COelivery
A    Appraisal                             r/A  Tende ng/Award of Contract
Fs   Fled Serv.ce



- 42 -                       Appendix 12
Page 1
BROAD TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANT SERVICES
TO BE FINANCED UTNDER TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A. Objectives
I.        The purpose of the technical assistance is to assist the
Government, particularly the Public Works Department (the Executing
Agency for the Multiproject loan) in the preparation and presentation
of appraisal reports to the Bank for each of the subprojects Included
in the loan. Subsequently, assistance will be provided in preparing
detailed engineering designs for the outer islands wharves and landing
stages, and tender documents and other implementation arrangements.
Limited supervision will also be provided during implementation of the
approved subprojects.
B. Scope of Services
2.        Expertise in the tields of (a) civil engineering (including
port design and construction); and (b) transport economics/financial
analysis will be required. The consultants will:
(i) review earlier related studies and reports available on each
subproject  with  the  Government  and  particularly  the
Executing Agency and determine additional data that may be
required for the satisfactory preparation of the appraisal
reports;
(ii) with the assistance of the Government and particularly the
Executing Agency, collect and compile any additional data
required;
(iii) elaborate, in consultation with the Executing Agency, the
engineering, economic and (where applicable) financial
aspects of all the subprojects, including consideration of
the environmental impacts, if any, of each subproject on
physical and ecological resources;
(iv)  prepare,   in  consultation  with  the  Executing  Agency,
necessary    layout    plans,    designs    and    technical
specifications,   and  submit  all  relevant   information,
including results of any additional  site investigations,
alternative  designs  and  locations  considered,   design
criteria applied, and detailed construction and procurement
programs for the individual subprojects;
(v) prepare, in consultation with the Executing Agency, cost
estimates based on current prices and their breakdown into
toreign and local cost components, indicating separately
contingency allowances tor physical and price escalation, in
consultation with the cost of land acquisition to be shown
separately; and
(Reference in text: page 23, para 66)



- 43 -                       Appendix 12
Page 2
(vi)  prepare,  in consultation with the Executing Agency,  the
related appraisal reports including detailed cost-benefit
analyses and calculation of the economic internal rate of
return for each subproject as well as appropriate
sensitivity tests in a form and content acceptable to the
Bank.
3.        The appraisal reports will typically cover:
(i)  a description of the subproject objectives;
(ii)  a determination of the subproject scope, within the limits
of funds available;
(iii) an assessment of appropriate siting for wharves and landing
stages;
(iv)  confirmation of the technical soundness of the subproject
and that the most cost-effective solution was selected;
(v)  detailed cost estimates, showing the foreign and local costs
and physical and price contingencies;
(vi)  a detailed implementation schedule;
(vii) a description of procurement procedures to be used;
(viii) economic, social and (where appropriate) financial
evaluation and justification for the subprojects;
(ix)  a description of the organizational structure and staffing
for the construction, operation and maintenance of the
subproject; and
(x) an identification of potential adverse environmental impact
on physical and ecological resources which may be of
importance for design and construction purposes and proposed
mitigation measures for their minimization.
4.        After  approval  of  the  subproject  by  the  Bank,  the
consultants will:
Outer Islands Wharf and Landing Stage Construction
(i)  review   available    soil,    topographic,    hydrographic,
climatological and other engineering data, and carry out any
such additional investigations and surveys as considered
necessary;
(ii)  prepare final layout plans and detailed engineering designs
taking into account seismic effects and giving adequate
information on alternative designs considered and the basis
of the proposed design to be adopted;



- 44 -                       Appendix 12
Page 
(iii)  assist the Executing Agency in the preparation of the tender
documents, including condhtions of contract, specifications,
bill of quantities, etc;
(iv)  assist the Executing Agency in the preparation of a detailed
critical path network diagram for the implementation of the
overall wharf and landing stage subprojects, clearly
indicating the relationship of various critical activities
and a bar chart for each subproject;
(v) assist the Executing Agency in the evaluation of tenders
received and recommendation for award of contract and in
checking the adequacy and authenticity of all certificates,
insurance,   performance   bonds,   indemnities,   etc.,   as
submitted by the contractors;
(vi)  advise the Executing Agency on the acceptance or rejection
of the works or any part thereof constructed by the
contractors  in  accordance  with  the  Specifications  and
Conditions of Contract;
(vii)  advise the Executing Agency in the preparation of interim
payment   certificates   of   completion,   final   payment
certificates and maintenance certificates in accordance with
the conditions of contract;
(viii)  make periodic visits to the construction sites to review
progress.
(ix)  assist the Government in establishing levels for levies and
tariffs for the use of wharves and landing stages to be
constructed under the Project.
Road Improvement
(i) Review available soil, topographic, climatological and other
engineering data, and carry out any such additional
investigations and surveys as considered necessary;
(ii)  prepare and/or review together with the Executing Agency
final layout plans, alignments, and grade of all proposed
roads and detailed engineering designs of foundation,
drainage system and surfacing;.
(iii) assist the Executing Agency in the preparation of the
detailed working drawing;
(iv)  assist  the  Executing  Agency  in  the preparation  of  the
technical specifications and tender documents for the
procurement of the road construction equipment as well as in
the evaluation of tenders received and recommendation for
award of contract;



- 45 -                       Appendix 12
Page 4
(v) assist the Executing Agency in the preparation of a detailed
critical path network diagram for the implementation of the
overall road improvement subprojects, clearly indicating the
relationship of various critical activities and a bar chart
for each subproject;
(vi)  as3ist  the  Executing  Agency  in  the  management  and
supervision of the construction team to ensure satisfactory
completion of the subproject in accordance with the approved
plans and specifications and within the construction time
specified; and
(vii) make periodic visits to the construction sites to review
team  performance  and  requirements  and  ensure  rigid
supervision of personnel, equipment and other resources.
Primary Schools Upgrading
Mi) Review available soil, topographic and other engineering
data, and carry out such additional investigations aT
surveys as considered necessary;
(ii) review available plans, working drawings and technical
specifications including a structural check for cyclonic
wind   loading   and   submit   recommended   alternative
plansfdesigns   as   considered  necessary   including   the
rationale and basis of the proposed changes;
(iii) assist the Executing Agency in the preparation of a detailed
critical path network diagram for the implementation of the
overall   building   reconstruction   subproject,   clearly
indicating the relationship of various critical activities
and a bar chart for each subproject;
(iv)  assist  the  Executing  Agency  in  the  management  and
supervision of the construction team to ensure satisfactory
completion of the subproject in accordance with the approved
plans and specifications and within the construction time
specified; and
(v) make periodic visits to the construction sites to review
team  performance  and  requirements  and  ensure  rigid
supervision of personnel, equipment and other resources.



- 46 -                    Appendir 13
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COST ESTIMATES
($'000)
Ttem                             Amount
A.   Foreian Exchange Cost
(i)   Consultants Remuneration                       180
(ii)   Per Diem Allowance                              57
(iii)   International Travel                             10
(iv)   Communications                                   3
(v)   Contingencies                                   20
Subtotal (A)                        270
B.   Local Currency Cost
i)   Office Accommodation                             18
(ii)   Domestic Transport                              20
(iii)   Services and Facilities                          7
(iv)   Contingencies                                    5
Subtotal (B)                          50
TOTAL (A + B)                    320
(Reference in text: page 23, para 67)



_ 47                        Appendix 14
Page 1
BROAD ASS'JMPTIONS FOR EIRR CALCULATIONS-'
A. Traffic
1.        Copra will be  the main  cargo  traffic handled over the
facilities to be constructed under the proposed wharf, landing stage
and road subprojects.  Inward general cargo traffic and exports of
other agricultural products at all six port locations (Sola,
Narovorovo, Nduindui, Lolopuepue, Liro and Lamen Bay) are expected to
be low and have been omitted at this stage from the EIRR calculations.
Copra exports in the past have fluctuated quite widely due to various
reasons   including  weather,   price   fluctuations   and  political
uncertainty.   Constraints  in  transportation  have  affected  the
collection and marketing of copra but with the current efforts of the
Government to remove bottlenecks increased collection and exports can
be reasonably expected.
2.        Copra export figures in the hinterland of each of the six
port locations were obtained for the years 1982, 1983 and 1984. Using
such data as a base, projections were made to the year 1988 when it is
assumed that facilities to be constructed under the proposed Project
will reach optimum capacity. Without the Project, it is assumed that
exports will increase at an annual rate of between 2 and 3 per cent at
each location.  With the Project, is is assumed that in the first
three years after commissioning of the facilities, copra exports will
increase between 5 and 10 per cent per annum and between 3 and 5 per
cent thereafter for the next seven years. On this basis, the forecast
copra traffic is as follows:
Forecast Copra Traffic
(Revenue Tons)
Port Location      19841/        1988        1991       1998
Sola               1,620        1,882       2,420      3,409
Narovorovo           590          664         884      1,244
Nduindui           1,380        1,494       1,729      2,126
Lolopuepue         1,670        1,808       2,093      2,574
Liro                 370          416         554        780
Lamen Bay            730          822       1,007      1,325
a/  Actuals.
I/ These assumptions are of a very preliminary nature and they will
need to be firmed up when the individual subprojects are
appraised.
(Reference in text: page 24, para 72)



- 48 -                       Appendix 14
Page 2
B. Economic Costs
3.        Cost estimates for capital works have been prepared, based
on the ODA feasibility study for the wharves and landing stages and
actual costs incurred recently by PWD for similar road improvement
works and adjusted to reflect mid-July 1985 prices. Taxes and duties
and price contingencies have been excluded from the financial costs.
Annual operating and maintenance costs were estimated for each of the
six locations as a percentage of capital costs.
C. Economic Benefits
4.        In view of the integrated nature of the wharves/landing
stages and road improvement in the outer islands, the full benefits of
port  construction  cannot  be  realized  wlthout  road  improvement.
Benefits have therefore been quantified on the basis of improvement at
each location rather than by transport mode. Benefits are expected to
flow from 1989 when the facilities become operational.  With the
Project, copra traffic is expected to be higher than without the
Project (see para 2). The difference has been quantified and taken as
a benefit. Turnaround time savings have been quantified and taken as
a benefit.
5.        Other benefits have been identified but not quantified.
These include reduced damage to and loss of copra arising from the
present inefficient handling method and benefits to other cargo
traffic, including other agricultural products and inward general
cargo.
D. Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
6.        Based  on  the  above  assumptions,  the  preliminary  EIRR
estimates for the wharf, landing stage and road subprojects in the
outer islands are estimated to range from 10 to 14 per cent.



