Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
Report No. 13823
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
VANUATU
MILTIPROJECT
(CREDIT 1666-VA)
DECEMBER 28, 1994
Infrastructure Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -    Vatu (VT)
At Appraisal (September 19851
VT 1.00    =    $0.0096
$1.00     =   VT 103.92
At Project Completion Review (December 1992)
VT 1.00    =   $0.0084
$1.00     =   VT 119.51
ABBREVIATIONS
IDA       -    International Development Association
DLG       -    Department of Local Government
EA        -    Executing Agency
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
IS        -    International Shopping
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
LGC       -    Local Government Council
MOE       -    Ministry of Economics
PWD       -    Public Works Department
SPRO      -    South Pacific Regional Office
NOTES
(i)    The Government's Fiscal Year (FY) ends on 31 December.
(ii)   In this Report, "$" refers to US dollars.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 28, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Vanuatu
Multiproject (Credit 1666-VA!
Attached is a copy of the report entitled Project Completion Report on Vanuatu-
Multiproject (Credit 1666-VA) prepared by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) with an Evaluation
Summary and Overview by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. The Borrower did not
contribute a Part II to the PCR.
This project, cofinanced with ADB, grouped construction of small transport facilities and
primary schools into a single operation. Bank funding was limited mostly to the docks and feeder
roads of the transport component, 80 percent of total costs. These investments were badly sited and
largely unused after project completion. The PCR says some of the construction errors are
correctable, but that no maintenance funds are available for road works and these are likely to
degrade. The school component, 20 percent of total costs, rebuilt nine primary schools damaged by
cyclones and was successful. Overall, the project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, its sustainability
as unlikely and institutional development as negligible.
The Project Completion Report is also unsatisfactory. It does not adequately explain why the
docks were misplaced despite three rounds of subproject design, and why the associated roads carry
little agricultural produce. It admits that supervision by the consultants, government and the Asian
Development Bank was inadequate. There were no supervision missions by the Bank.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distributlion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dutles. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
VANUATU
MULTIPROJECT (LOAN 1666-VA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE  .           .........................................................                              i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ............................................                                         v
OVERVIEW OF BANK'S PARTICIPATION IN PROJECT
FROM  REGION'S PERSPECTIVE  .......................................                                        vi
BASIC DATA .........................................................  vii
I.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.      Objectives and Rationale .....................................                              1
B.      Scope  .      ..................................................                            1
II.  EVALUATION OF IMPLEMENTATION
A.      Project Components  ........................................                               5
B.      Implementation Arrangements  ................................                              6
C.      Project Costs ................               ..............................                7
D.      Project Schedule ............               ...............................                7
E.      Engagement of Consultants and Procurement of Goods and
Services ..................................................                                8
F.      Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Supplies  ....                  ..........     9
G.      Conditions and Covenants ....................................                             10
H.      Disbursements ..............                ...............................               11
I.      Environmental Impact .......................................                              11
J.      Project Benefits  ............              ...............................               11
K       Performance of Borrower and Executing Agency ...................                          12
L.      Performance of the Bank  ....................................                             12
III.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.  Conclusions ....................                                                              13
B.   Recommendations ....................                                                          13
APPENDICES ........................ 15-34
MAP: Location of Project Facilities  ........................                                              35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of ther    l
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
VANUATU
MULTI PROJECT
(Cr. 1666-VA)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
Multiproject in Vanuatu for which Credit 1666-VA in the amount of
SDR 2,822,000 was signed on May 1st,  1986.   The project was
cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) . The Credit Closing
Date was December 31, 1992; the Credit account was closed on June
30, 1993 and the undisbursed balance of SDR 4741.92 was canceled.
Under an agreement between the International development
Association (IDA) and the ADB (the Project's principal financier),
the ADB was responsible for administration and supervision of the
implementation of the project. The PCR was prepared by staff and
consultants of the ADB based on a project completion mission in
December 1992; the ADB loan subsequently closed on June 3, 1993.
The PCR is accompanied by an evaluation summary prepared by IDA
staff.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
VANUATU
MULTI PROJECT
(Cr. 1666-VA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.        The Project was jointly appraised by the ADB and IDA, and
jointly financed by them.   ADB as the lead agency was  fully
responsible for supervision and administration of the Project; by
agreement with ADB, IDA was only advised and consulted for key
decisions, such as reallocations of Credit proceeds, and extensions
of Closing Dates.   According to records available,  IDA did not
participate in any supervision mission, nor in the PCR mission. On
the basis of the available information, IDA staff agree in general
with the findings and conclusions of the PCR.
Objectives
2.        The overall objective of the Project was to assist the
Government of Vanuatu to finance and implement several small, but
high priority public sector transport and education subprojects
which were individually not of a size suitable for direct and
separate financing from the multilateral banks.
3.        The objectives of the Outer Islands Wharves and Landing
Stages subprojects were to provide Vanuatu's outer islands with
facilities for inter-island ships to collect and off-load passenger
and cargo, and to permit small-scale farmers to ship primary
products to markets in Port Vila and Luganville.
4.        The objectives of the road improvement subprojects --
which included the Santo Port Bypass Road and some road maintenance
equipment -- were to convert the fair-weather tracks leading to the
wharves to all-weather gravel roads to assist distribution of
cargo, movement of agricultural products, and improvement of
community access.
5.        It was the first multiproject loan to Vanuatu, but IDA's
financing share covered only the investments in road and shipping
infrastructure; the reconstruction and upgrading of primary school
buildings destroyed by cyclones in 1985 were financed by the ADB
loan.



iv
Implementation Experience
6 .       The criteria for subproject selection were as follows:
(i) high priority being accorded by Government, (ii) technically
feasible, economically viable, and suitable for Bank financing,
(iii) serving outer islands development needs and promote more
balanced development in the country, and (iv) not requiring further
detailed feasibility studies. Following preselection according to
these criteria, individual subproject appraisals were prepared by
the Government with assistance from Project-funded consultants.
The Public Works Department (PWD) was the executing agency for the
Project, and the Department of Local Government (DLG) assisted in
design and documentation for the outer islands wharves and landing
stages.
7.        Shortly after Credit  Effectiveness,  Cyclone Uma hit
Vanuatu in February 1987 and caused serious damage. PWD's entire
resources (manpower, equipment and materials) were diverted to
rehabilitation work which caused about 18 months' delay (this
emergency diversion was agreed to by the Bank) . Some of the wharf
and landing sites were relocated from their originally recommended
locations with adverse effects on their later use, and some
subprojects suffered from inappropriate engineering design, poor
workmanship and use of improper materials, partly due to inadequate
supervision by the consultants and the Bank.
8.        Construction of the roads was also delayed partly as a
result of delays in the arrival of construction equipment and
materials at the sites on the outer islands; this was caused mainly
by inadequate inter-island shipping-- there was only one available
ship which could transport the required size of construction
equipment. At times PWD equipment was also diverted to politically
motivated construction programs causing additional delays.
Covenants on self-insurance, wharf tariffs, and road maintenance
are not being complied with.
Results
9.        Most of the wharves and landing stages are either not in
use or rarely used, because improper siting caused navigational
hazards or inadequate depths, or cargo (such as copra) or feeder
road infrastructure did not materialize. The proposed user charges
may be another factor limiting their use. The roads were in good
condition at project completion, but this may in part be because
some are rarely used (since the wharves they are leading to are not
usable) -- except for the Santo Port Bypass Road and the Lolopuepue
road on Ambae which have achieved their intended purpose and
improved the efficiency of the port facilities.   Some roads now
serve different purposes, similar to the road maintenance equipment
which is being used productively, but mostly for the construction
and maintenance of non-Project roads. The ERR was not recalculated
at Project completion.



v
Sustainability
10.       It  is  highly  doubtful  whether  the  investments  are
sustainable, since none of the shipping facilities have been handed
over to the Local Government Councils (LGC) concerned for O&M, and
neither PWD nor the LGCs have funds for this purpose. Although the
issue was discussed during Project implementation, no agreement was
reached on the proposed wharf tariffs to recover O&M costs.  (It is
worthwhile to note that the most successful, and most likely
sustainable subprojects are those not cofinanced by IDA, i.e. the
rehabilitated and upgraded primary schools).
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.       By completely ceding Project administration to ADB and,
according to available records, not participating in any
supervision mission, IDA was in no position to exercise any quality
control.    The  widely  dispersed  and  difficult-to-reach  site
locations mitigated against close and frequent site inspections
which could have identified problems with selecting and siting of
wharves much earlier; the consultants' use of incorrect data on
cargo generation rates and locations was also overlooked due to
infrequent supervision. The ADB review mission has prepared draft
guidelines and procedures for use in assessing the feasibility of
future wharf projects. For widely dispersed locations with small-
scale construction works, local bidding of individual contracts,
using mostly local materials and equipment, would appear to be more
efficient than ICB for a total package. Earlier insistence on the
implementation of the cost recovery covenant may have helped to
attain a measure of sustainability -- but only for facilities in
the right locations.
12.       The main lessons for this type of project are: (i) much
more intensive supervision including frequent site visits should be
scheduled,  (ii) specific selection guidelines and procedures are
needed for project agencies and consultants, even for siting simple
shipping facilities, (iii) local tendering would be more advisable
in remote locations, and (iv) cyclones or similar catastrophic
natural vents can cause havoc with project implementation
schedules.






vi
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
VANUATU
MULTI PROJECT
(Cr. 1666-VA)
OVERVIEW OF BANK'S PARTICIPATION IN PROJECT FROM REGION'S
PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
Project Name         Multiproject
Credit No.           Credit 1666-VA
RVP Unit             East Asia and Pacific Region
Country              Vanuatu
Subsector            Transport (& Education)
2.   Overview
The Project was jointly appraised and financed by the Asian
Development  Bank   (ADB)   and  the  International  Development
Association (IDA). ADB as the lead agency was responsible for the
Project administration and supervision; IDA did not participate in
any of the supervision missions.   At the time the project was
appraised and approved, the lack of adequate marine and road
transport infrastructure was considered to be a major impediment to
growth in the rural areas of the outer islands; inputs could not be
delivered economically to the farmers, and agricultural products
from the islands, in particular copra, could not reach the markets
in Port Vila and Luganville in sufficiently large volumes. About
75% of the population lived in rural areas and was mostly engaged
in subsistence agriculture. Better road access was also considered
to  improve  community  access  to  educational,   health,   and
administrative services. The Bank supported Government's policy of
improving infrastructure facilities for outer islands communities,
and because these investments were not sufficiently large for a
free-standing   project,   other   subprojects   comprising   the
rehabilitation and upgrading of primary schools -- damaged by an
earlier cyclone -- were added to form the Multi(sector)project.
This was the first cofinanced project in Vanuatu at the time when
the Bank Group emphasized cofinancing with ADB (as lead agency) of
select operations in the South Pacific.



vii
BASIC DATA
A.   Loar dentification
1.   Country                -  Vanuatu
2.   Loan Number            -  766-VAN(SF)
3.   Project Title          -  Muftiproject
4.   Borrower                   Republic of Vanuatu
5.   Executing Agency       -  Ministry of Public Works, Communications,
Transport, Ports and Marine
6.   Amount of Loan         -  $3.7 million1'
B.   Loan Data
1.   Appraisal
- Date Started         -  18 September 1985
- Date Completed          30 September 1985
2.   Loan Negotiations
- Date Started         -  31 October 1985
- Date Completed       -  31 October 1985
3.   Date of Board Approval  -  5 December 1985
4.   Date of Loan Agreement -  18 April 1986
5.   Date of Loan Effectiveness
- In Loan Agreement    -  18 July 1986
- Actual               -  19 September 1986
- Number of Extensions  -  2
6.   Closing Date
- In Loan Agreement    -  31 December 1989
- Extended Date        -  31 December 1992
- Actual               -  3 June 1993
- Number of Extensions  -  3
7.   Terms of Loan
- Interest Rate        -  1.00 per cent per annum
- Maturity             -  40 years
- Grace Period         -  10 years
! The equivaicnt in various currencics of SDR 2,822,000 trom the Bank's Special Funds resources.



viii
8.    Disbursements
(a)   Dates
Initial Disbursement   Final Disbursement  Time Interval
16 October 1986      8 April 1993     6 years 6 months
Effective Date  Original Closing Date    Time Inteval
19 September 1986   31 December 1989    3 yers 3 months
(b)   Amounts ($'000)
Last                     Net
Original   Revised      Amount       Amount    Undisbursed
Category/Subproject    Allocation   Allocation    Reallocated   Disbursed  Balance
I Wharves/Landing Stages     894.50      850.80         43.70     839.10          11.70
IIA Roads - Equipment         730.10       700.90        29.20      700.10           0.80
118 Roads - Civil Works       340.00       621.10      -281.10      646.20         -25.10
III Schools                   667.60     1,073.00     -405.40    1,117.50         -44.50
IV Santo Port Design          361.50      311.10         50.40     311.10           0.00
V Service Charges             89.00        89.00         0.00       89.00           0.00
VI Unallocated                643.70       80.50        563.20       0.00          80.50
Total   3,726.40    3,726.40         0.00    3,703.00          23.40
9.    Local Costs - Bank-FinancedY'           Appraisal    Actual
Nil         Nil
C.   Project Data
1.    Project Cost ($'000)
Appraisal
Estimate    Actual
(a)   Foreign Exchange Cost   5,000.00   6,189.50
(b)   Local Cost             1,400.00    820.00
(c)   Total Cost             6,400.00   7,009.50
Financed solely by the Government.



ix
2.    Financing Plan ($'000)
Appraisal Estimate                     Actual Cost
Implementation Costs    Local    Foreign     Total          Local    Foreign     Total
(a) Borrower-Financed    1,400.00       -    1,400.00       820.00          -     820.00
(b) Bank-Financed            -   3,000.00   3,000.00             -    3,703.00    3,703.00
(c) Other External           -   2,000.00   2,000.00             -    2,486.50    2,486.50
Financing
(d) Total               1,400.00   5,000.00   6,400.00      820.00   6,189.50    7,009.50
3.    Cost Breakdown by Project Component ($'000)
Total Costs                 Bank-Financed Costs
Original   Appraisal      Original          Revised
Component            Estimate   Estimate       AJlocationl'  AJlocationy    Actual
(a) Outer Island Wharves and   1,579.00   1,800.00          894.50      850.80    839.10
Landing Stages
(b) Outer Island Road          1,186.00   1,270.00          730.10      700.90    700.10
Improvement -Equipment
(c) Outer Island Road           795.00   1 080.00           340.00      621.10    646.20
Improvement - Civil Works
(d) School Upgrading            959.00     650.00          667.60     1,073.00   1,117.50
(e) Detailed Engineering for    414 00     350.00          361.50      311.10     311.10
Santo Port
(f) Service Charge on Bank       81.00      70.00           89.00       89.00      89.00
Loan During Construction
(g) Unallocated               1,216.00   1,17000           643.70       80.50       000
Total  6,230.00   6,400.00        3,726.40    3,726.40   3,703 00
' The equivalent in various currencies of SDR 2,822,000.
W Category reallocation as of 7 December 1990.



x
4.    Project Schedule
Estimate   Actual
(a) Date of Contract with Consultants             Apr 86    Sep 86
(b) Completion of Subproject Appraisal and Designy    Sep 86    Jan 89
(c) Civil Works Contract
(i) Roads [mprovement
- Date of Award                             Sep 87    Oct 89
- Completion of Work                        Jun 89    Nov 92
(i) Wharves/Landing Stages
- Date of Award                             May 87   Jun 88
- Completion of Work                        Jun 89    Feb 90
(iii) School Buildings
a) Santo/Ambae/Maewo
- Date of Award                         Nov 86   Jun 88
C Completion of Work                    Feb 88    Dec 90
b) Pentecost
- Date of Award                         Nov 86    Mar 89
- Completion of Work                    Feb 88    Mar 90
c) Pentecost (Atavtabanga)
- Date of Award                         Nov 86    Sep 90
- Completion of Work                    Feb 88    Dec 90
d) Pentecost (Gamalmaua)
- Date of Award                         Nov 86    Dec 90
- Completion of Work                    Feb 88    Dec 91
V For detailed engineering design for Santo Port.
v Financed under TA 726-VAN.
' Work carried out by Public Works Department under force account.



xi
D. Data on Bank Missions
Type ot                                                Specializations
Mission          Dates        Persons   Person-days    of Metbers!'
Fact-Finding     3-19 Jul 85        4           68       a, c, d, e
Appraisal        18-30 Sep 85       4           52       a, c, d, e
Inception        5-8 Aug 86         1           5        a
Review3'         3-17 May 87        3           42       a, b, d
Review-'         13-24 Feb 88       1           12       b
Review           16-30 Mar 89       1           15       a
Review           12-23 Mar 90       1           13       a
Review         26 Nov-7 Dec 90      2           24       a,f
PCR'             6-11 Nov 92        3           33       a,f
a - Engineer/ b - Financial Analyst; c - Counsel; d - Economist; e - Programs
Officer; f - Technical Assistant.
3 Including Fact-Finding Mission of Santo Port Project under MPL Loan. Staff
consultant joined 12-24 May.
3 Including Santo Port Inception Mission.
' Staff consultant included. Total services, 21 days.



I. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.   Objectives and Rationale
1.        Multiproject Loan No. 766(SF)-VAN (the Project) assisted the Govemment
of the Republic of Vanuatu in implementing several small but high-priority public sector
transport and education subprojects that were individually not of a size suitable for direct
and separate Bank financing. It was the Bank's third loan and first multiproject loan to
Vanuatu. The loan covered design and construction of road and shipping transport
infrastructure, and reconstruction and upgrading of primary school buildings destroyed
by cyclones in 1985. The subprojects were identified based on a review of project
profiles in the Govemment's request to the Bank during the Country Programming
Mission in March 1985, and were refined during fact-finding in July 1985 and appraisal
in September 1985. The criteria used in selecting the subprojects were that they should:
(i)    have been accorded high priority by the Government;
(ii)    be prima facie technically feasible, economically viable and suitable for Bank
financing;
(iii)    serve Vanuatu's outer islands development needs and promote more
balanced economic and social development; and
(iv)    not require further detailed or time-consuming feasibility studies.
2.        Although each selected wharf, landing stage and road subproject was prima
facie suitable for Bank financing, individual appraisals were prepared by the Govemment
with assistance from Bank engaged consultants financed from an accompanying
technical assistance (TA) grant. Subproject appraisal reports were submitted to the Bank
for approval before loan funds were made available.
B.   Scope
3.        The four components of the Project were:
(i)    construction of six wharves and landing stages in Vanuatu's outer islands,
(ii)   road improvement to six port sites and one other road site,
(iii)   reconstruction and upgrading of nine primary schools, and
(iv)    detailed engineering design for Santo Port wharf replacement.



2
4.        The objectives of the subprojects are described as follows:
(i)    Outer Island Wharves and Landing Stages
The objective was to provide Vanuatu's outer islands with wharves and landing stages
for interisland ships to collect and off-load passengers and cargo, and to assist small-
scale farmers to sell copra, coffee, cocoa, kava and root crops to the main markets at
Port Vila and Luganville. Six sites were selected from 19 recommended in the Vanuatu
Outer Island Wharves Feasibility Study (the Posford Report) prepared for the Govemment
in November 1982 by consultants" and funded by the Overseas Development
Administration of the United Kingdom Govemment. Site selection was based on previous
volume of cargo, potential to the hinterland for increased copra collection and size of
population served. The selected wharves and landing stages were:
Type of Facility
Island       Port       At Appraisal       Final
Vanua Lava   Sola         Wharf          Landing Stage
Maewo        Narovorovo   Landing Stage  Wharf
Ambae        Nduindui     Wharf          Wharf
Ambae        Lolopuepue   Wharf          Wharf
Paama        Liro         Landing Stage  Landing Stage
Epi          Lamen Bay   Landing Stage  Wharf
(ii)    Improvement of Roads Leading to the Wharves and Landing Stages
The objective of the road improvement subprojects was to convert the fair-weather tracks
leading to the six wharves and landing stages to all-weather gravel roads. The roads
were expected to improve the distribution of inbound cargo; assist the movement of
agricultural products and the export of copra; and improve community access to
educational, health and administrative services. Also included was the Santo Port by-
pass road, which was to remove through-traffic from the Santo Port area. In November
1989 the Bank received a request from the Government to allocate VT 80 million from
the Unallocated Category of the Bank/international Development Association (IDA)
multiproject funds for construction of new roads on Malo Island. In November 1990, after
the contract prices of the original subprojects were known, the Bank and IDA approved
inclusion of Malo roads in the Project and the related reallocation of funds. The
subprojects and the equipment purchased were:
!Y   Messrs. Posford, Pavry and Partners, Consulting Engineers, of the United Kingdom.



3
(a)  Road SubDrojects
Island       Port                        Scope
Vanua Lava   Sola         Monisa to airport via Sola to landing stage, 9 km
Maewo        Narovorovo  Kerembei to Narovorovo and wharf, 14 km
Ambae        Nduindui    Devil Rock through Walaha to Nduindui and wharf,
10 km
Ambae        Lolopuepue  Lolowai to Lolopuepue and wharf, 13 km
Paama        Liro        Uro, past landing stage, and southwards, 8 km
Epi          Lamen Bay  Cape Foreland, through Ringdove and Lamen Bay
to wharf, 1 0 km
Santo        Santo       Port by-pass, 0.3 km
Malo                     Various locations and lengths
(b)  Road Construction Equipment
Quantity
Equipment         Capacity      At Appraisal  Actual
Bulldozer        180 drawbar HP         4         4
Vibrating Roller   10-1 2 tons          2          -
Grader           160 drawbar HP         2         2
Tipper Truck     5 cubic meters         6          8
Front-end loader  1-1.5 cubic meters    2         2
Crusher          -                      -          1
(iii)    Primary School Facilities
The school buildings comprised double classrooms, dormitories, teachers' house and
bathrooms. The nine schools, which were to be rebuilt and/or renovated and upgraded
to withstand greater cyclone force and provided with furniture, were:



4
Type of Facilities
Island       School      At Appraisal       Final
Espiritu Santo   Shark Bay    3 classrooms  2 classrooms
2 houses      2 houses
2 bathrooms
Espiritu Santo   South Santo  2 houses     2 houses
1 dormitory    1 dormitory
1 bathroom
Ambae          Lolovoli      1 classroom    1 classroom
2 houses      2 houses
Ambae          Naivele       1 classroom    1 classroom
Maewo          Asanwari      1 classroom    1 classroom
1 house
Pentecost      Usasanmal   1 classroom    1 classroom
Pentecost      Qwatnapni   1 classroom    1 classroom
2 houses      2 houses
Pentecost      Gamalmaua   1 classroom    1 classroom
3 houses      3 houses
Pentecost      Atavtabanga  1 classroom    1 classroom
3 houses      3 houses
(iv)   Detailed Engineering Design for Santo Port Wharf
The 30-year-old Santo Port wharf at Luganville, which handles about 70 per cent of
Vanuatu's exports and 30 per cent of its imports, was in poor condition and needed to
be replaced urgently; to expedite action, the detailed engineering design for a new wharf
was included as a subproject. Consultants were engaged to conduct geotechnical tests
of the soil conditions; prepare layout and detailed designs and drawings; provide
specifications, quantities and standards; estimate project costs; prepare implementation
schedules; assess project feasibility; prepare tender invitation documents; and
recommend Project management arrangements.



5
11. EVALUATION OF IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Project Components
1.   Wharves and Landings
5.        Most of the wharves and landing stages provided under the Project loan are
either not in use or seldom used, apart from the wharf at Lolopuepue, Ambae, which is
used from time to time (estimated to be outloading about one third to one half of the
2000 tons of copra projected in the Appraisal Report). There are various reasons for the
lack of use of the facilities, including, the effects of the lowering of market prices for
copra, termination of logging activities (Sola), lack of road transport to collect and carry
copra from farms to landing stages (Uro and others), underestimation of the effect of sea
swells (Nduindui), lack of removal of hazardous rock and coral outcrops (Lamen Bay,
Liro and Lolopuepue), shortening of the length of landing stage approaches and
resulting inadequate water depth (Sola), and relocation of siting away from the original
sites recommended in the Posford Report (Lamen Bay, Sola, Liro and Narovorovo).
Although the relocations did not involve great distances from the originally recommended
sites, the distances were enough to compromise the usefulness of the wharves, since
they entailed inadequate water depths and/or navigational hazards. For example, the
Liro wharf was relocated closer to a proposed future regional trading center site, but the
landing stage location suffers from navigational hazards. Another factor limiting use of
all the wharves and landing stages is likely to be the planned user charges while
alternative beach and ramp landings are available. In addition to the problems caused
by the relocation of wharf sites, some of the subprojects also suffered from inappropriate
engineering design, poor workmanship or use of incorrect materials. Detailed remarks
on each wharf and landing stage are given in Appendix 2, and drawings showing their
siting compared with the Posford Report sitings are found in Appendix 3.
2.   Roads
6.        Construction of roads was delayed partly as a result of delays in the arrival
of construction equipment and materials at the work sites in the outer islands. This was
caused mainly by inadequate interisland shipping; there was only one available ship that
could transport the required size of road construction equipment. Further delays were
caused by politically motivated diversion of manpower, equipment and funds from the
Project to other road construction work. The Executing Agency (EA) tried to prevent
diversion of resources and to maintain the road construction work as much on schedule
as possible, but without success. The South Pacific Regional Office (SPRO) sought
government intervention against the diversions, and the Government arranged for
reinstatement of manpower, equipment and materials back to the subproject work.
Though the Government efforts to bring the subproject back on track were successful,
much time was lost.



6
7.         Generally the roads were in good condition at the time of the Mission's
review, in part because they are seldom used. Nevertheless, they need periodic
inspection and maintenance, and some need to be maintained before further
deterioration occurs. Vegetation is growing from the roadbeds and around the roads,
and action is needed to prevent vegetation from reclaiming the roads. Exceptions are
the by-pass road at Santo Port, which is well-used and maintained, and the road leading
to the Lolopuepue wharf in Ambae.
3.   Schools
8.         Reconstruction and upgrading of primary schools and provision of fumiture
were the most successful components of the Project. The school buildings withstood
two major cyclones in 1992, and the facilities and furniture are generally satisfactorily
maintained. The facilities have provided the outer island communities with urgently
needed educational facilities, which are reported to be well used.
4.   Santo Port Documentation
9.         The consultants!' engaged under the Project loan completed the design,
feasibility study, and tender documents for the Santo Port wharf, and the feasibility report
was later used by the Bank to process a loan.@' Problems experienced during and after
implementation of the subsequent loan project indicated that the design may have been
faulty, and a supplementary Bank loan-' was approved to supply additional funds to
correct deficiencies in the facility.
S.   Implementation Arrangements
10.        The Public Works Department (PWD) was the EA for the Project.  The
Ministry of Education (MOE) was involved with PWD in the renovation and upgrading of
school facilities, and MOE was responsible for procurement of school furniture. The
Department of Local Government (DLG) assisted in engineering design and
documentation for the outer island wharves and landing stages. PWD carried out all
work associated with upgrading of roads and primary school facilities using their own
manpower and equipment and with help from local civil contractors. A stand-alone
Project Implementation Technical Assistance4' provided PWD with assistance from a
foreign consulting firm5' to carry out feasibility study reports, to prepare design and bid
invitation documents for subprojects or components of the Project, and to supervise
construction of the outer island wharves and landing stages. PWD employed a foreign
!    cameron McNamara Ltd.
Loan No. 843(SF)-vAN Santo Port Project for 55.75 million, approved 29 September 1987.
Loan No. 1080(SF)-VAN: Santo Port (Supplementary) for $3.4 million, approved 19 March 1991.
TA 726(S>)-VAN: Appraisal of Sub-Projects under Multiprojects Loan for $270.000, approved 5 December 1985.
Sirnclair Knight & Partners.



7
consulting firm to design and prepare bidding documents for the Santo Port wharf, and
PWD monitored and commented on the Consultant's work as required. Appendix 1
provides a chronology of main events in Project preparation and implementation.
C.   Proiect Costs
11.       The November 1985 appraisal cost estimate for of the Project was
$6.4 million, comprised of $5.0 million in foreign exchange and $1.4 million equivalent
in local currency. The actual cost was $7.01 million, comprised of a foreign exchange
cost of $6.19 million and a local currency cost of $0.82 million equivalent; $3.7 million
of the foreign exchange cost was financed from the Asian Development Fund, and
$2.49 million was co-financed by IDA. The proceeds of the Bank loan and the IDA loan
were utilized except for an undisbursed loan balance of $0.22 million, while the
Govemment incurred a local currency expenditure of about $0.82 million equivalent,
which is about $0.58 million less than the amount envisaged at appraisal. A summary
of the comparison of appraisal estimates and actual costs is given in Table 1:
Table 1: Appraisal Estimates vs Actual Project Costs
(current prices: $'000)
Appraisal                      Actual
Foreign   Local               Foreign    Local
Component       Exchange  Currency  Total      Exchange  Currency  Total
Wharves & Landing Stages  1,880     400  2.280          1,793      145  1,938
Roads - Equipment         2,120     780  2.900          2.879     405  3,284
Schools                    590      140   730           1,117     238  1,355
Sandy Whart Design         340       80   420            311       32    343
Service Charge on Loan      70        -     70            89        --    89
Total    5,000     1,400  6,400         6,189     820  7,009
D.   Proiect Schedule
12.       The Project was originally scheduled to start subproject appraisal and design
in April 1986, to take three years to implement and thus to be physically completed by
mid-1989. Implementation started in September 1986, and completion occurred in
November 1992 after a total implementation period of six years and three months.
Though the loan was approved on 5 December 1985, loan effectiveness did not take
place until 19 September 1986. On 7 February 1987 Cyclone Uma hit Vanuatu and
caused serious damage, and much of the infrastructure and many of the buildings on



8
Efate Island were destroyed or damaged. PWD's manpower, equipment and other
material resources were diverted to rehabilitation work, which caused a delay in the
Project of about 18 months. The Bank agreed to the diversion of resources for post-
disaster rehabilitation. Other delays during implementation were caused by inadequate
interisland shipping and lack of suitable vessels to transport road construction equipment
and material to the outer islands. In addition, the difficulty encountered by PWD in
locating suitable aggregates for road construction on some islands also contributed to
other delays of 6-8 months. Diversion of PWD resources to politically motivated
construction programs also added to the total delay by 8-10 months. The original loan
closing date was 31 December 1989; as a result of delays, the loan closing date was
extended to 31 December 1992. However, the last withdrawal application on the loan
was received by the Bank only on 12 March 1993, and the closing date was determined
as 3 June 1993.
E.   Engagement of Consultants and Procurement of Goods and Services
1.   Engagement of Consultants
13.       The TA Consultant was fielded on 14 April 1986, a few weeks later than
scheduled. The final feasibility study report was submitted in November 1986. Draft
bidding documents on an International Competitive Bidding basis were submitted for
construction of the outer island wharves and landing stages on 20 July 1987, about six
months later than scheduled. In the same month a PWD advisor was appointed as
Construction Supervision Consultant under TA 901 (SF)-VAN.1' There were several
changes of personnel in key advisory and construction supervision positions during
Project implementation, and the PWD advisor took over the construction supervision role
for the last three years of implementation.
14.       The Consultant engaged under the Bank loan for preparation of the Santo
Port design and feasibility study was contracted on 1 September 1986, about six months
later than scheduled. The TA Consultant and the Santo Port Consultant were selected
in accordance to Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants.
2.   Procurement of Goods and Services
15.       The roads were constructed by PWD using equipment and materials
purchased with Project funds. Some small subcontracts for local labor were let to small
domestic construction firms or villages. Contracts for upgrading of school facilities were
let to prequalified local construction firms after local competitive bidding (LCB). After
revisions by the TA Consultants, bid invitation documents for the outer island wharves
and landing stages were issued in November 1987, and the construction contract was
awarded in June 1988 after ICB by prequalified contractors.  Road construction
Instution Strengthening of PWD. for $325.000. approved on 29 September 1987.



9
equipment and school furniture were purchased on the basis of international shopping
(IS). ICB, LCB IS were carried in accordance with Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
F.   Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers
1.   Consultants
16.       The Consultant engaged under TA 726(SF)-VAN for the feasibility study of
the outer island wharves, landing stages and associated roads did not perform well. The
Consultant apparently did not appreciate the problems associated with relocation of sites
for wharves and landing stages away from the original locations recommended by the
Posford Report; the Consultant's appraisal reports did not identify that the proposed
siting of the Narovorovo and Lamen Bay wharves was different from the Posford
recommendations, and the changed siting of the Sola and Liro landing stages resulted
in inadequate water depth and navigational hazards. The Consultant's appraisal reports
used some incorrect data and overiy optimistic assumptions in the calculation of sub-
project benefits.  Construction documentation, which was done by PWD using
information supplied by the Consultant, was flawed and did not include sufficient detail.
Construction supervision was done by occasional site visits by PWD and/or the
Consultant, and it is difficult to assess its adequacy; it appears to have been inadequate
in terms of clearing navigational hazards and control of some technical aspects of
construction. There are indications that insufficient inspections were carried out and that
the dispersed and isolated locations of the wharf and landing stage sites contributed to
the infrequent inspection visits.
17.       The Consultant responsible for the design and feasibility study for Santo Port
took a year to complete the design and documentation work, which should have taken
six months. Although the Consultant appeared to complete the work satisfactorily under
this Project, problems arising subsequently in construction and use of the wharf required
a supplementary loan [Loan No. 1 080(SF)-VAN] to the original loan [Loan No. 843(SF)-
VAN] to complete construction of the wharf and to rectify some defects.  The
Government is considering legal action to recover losses incurred during construction
and the cost of remedial works.
2.   Contractors and Suppliers
18.       The contractor for construction of the outer island wharves and landing
stages appears to have performed reasonably well; however, there were some examples
of use of incorrect materials (e.g., ungalvanized wire baskets at the Sola landing stage
and alleged use of undersized rubble at Lamen Bay), and it is not clear whether the
contractor fully met contractual responsibilities for removal of navigational hazards.
Small domestic contractors who worked with PWD on construction of roads, especially
those that used labor-intensive methods, performed well. But, as a result of bad weather
and late arrival of construction equipment to clear vegetation from road routes, some
work was delayed. The domestic contractors who renovated and upgraded the school



10
facilities and the school furniture suppliers performed satisfactorily; there were some
delays due to shipping problems and shortage of imported materials (hardware and paint
materials).
G.  Conditions and Covenants
19.       See Appendix 5 for a summary of compliance with the major loan covenants.
The following conditions and covenants of the Loan and Project Agreements were not
complied with.
(i)    Audited financial statements were not always submitted on time.
(ii)    Self-insurance was not provided by the Government.
(iii)    Because of lack of Government funds, construction of the storm-damaged
Narovorovo wharf was not completed.
(iv)    Wharf tariffs have not yet been determined.
(v)    Road maintenance is not being carried out.
20.       The Government determined that completion of the storm-damaged
Narovorovo wharf is uneconomic, and the Project Coordination Committee
recommended to the Minister of Finance that a waiver of the covenant be sought from
the Bank; it appears that frequent political changes may have caused the
recommendation not to be acted on by the Government to date.
21.       The subproject appraisal reports for each wharf and landing stage included
tariff studies and proposals, but the Government appears to have taken no action to
establish levies or tariffs. The non-use of five of the six wharves and landing stages and
the relatively small amount of use of the sixth wharf (whose users have reportedly
indicated that they woUld stop using the facility if charges were introducec') has possibly
discouraged further action by the Government.  During the course of Project
implementation, the Government discussed alternative methods of charging interisland
ship owners to cover costs associated with operation and maintenance of wharves and
landing stages, but nothing was concluded; current TA studies on interisland shipping
and the need for a Port Authority may assist in resolving this matter and in improving the
institutional framework. None of the facilities have been handed over to the Local
Government Council (LGC) for operation and maintenance, and neither PWD nor LGC
have funds to perform those functions.
22.       Although some maintenance of roads was carried out in 1989 and 1990, little
has been done since. Equipment purchased under the loan is not available on the outer
islands, and road maintenance is limited to what can be done by manual methods; the
cost of shipping major equipment back to those locations for road maintenance is out



1 1
of proportion to the scale of the Government's expenditure on infrastructure. The
Govemment plans to establish a subdepot on Ambae Island for regular maintenance of
two of the road subprojects; however, there appears to be no progress in providing
maintenance for other roads or for the wharves and landing stages.
H.   Disbursements
23.       Appendix 6 shows a summary of disbursement figures.  The first
disbursement for consulting services was made on 15 October 1986, and disbursements
were submitted for processing regularly between 1988 and 1990; but in 1991 and 1992
disbursements became infrequent after most construction work had been completed.
The final disbursement request was made by the Government on 15 March 1993.
I.   Environmental Impact
24.       The Project's impact on the environment has been minimal, as most of the
roads were constructed over existing roads and tracks, and the wharves and landing
stages are small structures. Because of lack of maintenance and low use of the roads,
nature is starting to reclaim them. The wharves and landing stages were constructed
over existing rocky portions of the shore, usually on solidified lava flows, and damage
to the ecology is insignificant; there has been build up and depletion of sand adjacent
to the Lamen Bay wharf, but it is believed to be caused by storm action rather than
littoral sand drift. There is no sign of environmental damage resulting from quarrying
construction materials. The reconstruction, renovation and upgrading of school facilities
was done on sites of existing structures, with minimal environmental impact.
J.   Proiect Benefits
25.       The projected benefits have not been realized for five of the six wharves and
landing stages, as only one, at Lolopuepue, is being used occasionally. This has
resulted from changes in siting, design and/or documentation deficiencies, severe
stormdamage, and possibly lack of consultation with shipping operators and the
Department of Ports and Marine. It has been estimated that navigational improvements
to increase the use of the facilities would cost about VT 1 million. However, if use
increases, it would be necessary to spend a further Vr 7 million to repair the Larnen Bay
Wharf properly.
26.       Apart from the road at Malo, the other roads are associated with wharves
and landing stages, and only the Lolopuepue wharf has partially achieved the intended
benefits. The other roads are not being used to serve the wharves and landing stages
as intended, but are used for other purposes. The Santo Port bypass road has achieved
the intended benefits in improving the efficiency of the port's operation. Equipment
purchased for road construction is being maintained and used on other construction and
maintenance works; however, it is not being used as intended to maintain the roads built
under the loan.



12
27.       School buildings have been reinstated and furnished and are being
maintained and used as intended, and the expected benefits have been achieved.
Completion of the facilities allowed the reinstatement of education services in local
communities in isolated parts of Vanuatu.
28.       Completion of design and documentation work for the Santo Port wharf
achieved the loan objective of early preparation of documentation for subsequent
construction of the project, but that was counteracted by problems arising during
construction and operation of the wharf, which was covered by a separate and
subsequent loan.
K    Performance of Borrower and Executing Agency
29.       The performance of the Borrower (Government), the EA (PWD) and the
Project Coordination Committee (representatives from PWD; National Planning and
Statistics Office; Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Transport, Communications and Public
Works; MOE; Department of Ports and Marine; and DLG) was satisfactory, particularly
considering the effects of the 1987 cyclone, which created difficult conditions, damaged
and delayed work, and caused diversion of resources and materials to other projects.
However, there was other diversion of resources and road construction equipment
unrelated to cyclone damage: the Malo road was apparently added without formal
determination of economic costs and benefits; there was disagreement among
Government departments about responsibilities relating to payment applications and
disbursements; and the changes made to the siting of some wharves and landing stages
were undesirable aspects of the performance of the Borrower and the EA. There were
problems created by inadequate resources being recruited in t'.e EA and by several
personnel changes. There was no full-time Project Manager or Project Accountant in
PWD for more than two years. In addition, there could have been greater coordination
and technical input on navigational aspects; and more critical assessments of the figures
and design solutions in the subproject appraisals for the wharves and landing stages
may have improved the results and eliminated some of the problems encountered.
Some loan covenants remain unfulfilled as described in Section G.
L.   Performance of the Bank
30.       Responsibility for Project administration was transferred from the Bank's
Headquarters to SPRO in November 1988. After that time, SPRO was responsible for
overall supervision of the Project and for loan administration, and the Bank's
Headquarters's staff reviewed and approved individual subproject appraisal reports
submitted by the Government, engaged the TA Consultants and assisted on technical
matters. During implementation the Bank acted promptly in processing approvals and
disbursements, and met its obligations satisfactorily.
31.       The Bank's review of the Consultant's appraisals of the wharves and landing
stages subprojects did not identify the Consultant's use of some incorrect data,



13
overstatement of the proportion of regional copra production that would be shipped via
the wharves and stages, and incorrect assumption that ships would cease collecting
copra at other locations once the wharves and stages were built. There may also have
been an oversight in review of the exact siting of the wharves and stages proposed in
the Borrower's/Consultant's detailed appraisals and construction documents for each
subproject, although that aspect should have been covered by the Consultant and the
EA. More frequent site review missions (rather than desk reviews in Port Vila) may have
resulted in earlier identification and resolution of problems. However, the dispersed and
inaccessible site locations and the resulting time taken to carry out such inspections
mitigated against that.
Ill. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.   Conclusions
32.       The Project met its objective in one of its four subprojects (reconstruction
and upgrading of schools), partially met its objective in two (completion of engineering
design for the Santo Port wharf and construction of roads/purchase of construction and
maintenance equipment), and failed to do so in five out of six wharves and landing
stages in the fourth subproject. A destructive cyclone early in Project implementation
and later storms had a significant effect on all components of the Project and contributed
greatly to delays. There were delays in implementation from one month in purchase of
construction equipment to almost three and a half years in road construction and school
buildings. The proceeds of the Bank and IDA loans were spent, and the Project was
completed within the approved revised cost.
B.   Recommendations
1.   Proiect-Related
33.       Future monitoring: Action needs to be taken to establish and implement an
agreed upon program for maintenance of roads, repair of wharves and landing stages,
and compliance with covenants.
34.       Covenants: Action has to be taken to resolve outstanding issues relating to
self-insurance and reinstatement of the Narovorovo wharf, determination of wharf tariffs,
and maintenance of roads and wharves. The Govemment has indicated that it will
request the Bank to consider waiving some aspects of the covenants.
35.       Follow-up Action: A Staff Consultant has completed a review of the wharves
and landing stages and has recommended action to remedy problems and deficiencies
that are preventing or discouraging use of the facilities; separate action will be taken to
review and process those proposals.  The Consultant, who assisted the Project



14
Completion Review Mission, has suggested some draft guidelines and procedures for
use in assessing the feasibility of future wharf projects, and these will be included in
subsequent submissions. Further action on Santo Port wharf remedial construction work
is being dealt with under a separate loan."
36.       Additional Assistance: It has been estimated that a further VT 1 million
would be needed to improve the navigational aspects of the wharves and landing stages,
and about VT 7 million to repair the Lamen Bay wharf. VT 20 million would be needed
to restore and complete the storm-damaged Narovorovo wharf, but preliminary
assessments indicate that this may not be warranted, given the extent of use of the
facility. Separate recommendations will be made after consultations with the Govemment
and within the Bank.
37.       Project Performance Audit Report Preparation: This may be deferred until
the issues relating to covenants and reinstatement/repair of wharves and sidings have
been resolved with the Borrower/EA.
2.   General
38.       Forwidely dispersed subproject locations and small-scale construction works
using predominantly local materials (such as the wharves and landing stages), domestic
bidding for separate wharves/stages may be more efficient than ICB for a total package;
there was little interest in the bidding, and the mobilization costs for foreign contractors
were high.
V    Loan No. 1080(SF)-VAN: Santo Port (Supplementary) for $3.4 million, approved 19 March 1991.



15
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 10
Chronology of Main Events in Project Preparation/Implementation
Date                 Events
3-19 Jul 85    -     Fact-Finding Mission: The Project was formulated during a
Fact-Finding Mission to Vanuatu.
28 Aug 85      -     Management Review Mission Meeting was convened to
discuss Project Brief.
18-30 Sep 85    -    A joint appraisal of the proposed Multi-Project Loan (MPL) was
mounted by Appraisal Missions from the Bank and IDA.
27 Sep 85      -     A Memorandum of Understanding between the joint Appraisal
Mission from Bank and IDA (co-financier of the Project) and
representatives of the Government was signed.
22 Oct 85      -     The SRC meeting for the Project was held under the
chairmanship of the Director, Infrastructure Department. As
there were no outstanding issues, it was agreed during the
SRC Meeting that a LTACC Meeting would not be necessary.
25 Oct 85      -     Notice of Loan Negotiations was circulated to the Board of
Directors. The Government requested that loan negotiations
for the Project be held in Vanuatu in the week beginning 28
October 1985.
31 Oct 85      -     Loan negotiations were held in Port Vila at the South Pacific
Regional Office (SPRO) between representatives of the
Republic of Vanuatu (the Borrower) and the Bank.
12 Nov 85      -     MPL loan documents were circulated to the Board.
5 Dec 85       -     The Board of Directors approved a loan of SDR 2,822,000
(equivalent to S3 million) from Special Funds resources and a
technical assistance grant of $270,000.
20 Mar 86      -     The World Bank's (IDA) Executive Directors approved a credit
of $2.0 million for the Project.
(Reference in text: page 7, para. 10)



16
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 1 0
18 Apr 86      -     Signing of the Loan and TA Agreement in the South Pacific
Regional Office.
14 Jun 86      -     The Consultant under the TA was fielded to undertake
appraisal of the subprojects.
19 Jul 86      -     First extension of date for loan effectiveness to 14 August
1986.
24 Jul 86      -     The Government requested the Bank for further extension of
the loan effectiveness date for 2 months after 17 July 1986.
31 Jul 86      -     The Government submitted the draft legal opinion to the Bank.
5-8 Aug 86     -      Inception Mission discussed with Public Works Department
(PWD), EA of the TA and Loan Project, the Consultants and
SPRO the direction of the Project and outstanding issues so
that a clear understanding could be established among all
parties concerned to achieve the objectives of the TA.
i Sep 86       -     Contract for Consulting Services with Cameron McNamara Ltd.
for the design of Santo Port new wharf was signed by
Honorable Minister for Transport, Communications, and Public
Works.
3 Sep 86       -     SPRO returned the draft legal opinion to the Government with
comments of the General Counsel for incorporation in the final
legal opinion.
8 Sep 86       -     Letter of Instruction to proceed was issued in respect of
consulting Services for the design of Santo Port new wharf.
17'Sep 86      -     The Bank received the final legal opinion.
19 Sep 86      -     Loan declared effective.
24 Sep 86      -     IDA Development Credit Agreement became effective. SPRO
received a request from the Government for establishment of
an imprest fund under the MPL.
25 Sep 86      -     Borrower submission to Bank HQ of subproject appraisal
reports for (i) Nduindui wharf; (ii) Lolopuepue wharf; (iii) Sola
wharf; and (iv) Santo Port wharf for IFPR's action and
approval.



17
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 10
15 Oct 86      -     First disbursement as payment effected with value dated 15
October 1986 to Consulting Services.
Nov 86         -     Following the presentation of the Inception Report, the
Consultant concentrated activity on the preparation of the
Preliminary Design Report. The Consultant commenced
preliminary designs and costings of alternative wharf
structures.
26 Nov to
6 Dec 86       -     Special Loan Disbursement Mission to evaluate the intemal
control and accounting capability of the Executing Agency.
6 Jan 87       -     The Bank received prequalification documents for school
contracts and approved contract documents for the outer
islands small wharves contract.
22 Jan 87      -     The Bank approved the draft tender documents (ICB) for
construction equipment and draft prequalification
documents for LCB for schools.
23 Jan 87      -     Tender  documents  for construction  equipment and
prequalification documents for schools issued to bidders.
24 Jan 87      -     Tender and prequalification advertisement in the Vanuatu
weekly.
Feb 87         -     Cyclone Uma caused extensive damage in Vanuatu.
9 Mar 87       -     Closing date for receipt of applications for prequalification (23
February 1987 - original closing date).
10 Mar 87      -     Bank noted and concurred with the Minister of Transport,
Communications and Public Works' approval that the
proposed wharf on Ambae Island at Nduindui was preferable
on technical grounds.
23 Mar 87      -     Closing date for tender for Supply of Construction Equipment
(9 March 1987 - original closing date).
3-1 7 Mar 87   -     Review Mission of the Project and the Fact-Finding Mission of
Santo Port Project.
25 May 87      -     Date of the Consultant's Revised Design Report (Santo Port).



18                         Appendix 1
Page 4 of 10
19 Jun 87      -     SPRO received PWD's Letter of Notification that the Council
of Ministers had approved the award of Supply Contract for
Equipment to Caltrac BPC2 of Noumea, New Caledonia.
20 Jul 87      -     PWD's Project Manager, of the MPL submitted for the Bank's
approval draft tender documents for ICB for outer islands
wharves subprojects.
27 Jul 87      -     Date of Variation Order (VO) No. 1 (VO. #1) for the Contract
for Consulting Services, to facilitate payment of expenditures
arising from the foreign exchange loss suffered by the
contractor in respect of the geotechnical investigations
undertaken under the contract.
2 Oct 87       -     Approval of VO. #3 on no-objection basis by the Bank.
Nov 87         -     Procurement of all road construction equipment completed.
5 Nov 87       -     SPRO approval of revised draft tender documents for the outer
islands wharves and landing stage.
17 Dec 87      -     PWD's submission of tender documents for upgrading of
school buildings for review and comments.
18 Jan 88 to
18 Apr 88      -     Tender period for the outer islands wharves and landing
stages as advertised.
20 Jan 88      -     Approval of prequalification documents for prequalifying
contractors for Santo Port Project.
8 Feb 88       -     The Bank approved procurement of construction equipment
and parts for D6H dozer under the Loan fund as requested by
PWD.
Feb 88         -     Santo Port Inception Mission together with review of Loan 766-
VAN(SF): MPL.
18 Feb 88      -     Reallocation of loan proceeds based on Review Mission (on
no-objection basis) by IFPR.
19 Feb 88      -     The Bank advised the World Bank and the Borrower of its
approval of the reallocation of loan proceeds.



19                          ADpendix 1
Page 5 of 10
23 Feb 88      -     The Bank received Situation Report 22/02/88 on the MPL
Mar 88         -     Prequalification was done for School Upgrading Subprojects,
as a result of which six local contractors were prequalified.
1 Mar 88       -     Imprest Fund Procedure was confirmed by the Bank.
14 Mar 88      -     The Bank received advice of approval from the World Bank of
the reallocation.
16 Mar 88      -     Schools subproject tender procedure was approved and
tender documents were issued for construction work in Santo,
Ambae, Maewo, and Pentecost.
18 Apr 88      -     Tenders closed and public opening of tenders for the Outer
Islands Wharves and Landing Stages Subproject and for
Schools Upgrading Subproject.
May 88         -     Santo Port design completed.
1 Jun 88       -     Submission of Bid Evaluation Report and Recommendation for
Wharves and Landing Stage subproject for approval of award
of contract.
7 Jun 88       -     Submission of Bid Evaluation Report and Recommendation for
Schools Upgrading subproject for approval of award of
contract.
24 Jun 88      -     The Bank approved award of contract for Outer Islands
Wharves and Landing Stages construction in a tender sum of
VT 164,893,458 to Clough Engineering.
27 Jun 88      -     The Bank approved award of contract for School Upgrading
subproject in a tender sum of VT 82,909,000 to Tari Vira,
Vanuatu (Lots 1 and 2). In the case of Lot 3, the Bank
approved retendering on an individual school basis.
Jul 88         -     Sinclair Knight & Partners, Consultants on part-time services
under TA No. 726-VAN, proposed to replace Mr. Slack-Smith
by Mr. Robert Keessen, as Slack-Smith was being engaged
under TA 901-VAN: Santo Port Project on a full-time basis
from 1 August 1988 to 28 February 1990.



20
Appendix 1
Page 6 of 10
28 Jul 88      -     The Bank considered it necessary to change consultants'
appointment as proposed above and requested SPRO to
advise the Government.
17 Aug 88            Clough Engineering Group of Australia, the successful
tenderer for construction of wharves and landing stages, was
issued Letter of Intent.
22 Aug 88      -     Formal contract documents (Clough Engineering) were signed.
29 Aug 88      -     Contracts for Santo and Ambae schools upgrading, awarded
to Tari Vira Ltd. of Vanuatu, were signed.
24 Sep 88      -     New tender for Pentecost schools called.
17 Oct 88      -     Clough Engineering began mobilization of plants/equipment
and materials to project sites.
24 Oct 88      -     Tenders for Pentecost schools closed and public tender
opening held at PWD.
27 Oct 88      -     SPRO suggested to IFPR that full administration of Loan No.
766-VAN(SF) be transferred to SPRO with effect immediately.
30 Oct 88      -     Invitation for quotations for supply of quarry crusher for road
works was issued under international shopping procedures.
30 Oct 88 to
27 Nov 88      -     TA Consultants' first field assignment.
14 Nov 88      -     IFPR advised PE3 of their no-objection to SPRO's request to
transfer full project administration to SPRO.
15 Nov 88      -     Full project administration of the MPL transferred to SPRO.
17 Nov 88      -     The Bank approved the purchasing of the quarry crusher, as
this was not included in the original Project scope.
21 Nov 88      -     SPRO  advised  the  Government of the  full project
administration now being the responsibility of SPRO.
28 Nov 88      -     Retenders for Pentecost schools closed and public tender
opening held at the office of PWD.



21
AoDendix 1
Page 7 of 10
Nov 88         -     Clyde Engineering mobilized and commenced construction of
wharves and landing stage subprojects, with Paama-Liro
landing stage first.
8 Nov 88       -     The  Bank  received  Bid  Evaluation  Report  and
Recommendation forthe four schools on Pentecost. Evaluation
of the tenders was undertaken by the consultant provided
under TA No. 726-VAN.
7 Dec 88       -     The Bank received the audited project accounts for FY1 986.
20 Dec 88      -     The Bank approved award of contracts for the four Pentecost
schools as recommended by the Consultants.
21 Dec 88      -     Quotation evaluation and recommendation for supply of
crusher was submitted to the Bank.
29 Dec 88      -     The Bank approved purchase of the crusher from Clyde
Engineering.
27 Feb 89      -     Council of Ministers approval of award of construction contract
for the Pentecost schools to Marum Construction.
Feb 89               Construction of Lamen Bay wharf was completed. Some
additional protection works were required to protect the
causeway from erosion due to cyclone-induced wave action.
2 Mar 89       -     Award of construction contract to Marum Construction for the
Pentecost schools.
1 6-30 Mar 89    -   Review Mission.
Mar 89         -     The construction of Liro landing stage completed.
21 May 89 to
3 Jun 89       -     TA Consultants' second field assignment.
29-31 May 89    -    Narovorovo's partly completed wharf was subjected to
significant wave action in seas driven by a strong storm,
causing substantial damage to the structure.
21 Sep 89      -     Bank and IDA approval of reallocation of loan proceeds to
accommodate road construction equipment/plants.



22
Apoendix 1
Page 8 of 10
9 Oct 89       -     Approval of first extension of loan closing date to 31 December
1990.
13 Oct 89      -     Minister of Public Works approved proposal from PWD to incur
an extra expenditure of VT 1 million to repair the damaged
Narovorovo wharf to make it suitable for use as a landing
stage (PWD budget).
2 Nov 89       -     SPRO received request from the Government to use VT 80
million from the unallocated ADB/IDA MPL funds on the Malo
Island and roads(new roads subproject).
15 Nov 89      -     The Bank received FY1 987 audited project accounts.
21 Nov 89      -     Bwatnapne school, Central Pentecost construction completed.
3 Jan 90       -     SPRO  received  individual appraisal for  Maio  Road
construction/improvement from the Government for support of
its request for the Bank to fund this new subproject.
15 Jan 90      -     Tenders issued for the remaining three schools on Pentecost.
18 Jan 90      -     SPRO advised the Government that the Bank had no objection
in principle to the inclusion of Malo roads as an additional
subproject. Bank decision on approval of its request was
deferred until all contracts for schools were awarded.
2 Feb 90             World Bank approved extension of its (credit) loan closing
date to 31 December 1990.
12 Feb 90      -     Tenders for the remaining Pentecost schools closed and
publicly opened at PWD office. Tender Board recommended
the lowest tender, Marum Construction to be awarded the
contract.
12-23 Mar 90    -    Review Mission fielded.
2 Apr 90       -     Ministry Of Education sent out invitation for quotations for the
supply of the school furniture.
5 Apr 90       -     SPRO received FY1 988 audited project account.



23
ADoendix I
Page 9 of 10
26 Apr 90      -     Summary of quotation and recommendation for award of
contract were sent to PWD for approval and subsequent Bank
approval.
12 Jul 90     -     The Bank approved on no-objection basis the award of supply
contracts to suppliers recommended by Ministry of Education
(supply of school furniture).
27 Jul 90      -     SPRC received FY1989 unaudited project accounts.
22 Aug 90      -     Bid evaluation with recommendation from PWD was. received
for Bank approval.
2 Nov 90       -     SPRO .ieceived FY1 989 audited project accounts.
21 Nov 90      -     The Govemment reassured the Bank that under the Loan
Agreement for the Outer Islands wharves, the Govemrnment
would continue to make provisions for maintenance of the
outer islands wharves.
26 Nov to
7 Dec 90       -     Review Mission. A detailed desk review of the Project was
undertaken (no Project sites were visited).
10 Dec 90     -     Approval of extension of loan closing date to 31 December
1991 by Chief, SPRO.
20 Dec 90      -    World Bank approved extension of its Credit Closing Date to
31 December 1991.
20 Dec 90     -    World Bank approved proposal for the inclusion of Malo roads
in the Project.
6 Feb 91       -    World Bank approved reallocation of the proceeds of the credit
and subsequently decreased its percentage financing to
accommodate the Malo Road subproject.
20 Feb 91      -     Site establishment for Malo Road under PWD by force
account.
20 Feb 91     -      Commencement of Gamalmaua school construction underTari
Vira Contractor.



24
Appendix 1
Page 10 of 10
8 Jul 91       -      Diversion of Bank/IDA-financed road construction equipment
to carry out other work under instruction from the Minister of
Public Works, affecting Project implementation.
13 Dec 91      -     The Government requested the Bank for extension of loan
closing date to 15 March 1992.
30 Dec 91      -     World Bank established 31 December 1992 as the new credit
closing date in response to the Government's request.
31 Dec 91      -     The Government further requested the Bank for extension of
the loan closing date to 31 December 1992 (3rd Extension)
instead of 15 March 1992.
4 Feb 92       -     The Bank approved extension of loan closing date to 31
December 1992.
12 Feb 92            The Bank informed the Government of approval of the
extension of loan closing date to 31 December 1992.
17 Mar 92      -     SPRO received FY1 990 audited project accounts.
15 Jul 92      -     SPRO  received FY1991  unaudited statement of project
accounts
31 Sep 92            SPRO received FY1991 audited project accounts.
Nov 92         -     Shortlisting and selection of staff consultants with expertise in
port and harbor design and construction to assist the Bank
PCR Mission.
20 Nov 92      -     SPRO's request for staff consultant for the PCR Mission was
submitted to BPHR-SC for action.
30 Nov 92      -     Staff Consultant began assignment under PCR Mission at
SPRO.
6-11 Dec 92    -     PCR Mission site inspection fielded.
3 Jun 93       -     Loan was closed.



25                                           Append ix 2
Vanuatu Multiproject
I Subproject          I Island       ILocation                           Remarks
A. Wharves
1.          Ambae           Nduindui       Fairly well constructed. Orientation & location
appear not suitable. Old landing still being used.
2.          Ambae           Lolopuepue    Well constructed. Several rock outcrops need removal
at the approach. Suitable location.
3.           Maewo          Narovorovo     Damaged by storm during construction.
Construction completed as landing stage.
Concrete bag wall in poor condition. Causeway
& wharf are in an exposed location.
4.          Epi             Lamen Bay      Exhibit signs of serious damage. Problem with
depth of water, and channel is not clear of coral
Landina Staces                                      head. Serious logitutinal cracks of the deck.
Erosion under concrete bag wall and slumping.
l   5.      Paama           Liro           Well constructed. Location seems reasonable
but appears unsuitable for copra shipment.
6.          Vanua Lava      Sola           Landing stage is behind the reet & dry at low tide.
Difficult to approach at high tide because of
B. I Roads Improvement                                  presence of coral heads. Deck gererally in good
condition.
7.          Ambae           Nduindui       Surface condition generally goocd
Drainage in general is satisfactory
8.          Ambae           Lolopuepue     Surface condition. generally good. Side drainage
and grass shoulder need maintaining
9.          Maewo           Narovorovo     Surface condition, fair. Vegetation growth at the
mid -section on most of the roacway
10.          Epi            Lamen Bay      Road formation was not properly constructed
though surface condition appears sat stactory.
11.          Paama          Liro           Surface condition generally good  Drainage
system appears effective.
12.          Vanua Lava     Sola           Surface condition fair Some sect ons of the
road and ford crossing need maintenance.
13.          Malo           W. Malo        Generally in good condition Side drainage is
14l                                        properly done.
14.          Espiritu Santo   Luganville   Generally in very good condition (double chip
|I.                                                      seaIlroad).
lC  Schools UDarading                                    elra)
15.          Espiritu Santo   Shark Bay    Well constructed. Generally in very good
condition.
16.          Espiritu Santo   South Santo    Well constructed. Generally In very good
condition.
17.          Ambae          Lolovoli       Well constructed. Generally ir gooc condition.
18.          Ambae          Naivele        Well constructed. Generally in good condition.
19.          Maewo          Asanwari       Well constructed. Generally in good condition.
20.          Pentecost      Lisasanamal    Well constructed. Generally in good condition
21.          Pentecost      Owatnapni      Well constructed. Generally in gooc condition
22.          Pentecost      Gamalmaua    Well constructed. Generally in good condition.
23.          Pentecost      Atavtabanga    Well constructed. Generally in very good
I              I _   | condition.
(Reference in text: page 5, para. 5)



26                                ApDendix 3
Page 1 of 4
|  o tO  (              Xc 8  ffi 8  ; !    e  z0
\ X~~~~~~~~~~~~~-            is:. 
o\ -_
I.               .                       Z g  a -.5  t
!~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ !   -c !a 0, t
.  *  .                            N>. ''C
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  -U I.
7                      2<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
(Reference in text: page 5, para. 5)



1                ' .,.\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4, 
5- X e6 -L
Alt  S m .h&Ey Ali
-  -                                              :NAAOVOflOVO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A?lFFAISAL   ~       I~X 
'         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
NAROVORIOVO. MAEWO
SUflVEY& DEVELOPMENJT POFOPOSAL        I
'v,,                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(WMo  POSFOP.P REPORT)  
j  0 (    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~POSFOIID,PAVIIYI IAlIINtOIS 



A
8         ,1                 !    .                                  9(C.                                                                      1
1'  I  ,.'''                  1X\                                 1                            1APIA
./  I          ,                                                                                    /XA   ra   I  XPAA *A
'A         Xi    ~~~~~~FOOISAiL                                   .-
/               /    *8"    | aFF     $^I                             X P11C                              1*805      \ 
~~~~~~~~~~~I                                   /                             ,,                                       V,.,  IOL....Ic
In ,
1,,      ,,,                                      1    1                  .S/M
*                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA& I
o!  X   ;NAL  0             '                                          .w;. os
,, , , ,, Fr~~~P-orosto                            ),X  3S               rE i 2"osl Z t:aw
i , ;g 1 wi  *  '                                                                                  LIYrolI A
|  9  C  /  f1    1 '; ',                    g {-111Z0~~l   I G  Elz
LOtArIoID                  i~      S$~O)c                           LIRO. PAAMA
PCX?PRT MM-APD
'An) N WA $              SURVEY A DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL                 > >
P*SF.OlO,PAVfn &PAIIINERS            o  X
v Ov



F.,|"                                                                                       PITCHNBA.  P
gq ^" le"g    r7n *."0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S*.O
lous"'    "'                       DRAW'''N
I | &A,@_, ,  g /_1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L4I.,.
7I                         'X
*5~ ~ ~              X
LA E    BY  PIOR
7] ~~~~~w.smu.  3..).',,                                                                                        SURVEY  DEVEL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POPMENAL OOA
46-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
LAMEN BAY. EPII



30
Xi                                         s
O'. 
i'1                     s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
! , 
Cl
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o~~~~~ _
j.z                          .       _
. =~~~~~~~~~~~~



31
Appendix 5
Page 1 of 3
Compliance with Major Loan Covenants
Reference in
Particular Covenants                        Loan Agreement  Compliance
Covenants relative to Effectiveness
1. The Agreement for the IDA Credit shall have  Section 6.01  Complied
been duly authorized or ratified by, and                  with.
executed and delivered on behalf of the
Borrower and all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness shall have been made for the
fulfillment thereof within a period of time
satisfactory to the Bank.
2. The Technical Assistance Agreement shall   Section 6.01   Complied
have been duly authorized or ratified by an               with.
executed and delivered on behalf of the
Government of Republic of Vanuatu and
shall be legally binding upon the
Government in accordance with the terms.
Covenants relative to Proiect Implementation
1. Availability of funds, facilities, services, land,  Section 4.02  Complied
and other resources, in addition to the Loan              with.
proceeds.
2. Empioyment of competent and qualified    Section 4.03     Complied
consultants and contractors, on terms and                 with.
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank.
3. Each subproject to be carried out in     Section 4.03 (b)   Complied
accordance with plans, design standards,                  with.
specifications, work schedules and
construction methods acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank. Submit such
documents to the Bank for approval.
4. Insurance of Project facilities.         Section 4.05     Not complied
with.
(Reference in text: page 10, para. 19)



32
A1Dendix 5
Page 2 of 3
Reference in
Particular Covenants                      Loan Agreement  Compliance
5. Submission of audited accounts and      Section 4.06 (b)   Complied
financial statements and the report of the              with.
auditors relating thereto, all in English.
6. Submission of progress reports on the  Section 4.07 (b)   Complied
carrying out of the Project and except for              with except
delayed on the operation and management                for delayed
of Project facilities.                                  submission.
7  Preparation and submission to with Bank,    Section 4.07 (c)   Complied
Borrower's report on the except for delayed             with except
execution and initial operation of the                  for delayed
Project.                                                submission.
8. The Executing Agency for the Project shall   Schedule 4,  Complied
be PWD. The Director of PWD shall be the   para. 1      with.
Project Coordinator who shall be
responsible for the overall coordination and
execution of the Project.
9. Appointment of Project Manager from PWD   Schedule 4,   Complied
in consultation with the Bank who shall  para. 2        with.
oversee the day-to-day implementation of
the Project.
10. Establishment of Project Coordination  Schedule 4,     Complied
Committee. Project Coordinator shall serve  para. 3     with.
as Chairman and consist of senior officials
from N PSO, MOE, MTCW and the
Department of Local Government.
11. In connection with subprojects relating to    Schedule 4,  Complied
wharves, landing stages and road       para. 7          with.
improvement, Borrower shall, at the time of
submission of subproject appraisal, provide
a copy of formal agreement executed
between the concerned Local Govemment
Council and the Borrower.



33
A!oendix 5
Page 3 of 3
Reference in
Particular Covenants                       Loan Agreement  Compliance
12. Borrower shall, with the assistance of the  Schedule 4,  Not complied
TA consultants, work with the concerned  para. 10        with.
LGCs to establish tariffs for the use of the
wharves and landing stages constructed
under the Project at levels that are: (i) at
commencement of operations adequate to
recover at least the cost of operation and
maintenance of the facility; and (ii) within a
period to be agreed upon by the Borrower
and the Bank, adequate to recover full
capital, operation and maintenance costs.
The tariffs shall be set by the Borrower after
consultation with the Bank.
13. Ensure all lands, rights in the lands and  Schedule 4,  Complied
other rights and privileges required for the    para. 12  with.
Project and all subprojects are acquired or
made available on the timely basis.
14. Appointment of Supervisor by PWD       Schedule 4,      Complied
responsible for monitoring progress of  para. 13         with.
works on the other island wharves and
landing stages to be constructed under the
Project.
15. The Borrower shall ensure that the     Schedule 4,      Not complied
concerned LGCs shall be responsible for    para. 9 (a)   with.
the operation of the outer island wharves
and landing stages constructed under the
Project.
16. PWD shall be responsible for:          Schedule 4,      Not complied
(i) maintenance of all roads improved under  para. 9 (c)  with.
the Project, using the equipment procured
under the Project, and (ii) all wharves and
landing stages constructed under the
Project.



34
Appendix 6
DISBURSEMENT OF LOAN PROCEEDS
($'000)
Appraisai Estimate                                           Actual
Year                   Quarter                  Amount                  Cumulative                  Amount                  Cumulative
1986                       IV                                                                                 76.031
Total                          286.30                    286.30                      76.03                     76.03
1987                        I                                                                                   0.34                    76.37
____________rr                           ____________                           108.43                    184.80
III                                                                               56.56                    241.36
IV                                                                               505.41                    746.77
Total                        1,130.90                 1,417.20                     670.74                    746.77
1988                        I                                                                                213.27                    960.04
r___________                         II                                     }                                            0.00                  960.04
ill_________   _____________  _____________  _____________                        017.71                   977.75
IV                                                                     0.00           .1                   977.75
_____ _  Total              __1,002.80   __2,420.00                                          230.98                    977.75
1989                        I                                                                1              223.19                  1,200.94
II__________  II                                                                158.17                  1,359.11
___________                           ll           __________ _                                       1 0286.68                             1,645.79
r __________                       IV              _                                                                   99.881               1,745.67
L___________                     Total                           305.40                 2,725.40                     767.92                 1,745.67
1990                        I                                                                                 86.72                 1,832.39
11___________  II  _____________         _____________                          562.94                 2,395.33
_____I___ _      16.33[               2,411.66
IV             _                          _                                         o.oo0 l             2,411.66
1991                        I                            _                                                  274.621                 2,686.28
i___________                         11              ____________r                                     I              532.60                 3,218.88
____________                        Ill             _____________  ____________                                        13.261               3,232.14
IV                                                                               189.121                3,421.26
1992                        I                                                                                 18.84                 3,440.10
II           1________________ 1                                 !_____________ _   o oo0.00           3,440.10
lII            _________________  1  ________________  1                            2.59                3,442.69
IV                                     .1                         1                 0.00                3,442.69
1993                        I               ______o_oo 1                                                                            3,442.69
_____________  II  _____________         _____________j                          260.23    1            3,702.92
l                          IV            l                          l                        l                         l~I
GRAND TOTAL                                                                1            3,702.92                  3,702.92
(Reference in text: page 11, para. 23)



35
16600O'E                                                                            170000E
TO7IM AWS
GyUOTA LAVA
VANUATU
VANUA LAVA                              MULTIPROJECT LOAN
LOCATION OF PROJECT FACILITIES
SANTA MAR IA(
*AN5S 5SLAS (3
,AERE LAVA
-15"00S                                                                                                         15 is000.5
ESPIRITU SANT7
AMBA E
ORE                .     PENTECOST
MALA U
~   AMA
EPI
S o u t h  P a c I f I c   O ce a n           SEHEMS 6LAKS
-ttk~    EFATE
0        50       100
Kilornemers                                   r   Y       MPO
19,1000        LEGENO:    i5J                                                                                 19000'7M
O     National Capital
*     Wharl/Landong Stage Construction                                  A
*     SChool Rc' ontruction                                  I         3ANIWA
*     RoodS Without Wharf/L.andno Sta"                TANINA
-1900-S ~   ~      1003UD&dn
Roao, LiDmadong,l                                                        cC)tr I
F UTU N A
166cloo-E                                               ^NATOM (~~~~'706ANAlO



