CREDIT MHBER 1666 VA
Development Credit Agreement
(Multiproject Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1986


﻿CREDIT NMBER 1666 VA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 ., 1986,
between REPUBLIC OF VANUATU (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Asian Develop-
ment Bank (the ADB) a loan (the ADB Loan) from the ADB's Special
Funds resources in various currencies equivalent to two million
eight   hundred  twenty-two   thousand   Special  Drawing   Rights
(SDR 2,822,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions to be set forth in an agreement between the
Borrower and the ADB (the ADB Loan Agreement);
(C) the Borrower also intends to obtain from the ADB a
technical assistance grant (the TA Grant) up to the equivalent of
two hundred seventy thousand dollars ($270,000) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions to be set forth
in an agreement between the Borrower and the ADB (the ADB Tech-
nical Assistance Agreement);
(D) the ADB and the Association intend to enter into an
agreement, a copy of which agreement will be furnished to the
Borrower (the Administration Letter), making arrangements for the
ADB to process applications tor withdrawal of the proceeds of the
financing to be provided severally by the ADB and the Association
and regulating certain other matters of common interest in con-
nection with such financing; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,


﻿-2-
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section, 1.02.  Unless the   context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "Project   Executing   Agency"  means   PWD   which   is
responsible for the carrying out of the Project;
(b)  "Project facilities" means the facilities to be pro-
vided, constructed or upgraded under the Project;
(c)  "PWD" means the Public Works Department of the Ministry
of Transport, Communication and Public Works of the Borrower; and
(d) "Sub-project" means a specific sub-project included, or
proposed to be included, in the Project, for financing out of the
proceeds of the ADB Loan and/or the Credit.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 1,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.


﻿- 3 -
(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions specified by the Association.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1989 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The A'.ocia-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later dace.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-'ialf of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1996, and ending
March 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this Rnd, shall carry out the P-oject with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation on the provisio-as of paragraph (a)
above, except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall carry out or cause to be carried out all of the
obligations set forth in Schedule 4 to the ADB Loan Agreement.
References to the ADB in such Schedule shall be read for the
purpose of this Agreement to be references to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the ADB Loan
Agreement provided always that suppliers and contractors in
countries in respect of which withdrawals from the Credit Account
may be made pursuant to Section 5.01 of the General Conditions
shall be eligible to compete in providing such goods, works and
consultant's services. References to the "Bank" and the "Loan" in
such Schedule shall be read for the purposes of this Agreement to
be references to the Association and the Credit, respectively.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Sections 3.01 (b) and
3.02, the provisions of Schedules 4 and 3 of the ADB Loan Agree-
ment shall continue to remain in force and effect as if said
provisions were fully set forth in such Sections, notwithstanding
the termination of the ADB Loan Agreement, the ADB Technical
Assistance Agreement, or the Administration Letter.
Section 3.04. The Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, delegate to the ADB under an administration letter, for


﻿- 5 -
the duration of such period as may be set forth in the Admini);-
tration Letter, any or all of its functions and responsibilities
under Articles II, III and IV of this Agreement and the Borrower
shall comply with the provisions of the said Articles as if the
ADB is substituted for the Association therein. The obligation of
the Borrower to comply with said Articles II, III and IV shall
continue in force and effect notwithstanding any termination or
suspension of such delegated functions and responsibilities to
the ADB under the Administration Letter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall mantain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently  applied,   by  independent  auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿-6-
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain,   until  at   least  one  year   after  the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all  records   (contracts,   orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that:
(a)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the ADB Loan or the TA Grant shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing tberefor, or
(B) the ADB Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that: (A) such suspension,


﻿-7 -
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that any events specified in paragraph (a) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (a) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the ADB Loan, other than the effectiveness of
this Agreement, shall have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance, Commerce, Industry
and Tourism of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance, Commerce,
Industry and Tourism
P.O. Box 31
Port Vila
Republic of Vanuatu


﻿-8-
Telex:
1040 VANGOV NH
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Manila, Republic of the
Philippines, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
By /5/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Director
East Asia and Pacific
Country Programs Department


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works: road           350,000         50%
construction
(2) Equipment: road             550,000          100% of foreign
construction                               expenditures
(3) Wharf construc-             800,000         80%
tion
(4) Unallocated                 200,000
TOTAL               1,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of t1he Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the Bor-
rower's economic base and to revitalize existing productive
projects.
The Project consists of individual Sub-projects in the
public sector, selected or to be selected by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
The identification, preparation, appraisal and implementa-
tion of each Sub-project shall be carried out in accordance with
criteria acceptable to the Borrower and the Association. An
appraisal report shall be prepared by the Borrower in respect of
each Sub-project and submitted to the Association. The financing
of a Sub-project under the Credit shall be conditional on the
Association's approval of that Sub-project on the basis of the
appraisal report in respect of that Sub-project.
The Sub-projects tentatively selected for inclusion in the
Project are:
Outer Island Wharves and Landing Stages; Road Improvements
to Port Sites; Upgrading of Primary School Buildings; and
Detailed Engineering Design for Santo Port.
By agreement between the Borrower and the Association, Sub-
projects may be added to, or substituted for, those above tenta-
tive Sub-projects, provided that the required financing from the
Association and the ADB for the Project does not exceed the
amount of the Credit and the ADB Loan respectively.
The appraisal reports for all the Sub-projects will be sub-
mitted to the Association in sufficient time to allow for
approval by the Association and completion of the Sub-projects
prior to the expected completion date of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    zi      day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


