Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15516-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH RURAL WATER SUPPLY
AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
May 28, 1996
Agriculture and Water Operations Division
South Asia Country Department
(Bhutan, India, Nepal)



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS AND UNITS
Currency Unit   =   Rupee
US$1.00         =   Rs. 34.00
US$0.029             Rs. 1. 0
I Lakh          =   Rs. 100,000
I Crore         =   Rs. 10 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
FISCAL YEAR
Government of India, Government of Uttar Pradesh-April I to March 31



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAP                   Community Action Plan
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CGWB                  Central Groundwater Board
CP-HE                 Community Participation - Health Education
CRSP                  Central Rural Sanitation Program
DOH                   Department of Health
DPMUs                 District Project Management Units
DWCRA                 Development of Women and Children in Rural Areas
ERR                   Economic Rate of Return
GOI                   Government of India
GOUP                  Government of Uttar Pradesh
GP                    Gram Panchayat
HE                    Hygiene Education
HESA                  Hygiene and Environmental Sanitation Awareness
IBRD                  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
JRY                   Jawahar Rojgar Yojana
MNP                   Minimum Needs Programme
MOA                   Ministry of Agriculture
NMRAE                 Ministry of Rural Areas and Employment
NDWM                  National Drinking Water Mission
O&M                   Operations and Maintenance
PHED                  Public Health and Engineering Departments
PMU                   Project Management Unit
PRD                   Panchayati Raj Department
RWSES                 Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation
SHEB                  State Health Education Bureau
SO                    Support Organizations
STAC                  Staff Technical Appraisal Committee
UDD                   Urban Development Department
UPJS                  U.P Jal Sansthan
VWSC                  Village Water and Sanitation Committee
WSS                   Water Supply and Sanitation



I



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH RURAL WATER SUPPLY
AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY  .............................................................. .....                  i
I.  RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION SECTOR  I
Country Background ..............................................................                I
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Service Levels ............................................    I
Sector Organization        ....................      ........................................... 4
Government Policies and Programs                                                                 5
Sectoral Issues .6............................................................... 6
Extemal Financing of Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation ..........                  8
Bank's Prior Experience in India . ............................................................... 9
Lessons Learned from Past Bank Lending    ....................................................... 9
Rationale for Bank Support and Link to the CAS ............................................    10
II.     THE PROJECT  .......................................   11
Project Origin ............................................  11
Project Area ............................................  12
Project Development Objectives ............................................    12
Project Description ............................................  12
Project Costs ............................................   16
Financing Plan ............................................  17
III.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .......................................   18
Status of Project Preparation ............................................   18
Organization and Management ............................................  18
Implementation Strategy ............................................  19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Uttar Pradesh, India, from March
6 to April 1, 1996. The mission comprised Messrs./Mmes. Xavier Legrain (SA2AW) and Dianne Hughes
(ASTEN) (co-Task Managers); Robert Robelus (ENVLW); Esme Abedin (ASTEN); Julie Viloria
(ASTTP); G.V. Abhyankar (SA2NA), Salman Salman (LEGSA); Ava Shresthra, Geoffrey Dent,
Devendra Gupta (Consultants). Wendy Wakeman (ENVSP), Andrew Macoun (MN2NE), and Ramesh
Ramankutty (ASTEN) are peer reviewers. The project was endorsed by Shawki Barghouti, Division
Chief, (SA2AW), Kazuko Uchimura, Project Adviser, and Heinz Vergin, Director, South Asia Country
Department II.



IV. PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS, ACCOUNTS,
MONITORING AND EVALUATION                           ..............................................  28
Procurement            .............................................. 28
Disbursements ..............................................                           30
Accounts, Audits, and Reporting                   ............................ .       31
Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision          ..............................................  33
V.      FINANCIAL ANALYSIS, BENEFITS, COSTS AND RISKS ...................................  35
Financial Analysis ..............................................  35
Willingness to Pay, Affordability and Poverty Alleviation ...................................  36
Environmental Assessment .............................................. 39
Promotion of the Private Sector ..............................................  39
Impacts on Women ..............................................  40
Economic Analysis ..............................................  40
Risks ..............................................                                   47
VI.    AGREEMENTS  AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..............................................   49
ANNEXES
1.      Detailed Project Description
2.      Design Criteria
3.      Terms of Reference for Main Project Financed Studies
4.      Social Assessment
5.      Detailed Cost Estimates
6.      Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project Management Unit (PMU)
Memorandum of Association and Rules
7.      Project Management Unit Organizational Structure
8.      District Project Management Unit Organizational Structure
9.      Project Implementation Schedule
10.     Draft Strategic Plan for the Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Sector
11.     Transfer of Policy Making Responsibility for Rural Water Supply Sector to an Interim
Committee
12.     Transfer of Policy Making for Rural Water Supply Sector to Rural Development
Department
13.     GOUP Order on Village Water and Sanitation Committee
14.     Detailed Scheme Cycle
15.     Eligibility Criteria
16.     Cost Recovery Policy
17.     Disbursement Schedule
18.     Project Monitoring Indicators
19.     Supervision Plan
20.     Environmental Assessment
21.     Economic Analysis Data
22.     Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP: IBRD  27982 - Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
SANITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           India, acting by its President
Executing Agency:  Department of Rural Development
Beneficiary:        The State of Uttar Pradesh
Amount:             IBRD loan of US$59.6 million equivalent
Terms:              Loan repayable in twenty years, including five years of grace, at
standard variable interest rate.
On-lending Terms:  From GOI to Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) under
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the states
of India. GOI would assume the foreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives:  The project has two main objectives. The first objective is to
deliver sustainable health and hygiene benefits to the rural
population, through improvements in water supply and
environmental sanitation services, which will increase rural
incomes through time savings and income opportunities for
women, test an alternative to the current supply driven service
delivery mechanism and promote sanitation and gender awareness.
The second objective is to promote the long-term sustainability of
the rural water supply and sanitation sector by providing assistance
to GOUP to identify and implement an appropriate policy
framework and strategic plan.
Project Description: The project is conceived to support a package of demand-driven
investments in selected districts in the State of Uttar Pradesh and a
process of policy reform in the State. The proposed project would
have three main components. The first is the strengthening and
operation of the Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMiU
would be responsible for selecting support organizations, using
transparent eligibility criteria, helping communities to prepare



- ii -
and implement rural water supply and environmental sanitation
schemes (schemes); appraising, selecting, and financing schemes
that fulfill eligibility criteria, and monitoring major scheme-
related activities. The second component is the selection and
construction of water supply and environmental sanitation
facilities for single and regional schemes. This component
would finance improvements of water supply and environmental
sanitation services for about 1,000 communities for a design
population of about 1.2 million. Single schemes include a
maximum of two villages, and regional schemes include more
than two villages. This component would include community
development activities and the construction of water supply and
environmental sanitation schemes. Community development
activities would promote active participation of the communities
in all stages of decisions about the planning, construction, and
management of their scheme, to increase local ownership and
effective use and sustainability. These activities comprise
capacity building such as community mobilization and
organization and nonformal education; hygiene and
environmental sanitation awareness, and women's development
initiatives including orientation and training. Construction of
water supply and environmental sanitation schemes includes
financing for pre-feasibility studies, design, construction, and
construction monitoring for water supply schemes, human waste
disposal, drainage, environmental management, and catchment
protection. The third component is studies and sector
development. This component would support a major policy
study whose objective would be to help the GOUP identify the
issues affecting sector performance and formulate appropriate
policy reforms for the sector. The component will also support a
major statewide awareness campaign on sanitation and gender
issues and selected studies on sectoral issues.
Poverty:              Over half of project beneficiaries would be in the poverty group.
However, the project is not specifically targeting poverty as it
operates with entire communities, based upon their demand for
rural water supply and environmental sanitation services rather
than their poverty.
Environment:          The project is rated Category B. Several environmental mitigation
measures have been included in the project design, and the project is
expected to have a net positive effect on the environment.



- jjj -
Scheme prefeasibility and feasibility studies will be carried out prior
to construction and will include an environmental assessment. One
of the scheme funding eligibility criteria requires that scheme
proposals include adequate provisions to mitigate any identified
adverse environmental impact.
Benefits:              Direct project beneficiaries would be approximately 1.2 million
rural inhabitants who would benefit from improved water supply
and environmental sanitation services through both time savings in
collecting water and better health from more and cleaner water,
improved health knowledge, and better hygiene practices. Women
would also be major beneficiaries. In addition, they would benefit
through being full members of the Village Water and Sanitation
Committees responsible for the project at community level and
through specific components designed to empower them. The
process of policy reforms promoted under the project would bring
lasting benefits to rural communities throughout the State of Uttar
Pradesh.
Risks:                 The principal risks of the project are: there may be resistance to the
approach promoted by the project, particularly in carrying out the
demand-led approach envisaged; more time and effort than now
foreseen may be required to build capacity in support organizations,
communities, and the Project Management Unit (PMU), implying a
shortfall in implementation from the current forecast; and financial
sustainability of the schemes may not materialize. For the first risk,
considerable effort and resources have been allocated under the
project to provide training to PMU/District Project Management
Units (DPMUs) as well as support organization (SO) staff and
project beneficiaries. In addition, the project's monitoring system
.Will carefully review PMIU/DPMU, SO, and beneficiary
performance in this respect. This issue would also be closely
monitored by supervision missions. Should the second risk
materialize, the main consequence would be that fewer schemes
would be financed during the project period. Intensive monitoring
and evaluation are intended to highlight any problems as they arise,
and to enable the PMU to fashion appropriate solutions. For the
third risk, the strict application of transparent and objective
eligibility criteria should ensure that only those villages that
demonstrate a strong commitment to contributing to costs are
selected. To mitigate this risk, a strong monitoring system is
proposed under the project. In addition independent audits will be
carried out to ensure strict adherence to agreements regarding
application of eligibility criteria.



- iv -
Estimated project cost (US$ million equivalent):
Local Foreien Total
Strengthening and operation of the PMU          6 5   1 0   7 5
Selection and construction of schemes          50.1        50.1
Studies and sector development                  1.5   0.7   2.2
Base cost                                      58.1   1.7  59.8
Physical contingency                            3.7   0.1   3.8
Price contingency                               7.3   0.1   7.4
Total project cost                             69.1   1.9  71.0
Note: The above costs include an estimated US$3.9 million in taxes.
Financing plan (US$ million equivalent):
IBRD                                           57.7   1.9  59.6
Communities                                     7.6   ---   7.6
GOUP                                            3.8   ---   3.8
Total project cost                             69.1   1.9  71.0
Estimated disbursements (US$ million):
Bank fiscal year                      1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002
Annual cumulative disbursement         2.2  8.7  20.7  38.7  50.2  59.6
Economic Rate of Return:                    20% (whole project)



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH RURAL WATER SUPPLY
AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
I. RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION SECTOR
Country Background
1.01      In spite of significant government investments in rural water supply in India, almost
half (43%) of the country's predominantly rural population does not have access to an adequate
supply of safe drinking water. Sanitation is even worse, with less than 10 % percent of the rural
population having access to sanitary latrines. In addition, public facilities for drainage are poor.
As a result, water-related diseases are a major health problem in India, particularly for infants and
children. There are unofficial estimates that as many as 80% of all children have some form of
diarrheal disease (including common diarrhea) each year. There are area-specific problems of
water-related diseases such as guinea worm and fluorosis. Also, villagers spend a considerable
amount of time in collecting water for domestic use, averaging 1-3 hours per day; in arid or hilly
locations they spend even more time. The problem is aggravated by underdesigned water supply
systems and poor operation and maintenance (O&M). Therefore, a reliable, safe source of
domestic water supply linked to improved environmental sanitation is a necessary precondition for
improving health standards and economic productivity in Indian villages.
1.02      According to the 1991 census, India's population was 845 million, of which 627
million (74%) lived in the rural areas. The rural population living in over 1.3 million habitations'
(586,000 revenue villages2) is growing at 2% per annum. Overall infant mortality rate has fallen
from 116 per 1,000 births to about 80 per 1,000 births in 10 years but remains very high
compared to most countries. Similarly, maternal mortality at 550 per 10,000 births is three times
that of Sri Lanka and ten times that of China. The productivity of the population is reduced by
high incidence of diseases. In 1991, overall literacy for people above the age of seven stood at
52%; for women, the rate was 39%. In 1986-87, 70% of rural females and 43% of rural males
above six years of age had never enrolled in any educational institution. In 1987-88, it was
estimated that over 33% of the rural population lived below the poverty line.
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Service Levels
1.03      The Government of India (GOI) norm3 for providing drinking water supply facilities in
rural areas requires 40 liters of potable water per person per day in all areas for human beings and
I     "Habitation" refers to a hamlet within a village.
2     Section 3 (25) of the Uttar Pradesh Zamindari Abolition Land Reform Act, 1950, defines a revenue village
as "any local area whether compact or otherwise recorded as a village in the revenue records of the
District concerned and includes an area which the State Government may, by a general or special order
declare to be a village". The revenue village may comprise several hamlets, but the entire village is
treated as one unit.
3     Rajiv Gandhi National Drinking Water Mission.



- 2 -
an additional 30 liters per person per day in Desert Development Program areas for drinking
water requirements of cattle. Habitations that are not getting a full supply of 40 lpcd are treated as
partially covered and require augmentation facilities to bring them to the 40 Ipcd level. If the
habitations are not getting safe drinking water within a distance of 1.6 km in plains and within 100
meters elevation difference in hilly areas, these are treated as not covered. The habitations having
more than 40 lpcd of potable water are termed fully covered. According to the norm, one source
should be provided for 250 people. The norm is more liberal for schedule castes, schedule tribes
and hilly areas depending on actual needs.
1.04     GOI carried out an extensive nationwide survey4 in 1994 to reassess the water supply
and sanitation situation in the country's 1.3 million habitations. The survey found the following:
Not covered habitations          10.69%
Partially covered habitations    32.64%
Fully covered habitations        56.67%
It was found that, of the 430,400 partially covered habitations, some 45% had lower than a 20
Ipcd supply.
1.05     About 80% of the existing water supply systems are based on handpumps, and only
about 20% are based on piped water systems tapped either from surface or ground water sources.
H-ill states usually adopt piped systems since drilling for handpumps in these areas is generally not
possible. Rivers, rivulets, and springs are tapped for drinking water to these regions.
1.06     Because of the wide geographic diversity and range of incomes among and within
states, rural water supply service levels range from traditional open wells and handpumps to
urban-style piped water supply schemes with treatment plants and a small proportion of private
connections. Due to poor power supply and lack of water, piped water is available only a few
hours a day. Many Indian villages often have small hamlets that are located at some distance from
the main village. Field studies indicate that use of safe water sources is minimal beyond about 150
meters if alternative water source, even polluted ones, are available. Thus, even if a safe source is
provided, a much smaller population will actually use the source because of distance to the source
or social factors such as caste (members of high and lower castes may not share the same water
source).
1.07     In addition to use, poor O&M of facilities is a major problem. About one-third of
rural water sources are out of operation at any one time. Taking into consideration the distance
which people are willing to walk to obtain water, social factors, and likely down time, it is
estimated that one-half or more of the rural population are still using traditional, polluted sources
of water.
1.08     Rural environmental sanitation facilities are defined in broad terms to include private
and community latrines, public sullage and storm drainage systems, soak pits (private household
Report of the Survey on the Status of Drinking Water Supply in Rural Habitation, GOI.



- 3 -
disposal of sullage water), washing platforms, bathing cubicles (for women), cattle troughs,
garbage and dung disposal. The lack of these facilities, especially in larger villages (populations
over 1,000), combined with inadequate hygiene practices and polluted water sources, contribute
to the spread of water-related diseases.
1.09     It is estimated that less than 10% of the rural population have access to sanitary
latrines. In many cases where latrines have been provided under government-sponsored
programs, they are not used because of individual preferences for open fields. However, demand
for latrines is increasing, in more densely populated areas where privacy and security, particularly
for women, are a problem.
1.10     Uttar Pradesh. According to the 1991 census, the State of Uttar Pradesh had a
population of 139 million, of which over 80% live in rural areas. Uttar Pradesh is also one of the
poorest states in India, with an annual per capita income in 1991-92 of only Rs. 4,012 ( current
prices), 29% below the average for the country. In 1988, an estimated 41.2% of the population
was below the poverty line, a proportion surpassed only in Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, and Orissa.
1.11     Hydrology. The Gangetic alluvial plain, situated between the Himalayan zone in the
north and the Bundelkhand and Vindhayan Regions in the south of Uttar Pradesh contains the
richest and the largest water resources. A series of aquifer horizons underlie it within the
maximum achieved drilling depth of 750 meters. Individual aquifer systems vary in thickness from
30-100 meters. There are also extensive entrapped brackish to saline aquifers in depths of 180-
250 meters in the region. In the north, sedimentary and metamorphic rocks underlie the rugged
Himalayan zone, and groundwater occurs in isolated patches and emerges in numerous perennial
springs. The Vindhayan and Bundelkhand Regions in the south have sand, limestone and granite
formations with very poor groundwater resources. In the regions between the plains and the
Himalayan zone are sub-zones created by sediments of emerging streams from the Himalayas that,
in general, have good ground-water resources.
1.12     Rivers. The whole of Uttar Pradesh lies in the catchment area of the Ganges, which
divides the state into northern and southern parts. At the Bangladeshi border, the Ganges
discharges at average 38,000 cubic meters per second at peak and 2,000 cubic meters per second
at the low flows. The Rivers Chambal, Betwa, and Yamuna are major tributaries from the
southern side of Ganga, and Ramganga and Gomti Rivers are from the northern side. All these
major rivers have perennial flows.
1.13     Climate. The climate in Uttar Pradesh is subtropical except in the Himalayas, where it
approaches the humid, temperate type. Average maximum temperatures in May vary between
43°C in the south and 33°C in the north, and average minimum temperatures in January vary
between 20C in the south to below zero in the hill regions in the north. Monsoon rains start in
mid-June and end mid-September. They come from either south east or south west. The normal
rainfall ranges from 550-3300 mm. The lowest rainfall areas are those in the belt, formed by the
districts from Mathura, Agra and Jalaum with only 600-800 mm. annually, followed by the belt in
the south, stretching from Jhansi to Allahabad with 800-1000 mm., then the belt in the south east
stretching from Sonebhadra to Deoria with 1000-1200 mm. The hill area in the north receives



- 4 -
1400-1600 mm: but the Dehradun and Nainital districts have over 1600 mm. At higher elevations
there is snowfall in winter.
1.14     Uttar Pradesh was one of the first states to provide at least one safe drinking water
source for all villages. However, water consumption is still quite low, particularly during the dry
seasons, and there are strong regional differences within Uttar Pradesh. Out of a total of 275,000
habitations or 112,566 revenue villages (villages) in Uttar Pradesh, some 12% are still not
covered, and over 38% are only partially covered. Only about 15% of the habitations are provided
with piped water systems. Multi-village piped water systems face many operational problems, and
many of the villages they are intended to serve do not receive water at all. These systems also
need rehabilitation and augmentation to cope with population growth.
1.15     Sanitation levels are below the national average, with 2.5% of the population using
latrines. Many of the latrines built under government programs are not being used by the
villagers. Apart from low availability of water, a target-oriented, top-down delivery system has
been the main reason for the inappropriate supply of facilities. There is lack of proper drainage in
most villages, and household wastewater on village pathways, lanes, and streets is a common
sight. Furthermore, in most villages no effective system of garbage or cattle-dung disposal is
followed.
Sector Organization
1.16     Under India's constitution, rural water supply and environmental sanitation are state
governments' responsibility. However, the GOI does have an important function in setting the
general policy direction and providing funds and technical assistance through the Ministry of
Rural Areas and Employment. State-government-led delivery systems generally fit into three
generic models: (a) Model 1: Fully state-run. A single state-owned agency or a government
department (e.g., Kerala Water Authority, Public Health Engineering Departments of Punjab and
Haryana, UP Jal Nigam and Jal Sansthans of Uttar Pradesh); (b) Model 2: Partly state-run. A
large government organization carries out planning, construction, and O&M, but the local or
district government institutions for single/multi village schemes (e.g., Maharashtra Water Supply
and Sewerage Board, Zilla Parishads and Gram Panchayats) oversee O&M; and (c) Model 3:
Decentralized system. Here a small state level agency is responsible for macro-planning and
formulation of the state budget, but district governments carry out micro-planning and
construction, and the Gram Panchayats (e.g., Kamataka Public Health Engineering Department,
Zilla Parishad and Gram Panchayats), O&M. In the three models both Central and State
Governments finance 100% of the capital costs and subsidize O&M. The involvement of
voluntary organizations or non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in water supply delivery is
still only marginal in India.
1.17     Responsibility for sanitation is usually shared by several government agencies, but
details vary from state to state. Typically, the Departments of Rural Development and/or
Panchayati Raj are responsible for carrying out low-cost sanitation programs. The Gram
Panchayats plan and institute sullage drainage programs generally with the funds received from



- 5 -
the Government under the Jawahar Rojgar Yojana (JRY) Program5. At the field level, multi-
purpose workers and health guides under the Health and Medical Departments are responsible for
environmental improvements and health education. The NGO community also plays an active
role in rural health and sanitation in a number of states. Under the 73rd Constitutional
Amendment Act, 1992, responsibility for the management and operation of rural water supply and
sanitation is to be devolved to the Gram Panchayats.
1.18     A government agency, the Central Groundwater Board under the Ministry of Water
Resources, is responsible for the production of water resource inventories and maps, and for the
monitoring of groundwater levels and rates of depletion. The Ministry of Health supports a
number of health education programs, but the prevention of water-related diseases has not been a
priority during the past decade.
1.19     Uttar Pradesh. There are five departments concerned with rural water supply,
sanitation, health education, and watershed development programs in Uttar Pradesh: the
Departments of Urban Development, Rural Development, Panchayati Raj, Health and Family
Welfare, and Agriculture, respectively. All rural water supply programs are under the Department
of Urban Development and are carried out through the UP Jal Nigam. The three Regional Jal
Sansthans (Kumaon, Garhwal and Bundelkhand) maintain and operate rural water supply systems
for hills and Bundelkhand regions, and UP Jal Nigam does so in the remaining districts and also
maintains over 200,000 handpumps in the State. The overall standard of O&M is low. Under the
Rural Development Department at the district level, the Chief Development Officer coordinates
and monitors all developmental activities in the district, including rural water supply. The
Department of Panchayati Raj is responsible for constructing latrines in the rural areas of the state
through its field offices headed by the District Panchayat Raj Officers. UP Jal Nigam runs the
rural sanitation program under Dutch assistance. The State Health Education Bureau under the
Department of Medical, Health, and Family Welfare is responsible for health education. Under
the Department of Agriculture, the Soil Conservation Division oversees soil conservation, water
harvesting structures, and watershed development programs. Soil Conservation Units (one or
more in a district) are operational in every district. The District Soil Conservation Officer heads
these units. In addition to the Soil Conservation Division under the Department of Agriculture,
the Department of Minor Irrigation also carries out water sources recharge programs.
Government Policies and Programs
1.20  The GOI Eighth Five Year Plan (1992-97) gives highest priority to those villages without
an adequate number of safe water sources. However, increasing the service levels of those
villages covered with only one water source under previous plans and with supply levels of less
than 40 Ipcd gets equal importance. The plan stresses the following principles:
* water should be managed as a commodity;
5     A rural employment program (named after India's first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru) which is
primarily intended to generate additional employment for the unemployed and under employed, men and women,
in rural areas.



-6 -
*  water supply should be based on effective demand, that is, standard of service
corresponds to willingness to pay;
*  local bodies should be free to levy charges to cover, as a minimum, O&M costs with
eventual full cost recovery;
*  private sector should be mobilized for construction and O&M of systems,
*  local organizations should be strengthened and assume full responsibility for O&M of
systems; and
*  state governments should address the need for a comprehensive water management
plan to balance competing demands for water by irrigation, industry, and domestic use.
1.21     For sanitation, the Eighth Plan has adopted a new strategy of linking health education,
sanitation, and water supply and developing a demand-based approach to promoting latrine use.
The Eighth Plan also widens the definition of sanitation beyond latrine use to include personal
hygiene and the disposal of refuse and human water. Primary responsibility for the environmental
sanitation program has been given to district and village authorities.
1.22     In 1986, GOI set up a Technology Mission (renamed the Rajiv Gandhi National
Drinking Water Mission) to provide scientific and cost -effective content to the Accelerated Rural
Water Supply Program. The Government provides funding for sanitation through the Central
Rural Sanitation Program. State or Union Territory outlay for sanitation is through the Minimum
Needs Program under the Ministry of Rural Development. In the allocation of funds to villages,
priority is first given to "no source" villages, followed by those with water quality and/or quantity
(less than 40 lpcd) problems.
1.23     Of the total expenditures for rural water supply under the Eighth Plan, some 51% is
from GOI. The remainder is from state budgetary sources, with a small contribution (less than
5%) from foreign funding. The central and state allocations for rural sanitation are significantly
smaller.
1.24     Uttar Pradesh. The rural water supply and environmental sanitation policies and
strategies in the Uttar Pradesh Eighth Five Year Plan follow closely those of GOI. Villages that
have not been previously provided with adequate safe water sources get priority. Recognizing the
growing demand for house connections in rural areas, piped water supply schemes would be
designed to allow for service levels up to 70 Ipcd. The proposed allocation for rural water supply
and sanitation in Uttar Pradesh's Eighth Five Year Plan is about Rs. 7,200 million, including funds
from GOI, the state government, and IBRD under the proposed project and bilateral assistance
from the Netherlands.
Sectoral Issues
1.25     Policy reform is urgently required, in particular to: (a) replace the current supply-
driven approach that results in inefficient service delivery and poor quality of construction with a
demand-driven approach where decision-making responsibility is given to beneficiaries; (b)



- 7 -
integrate rural water supply, environmental sanitation, environmental management, catchment
protection, and health and hygiene; (c) introduce cost recovery to increase sector sustainability;
and (d) develop a state water resource management policy.
1.26     Adoption of a Demand-Driven Approach to Service Delivery. In most states,
including Uttar Pradesh, the planning, design, and construction of water facilities are the
responsibility of centralized public sector agencies, such as the Public Health and Engineering
Departments and Water Boards. Water supply schemes are typically designed to satisfy the norm
of 40 lpcd and do not take into account user preferences, needs, demand, and willingness to pay
for different service levels or of future demand from increasing incomes and/or expectations. This
results in wasted investments because the augmentation, rehabilitation, and replacement of
existing systems to accommodate these demands can be extremely costly. Lack of accountability
of the service provider to users also results in poor design, construction, and costly overall service
delivery.
1.27     Alternative systems for planning and delivering services that take into account user
demand and preferences are needed. Experience with community participation in water supply
and sanitation through the programs of donors, NGOs and other countries and regions indicate
that community involvement can improve the sustainability of investments. Community-based
organizational structures, such as village water groups, would enable users to express their
preferences and set tariff rates and other community contributions. In practical terms, this implies
more flexibility in the design of water systems to accommodate individual preferences and
willingness to pay. Similarly, communities would take a more active role in the management of
the O&M of such facilities, thus improving sustainability. However, organizing community
participation on a large scale for multi-village schemes is difficult and requires further work.
1.28     Integration of Rural Water Supply, Environmental Sanitation, Environmental
Management, Catchment Protection, and Health and Hygiene. An integrated approach
towards water supply, environmental sanitation, and health and hygiene is necessary to maximize
the health benefits to the population. While water supply has been given a high priority in India,
fewer resources have been allocated for environmental sanitation or to develop awareness about
the link between health and hygiene. Without proper sullage drainage facilities, the increased
volume of wastewater resulting from improvements in water supply will contribute to a high
incidence of water-borne diseases. This lack of integration in service delivery stems in part from
the existing institutional framework that channels assistance for rural water supply and
environmental sanitation through separate progranis. Moreover, sullage drainage projects in
villages are undertaken as part of a general program of community improvement such as the JRY
Program, with the resulting work typically being poorly designed and executed. The
implementation of this approach requires modifications in the existing institutional and funding
arrangements for these services.
1.29     Introduction of Cost Recovery. At present, water supply systems are provided by
the Government based on the norm of 40 Ipcd, with 100% grant financing. Systems are typically
designed to meet this norm (handpumps and standposts) and do not take into account the demand
for higher levels of service (private connections). In reality, economically better-off households
usually have private connections. Since their consumption is much greater than 40 Ipcd, the



- 8 -
poor at the end of the distribution system receive little or no water. As a result, better- off
households indirectly benefit from subsidies intended for the poor. Such systems are likely to fail
because they are not designed for house connections. The basic systems usually provide few
opportunities for expansion. Past under-designing of rural water supply systems and increasing
population growth will require relatively large investments that govemment, faced with competing
priorities and fiscal constraints, will be unable to mobilize. Given the magnitude of demand and
the limitations of public resources, there is a need to ensure that the subsidy is limited and well-
targeted to the poor.
1.30     In most states in India, including Uttar Pradesh, cost recovery for the O&M of rural
water supply schemes is unacceptably low. In all of the states, capital investment costs are
financed from central and state funds. Lack of political will to promote cost recovery, poor
water supply service, and the notion that water is a "public good" have been used to justify fully
subsidized services. Handpumps and standposts, which are water sources for the low income
groups, have been provided through grants from Central and State Governments. Policies for
cost recovery apply only to O&M expenditures for piped schemes; revenues collected come
primarily from private connections and industrial and commercial users. Local government
agencies undertake collection of water charges in many states. It is thus difficult to estimate the
actual levels of collection, but indications are that it is very low.
1.31     For sullage drainage, the Gram Panchayats construct facilities with JRY funds. Thus,
the beneficiaries do not share in the investment costs for sullage drainage works. In contrast to
water and drainage, where primary infrastructure is commonly shared by the community,
individual households contract for latrines. Subsidies of up to 80% of the cost of constructing
latrines to the plinth level is provided to socio-economically weaker households. People are often
unaware of available low-cost technologies, making them hesitant to pay for latrines. Creating
awareness of options is important in stimulating demand for this service.
1.32     State Water Resource Management Policy. Excessive mining of groundwater has
led to reduced yields or drying up of wells in certain parts of India, including Uttar Pradesh. The
reported number of failed wells in the entire country is over 14 million, and the unplanned
exploitation of groundwater may increase this number further in the years to come. A policy to
guide public decisions on control and regulation of water resource allocation and associated
investment programs is needed to ensure that the objectives of efficiency, environmental
sustainability, economy, and poverty alleviation are adequately addressed.
External Financing of Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation
1.33     A number of donors ( UNICEF, DANIDA, the Netherlands, UNDP, SIDA, ODA,
KFW and EEC) have assisted the development of rural water supply in India. The financing made
available by these donors, however, has been fairly small in terms of the overall investment
program in the country. UNICEF has been one of the most influential through its assistance for
the development of the India Mark II handpump and its maintenance system, and for a tubewell
drilling program. Further research and development of India Mark II resulted in an improved
model, the India Mark III. The UNDP/World Bank Global Water and Sanitation Program with
UNICEF, DANIDA, and The Netherlands have supported rural water supply programs in a few
states (Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Orissa, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, and Gujarat) with



- 9 -
emphasis on an integrated approach to water supply, sanitation and health education, and
community-based approaches. The Technology Advisory Group of the UNDP/World Bank
Water and Sanitation Program successflilly developed and promoted low-cost, twin-pit-pour-flush
latrine technology in India. All these initiatives have influenced the government's sector policies
in varying degrees.
Bank's Prior Experience in India
1.34      The Bank has financed fourteen projects in the urban and rural water supply and
sanitation sector. Of these, six are active with two in rural water supply and sanitation. Further,
more than half of the investments financed under urban projects have had some rural water supply
and sanitation. In general, World Bank assistance for the sector has gone for particularly difficult
areas that could not be tackled under the Government's own programs because of their high per
capita investment costs. Although the Bank's combined outlay of about Rs. 7,500 million under
its two ongoing rural water supply and sanitation projects in Karnataka and Maharashtra (see
para. 1. 35)6 is small compared to GOI's outlay, at the state level these projects have helped
introduce cost recovery policy reforms, an integrated approach to service delivery, and
strengthening of community-based management of water supply and sanitation investments.
Lessons Learned from Past Bank Lending
1.35      To maximize health benefits, the Bank's two ongoing projects provide an integrated
program of rural water supply, community participation-health education, and environmental
sanitation. To promote sustainability, project design has provided for beneficiary participation in
the planning, construction and O&M phases of the projects; training and institutional
strengthening; improved construction quality, and support of policy initiatives to decentralize
service delivery to the lowest appropriate level (the 73rd Constitutional Amendment).
1.36      Experience from these two projects has been mixed. In Maharashtra, the Government
adopted some features of the project design in its own program (introducing capital cost sharing,
permitting private connections, improved procurement procedures, and construction supervision
practices). However, project supervision reports that the project indicates many deviations from
original plans:
(a)    schemes were constructed without community participation,
(b)   the environmental sanitation and health education activities were
perpetually delayed;
(c)   the Project Management Unit (PMU) was inadequately staffed, and staff
did not possess the necessary skills and resisted using private sector
resources,
6      Karnataka Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project (Credit 2483-IN) approved by the
Board on April 20, 1993 and effective on February 23, 1994. Maharashtra Rural Water Supply and Environmental
Sanitation Project (Credit 2234-IN), approved on May 2, 1991 and effective on July 31, 1991.



- 10-
(d)   the nodal Rural Development Department did not have management
capacity to implement a project of this size and complexity;
(e)   bureaucratic delays and insufficient counterpart funds were a regular
feature; and
(f)   the District Project Management Units (DPM-Us) were not set up.
1.37        In Karnataka, the project's policy and institutional sustainability objectives are
being fully adopted. However, it is too early to judge if the project can achieve its objectives
because project implementation only began in 1994. Both the pilot and Phase 1 of the project
have achieved meaningful popular participation, an integrated approach, cost recovery policies,
and user management of services. The main problems pertain to delays in procurement, decision
making, and preparation of engineering designs for Phase 2. The Government's failure to fully
staff the District Level PMUs may affect the project's performance.
1.38     Building on past experiences, the proposed project will seek to:
O  develop a coherent community participation approach that provides for a major
decision-making role for the communities in the identification, planning, design,
construction and O&M of schemes;
o  enhance the role of women, the key stakeholders in the sector, by focusing the
community development activities of the project on them;
3  introduce partial capital cost recovery and full cost recovery for O&M; and
o  integrate water supply service delivery with environmental sanitation by developing
beneficiary awareness of the link between health and sanitation.
Rationale for Bank Support and Link to the CAS
1.39     The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for India is dated May 17, 1995 and
was discussed at the Board on June 20, 1995. It focuses on the need for state-level reform
interventions. It recognizes the important role played by the states in India's development
process, and the fiscal problems and institutional weaknesses faced by state governments in
carrying out development programs. Sector lending should therefore support the long-term,
state-level reform process.
1.40     The CAS states that Bank assistance will be channeled to areas where it can directly
alleviate poverty and accelerate the development of human resources. It also states that poverty
reduction, private sector development, environmental protection, increasing the role of
beneficiaries and support organizations (SOs) in project design and implementation, and enabling
women to participate more fully in the development process are all important objectives of the
Bank's activities in India.



- 11 -
1.41     Bank support for the proposed project would allow GOUP to initiate the necessary
state-level sector reform process to meet the CAS objectives and put into practice similar
important principles stated in GOI's Eighth Plan. The proposed project supports the CAS by
initiating efficient and economic service delivery, increasing user financing of drinking water and
environmental sanitation facilities, and supporting development of an alternative, more demand-
driven and user-responsive service delivery mechanism. The proposed project will pilot-test an
innovative approach to service delivery that includes participatory decision making.
1.42     During project preparation, GOUP has pursued policy reforms such as the
introduction of capital cost-sharing from beneficiaries, the provision of differentiated service
levels based on demand, and the transfer of policy formulation responsibility for the rural water
supply sector from the Urban Development Department to the Rural Development Department.
Finally, GOUP has proposed a major policy study for a 10-1 5 year strategic plan that will identify
and define further major policy reforms required for the sector.
Il. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
2.01      Project identification began in 1989. In March 1991, GOUP sent a preliminary project
proposal to the Bank. The project was then intended to cover some 3,000 villages from twenty-
eight districts at an estimated cost of about US$135 million. Though the Bank was supportive of
the project approach, project preparation stalled during 1991-1993 because of disagreements over
major policy and institutional issues.
2.02      As part of project preparation, the Bank required completion of a small pilot project to
test the feasibility of the tentatively agreed upon capital cost recovery policy and participatory
approach. The pilot project demonstrated that: (a) the project design was weak because it did not
promote a coherent demand-driven and participatory approach to service delivery; (b) the
introduction of a cost recovery policy required a significantly different service delivery mechanism
than the existing one or the one proposed under the project; (c) the performance of the sector
could not be improved unless the failures of the existing service delivery mechanism were fully
addressed; and (d) significant policy work and reforms were needed to improve sector
performance.
2.03      Pre-appraisal took place in December 1995. By then the project design had been
significantly revised to support a more demand-driven approach, and a fully participatory process
in service delivery. It was also agreed that new service delivery mechanisms needed to be
developed and tested before committing large resources to an investment program. The project
was reduced to cover only 1,000 villages from the areas most in need in the hills, foothills, and
Bundelkhand regions. A major policy study was to identify the issues affecting sector
performance and recommend policy reforms that would be implemented as part of a 10-15 year
strategic plan. The strategic plan would be formulated in consultation with the Bank, and could
constitute the policy framework for subsequent investments by the Bank.



- 12 -
Project Area
2.04     The project-supported Statewide Media Campaign on gender and sanitation issues will
cover the entire State of Uttar Pradesh. The Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation
component of the project, however, would cover about 1,000 villages, with a present population
of about 0.8 million and a design population of 1.2 million distributed in fifteen districts, nine
(Dehradun, Tehri, Chamoli, Pauri, Pithoragarh, Uttarkashi, Nainital, Udham Singh Nagar, and
Almora) in hill and foothill areas in the north and six districts (Jhansi, Lalitpur, Banda, Hamirpur,
Mahoba, and Jalaun) in the Bundelkhand region in the south of the State.
Project Development Objectives
2.05     The project has two main objectives. The first objective is to deliver sustainable health
and hygiene benefits to the rural population through improvements in water supply and
environmental sanitation services, which will increase rural incomes through time savings and
income opportunities for women, test an alternative to the current supply driven service delivery
mechanism and promote sanitation and gender awareness. This will be achieved by strengthening
the operation of the project management unit and by investing in the selection and construction of
water supply and environmental sanitation facilities for single and regional schemes. The second
objective is to promote the long-term sustainability of the rural water supply and sanitation sector
by providing assistance to GOUP to identify and implement an appropriate policy framework and
strategic plan. This will be done through sectoral studies and sectoral development and special
studies, as required, to improve the capacity of the sector to deliver services.
Project Description
2.06     The project would support a package of investments and a process of policy reform to
deliver sustainable health and hygiene benefits to the rural population. The investments are
designed to test various policy options and to improve knowledge, attitude and practices about
the linkages between health and hygiene; provide higher water supply service levels (quantity,
quality, reliability, equity and access); and to improve environment through satisfactory disposal
of human waste. In addition, to ensure that the investments are sustainable, the project would
follow a demand-driven approach to service delivery. Since most communities lack the
organizational and technical skills to design and construct schemes on their own, communities
will be assisted by SOs (NGOs, community-based organizations, and private sector firms). The
project would also support a major policy study whose objective would be to help GOUP identify
the issues affecting sector performance and formulate appropriate policy reforms. The policy
reforms would provide the framework for a 10-15 year sector strategic plan that would identify
individual policy reform decisions and their timing, and define the corresponding package of
investments required for the sector. The strategic plan and GOUP's commitment to its
implementation would also provide the background for future Bank support to the sector. A
detailed description of the project is given at Annex 1. The three components of the project are
summarized below:
* Strengthening and operation of the Project Management Unit (US$8.31 million
or 12% of total project costs). The PMU would be responsible for overseeing the



- 13 -
project. Funding would be provided through the project to support operating and
capital costs for the PMU and its DPMUs. This component would finance all PMU
and DPMW materials and equipment, all recurrent costs, training, monitoring and
evaluation, technical assistance and audit costs. It would also finance capacity-
building training for SOs and service agencies.
* Selection and construction of water supply and environmental sanitation
facilities for single and regional schemes (US$60.21 million or 85% of total project
costs). This component would finance improvements of water supply and
environmental sanitation services for 1,000 communities serving about 1.2 million
people. Single schemes are for one or two villages, and regional schemes are for more
than two villages. This component would include community development activities
and the construction of water supply and environmental sanitation schemes.
Community development activities would promote the active participation of the
communities in all stages of decision making for the planning, construction, and
management of their scheme, to increase local ownership and effective use and
sustainability. These capacity-building activities would include community
mobilization and organization through workshops, group discussions, information
campaigns, participatory community action planning, and non-formal education and
hygiene and environmental sanitation awareness training. Women's development
initiatives include orientation and training to help women develop skills required to
realize the health and hygiene benefits of improved water supply, improve their access
to the formal credit system, plan and carry out water supply and environmental
sanitation schemes including environmental resource enhancement initiatives, and
participate in resource mobilization activities, such as the collection of user charges
and monitoring and evaluation.
Construction of water supply and environmental sanitation schemes includes:
*  financing for surveys, design, and provision of construction assistance;
*  construction, augmentation, and rehabilitation of water supply and
environmental sanitation schemes, including spring and stream gravity,
tubewells with handpumps or electric pumps, and stream pumping;
*  protection of the catchment area through activities including the establishment
of tree nurseries, reforestation, alternative energy sources to fuel wood,
erosion control, and other site specific programs;
*  construction of village drains;
* construction of demonstration and household human waste disposal facilities,



- 14 -
*  carrying out of environmental management activities including construction of
filtration structures for community ponds, solid waste disposal, and mosquito
and fly control; and
*  monitoring of construction activities. The design criteria for these
technologies are described in Annex 2.
* Studies and sector development (US$2.46 million or 3% of total project costs).
This component would support preparation of a water supply and environmental
sanitation policy and long-term strategic plan, preparation of a development plan for
regional schemes, a major statewide awareness campaign on sanitation and gender
issues, a water-quality and leak-detection study, preparation of a follow-up project, a
study on expanding technology options for rural water supply and environmental
sanitation, and special studies, as required, to improve the capacity of the sector to
deliver services. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that the water-quality and
leak-detection study and the study on expanding technology options for rural water
supply and environmental sanitation will be carried out in accordance with terms of
reference agreed with the Bank. An assurance was also obtained that study findings
will be discussed with the Bank by June 30, 2000, and June 30, 2001, respectively.
Terms of reference for the other studies have been prepared (Annex 3).
2.07     An estimated 70% of the water to be piped and used under this proposed project will
be groundwater, and 30% will be surface water to be drawn from existing springs, rivulets,
irrigation dams and canals, and, in a few cases, rivers that are tributaries of the Ganges. The
villages where the 30% surface water will be used are located upstream from barrages that divert
water into existing irrigation schemes. This diverted water that will be used for the project. The
proposed project, therefore, will not use water that contributes directly to the low flow of the
Ganges.
2.08     Because a large number of project beneficiaries are expected to be tribal people, and
the project supports a participatory process that encourages the active participation of all
community members, a tribal development plan is not needed in accordance with paragraph 13 of
Operational Directive 4.20. No resettlement for single schemes will take place under the project,
and only minimal land acquisition is anticipated. Land acquisition for single schemes would be
done on a voluntary basis through an agreement satisfactory to the Bank between the land
occupant and the Village Water and Sanitation Committee (VWSC). As part of the project, a
development plan for regional schemes will be prepared. The development plan will include a
policy framework for addressing negative project impacts on affected persons, in conformity with
the Bank's Operational Directives 4.30 on Resettlement. At negotiations, an assurance was
obtained to this effect.
2.09     A PMNU has been created to manage the project and will be assisted by seven DPMUs.
The project would finance the operations of both the PMU and the DPMUs. The PMU/DPMU
would have no direct service delivery responsibilities but would sub-contract these responsibilities
to SOs and communities being assisted. Through grants, the PMIJ would allocate resources to
selected partnerships between SOs and communities to finance the construction of rural water



- 15 -
supply and environmental sanitation schemes. The project would emphasize building the capacity
of local communities to lead the decision-making process in all phases of scheme identification,
design, construction, operation, and maintenance. The project would thus support activities to
promote participation of community members, particularly women, at all stages of the scheme
cycle The PMU would ensure that SOs and schemes meet agreed eligibility criteria, provide
funding to the partnerships between SOs and communities, and monitor performance. To keep its
staffing down to a few highly qualified staff, the PMU would be assisted by service agencies.
Service agencies are apex or resource NGOs and firms, training organizations, and other private
or professional associations or entities with the requisite qualifications. Service agencies would
be used to build overall capacities and provide training, some monitoring, all auditing of SOs and
PMU/DPMUs, all studies, and other specialized services and expertise.
2. 10    Role of women. Women are the main users and managers of water resources. They
influence family sanitary habits through their central role in family hygiene, child care, and food
preparation. Because women are the ones who fetch water, they value improvements in water
supplies more than men and so have a vested interest in keeping the systems functioning.
Primarily women and female children carry water and it is one of the most arduous tasks in rural
areas of Uttar Pradesh. Women are responsible for all household chores related to water such as
collecting and storing it, taking care of sources and distribution points, and working to construct
them. Women also decide whether or not to use a specific water point, given its distance and
accessibility. They do not participate much in development, however, because household
activities take up too much time, there is a low level of awareness, and they have limited control
over resources The project implementation strategy would focus on strengthening the role of
women in all stages of scheme cycle to increase their capacity and to ensure they fully participate
in project benefits. A summary of the social assessment findings is presented in Annex 4.
2. I1    The community development activities of the Water Supply and Environmental
Sanitation Schemes component will promote the role of women in five important areas: (a)
wvomen will be guaranteed representation in VWSCs, which must have at least 30% women
members, (b) hygiene and environmental sanitation awareness and non-formal education activities
will focus on women, (c) women will be encouraged to take advantage of the women's
development initiatives program, which would provide specific skill and management training to
increase the scope of income-generating activities and would help women gain access to formal
credit systems; (d) women will be encouraged to form female tapstand groups to collect monthly
operation and maintenance fees and to maintain tapstands, and (e) the selection of female scheme
maintenance workers will be encouraged. Women will be trained in operation and maintenance,
including collection of user fees, monitoring, and reporting.
2.12     Community Participation. The basis for community participation is a legal
representative and responsive VWSC elected by all the project beneficiaries within a village. The
project focuses on providing the means for users to take the lead in decision-making at critical
stages, in carrying out their decisions, and in collective sharing of benefits. To involve users in
their schemes the community action planning process provides opportunities for small groups of
villagers to investigate, analyze problems, resolve conflicts, and build consensus. The process
builds confidence among women and disadvantaged groups who otherwise would shy away from



- 16 -
expressing their opinions in large groups or in front of authoritative figures. The project design
enables women to have a larger role in the analysis of their water supply and sanitation problems,
in identifying least-cost solutions to these problems, and in carrying out and managing their rural
water supply and environmental sanitation schemes.
Project Costs
2.13      The total cost of the project, including taxes and duties and physical and price
contingencies is estimated at Rs.3,007.6 million or US$71.0 million equivalent. The foreign
exchange component is Rs. 74.1 million (US$1.9 million), or about 3% of total project cost.
Taxes and duties are estimated at Rs. 165.7 million (US$3.9 million), or about 5% of total project
cost.
2.14      The base cost estimates reflect prices in January 1996 and were based on actual cost of
recent similar work carried out. Total contingencies amount to Rs. 930.1 million (US$ 11.1
million) or about 15% of the total project cost and include physical contingencies of 10% on civil
works and price contingencies of 10% of the total project cost, respectively. To provide for
inflation during project implementation, the following escalation rates have been used: (a) for
local expenditures, 8.5% in FY1996, 8.0% in FY1997, 7.5% in FY1998, 7.0% in FY1999, and
6% thereafter; and (b) for foreign expenditures, 3.3% for FY1996, 2.3% for FY1997, and 2.5%
thereafter. Foreign exchange conversions have been calculated in accordance with World Bank
guidelines, using projections prevailing at the time of appraisal. A summary of cost estimates is
given in Table 2.1. Detailed cost estimates are provided in Annex 5.



- 17-
Table 2.1: Summary Project Cost Estimates
Strengthening and operation of the
PMU/DPMU                         227.3    34.1      261.4    6.5       1.0      7.5   12
Selection and construction of water
supply and environmental
sanitation facilities for single and
regional schemes                 1737.3     -      1737.3   50.1      -        50.1   84
Studies and sector development    53.2    25.5      78.7      1.5      0.7      2.2    4
Basecost                        2017.8    59.6   2077.4   58.1         1.7    59.8  100
Physical contingency             127.1     0.6      127.7     3.7      0.1      3.8   06
Price contingency                788.6    13.9    802.5       7.3      0.1      7.4   12
Total Project Cost              2933.5   74.1    3007.6   69.1         1.9    71.0  118
Financing Plan
2.15      The proposed IBRD loan of US$59.6 million equivalent would finance about 84%
of total project costs, including taxes and duties. The Loan would be made available to GOI,
which would make the proceeds available to the GOUP in accordance with GOI's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the states of India. The balance of the financing of
the total project costs will be in the form of a community contribution of about US$7.6 million,
equivalent to about 11% of total project cost and a GOUP grant to the PMU of about US$3.8
million, equivalent to about 5% of total project cost. The community contributions may be in
cash or kind. The financing plan is provided in Table 2.2 below:
Table 2.2: Project Financing Plan (US$ million)
IBRD                         57.7           1.9          59.6                84
Community'                    7.6            -            7.6                11.~
GOUP                          3.8            -            3.8                 5
Total Financed               69.1           1.9          71.0               100
Note: Includes USS3.9 million of taxes and duties
' Community includes contributions to water supply, drainage, and household contributions for sanitary latrines.



- 18 -
HI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Status of Project Preparation
3.01    Project preparation was partly financed by a Japanese Grant Facility. Preparatory
activities have permitted the creation of a PMU, completion of an assessment of SOs, definition of
village and SO eligibility criteria, identification of twenty-one eligible SOs, preparation of a social
assessment and preparation of a draft Implementation Manual that defines all PMU/DPMU
operating procedures. The draft Implementation Manual consists of: (a) an operations manual
including a PMU/DPMU accounting manual and an SO accounting manual; (b) a training manual;
(c) a monitoring and evaluation manual; (d) a technology manual; and (e) a standard prices and
rates schedule. In addition, detailed engineering designs for over 200 schemes have been
prepared and used to estimate project costs.
Organization and Management
3.02    A PMU was created on November 7, 1994, as a society under the Society Registration
Act and is responsible for overseeing implementation of the project. The PMU's Memorandum of
Association and Rules are presented at Annex 6. The Department of Rural Development will be
the line department for the PMU.
3.03    PMU is governed by a general body which meets once a year, and an executive
committee which meets at least once every quarter, and is responsible for approving PMU's by-
laws, annual budgets and programs, and overseeing PMIJ operations. Detailed PMU operating
procedures are defined within the PMU Implementation Manual. At negotiations, an assurance
was obtained that the completion by PMNU of a technology manual, under the Implementation
Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition for disbursements for schemes.
3.04    The PMU is headed by a director and organized into five units: operations, monitoring
and evaluation; human resources development and communications; technology; finance and
administration, and management information systems. The PMU organizational structure appears
in Annex 7. PMIU will employ a total of thirteen higher level staff (including three long-term
local consultants for the positions of monitoring and evaluation specialist, women's development
specialist, and training and communications specialist) and seventeen support staff. Two long-
term international advisers focusing on the project's community development component and on
technical issues will assist the unit.
3.05    The PMUJ will be responsible for reviewing the eligibility of proposals from SOs and
villages. A two-stage procedure will be used. First, PMU will constitute a Staff Appraisal
Committee, composed of six members (all PMU unit heads and for SO selection only, a
representative from the State Institute of Rural Development) that will review all SOs and village
proposals and will recommend the appropriate course of action (approval, rejection of a proposal,
or request for additional information). Second, the proposals will be forwarded to the Finance
Committee of the Executive Committee for final decision. The Finance Committee is chaired by
the Secretary of the Rural Development Department and includes representatives from the



- 19 -
Finance Department, the Planning Department, and the PMU director. Project SOs will elect
their representatives to an advisory committee to the PMU.
3.06    The PMU will be assisted by seven DPMIJs. DPMUs will be responsible for close
monitoring of field activities. Four DPMUs will be set in the hills and foothills (Pithoraragarth,
Almora, Srinagar and Dehradun) and three in the Bundelkhand (Jhansi, Mahoba and Banda).
Each DPMU will employ four higher-level staff and three support staff. Higher-level staff include
a community development specialist, a sanitary engineer, a health and hygiene specialist, and an
environmental specialist.
3.07    To begin work on its first batch of 124 villages, the PMU has created three DPMUs
(Pithoragarth, Dehradun, and Jhansi). The DPMU organizational structure is presented in Annex
8.
Implementation Strategy
3.08    Project Implementation Period. The project would be implemented over six years,
with a completion date of November 30, 2001. Given the duration of project preparation, it was
agreed that retroactive financing would be recommended for twelve months prior to Loan
signing. The project emphasizes institutional development and testing of an alternative service
delivery mechanism. It therefore does not intend to achieve full coverage of water and
environmental sanitation throughout Uttar Pradesh but, instead, covers a six-year slice of sectoral
investments. Annex 9 shows the project implementation schedule.
3.09    Strategic Plan. A draft Strategic Plan has been prepared (Annex 10). The draft Plan
recommends, inter alia, the transfer of all policy-making authority and related budgets for the rural
water supply sector from the Department of Urban Development to the Department of Rural
Development. This transfer will take place in two stages. First, as of March 31, 1996, a GOUP
Order (Annex I 1) transferred responsibility for the rural water supply sector to a committee
headed by the Agriculture Production Commissioner and composed of the Principal Secretary,
Finance; the Secretary, Rural Development; the Secretary, Urban Development; the Secretary,
Secretariat Administration, and the Special Secretary Rural Development. Second, a GOUP
Order dated March 27, 1996, (Annex 12) transfered all policy-making responsibility and related
budgets and administration to the Rural Development Department as of April 1, 1997. At
negotiations, an assurance was obtained that GOLJP will, not later than April 1, 1997, complete
the transfer of responsibility for the rural water supply sector from the Department of Urban
Development to the Department of Rural Development.
3.10    The PMIJ will be responsible for overseeing the rural water supply and environmental
sanitation policy study to be carried out over a nine-month period. The findings of the policy
study will provide GOUP with the basis for revising and finalizing the Strategic Plan. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that GOUP will forward to the Bank for its review and
comments a draft final Strategic Plan no later than December 31, 1999 and that the Strategic Plan
will be finalized, taking into consideration the Bank's comments, by June 30, 2000.



- 20 -
3.11    Selection and Construction of Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation
Schemes. Scheme selection will follow a demand-driven approach through which communities
would confirm need, economic viability, technical feasibility, sustainability, and willingness to pay
before they are selected for inclusion in the project. Given the estimated village dropout rate of
about 13%, the project will need to prepare 1,150 villages divided into four batches of 124, 276,
375, and 375, respectively, to finance the construction of schemes for at least 1,000 villages in
four batches of about 108, 242, 325, and 325 villages, respectively. SOs should be able to absorb
the management of this number of villages. These schemes will serve a current population of 0.8
million corresponding to a design population of 1.2 million. Regional schemes would be
considered for financing by the project only if the findings of the development plan (para 2.06) for
regional schemes confirm their economic, financial, and institutional feasibility. Assuming the
concept and design adopted for the project are successful, funding has been provided for a follow
up-project to be prepared toward the end of the project implementation period. The follow-up
project, if it materializes, would seek to apply the lessons learned from the proposed project,
provide a vehicle to implement newly adopted policy measures, and substantially increase rural
water supply and environmental sanitation service coverage.
3.12    To increase ownership and sustainability, the communities, assisted by SOs, will plan,
design, implement, operate, and maintain their schemes. Beneficiary communities would be
represented by a VWSC, which would be formed as a sub-committee of the Village Panchayat
under Section 29 (6) of the United Provinces Panchayati Raj Act 1947. GOUP has issued an
Order (Annex 13) outlining the modalities of VWSC's formation. Each committee will consist of
7-12 members (the specific number is to be decided by the community) who will be elected by the
community. The Order specifies that there should be a minimum of 30% women and 20%
scheduled caste or scheduled tribe members on the Committee. All decisions will need to be
made by a majority vote of all members. The VWSC chairman and secretary will also be elected
by the community. The Order specifies that the Committee can collect from villagers a voluntary
contribution towards the capital and O&M costs of the scheme.
3.13    Scheme Cycle. The sequence of actions required from scheme identification to
completion has been defined within the detailed scheme cycle (Annex 14). The cycle takes into
account seasons, harvests, holidays, and their influence on site accessibility, water source yield
measurement, availability of labor, and conditions and timing for construction work. It also
considers the time needed to process proposals. The cycle would span 33 calendar months and
includes three main phases (pre-planning, planning, and implementation). The three main phases
of the cycle, their objectives, and implementation details are described below.
3.14    The pre-planning phase of the scheme cycle lasts about seven months and begins in
December. Its main objective is to identify SOs and schemes that meet eligibility criteria for a
planning phase contract. The pre-planning phase includes three main activities:
(a)   Pre-qualification of SOs. The PMU will identify SOs through a media campaign
that requests they forward their expression of interest. Once applications are
received the PMU would assess whether SOs meet the SO eligibility criteria (para
3.24). PMU would also make field visits to assess SO performance in previous
activities. Once the assessment is completed, the PMIU would hold a Staff



- 21 -
Appraisal Committee meeting to carry out a final check on the compliance with
eligibility criteria before sending its recommendation (approval, rejection, or request
for additional information) to the Finance Committee (para 3.05) for final decision.
Pre-qualification requires about 2.5 months and is completed by early March of the
first year. At this stage the PMU assigns one of its staff to follow all future
contacts with pre-qualified SO. This person is called a portfolio manager.
(b)  Pre-feasibility study preparation and assessment: Prequalified SOs receive
orientation and training on how to prepare prefeasibility studies. They then prepare
and submit their prefeasibility studies to the PM`U/DPMU for screening. This
process requires about seven weeks and is completed by the first week of May of
the first year. The PMU site appraises the proposed schemes and confirms the
source yield measurement. The portfolio managers review the site appraisal, the
technology unit certifies the technical feasibility of the schemes, and a Staff
Appraisal Committee meeting is held to propose a list of schemes that meet
eligibility criteria (para 3.26) for final approval by the Finance Committee. This
activity requires about 3.5 months and is completed by early July of the first year
(c)   Signing of planning phase contract. After the Finance Committee approves the
list of schemes, the PMU starts a series of activities to facilitate SO preparation of
satisfactory planning phase proposals. These activities consist of SO training in
proposal preparation, screening and evaluating proposed SO staff, using a system of
orientation and training programs. The planning phase contracts between PMU and
the SOs are then prepared and signed. These activities require about one month
and are completed by the end of July.
3.15     The planning phase lasts about twelve months and begins in early August of the first
year. The cost of the planning phase is about US$6,200 per community, with an average
population of about 784 per community (equivalent to about US$7.90 per capita). The planning
phase contract is about US$3 1,000 per SO (assuming that, on average, each SO works with five
communities simultaneously). This includes financing for staff, overheads, and a small lump sum
to reimburse prequalified SOs for their preplanning costs (equivalent to about US$150 per
scheme). SO staff inputs per village will vary depending on scheme size and complexity. Project
support will include the salaries of a community facilitator and a community worker (one for each
village), a community development supervisor (for about 3-5 months per village), a junior
engineer or overseer (for 3-6 months per village), a senior engineer (for about 1-3 months per
village), an accountant and a team leader (each for about 0.5 months per village). SO staff input
is highest during the planning phase, which is used to assist in the preparation of an
implementation phase contract agreement. The planning phase includes the following activities:
(a)   Orientation and training for SO staff. This includes training on preparation of a
Community Action Plan to help communities prepare an implementation phase
proposal; on survey, design, costs, and construction technologies for technical
staff, and for community development supervisors and workers in health education.
These training activities require about two months and are completed by mid-
October of the first year.



- 22 -
(b) Community action planning. Community development activities, including
training in hygiene and environmental sanitation awareness; non-formal education;
election of a VWSC; and a community needs assessment. Technical and service
level options are discussed. Women's development initiatives are discussed and a
plan prepared, a village environment action plan is discussed and prepared,
environmental sanitation activities are discussed and a plan prepared, the scheme
layout plan is prepared and an O&M plan is discussed and prepared. These
activities require about five months and are completed by mid-February of the
second year.
(c)  Finalization of implementation phase proposal. The community cash
contribution is collected, the community action plan is finalized, the detailed design
is completed, and the implementation phase proposal is completed. A joint VWSC
and SO bank account is opened to receive implementation phase financing. The
PMU/DPMU carry out site appraisals, hold a Staff Technical Appraisal Committee
(STAC) meeting to review the implementation phase proposals' compliance with
scheme eligibility criteria, and sends its recommendation to the Finance Committee
for final decision. These activities require about five months and are completed by
mid-August of the second year.
3.16    The planning phase would lead to a representative and legally created VWSC, a
Community Action Plan that would form the basis for the implementation phase proposal, and
community contributions to capital cost. In cases that meet all PMU eligibility criteria, a contract
agreement among the VWSC, the PMU and the SO for implementation phase financing will also
be in place.
3.17    The payment terms in the planning phase contract have been arranged to permit close
monitoring of SO performance and early identification of problems. All payments are linked to
the completion of specific tasks. The first payment is an advance of 30% of the total contract
amount (equivalent to about US$9,000 per SO). It is conditional upon the signing of the planning
phase proposal, evidence that the SO has opened a separate bank account for the planning phase
activities, and evidence that all SO staff have been appointed.
3.18    The second payment of 40% of the contract amount (equivalent to about US$12,000
per SO) is conditional on evidence that SO staff are working, the community action planning has
been completed, hygiene and environmental sanitation awareness activities are underway, a
progress report has been submitted and tapstand committees are formed. A representative VWSC
must also must have been created, the community action plan and scheme layout plan have been
approved by the community, and non-formal education and women development initiatives have
started. In addition to its regular field monitoring visits, the PMU would hire an independent
auditor to audit the planning phase contract after the second payment is made.
3.19    The third payment of 30% of the total contract amount (equivalent to about US$9,000
per SO) depends on evidence that the planning phase completion report has been submitted by the
SO, the financial report is submitted and acceptable, and the cash contribution to capital cost has
been collected and deposited in the VWSC/SO joint account. The implementation phase proposal



- 23 -
must also have been submitted; the audit of the planning phase (up to the second payment) must
be satisfactory, and all planning phase activities must be completed. The process and performance
monitoring and evaluation report must be satisfactory.
3.20    The objectives of the implementation phase are to construct the scheme, complete
training of VWSC and community members, complete hygiene and sanitation awareness activities,
construct latrines, and complete the women's development initiatives. The implementation phase
contract is an agreement among the community, the SO, and the PMU. It contains detailed terms
of reference that identify twelve distinct sets of activities to be carried out by the SO. The
implementation phase begins in mid-August of the second year and requires about fourteen
months. The implementation phase contract will be signed on the condition that a satisfactory
audit of the planning phase (para. 3.17) has been conducted and the community cash contribution
to the scheme construction cost has been deposited in a joint community-SO bank account. The
implementation phase includes the following activities:
(a)   Training of SO staff. This includes a refresher course in hygiene and
environmental sanitation awareness, construction supervision training, training
of trainers for women's development initiatives, and training of SO
accountants. Training of community members. This includes holding a
VWSC workshop; training the VWSC treasurer; village maintenance worker
and VWSC training, hygiene and environmental sanitation awareness training
for school teachers, village health promoters and community leaders; and
mother and child health training for tapstand women's groups. The training
activities continue through the implementation phase.
(b)   Construction planning. This activity consists of planning construction
activities, procuring all materials and equipment, and transporting them to the
construction site. This activity requires about six weeks and is completed by
early November of the second year.
(c)   Construction of the scheme. All construction (water supply, latrines,
drainage, and environmental actions) is carried out by the communities in two
stages, with technical support and input from SOs and monitoring by the PMU.
This activity requires about six months and is completed by early May of the
third year.
3.21     The implementation phase costs, on average, about US$52,800 per community, of
which about US$7,600 is contributed by the community in cash and kind and about US$45,200 is
contributed by the PM1U. The average per capita cost (based on current population) of the
implementation phase is about US$67, of which about US$10 is contributed by the community
and US$57 by the PMU. The implementation phase contract averages US$50,800 per village
(construction monitoring costs of about US$2,000 per village are excluded from the
implementation phase contract because this activity is sub-contracted by PMU to Service
Agencies under separate contractual arrangements). This cost includes SO community
development and technical personnel (about US$6,100), the community contribution (about



- 24 -
US$7,600), and the cost of materials and equipment required to construct the scheme (about
US$37,100).
3.22     The outcome of the implementation phase is the consolidation of all activities, a
completed and functioning water supply and environmental sanitation scheme, and a trained
VWSC and community members. The payment terms within the implementation phase contract
have also been set to monitor closely the performance of SOs and communities and identify
problems early. All payments are linked to the completion of well-defined tasks that can be
monitored. During the implementation phase, two bank accounts are used. The first is a joint
account operated by the community and the SO; the second is operated by the SO. Community
and PMU contributions to the schemes construction cost is deposited in the joint bank account,
while the PMU payment of the SO community development and technical personnel cost is
deposited in the SO account. Three payments are made to the SO account, and two payments are
made to the joint account as follows:
*  About 30% of the cost of the SO community development and technical personnel
(equivalent to about US$1,800 on average per contract) is paid in advance. This
payment is conditional upon signing of the implementation phase contract and
evidence that all SO personnel are recruited. About 50% (equivalent, on average, to
about US$18,500 per community) of the total PMU contribution to scheme
construction cost (materials, other skilled labor and transport) is paid to the joint
community-SO account upon submission of the corresponding pro-forma invoices for
7
the first stage of construction.
*  About 30% of the cost of the SO community development and technical personnel
(equivalent, on average, to about US$1,800 per community) is paid to the SO account
and about 50% (equivalent, on average, to about US$18,500 per community) of the
total PMU contribution to scheme construction cost (materials, other skilled labor and
transport) upon evidence that specific activities defined within the implementation
phase contract terms of reference (para 3.20) are underway, all training is completed
and all first-stage construction materials and equipment have been delivered on site
and are of the same brand names specified in the pro-forma invoices. The women's
development initiatives and household latrine funds must have been transferred to the
VWSC account; the statements concerning the joint VWSC/SO account must have
been received and be satisfactory; and pro-forma invoices for the second stage of
construction8 must have been received.
*  About 40% of the cost of the SO community development and technical personnel
(equivalent, on average, to about US$2,500 per community) is paid to the SO account
upon evidence that: all construction activities have been completed and all training
carried out in accordance with the implementation phase proposal; the scheme
7     The first stage of construction includes: the construction of the intake; all environmental source protection
work; the construction of all main line structures (excluding the reservoirs); and, the laying of all main line pipe.
8     The second stage of construction includes all remaining works specified in the implementation proposal.



- 25 -
accounts have been submitted and are satisfactory; and the statement of the VWSC
account has been submitted and indicates that the community is contributing to the
scheme's operation and maintenance costs.
3.23    The PMU/DPMU would appraise the site for each scheme during the preplanning and
planning phases of the scheme cycle. In addition, PMU/DPMI will carry out field monitoring
visits before making payments under the planning and implementation phases. In preparing
program estimates, a 13% village dropout rate was assumed between the planning and
implementation phases. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that the PMU will enter into
arrangements with each SO and villages under such terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
3.24     Support organization eligibility criteria. T he PM1U would select SOs using a media
campaign according to the following criteria:
*  evidence of legal registration;
*  constitutional provision to engage in rural water supply and environmental sanitation
service delivery and related activities,
-  audited and certified accounts,
-  proven track record of at least three years' experience in rural water supply and
environmental sanitation or community development activities evidenced by the
satisfactory completion of a participatory and demand driven project; and
-  demonstrated staffing capacity to carry out the proposed services or ability to procure
such staffing capacity.
3.25     The SO eligibility criteria are presented in Annex 15. Each SO shall be further
evaluated by the STAC using a ranking system described in Annex 15. The STAC will use this
ranking system to recommend the number of SOs it needs to undertake the corresponding batch
of villages and schemes. The adequacy of the criteria will be formally reviewed and assessed at the
end of the implementation phase of each batch of schemes. Criteria would then be revised or
modified to reflect lessons learned. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that SO selection
would be carried out in accordance with the above eligibility criteria. At negotiations, assurances
were also obtained that PMU would review the adequacy of the SO eligibility criteria at the end
of the implementation phase of each batch of schemes and that changes introduced would need to
be acceptable to the Bank.
3.26     Scheme eligibility criteria. Each scheme accepted for PMU financing would need to
meet scheme eligibility criteria. These criteria would be applied at each phase in the cycle using
information available at that phase. During the initial operations of the PMU, the three criteria of
need and economic viability, technical feasibility, and sustainability and willingness to pay would
apply. These criteria are discussed below.



- 26 -
* Need and economic viability. This is satisfied if one or more of the following
conditions holds:
(1)  the benefit/cost ratio is at least 1.59. This would be approximated at the
preplanning phase by asking whether the average time saved each day per
household would be more than two hours and thirty minutes (for piped water
schemes), half an hour (for hand pump tubewells and other point sources) and
whether per capita scheme costs were below defined thresholds (Rs. 2000 for
piped schemes and Rs. 500 for handpump schemes); or
(2)  the average per capita water availability is less than fifteen liters per day and per
capita costs are within the thresholds referred to in (1) above; or
(3)  a majority of the households are dependent upon heavily polluted sources and a
scheme could provide cleaner water through protection of existing sources or
cost effective amelioration of existing sources and per capita costs are within the
thresholds of (1) above.
* Technical feasibility. This is satisfied if:
(4)   there is an undisputed perennial source(s), water quality at the tap meets Indian
Standards (World Health Organization guidelines), and the minimum yield of the
proposed source is sufficient to meet 40 Ipcd or demand (on the design
population and including leakage and wastage) and the house connection
demand of at least seventy liters, as per GOI norms. Only if there is no other
solution and existing sources are heavily polluted or provided under 15 liters per
day, would a source supplying twenty-five litres per day be accepted;
(5)   there is compliance of engineering standards and service levels with established
PMU standards; and
(6)   appropriate mitigation measures for any adverse environmental impacts, and
appropriate arrangements for protecting or enhancing the source(s) are
proposed.
* Sustainability and willingness to pay. This is satisfied if:
(7)  communities accept to pay prior to commencement of any construction work a
cash contribution of 1% of capital cost in the hills and foothills and 2% in the
Bundelkhand. In the hills and foothills, villages will also contribute all labor for
trench digging for all water supply pipelines. In the Bundelkhand communities
will make an additional cash payment to cover 10% of capital cost prior to
A benefit/cost ratio (on discounted cash flows) of 1.5 (rather than 1) is conservative and was chosen to
allow some benefits to cover nonquantified overhead PMU costs, and to allow for contingencies.



- 27 -
commissioning the water supply system. Bundelkhand villages will also pay for
all the unskilled labor for the construction of drainage works. In all regions,
those choosing house connections will pay a fee of Rs. 1,000,
(8)  participating communities will bear 100% of the O&M costs. This cost includes
the cost of replacement parts (i.e., pumps and valves) for a twenty years design
life. During the Community Action Planning process, detailed cost estimates
with calculated monthly O&M costs will be presented to the community. The
O&M costs will be based on actual design options. A detailed O&M plan with
100% cost recovery will be part of the scheme proposal. The project cost
recovery policies are further detailed in Annex 16;
(9)  there is satisfactory evidence that there is complete coverage within the village,
and
(10) any land acquisition for single schemes will only be done on a voluntary basis and
will be documented.
3.27    The adequacy of the criteria will be formerly reviewed and assessed at the end of the
implementation phase of each batch of schemes. They would then be revised or modified to
reflect lessons learned. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that scheme selection will be
carried out in accordance with the above criteria. At negotiations, assurances were also obtained
that PMU would review the adequacy of the scheme eligibility criteria at the end of the
implementation phase of each batch of schemes and that changes introduced would need to be
acceptable to the Bank.



- 28 -
IV. PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS, ACCOUNTS, MONITORING
AND EVALUATION
Procurement
4.01      All procurement of services, goods, and civil works would be carried out in
accordance with World Bank procurement guidelines. Project cost breakdown by procurement
method is presented in Table 4.1 below.
Table 4.1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions)
ICB       NCB        Other       NBF    Total
Selection and construction of
water supply and environmental
sanitation facilities for single and
regional schemes                          2.6        45.3        10.3     58.2
(2.6)     (45.3)                (47.9)
Goods and equipment
for the PMU/DPMU                          0.3         0.3        0.1       0.7
(0.3)       (0.3)                (0.6)
Technical assistance,
training, studies
Policy Support                                     1.8                  1.8
(1.8)                (1.8)
Implementation Support                            4.6                   4.6
(4.6)                (4.6)
Capacity Building                                  1.9                  1.9
(1.9)                (1.9)
Subtotal                                              8.3                  8.3
(8.3)                (8.3)
PMU/DPMU recurrent costs                              2.8         1.0      3.8
(2.8)                (2.8)
Total                                     2.9        56.7       11.4      71.0
(2.9)      (56.7)               (59.6)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IBRD, including contingencies. Not Bank Financed (NBF)
includes conmnunity contributions (in cash and kind) and expenses financed by the GOUP.



- 29 -
4.02     Selection and construction of water supply and environmental sanitation
facilities for single and regional schemes. The total estimated cost of water supply and
sanitation schemes for the project would be about US$60.2 million (including about US$2 million
for construction monitoring), including contingencies, taxes, and duties. About 1, 1 50
communities (assuming a 13% dropout rate between the planning and implementation phases)
would be contracted for the planning phase, resulting in 230 planning phase contracts (for an
average value of about US$3 1,000 per contract and assuming that each support organization, on
average, will simultaneously work with five communities). About 1,000 implementation phase
contracts would be required, one contract per village with an average value of US$50,800, of
which about US$6,100 would be for community development activities and US$44,700 for
scheme construction. Each planning phase contract would be primarily for community
development activities, while each implementation phase contract would include community
development activities and non-local materials (small diameter pipes, fittings, taps, handpumps,
cement, etc.), labor, portage, and locally available materials. These numerous small contracts
would be scattered over a large number of small villages and spread over the six-year
implementation period. Because beneficiary communities will contribute cash and all unskilled
labor for trench digging, the following procurement procedures would be followed: SOs (with
exception for the first batch of schemes) would be identified by the PMM through a media
campaign and prequalified based on transparent and widely disseminated eligibility criteria. SOs
would be recruited as service providers under competitive bidding whenever possible and also as
sole providers for both the planning phase contract and the implementation phase contract. The
PMU would ensure efficiency and economy by comparing an SO's cost proposal with a schedule
of standard unit costs and prices developed during project preparation, which it would update
from time-to-time; should regional (multi-village) schemes be required and found feasible (para
3.1 1), civil works, goods and related services contracts would be procured following National
Competitive Bidding procedures to implement such schemes.
4.03     Goods and equipment for the PMU. The total estimated cost of goods and
equipment to be procured for the PMU would be about US$0.7 million, inclusive of
contingencies, duties, and taxes. The only goods and equipment to be procured for the PMUIU are
vehicles, computers, office furniture, and miscellaneous equipment. These cannot be grouped into
packages of more than US$100,000, they can be grouped only into several homogenous contracts
to be procured under a separate time schedule, each estimated to cost the equivalent of about
US$100,000. For this reason it is proposed that goods and equipment costing more than
US$25,000 be awarded by the PMU following national competitive bidding procedures. Items or
groups of items not costing more than the equivalent of US$25,000, subject to an aggregate
amount of US$350,000, will be procured by prudent national shopping, requiring quotations from
at least three reputed suppliers.
4.04     Technical assistance, training, studies, audits, monitoring, publicity. The total
estimated cost of these items for the project would be about US$8.3 million, including
contingencies and duties.
4.05         Contract review. All contracts for civil works for regional schemes valued at
US$300,000 and above, and all individual contracts for goods and equipment for the PMU and
water supply and environmental sanitation schemes estimated to cost the equivalent of



- 30 -
US$100,000 or more would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval. In addition, the
Bank will review the first fifty contracts of the first batch schemes. Contracts for consulting firms
in excess of US$100,000 equivalent (for individual consultants, in excess of US$50,000
equivalent) would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval. Assurances to the above
were obtained during negotiations. All other contracts would be subject to random post review in
the field by visiting missions. This will allow prior review of contracts representing at least 10%
of the procurement under the project
Disbursements
4.06      The PMU would be responsible for preparing all reimbursement applications. On the
basis of the proposed implementation schedule (Annex 9), the proceeds of the Loan would be
disbursed as outlined in Table 4.2 below.
Table 4.2: Disbursements Broken Down by Category
Category                               Amount of Loan      Disbursement as
allocated       percentage of expenditure
(US$ million)
Goods, works, and services
for the schemes under the project
Planning Phase                        6,500,000        100%
Implementation phase                 37,300,000         80%
Goods and equipment
for the PMU/DPMU                            500,000        100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost),
80% of local expenditures
for items procured locally
Consultants' services,
studies, training, and
advertising                                8,300,000       100%
Incremental operating
costs PMU/DPMU                              2,800,000      90% until March 31, 1998
75% until March 31, 2000
50% until March 31, 2002
Unallocated                                4,200,000
Total                                     59,600,000



- 31 -
4.07     The water supply and environmental sanitation schemes component include two
contracts, one for the planning phase and the other for the implementation phase. The planning
phase contract provides funding for support organizations to provide the salaries of a community
facilitator and a community worker (one for each village), a community development supervisor
(for about 3-5 months per village), a community technician (for 1-3 months per village), a junior
engineer or overseer (for 3-6 months per village), a senior engineer (for about 1-3 months per
village), an accountant and a team leader (each for about 0.5 months per village). The
implementation phase contract specifies its total amount, how much will be contributed by the
community, and how much will be contributed by the PMU. The PMU contribution at the
implementation phase includes funding for SO staff and overheads as above, as well as skilled
labor and materials and equipment for the construction of water supply and environmental
sanitation schemes. Non-statutory audits of project accounts and scheme-SO financial and
technical audits will be carried out by a private audit firm recruited by the PMU. Disbursements
against expenditures on contracts exceeding US$300,000 for civil works for regional schemes,
US$100,000, for goods and equipment for the PMU and for water supply and sanitation schemes,
contracts exceeding US$100,000 for consulting firms, and contracts exceeding US$50,000 for
individual consultants would be fully documented. For all other expenditures, disbursements
would be made against statements of expenditure. This documentation would not be submitted to
the Bank but would be retained by the PMU and made available for inspection by auditors and
during the course of Bank project supervision missions. At negotiations, it was agreed that the
completion, by PMU, of the technology manual, under the Implementation Manual, satisfactory to
the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement for schemes. At negotiations, it was also agreed
that the completion by PMU of the development plan for Regional schemes and agreement with
the Bank on a set of eligibility criteria would be a condition of disbursement for Regional
schemes. The loan closing date is May 31, 2002. A schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex
17.
4.08     Retroactive financing and Special account. Since GOUP has already incurred
expenditures to prepare the project and to commence field activities, retroactive financing is
provided for all eligible expenditures incurred after July 31, 1995 provided that procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank were followed. The total amount of retroactive financing
would be up to US$ 1.0 million, or about 1% of the Loan amount. To facilitate and expedite
disbursements, a special account with an authorized allocation of US$4.0 million (representing
about four months of Bank-financed expenditures) would be established on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. At negotiations, assurances to the above were obtained. The special
account would be used to finance all eligible expenditures, and would be replenished from time-
to- time upon receipt and approval of withdrawal applications supported by the required
documentation.
Accounts, Audit, and Reporting
4.09     Accounts. A project accounting and record-keeping system for the PMU has been
developed during project preparation. This system meets the accounting and reporting
requirements of the Government as well as the PMU and project accounting requirements. The
project accounting system records:



- 32 -
*  Expenditures for strengthening operation of the PMIU;J
*  Expenditures for selection and construction of rural water supply and environmental
sanitation systems for single and regional schemes, with a breakdown on a scheme
basis between planning phase and implementation phase costs;
*  Expenditures for studies and sector development .
4.10     A scheme accounting manual has also been developed for SOs. Each SO would be
required in its contract to maintain separate scheme accounts and records to support the PMU
scheme accounting system. The SO would have to provide a detailed breakdown of expenditures
on a scheme basis for each main item, categorized into community contribution (cash and kind),
other itemized construction costs, and iternized community development costs. At negotiations
assurances were obtained that the PMU would require SOs to keep separate accounts for each
scheme and to adopt and follow the above accounting system. Each SO would be required to
provide the PMU with updated actual scheme accounts on expenditures regularly. Receipt of
such satisfactory updated scheme accounts by the PMU would be a condition of further PMU
disbursements to an SO. At negotiations, an assurance to this effect was obtained. In particular,
signing of the implementation phase contract will be conditional upon receipt of a satisfactory
audit report, prepared by an independent commercial auditor recruited by the PMU, of the
expenditures undertaken up to the second payment under the planning phase contract. At
negotiations assurances to this effect were obtained.
4.11     Audit. The PMU would maintain records and accounts in accordance with sound
accounting practices to reflect the operations, resources, and all expenditures for the project.
Such records and accounts of the PMU (including statements of expenditure and the special
account) would be audited annually by a qualified independent auditor in accordance with
appropriate, consistently applied auditing principles. No later than six months after the close of its
fiscal year, the PMU would be required to send the Bank a copy of its audited financial statements
and audit reports. Any other such information concerning the records, accounts, and audit as may
be reasonably requested by the Bank would be furnished by the PMU. In addition to the
foregoing, the PMU would retain all records of withdrawals made on the basis of statements of
expenditure for at least one year after the Bank receives the audit report, for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal is made. Such records would be made available to the Bank's
representatives on request and would be included in the annual audit reports. The audit report
would contain an opinion by the auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
and the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation could be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals. At negotiations, assurances to the above were obtained. In
addition, scheme accounts kept by support organizations would be subject to audits carried out by
conmmercial auditors to be recruited by the PMU in consultation with the Bank. Such audits
would take place after the second payment of the planning phase contract and after completion of
the implementation phase contract. At negotiations, assurances to the above were obtained.



- 33 -
Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision
4.12     Monitoring and evaluation play a critical role in ensuring both that the overall
profile of PMU performance is in line with the aims and objectives and that the implementation of
specific schemes, facilitated by the PM-U, incorporate the required level of technical quality and
effective beneficiary participation to make them sustainable. Because the PMU is set up as a
facilitating instrument rather than as a delivery system with its own line of execution, the
monitoring and evaluation a]so must ensure that adequate information is provided to all the
relevant stakeholders and managers - the community, the VWSC, SOs, the PMU, and the Bank
- to enable each to exercise their respective management and supervisory functions.
4.13     The PMU will activate and rely on a network of independent SOs to provide technical
and financial support to isolated and weakly organized communities wanting to improve and
manage their own water supply and sanitation facilities. The operational procedures need to
allow for a judicious balance between flexibility and prescription. Monitoring and evaluation must
therefore enable the PMIU to strike the right balance between the necessary risks inherent in this
approach on one hand and the need for enforcing compliance with standards and rules on the
other.
4.14     Monitoring and evaluation will differ between the PM[U (or program) level and the
scheme level. Because the PNfU is a facilitating agency, it has to monitor the overall progress
and impact of the investments made and the quality and performance of the contracted delivery
system. The VWSCs and the SOs are the primary managers of specific schemes. Monitoring and
evaluation must consequently address their responsibilities and interests in terms of field
implementation and quality control. Contractual compliance will be the PMU's concern.
4.15     The PMU is preparing a comprehensive Monitoring and Evaluation system with five
distinct points:
* Compliance. Contracts between the PMU, support organizations, and Village Water
and Sanitation Committees will be the main point of reference. Checking compliance
involves routine and standardized follow-up (including audits) of financial
management, agreed activities, and quality of outputs. Its purpose is to trigger
corrective actions or sanctions to ensure compliance with core operational
requirements.
*  Process and development. This will focus on how the quality and thrust of the
services provided change over time and will involve a continuous assessment of how
roles and responsibilities are played out over the scheme cycle as well as over batches.
Its purpose is to allow revisions of the PMU's procedural frameworks and
instruments.
*  Community. This will focus on users' capacity to manage the assets and awareness
generated by participation in the PMU program. SOs will facilitate community
assessments of the need for and quality of services and facilities provided. The



- 34 -
purpose is to provide an informed basis for active community management and
involvement.
*  Impact. Changes generated by the activities, inputs, and services will be assessed in
terms of the long-term objectives of the PMU. Post-implementation community
management of assets and the benefits (health, time savings) likely to accrue on a
sustained basis will be assessed. The purpose is to provide the PMU, and the overall
sector policy-makers, with a continuous assessment of the economic, financial, and
social justification for the program of investment.
*  Strategy. This is geared to documenting, disseminating, and learning from
experience. The PMU's adaptive and programmatic approach requires feedback on
which approaches are working well and which are not. This feedback can be
incorporated into the project in a cyclic or programmatic way.
4.16      These issues would be monitored through regular scheme visits by PMU and service
agency staff, scheme completion reports prepared by SOs and service agencies or the PMU,
audits by independent auditors, and Completion Reports to be written by the PMU after one
season of operation for a sample of schemes. Knowledge, attitudes, and practices studies will be
conducted before and after schemes for a selected number of communities each year, as will ex-
post reviews of a small sample of schemes four years after completion to assess impact and
sustainability issues in particular.
4.17      The PMU's monitoring and evaluation indicators focus both on scheme-specific issues
over the scheme cycle and on program level issues. Scheme-specific issues include the rate and
quality of implementation, the performance and capacity of SOs and VWSCs, the extent to which
assumed benefits are being realized, cost-efficiency, and the degree of active management by the
community. The program-level issues include cost-effectiveness of service delivery through the
private sector, suitability of PMU policies and procedures (including support organization and
scheme selection criteria), impact of water and sanitation interventions under varying socio-
economic and environmental conditions, and relative efficiency of different technology options
and design criteria. Monitoring indicators developed by the PMU are shown in Annex 18.
4.18      The PMU will have a limited in-house capacity to pursue the monitoring and
evaluation undertaken (para. 3.05). The Operations and Monitoring and Evaluation Unit head
would coordinate overall monitoring and evaluation. In addition, the PMU will contract service
agencies institutionally or individually to carry out the necessary field investigations and analysis.
4.19      The PMU shall prepare yearly work programs as well as quarterly and annual progress
reports. The reports shall cover the progress of the PMU operations, including physical progress,
costs, disbursements, technical assistance, training, and other pertinent information, together with
results of monitoring and evaluation of processes, impacts, and lessons learnt. A copy of the draft
annual work program shall be submitted to the Bank for its review and comments not later than
December 31 of each year commencing December 31, 1996. Copies of the quarterly and annual
progress reports shall be submitted to the Bank, beginning in 1997, within one month of the end
of each quarter and within one month of the end of the fiscal year, respectively. The reports shall



- 35 -
highlight constraints as well as proposed remedies, based on the results of the monitoring and
evaluation. At negotiations, assurances were obtained to the above.
4.20     Bank Supervision. The project's financing of dispersed investments will face
logistical challenges, and some SOs will be dealing with a new approach to community
participation in decision making. Accordingly, the project is expected to require about eighteen
staff weeks of Bank implementation supervision for each of its two first years, about twenty-two
staff weeks for its third year (mid-term review) and fourteen staff weeks thereafter; in total, about
103 staff weeks over the six-year implementation period. The supervision plan is presented in
Annex 19.
4.21     A mid-term project review will be carried out no later than June 30, 1999 (at the end
of the third year). GOUP would be responsible for carrying out the mid-term review. Resources
to this effect have been included in project costs. The GOUP and the PMU would review
progress and decide whether components, implementation arrangements, policy reforms, and
PMU operating procedures need adjusting, as defined in the PMU Implementation Manual. This
mid-term review will provide a forum among the GOUP, the PMU, and the Bank to discuss issues
identified and agree on remedial measures no later than December 31, 1999, and will be followed
by the remedial actions agreed upon. At negotiations, assurances to the above were obtained.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS, BENEFITS, COSTS, AND RISKS
Financial Analysis
5.01     State Finances. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (1995) (paras. 1.38-1.40)
stresses the need for state governments to improve their finances and for project proposals to
consider this objective. Despite substantial transfers from GOI, deficits in the GOUP revenue
account have been large in recent years. Consequently, levels of plan expenditure have been
relatively low. The large deficits in the revenue account have resulted in interest payments and
payments of debt as percentages of total non-plan expenditures which are significantly above the
national average, at 22.8% in 1991/92 compared to the all-states average of 17.9%. GOUP's
finances are also much more dependent on GOI transfers than the average, and these transfers
have grown from 33% in the late 1960s to over 50% of total revenue value since the late 1980s.
It is evident that great importance needs to be attached to reducing the fiscal stress of the GOUP.
Since it is expected to rehabilitate a number of existing schemes, the proposed project will achieve
this in a modest way initially by introducing the concept of cost recovery into the rural water
supply and environmental sanitation sector.
5.02     GOUP Investment Levels. GOUP funding of recent rural water supply and
sanitation investments is shown in Table 5.1. These expenditures have been about Rs. 1,600
million per annum, with more in 1994-1995. The project cost represents about 25% of the sector
investment, assuming the same 1994-95 investments in water supply and sanitation over six years.



- 36 -
Table 5.1: GOUP Funding of Rural Water Supply Investment
Amount        % of Total        Amount        % of Total
(Rs Millions)                   (Rs Millions)
1992-93             1,499             13              95              1
1993-94             1,453             1 1             163             2
1994-95             1,588             15             378              4
5.03     Counterpart Funds. GOUP has recognized the importance of all externally aided
projects in its internal arrangements for financial management. Special accounts are established
for all externally aided projects that selected officers are empowered to access without reference
to the Finance Department of GOUP. It is proposed that this arrangement be adopted for the
project. Thus, despite the present overall poor fiscal state of affairs, GOUP has taken steps to
ensure that the project implementation would proceed without delay due to the unavailability of
financing. At negotiations, assurance was obtained that GOUP would forward for Bank review,
by December 31 of each year, PMU's proposed budget with counterpart funding for the following
year.
Willingness to Pay, Affordability, and Poverty Alleviation
5.04     Households included in this project would make a small initial contribution to capital
cost and then mobilize funds for all subsequent O&M expenditures. The initial capital
contribution would total about 10% of estimated scheme construction costs and would comprise
at least 1% in cash in the hills and foothills and 2% in the Bundelkhand, plus in-kind contributions
(unskilled labor for trench digging). The cash contribution would include the fees paid for
individual house connections (Rs. 1,000 per household). Communities would also make cash
contributions equal to the average estimated annual O&M expenditure. The monthly O&M fee
for house connections will be at least three times the fee for standpost users. A 5% surcharge on
this cash contribution would be used to establish an O&M fund from which replacement of assets
would be undertaken. The cash contribution to the O&M expenditure would be made on a
monthly basis.
5.05     The up-front cash contribution to capital cost per household required in the hills and
foothills ranges from Rs. 51 for deep tubewell handpumps to Rs- 145 for stream gravity systems
with an average amount of Rs. 101, and, for the Bundelkhand, it ranges from Rs. 132 for deep
tubewell (hand pump) to Rs. 210 for deep tubewell (pumping) with an average figure of Rs. 171.
It is expected that this contribution will be paid by a village in one lump sum, before the beginning
of the implementation phase. However, households will be able to make this contribution through
the 12-months duration of the planning phase. For households in the lowest income decile, the
up-front cash contribution to capital costs per household would represent about 2% of annual



- 37 -
cash income in the hills and foothills and about 7% of annual cash income in the Bundelkhand.
The up-front cash contribution to capital costs is considered affordable.
5.06      For O&M the monthly charge per household for the hills and foothills is expected to
range from Rs. 13 for deep tubewell handpumps to Rs. 38 for the stream gravity system with an
average figure of Rs. 27; and, for the Bundelkhand, it would range from Rs. 17 for deep tubewell
(handpump) to Rs. 28 for deep tubewell (pumping) with an average figure of Rs. 22. Rather than
include a specific capital charge, such as depreciation on a regular basis, a surcharge of 5% will be
used to establish a maintenance find. This fund will, in effect, be a sinking fund as it will be used
for replacement of assets at the end of their useful life. For households in the lowest income
decile, the average monthly charge represents 7% of monthly cash income in the hills and foothills
and 11% of monthly cash income in the Bundelkhand. These amounts would be high. However,
an element of cross-subsidization at the village level has been built into the cost recovery policy
adopted by the project whereby households with house connections will pay a monthly fee for
O&M at least three times the fee for standpost users. Because preliminary figures indicate that at
least 20% of households would request house connections, it can be concluded that the O&M fee
can be significantly lowered for households in the lowest income decile, thus making the operation
and maintenance fee affordable.
5.07      In the hill and foothill region, almost every household has one or more members
(usually male) who have migrated to the cities in search of employment, leaving women, children,
and the elderly. The hill and foothill region has also been a major source of recruitment for the
armed forces and the police service. As a result, the hill and foothill economy is often referred to
as the "money order" economy, with remittances and pension funds constituting a large part of
household income. The income from agricultural activities is generally smaller since
approximately two thirds of household members working on the farms are women and children.
According to a study (Bora 1996), there are nearly 1.5 migrants per household in the hill and
foothill region.'0 This results in large cash income flows among the households in this region.
Average monthly rural household income is show in Table 5.2.
Table 5.2: Monthly Rural Household Income, 1996
(Rupees per household per month)
Hills and Foothills     Bundellchand
Cash      Total      Cash       Total
Income     Income    Income     Income
Lowest Decile         380        800        200        700
Lowest Quintile       800       1200        350        950
Medium               1350       2000        700       1800
Average              1500       2250        750       2000
Source: Household Survey conducted by the Project, supplemented by infonnation obtained fiom beneficiary surveys
carried out by Block Ofrices (1994-95) and Bora (1996)
11    Bora, R.S. (1996) Himalayan Migration - A Case Study of U.P. Hills. Sane



- 38 -
5.08     In contrast to the hills and foothills, people in the Bundelkhand are largely dependent
on their own farm income or their income as sharecroppers. A very small proportion of the
population are in formal wage employment. Most households tend to keep a large part of their
agricultural produce for domestic consumption and the small surplus available for sale is barely
enough to meet cash expenditure requirements. Therefore, the proportion of cash income is much
smaller in the Bundelkhand.
5.09     Willingness and Ability to Pay. The issue of affordability is sensitive for all actors in
the project and especially for the villagers who must bear the ultimate responsibility of building
and operating a water supply system with associated sanitation and health components. The
issues are very complex, and what may be perceived as an "affordability" problem is simply one in
which the focus of attention has been on the cost side of the equation. What at first may appear
to be an expensive and therefore "unaffordable" scheme may indeed be significantly cheaper than
the existing sources that are quite distant from the consumer, and often polluted with serious
environmental degradation resulting in severe health problems such as high levels of water-related
illnesses and increased levels of infant mortality. When these issues are discussed, the question of
"'affordability" often becomes less significant compared to the long-term advantages that
investment in safe and reliable supplies of potable water will bring to a community. Communities
are usually astute enough to recognize such long-term benefits and welcome the opportunity and
challenge that projects, such as the current one provides through facilitating access to the
necessary levels of finance.
5.10     Because this project is adopting a demand-driven approach, the commitment of the
villages to be involved and to actively participate in all stages of the project -including a
commitment to provide operation and maintenance and replacement costs- will be unequivocal
evidence of peoples' willingness and ability to pay for a level of service they believe will
adequately meet their demand for water. There are a range of technologies available, depending
on the particular geographical and environmental conditions. However, the option of choice is
firmly planted with the community. The question of affordability has been decentralized to the
level where it will directly impact the village. The village will simply not adopt a technology or
scheme if it exceeds their willingness and ability to pay, or their ability to reallocate resources to
ensure sufficient funding to achieve their desired level of service. Under such circumstances, the
usual risk of imposing an unaffordable scheme is greatly reduced since all costs, commitments,
and obligations will be fully discussed and approved by the community before any work is
undertaken.
5.11     Poverty Alleviation. This project will not explicitly target poor communities.
Projects in other countries have found that SOs often seek out less favored communities for
assistance, implying some automatic antipoverty targeting built into the project's demand-led
project procedures. Moreover, better-off communities have already often benefited from
schemes, leaving poorer areas with major service gaps. Finally, many poor families are members
of larger communities. Since complete coverage within communities would be an eligibility
criterion, members of the poverty group should benefit at least in proportion to their share of the
total population. A relatively high percentage of households in the Bundelkhand are considered
below the poverty level.



- 39 -
Environmental Assessment
5.12     The project is expected to have a net positive effect on the environment. Positive
impacts from rural water supply and sanitation are expected to arise from: (a) improved
ecological conditions in watershed areas, which will increase the availability and quality of water;
(b) time and energy savings from a reduced need for women and children to fetch water, will
result in improved family health and the opportunity for women to use time saved for economic
and productive activities; (c) more effective use of water for bathing, washing, and cleaning will
benefit the environment; (d) expected lower fertility in rural women due to reduced disease
morbidity in children, reduced infant mortality, improvements in hygiene and sanitation practices,
and family health, (e) controlled disposal of human wastes will reduce bacterial contamination of
the environment, (f) better environmental management, including catchment protection;.and (g)
increased community capacity for self-reliance and independence
5.13     The potential negative environmental effects of rural water supply and sanitation
include:(a) erosion and water logging problems due to overflow or washout from water supply
system components (specifically from reservoirs), (b) pollution problems due to increased water
use without adequate wastewater disposal and groundwater pollution from inappropriate
sanitation units (latrines) or from improper well construction techniques (allowing surface
drainage into the wells); (c) bringing contaminated surface water closer to households and
polluted sources could present hazards; (d) increased water use for domestic purposes could deny
other users, such as agricultural, (e) rapid expansion of settlement areas due to availability of
improved water supplies, leading to over congestion and environmental pollution, and (f) erosion
due to construction activities such as quarrying and use of access roads. Many of the potential
adverse effects will be mitigated or avoided by activities planned under the project.
Notwithstanding these potentially adverse environmental problems, the net environmental impact
of the project is expected to be positive. Annex 20 describes potential environmental impacts of
the project and the mitigation measures that will be undertaken.
Promotion of the Private Sector
5.14      A major focus of this project would be to assist GOUP in reducing its role in providing
those services that can be undertaken more efficiently by others (private sector, non-governmental
organizations, community-based organizations, communities etc.). GOUP can then focus its
attention on those essential activities for which it has a comparative advantage. In the case of
rural water supply and sanitation, these activities include: policy formulation; subsidizing private
provision where appropriate, in this case through grants to SOs and communities; monitoring the
performance of different sector actors in accomplishing sectoral objectives (which would be
sought through the studies and institutional development component); and, research and
development of appropriate technologies. The project will also assist GOUP in the difficult and
sensitive process of redefining its policies to facilitate efficient service delivery by the private
sector. The most important immediate impacts on the private sector would arise from funding of
schemes initiated and implemented with the assistance of SO and by the communities themselves.
This will accelerate the delivery of water supply and sanitation services and provide a precedent
for other sectors. The training of SO staff under the project would enhance the capacity of the
private sector to carry out an expanded program in the future.



- 40 -
Impact on Women
5.15     The project would increase access of women and their young children to improved,
adequate, and safe water and sanitation facilities, which in turn would have a positive and direct
effect on their health and productivity. In addition to time and energy savings, direct impacts on
women include: (a) productivity gains due to improvements in health; (b) more privacy brought
about by improved sanitation facilities, (c) enhanced women's role and capability in management
of water supply and sanitation (WSS) schemes as well as in their health, social, and economic
welfare; (d) increased literacy through the non-formal education activities, and (e) increased
participation of women workers who could serve as role models and in turn raise women's
aspirations.
5.16     The project activities designed for the participation of women would instill a sense of
confidence through increased mobility and interaction around the community and increased access
to productive activities. This would result in institutional and social benefits, such as well-
fuinctioning water-user groups and enhanced status of women.
5.17     The most significant benefits to women are the development of skills for use in
income-generating activities and increased participation in community-organized activities such as
managing the water supply systems, made possible by the freeing up of time once spent collecting
water. Women's participation in water management is expected in: water regulation, collection
of user fees, maintenance; and reporting, monitoring, and evaluation.
5.18     One risk for the project is the negative attitude towards the move to a more equal or
active participation of women in RWSES activities, which may prove more difficult to overcome
and result in lower participation rates than expected. Such negative attitudes would be addressed
through specific information and education awareness programs targeting local government
officials, community leaders, and the community at large.
Economic Analysis
5.19     Project Justification. The proposed project would be justified on the basis of the
direct benefits to about 800,000 rural inhabitants initially (rising to about 1.2 million as
populations rise to design levels). It would also generate unquantifiable benefits in the long term
through the enhanced operations of non-governmental agencies involved in the project. Project-
funded R&D activities would result in improved practices and techniques for cost-effective supply
of water and sanitation services. By developing procedures for public funding of demand-driven
community-based development, this project would enable wider replication of sustainable rural
water and sanitation facilities than has been possible through top-down public programs.
5.20     Direct Benefits. Rural populations would save time and effort collecting water and
become healthier because of more and cleaner water, improved health knowledge, and better
hygiene practices. Many of these benefits are difficult or impossible to measure at present. The
only benefits that have been quantified are the value of time saved in water collection and the
value of increased water.



- 41 -
5.21       Time Savings. A household survey, commissioned by the PMU, was undertaken in
four districts in the project area (two in the hills and foothills and two in the Bundelkhand)
covering 20 villages with a sample size of 210 households. The principal aim of the survey was to
quantify the current time spent collecting water and to identify the potential time savings that may
result from the project. Surveys of this type are difficult because of the large range of variables
involved in the collection of water. Follow-up field checks in the project area, collection of
secondary data, and careful scrutiny of the raw data, allowed a reasonable estimate of time spent
collecting water being obtained.
5.22       Substantial time is now being spent collecting water from distant sources for all
domestic and other household needs, most notably water for animals but also for bathing and
washing clothes. The burden of this task overwhelmingly falls on women and children. As shown
in Table 5.3, the weighted average time spent collecting water per household per day in the
project area is about 4.6 hours (on average 4.9 hours per day per household in the hills and
foothills and 3.5 hours per day per household in the Bundelkhand).
Table 5.3: Time Spent and Estimated Time Savings Collecting Water
Hours per day per household
Time spent collecting water before the project li  4.6       4.9              3.5
Time spent collecting water after the project  1.0            1.1             0.8
Timc saved per day per household 2/            3.6           3.8              2.7
i Source: Household survey, secondary data, and on-site field inspections.
2 This assumes that the weighted average time saved will be 78% of the time now spent before the
project This is derived as follows
80% standpost or wells will save 75% of current time
20% house connections will save 90% of current time
therefore weighted average time savings =
(0.8 x 0.75) + (0.2 x 0.9) = 0.78 (of time spent collecting water before the project)
5.23       Studies conducted in Nepal" (Annex 21, Table 2), where socio-cultural conditions
are similar to those in the hills and foothills in Uttar Pradesh showed considerable variation in time
saved, from -44% to -80%, depending on the unit of measurement. These figures refer primarily
to standposts. After examining conditions in the field, it is believed that both house and standpost
and well systems will achieve considerable savings. For house connections, an assumed 90% of
the existing time taken to fetch water will be saved though the project. For standposts and wells,
75% of the time currently taken to fetch water will be saved by the project. A sensitivity analysis
has been undertaken to assess the impact of using figures resulting from the project quantified
risks.
12.        All India Institute of Public Health, Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices, undertaken for UNICEF and
reported in Nepal Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, Staff Appraisal Report, 1995, p. 38.



- 42 -
5.24     The project design is based on 30% of households receiving a house connection and
consuming 70 Ipcd,and 70% of households receiving water from a standpost or well and
consuming 40 Ipcd. Because of technical problems, some villages will be able to utilize only
standposts or wells. When this is considered, the actual proportion of house connections will fall
to only 20% of total households served. Because current consumption is constrained by supply,
in terms of both physical and geographical limitations in obtaining water, it is difficult to estimate
what current demand would be if supply were unconstrained.
5.25     Based on assumptions and data set out above, an average beneficiary household is
expected to save 3.6 hours (216 minutes) per day (228 minutes in the hills and foothills and 162
minutes in the Bundelkhand) after the project (Table 5.3).
5.26     Reduced time in collecting water will increase consumption. As shown in Annex 21,
Table 2, the arc elasticity of demand was estimated to be -0.54, which indicates that on average
over the particular range of the demand curve indicated, a 10% reduction in time taken will
increase consumption by 5.4%. Because this incremental consumption presumably was not
considered worthwhile to collect before the project, the level of time savings obtained from this
additional consumption after the project will be lower. This also assumes, however, that such
quantity of additional water was indeed actually available before the project. In many cases in the
project area, especially in the dry season, this is not the case, and the supply constraint determines
the actual level of consumption. A common practice is to assume time savings of half the rate
that time savings accrue on the existing level of consumption. It is difficult to estimate what the
level of unconstrained demand is in the project area and hence what the after-project level of
demand would be. For the purposes of this analysis, a figure of 20% additional time savings has
been assumed to accrue to incremental consumption.
5.27     Value of Time Saved. The value of time saved is estimated by the opportunity cost
of labor, that is, what income is lost in foregoing other income-generating activities. The shadow
wage rate for unskilled labor is used as the basis for the monetary value of this opportunity cost.
The important point is that there are alternative income generating activities available, that is,
there is indeed an opportunity cost incurred. These need not necessarily be in the formal sector.
Significant income-generating activities can be undertaken in the non-formal sector. It is
irrelevant whether time saved is actually used for these other income-generating activities for
them to have economic value. For example, the fact that a woman may choose to spend the time
saved as a result of the project with her children rather than in income-generating activities does
not imply that time spent with children has a lower economic value. What this clearly illustrates is
that women place a value on this activity (time with children) which is at least as high as what
they could have obtained if they had engaged in formal or non-formal income generating
activities. A major component of the project will be women's development initiatives, which aim
to develop and encourage alternative income-generating activities.
5.28     The time spent collecting water and the opportunities for alternative income-
generating activities vary considerably throughout the year. During harvest time, substantial
alternative employment opportunities are more widely available compared to non-harvest times.
In the dry season, virtually all water must be obtained away from the residence; in many instances
long and difficult journeys are involved. In the wet season, almost all the household requirement



- 43 -
for water for animals and market garden activities, etc., is obtained from rainwater. Water for
drinking and cooking is still mostly obtained from external sources because water from these
sources has a preferred taste and is considered to be cleaner and safer than drinking rainwater.
The highest opportunity cost of labor would therefore occur during those dry times when
harvesting activities occur. At these times all household requirements for water are obtained
away from the household, yet there are substantial alternative income-generating activities that
could be undertaken. The opportunity cost of collecting water is high. At other times, such as
the wet season, the opportunity cost of labor is lower. In an attempt to accommodate such
diverse circumstances, the opportunity cost of labor has been weighted to reflect the diversity of
opportunities throughout the year and the relative value that would accrue to consumers with
house connections and standposts. This gives a factor which can be used to apply to time saved
at any time during the year. This is shown in Annex 21, Table 3.
5.29      The value of unskilled labor in both formal and informal employment (the opportunity
cost of labor) when such employment is available, is currently approximately Rs. 35 per day on
average. This has been adjusted to reflect its average weighted economic value throughout the
year, resulting in a value of Rs. 19 per day or approximately Rs. 2.38 per hour, assuming an
eight-hour work day. This figure is further adjusted by the Standard Conversion Factor to
convert into border prices (Rs 2.14). The detailed calculations are shown in Annex 21, Table 3.
5.30      The reduced time saving accruing to incremental consumption incurs the same
opportunity cost and therefore its value will also be Rs. 2.38 per hour.
5.31      Costs. All costs used were estimated by the project and are expressed in constant
1996 prices, net of taxes. Community development costs for each type of scheme include the
development costs of the 13% of villages which drop out between planning and implementation
phases. A physical contingency of 10% is included where appropriate.
5.32      Benefit and Cost Analysis and ERRs.12 The economic rate of return (ERR) is
estimated to be 20% for the whole project and 26% if the cost of strengthening and operating the
PMU and studies and sector development are excluded. ERRs and switching values have been
calculated for each type of scheme, first, including all community development and scheme
construction expenses, and second, including only scheme construction costs. Both estimates
understate the true ERR, since there is no quantification of benefits of improved health, sanitation,
environmental and community development activities. For comparative purposes, each scheme is
assumed to commence in year one. The individual schemes are shown in Annex 21, Tables 4A to
4L. ERRs are then calculated for all schemes together according to an assumed mix of scheme
types (Annex 1, Table 2) and according to the implementation schedule shown in Annex 21, Table
5. A summary of the results by scheme and for the total project is shown in Table 5.3. The
detailed estimation of all ERRs is shown in Annex 21, Table 6 and for the total project in Annex
21, Table 4.7.
13.    Benefits and costs are cxprcssed in border prices and haxe becn forecast over a 24-year horizon from the
first year of the project in 1996. Border prices have been estimated by applying the Standard Conversion Factor
(SCF) of 0.9 to all domestic expenditures and benefits. Switching values have been calculated using the 12%
opportunity cost of capital for India.



- 44 -
5.33      Sensitivity analysis. Sensitivity tests, based upon assessed risks, indicate that the
project is able to absorb substantial negative impacts yet still generate positive ERRs and net
present values (NPV). For example, the project can sustain:
*  a significant reduction in the number of house connections. The project ERR is
relatively insensitive to changes in this variable (Table 5.7) since only 20% of
households are expected to use this type of connection;
*  failure to realize time savings. If all villages were only able to achieve the minimum
time savings required in the eligibility criteria, the total project ERR would fall to 15%
(Table 5.6);
*  complete failure of a high proportion of schemes (71%) in year 10 before the project
ERR falls below 12% (Table 5.8);
*  significant decreases in benefits or increases in costs.
5.34      In most schemes, benefits are more sensitive than costs.



- 45 -
Table 5.4 Economic Rates of Return and Switching Values
(with staggered starts per project design)
ERR     ERR       NPVi/        NPVi/            Switching Values                B/C
Hard-                  Hard-    Hard-           Soft-          B/Cv   Ratio   AICv
ware                   ware      ware  O&M   ware   Bene-  Ratio  Hard-   Rs/
Scheme Type    Total    Only       Total        Only      Cost   Cost   Cost   fits   Total  Ware  Capita
(%)     (%)      Rs 'ooo      Rs 'ooo    (%)    (%)    (%)    (%)
Hills
Spring Gravity    22.5    28.1       83,055      103,645     92    387    403    -39   1.63    1.93    311
Well with
Handpump          52.1    83.7      159,837      175,696    454   2027   1008    -73   3.71    5.07    132
Strearn Gravity   24.3    29.6      204,300      242,398    106    445    536    -43    1.74   2.02    288
Stream
Pumping           25.5    30.7       27,857       32,317    116    289    625    -42    1.73    1.96    275
Foothills
Artesian Wells
& Punps           37.6    52.1         9,685      10,860    250   1053    824    -62   2.62    3.27    177
Stream Gravity    21.8    25.4        11,668      13,827     82    334    540    -37   1.59    1.78    301
Stream River
(Pump)            25.5    29.1         9,677      10,853    109    269    823    -42    1.71    1.87    293
Deep Tubewell
(Pump)            41.7    51.4        62,952      67,626    259    658   1347    -62   2.63    3.00    187
Deep Tubewell
(Handpump)        57.4    83.3       26,294       28,238    453   1991   1352    -74    3.90   4.96    119
Bundelkhand
Deep Tubewell
(Pump)            20.1    23.4       185,310     227,971     65    162    434    -30    1.42    1.57    248
Deep Tubewell
(Handpump)        30.7    41.5      227,809      266,183    180    747    594    -54   2.17    2.70    154
All Schemes       26.4    32.8    1,008,444    1,179,614    125    406    589    -45    1.82   2.12    283
Total Project     20.4     n.a.     756,878         n.a.    94    304    442    -34   1.51    n.a.    341
1/ At 12% discount rate.
2/ Benefit cost.
3/ Average incremental cost.
Note: Total Scheme Costs include softwsre; hardware costs include pre-design, design and supervision, catchment protection
and drainage but exclude latrines. Total project includes costs of PMU, institutional development, and studies.



- 46 -
Table 5.5: Sensitivity of ERRs
Criteria                Total Project
ERR
20% increase in costs                    16.4%
51 % increase in costs                   12.0%
20% decrease in benefits          [      15.6%
Combined 20% increase in costs
and 20% decrease in benefits             12.0%
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........................   ........... . . . ...........  ...................  ............. ..
C-1ixd26%h i        e m;j coti-  -Ei :ti ii--  
--4 26%°_ d-~     m00 0-it      ; ____-
Benefits delayed 2 years                 12.0%
Benefits delayed 4 years                 10.4%
................................................................  ........................
BBnZ dia*3~r                             10.0%,.. :-i--f. t; f"         -
Base Case                               20.4%
Table 5.6: Effect of Reduced Time Savings on ERR
Time Savings                         ERR            ERR
(hours/household/day)             (Schemes          (Total
Only)         Project)
4.0                                 33.6%          25.7%
3.6 (Base Case)                    26.4%           20.4%
2.5                                 19.4%          15.0%
2.1                                 15.9%          12.0%
133%           IEM0%
1.9                                13.3%           10.0%
1.6                                10.0%            7.2%
Table 5.7: Effect on ERR of Changing Proportion of
House Connections
Proportion of House             ERR             ERR
Connections                     (Schemes        (Total
Only)          Project)
50%                             27.2%           21.0%
40%                             26.8%           20.7%
30% (Base Case)                 26.4%          20.4%
20%                             26.0%           20.1%
10%                             25.6%           19.8%
_  .2....................1 ,



- 47 -
Table 5.7: Effect on Total Project ERR
of Scheme Failure
% of Schemes that   Total Project ERR
totally fail at year 10
Base Case           20.4%
25%               18.2%
50%               15.3%
71%              12.0%
.      . . 5%   ._._ _._ _._ _._.-_. 1_-_ _3
81%               10%
100%               1.9%
Risks
5.35     There are a number of risks which could adversely affect the successful
implementation and sustainability of the project. They can be divided into three broad categories.
5.36     Resistance to Change. The change from a supply-driven and top-down approach to
a demand-driven and bottom-up approach will be strongly resisted by many traditional actors in
the sector. Entrenched institutions and bureaucracies fail to see the need for paradigm shifts
despite the overwhelming evidence that the current approach is failing. The Bank has worked
closely with PMU staff and they now form a critical nucleus of highly committed and dedicated
personnel who are fully committed to the demand-driven approach of the project. They
understand and accept the need for appointing women to important decision-making positions in
the PMU/DPMU and the VWSC. They appreciate the need to monitor the situation closely and
to act decisively to isolate attitudes that are not conducive to the demand-driven approach.
Changes in personnel in these crucial organizations could change the situation, so the Bank will
undertake regular and careful monitoring and action will be requested to avoid this problem if or
when it is identified.
5.37     Some SOs may find it difficult to accept the need to conform to a set of standards and
a new way of implementing projects. Many SOs also adopt a top-down approach and may
attempt to revert to their entrenched ways of doing business. The project design has made
extensive provision for training and monitoring of SOs at every phase of the scheme cycle. SOs
that cannot accept the approach will be replaced.
5.38     At the village level, resistance to change can seriously impede the progress of a project
as people fail to absorb the innovations being introduced and revert to traditional ways. Poor
health and hygiene practices may continue despite the very strong education and community-
development programs that have been designed for the project. The programs to protect micro-



- 48 -
watersheds and catchment protection may fail to deliver the promised benefits as villages continue
traditional farming, harvesting, and environmentally unsustainable land management practices.
5.39     Resistance to change would delay the implementation of the project, which would
delay the benefits. A reduction in benefits by 34% would reduce the ERR to 12%. In extreme
cases it could lead to the failure of schemes. If 71% of them fail in year 10, the ERR would fall
to 12%.
5.40     Absorptive Capacity. The absorptive capacity of the PMU/DPMU, SOs and the
villages will be critical to the successful implementation of the project. The project design has set
ambitious targets in terms of the numbers of schemes to be implemented and the PMU/DPMU
must be able to respond quickly and efficiently to the requests from SOs and villages. Delays in
establishing and managing the systems designed to facilitate smooth implementation will result in
a serious loss of credibility with the SOs and villages. Training of both PMU and DPMU staff is a
major component of the project and this will ensure that adequate absorptive capacity will be in
place.
5.41     SOs have varying technical abilities. The construction components of the project rely
on these abilities to deliver systems that provide clean water and sanitation facilities. The
Implementation Manual is designed to be a dynamic document updated regularly to enhance the
level of technical ability of SOs. The use of a number of different SOs will provide benchmark
data for PMU/DPMUs on SO performance. The management information system (MIS) planned
for the project is designed to provide early warning of SO problems so that they can be corrected
before they negatively impact on the project.
5.42     For the villages, the project will offer the first real hope in many years of obtaining safe
and reliable water and sanitation facilities close to residences. To capture the full benefits,
however, villages must be able to absorb and comprehend the process of project implementation
that they are being offered. The decision-making process will start with the villages but this will
work only if women, for example, are encouraged and take an active role in the VWSC. The
project has extensive community development components to assist the villages in the adoption of
new ideas, processes, and actions.
5.43     The failure to grasp the philosophy, ideals, and actions that the demand-driven
approach calls for will delay benefits and increase the likelihood of scheme failure. If benefits are
delayed by two years the ERR will fall to 12%.
5.44     Financial Sustainabilty. Villages will be carefully scrutinized in the selection
process, and only those which make a firm commitment to O&M will be included. Evidence in
other areas indicates that the concept of ownership also bestows responsibility. The villages must
make a cash contribution towards the capital cost and invest considerable amounts of time and
energy in the selection, design, and construction of schemes. Such ownership will encourage
beneficiaries to contribute to O&M. The project also provides for extensive community
development and training activities which will focus on the importance of O&M and the cost of
not properly maintaining their system. If 71% of schemes fail in year ten then the project ERR
will fall to 12%.



- 49 -
5.45     The above risks are known and quantified to the extent that substantial adverse effects
can occur, yet a reasonable ERR, not falling below 12% in all cases, can still be maintained. The
project design has incorporated a high degree of flexibility to allow such risks to be identified
early and satisfactorily absorbed.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     At negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
a) The leak detection and water quality study and the study on expanding technology
options will be carried out in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the
Bank. Study findings will be discussed with the Bank by June 30, 2000 and June 30,
2001, respectively (para 2.06);
b) Land acquisition for single schemes shall be done on a voluntary basis and in
accordance with an agreement satisfactory to the Bank between such land occupant
and the VWSC. For regional schemes, the development plan will include a policy
framework acceptable to the Bank, addressing potential impact on any persons who
may be affected by the construction of such regional schemes (para 2.08);
c) The GOUP, will complete the transfer of responsibility for the rural water supply
sector from the Department of Urban Development to the Department of Rural
Development Department not later than April 1, 1997 (para 3.09);
d) The GOUP will forward to the Bank, for its review and comments, a draft final
strategic plan no later than December 31, 1999. The strategic plan will be finalized,
taking into consideration the Bank's comments, by June 30, 2000 (para 3.10),
e) The PMU will enter into arrangements with each SO and villages under such terms
and conditions as shall be acceptable to the Bank (para 3.23). PMU to require SO to
keep separate accounts for each scheme and to follow accounting systems prepared by
PMU. Payment to an SO would be conditional upon receipt of satisfactory updated
scheme accounts on expenditures (para 4. 10);
f) SO selection would be carried out in accordance with the eligibility criteria agreed
with the Bank. PMU would review the adequacy of the SO eligibility criteria at the
end of the implementation phase of each batch of schemes. Changes introduced to SO
eligibility criteria would need to be acceptable to the Bank (para 3.25),
g) Scheme selection will be carried out in accordance with the eligibility criteria agreed
with the Bank. PMU would review the adequacy of the scheme eligibility criteria at
the end of the implementation phase of each batch of schemes. Changes introduced
would need to be acceptable to the Bank (para 3.27);



- 50 -
h) All contracts for civil works for regional schemes valued at US$300,000 and above, all
individual contracts for goods and equipment for the PMU and water supply and
environmental sanitation schemes estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or
more would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval. The Bank will review
the first 50 contracts of the first batch schemes. Contracts for consulting firms in
excess of US$100,000 equivalent (for individual consultants, in excess of US$50,000
equivalent) would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval (para 4.05);
i) A special account would be established on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para 4.08);
j) Scheme accounts would be audited by commercial auditors after the second payment
of the planning phase and after completion of the implementation phase. Signing of
the implementation phase contract would be conditional upon receipt of a satisfactory
audit report, prepared by an independent commercial auditor, of the expenditures
undertaken up to the second payment under the planning phase contract (para 4. 10
and 4.1 1);
k) PMU would maintain records and accounts in accordance with sound accounting
practices to reflect the operations, resources, and all expenditures in respect of the
project. PMU's accounts, statements of expenditures and the special account would
be audited annually by a qualified independent auditor. PMU would send to the Bank,
no later than six months after the close of its fiscal year, a copy of its audited financial
statements and audit reports (para 4. 11);
1) PMU would submit to the Bank, starting in 1997, copies of its quarterly and annual
progress reports within one month of the end of each quarter and within one month of
the end of the fiscal year, respectively (para 4.19). PMU would submit to the Bank a
copy of its annual work program, including budget provision, not later than December
31 of each year, starting with December 31, 1996 (para 5.03); and
m) A mid-term project review would be carried out by GOUP no later than June 30, 1999
to be discussed with the Bank no later than December 31, 1999 and agreed
conclusions and recommendations would be implemented thereafter (para 4.21).
6.02     Disbursement conditions:
a) Completion by PMU of the technology manual, under the implementation manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition for disbursement for schemes (para
4.07); and
b) Completion by PMU of the development plan for regional schemes and agreement
with the Bank on a set of eligibility criteria, would be a condition for disbursement for
regional schemes (para 4.07).



- 51 -
6.03      Recommendation. With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for an
IBRD loan of US$59.6 million, repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard
variable interest rate






- 53-                                 Annex I
Page 1 of 13
INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project
Detailed Promect Description
1.    The Project includes the following three components:
(A)   Strengthening and Operation of the Project Management Unit
(B)   Selection and Construction of Water Supply and Environmental
Sanitation Facilities for Single and Regional Schemes
(C)   Studies and Sector Development
A. Strenffthening and Operation of the Proiect Manaaement Units (US$ 8.31 million)
2.    The overall responsibility for ensuring that all project components are implemented
according to agreed criteria would rest with the Project Management Unit under the Rural
Development Department (RDD). The RDD is appropriate for this role because the proposed
project is for rural areas.
3.    At the State Level a Project Management Unit (PMiU) has been established as a
Registered Society in 1994 to manage and coordinate project implementation. The PMU is an
intermediary responsible to facilitate Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation
service delivery with community participation at all stages of the decision-making process.
The PMU is constituted with an Executive Committee headed by the Agricultural Production
Commnissioner and a Staff Secretariat headed by a Director supported by 13 higher level staff
and 17 support staff. Given the size of the project, the PMU will be assisted in its functions at
the district level by seven District Project Management Units (DPMUs). Each DPMU will be
staffed with four higher level staff and three support staff.
4.    The main objective of the PMU/DPMUs is to facilitate demand-led rural water supply
and sanitation through studies and schemes managed at the lowest appropriate level. The
schemes, and lessons learned from their implementation, will assist in sector policy reform and
systemic changes in the RWSS sector in Uttar Pradesh. A related objective will be to facilitate
local capacities needed to ensure the long term sustainability of schemes. The PMU/ DPMUs
have no direct service delivery responsibilities and will sub-contract these responsibilities to
Support Organizations (SOs) and to communities. SOs consist of NGOs, Community Based
Organizations (CBOs), private firms, and institutions which have sufficient capacity to help
mobilize and assist communities. They are selected by the PMU on the basis of transparent
criteria. Since the proposed program is demand-led and community based, rural communities
themselves will be responsible for playing the major role in each of the three project phases
(Pre-planning, Planning and Implementation). Since many communities lack organizational
and technical skills to complete schemes on their own they will be assisted by SOs. The role
of SOs will be to assist communities by facilitating a decision-making and planning process at
the community level, and to provide technical support to ensure quality of construction.



- 54 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 13
Communities, with SO support, will implement single schemes directly. In the case regional
schemes, which may require other arrangements, a 12 month study will be conducted
beforehand to determine the most appropriate method of implementation for such schemes.
5.    Services Agencies (SAs) will be used to build overall capacities, provide training,
some monitoring, all auditing of SOs, as well as other specialized services and expertise.
These SAs will consist of apex/resource NGOs and firms, training organizations, and other
private, professional associations or entities with the requisite qualifications. The component
includes funding for the following activities.
6.    Operating Costs (US$3.81 million): Operating costs include administrative and
overhead costs, staff compensation, PMU and DPMU office and vehicle rental and traveling
allowances. Compensation includes salaries and benefits for a total of 79 staff and local
consultants for the PMU and seven DPMUs. In the PMU, costs cover salaries and benefits for
13 higher level staff/consultants and 17 support staff. At the DPMU level, 28 higher level
staff/consultants and 21 support staff are supported.
7.    Equipment and Vehicle (US$0.73 million!: This includes the purchase of one vehicle,
furniture, and fixtures for both PMU and DPMU offices. It also includes computer equipment
consisting of one terminal for each professional staff, and requisite software and multimedia
equipment.
8.    Technical Assistance (US$ 1.18 million): Approximately 48 person months of one
senior advisor is provided over a six year period, to help support the overall management
processes of the project, and in particular, to strengthen the community development
component of the project. Given the skill balance of the team, the advisors should be
specialists in working with the private and voluntary sector, and have strong skills in
community development and participatory methods. Also, 142 person months (either local or
international) of short term consultancies will include, but not be limited to: community water
and sanitation engineering, economic analysis, media/communications, social marketing, and
participatory development and monitoring and evaluation.
9.    Audit (US$ 0.21 million): This includes funding for the cost of an audit to be carried
out by government auditors, the cost of an audit to be carried out by a private auditor as well
as the cost of a financial audit of the planning phase and the cost of a financial and technical
audit of schemes once completed.
10.   Impact. Site Appraisals and Water Ouality Testing (US$ 0.36 million): Includes the
cost of impact evaluation in 5% of the project villages, pre-planning site appraisals conducted
either by PMU or a SA for each village and the cost of purchasing water quality testing kits.
Water quality testing will be carried out by PMNU/DPMU staff
11.   SO/SA Training and Monitoring and Evaluation(US$ 1.78 million): This includes a
series of training programs for personnel of SOs and SAs to ensure that they can effectively



- 55 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 13
carry out their terms of reference as catalysts of communities in completing the project cycle
in village schemes. It includes training in:
(a)   The preparation of prefeasibility studies during a 4 day workshop and planning
phase proposal preparation during a 5 day workshop. Both workshops are
taking place during the pre-planning phase,
(b)   Participatory Community Action Planning (CAP) and monitoring during 10
day workshop during the Planning Phase.
(c)    Survey, design, and costs (25 days workshop), construction technologies (25
days workshop), during the planning phase and construction monitoring (8
days workshop) during the implementation phase;
(d)   Monitoring and Evaluation methods and tools. This training is taking place
during the planning phase and consists of a 5 days workshop (for SAs);
(e)    Specialized training as needed for both the planning phase and implementation
phase,
(f)    District workshops, regional and annual review meeting,
(g)   Training of trainers for Women Development Initiatives (WDI) (3 days) during
the implementation phase, and training for community development supervisors
in health education, women's development (10 days) during the planning
phase,
12.   PMU/DPN/IU Training and Communications (US$ 0.24 million):In addition to the
above training, costs associated with Training Materials Production, and Staff training of the
PMU/DPMU are included in this sub-component. A description follows:
(a)   Supplemental training materials, including user-friendly participatory tools and
community action-planning kits, and audiovisual programs would be produced
and distributed for use by SOs. This will include the use of filmstrip and slide
projectors designed for village use.
(b)   A project information package will be designed, produced and distributed to
SOs, communities, and local government officials. This will include a
description of the project cycle, criteria and procedures for working with the
PMU/DPMUs.
(c)   PM-U/DPMU Staff training: This will include an initial 3 weeks intensive field-
based immersion with an NGO in participatory methods for community water
supply and sanitation. This training should be undertaken before launching
activities with SOs. Subsequent staff training at regional and international sites
I



- 56 -                         Annex I
Page 4 of 13
will include cross visits to other community-based projects in Nepal, Bolivia,
Sri Lanka and similar programs. Specific skill training in computers, project
management, design of environmental components, participatory methods, and
gender sensitivity will be included.
B. Selection and Construction of Water Suiply and Environmental Sanitation
Facilities for Single and Re6ional Schemes (US$ 60.21 million)
13.   The scheme cycle spans 33 months and includes the following phases: pre-planning (7
months), planning ( 12 months), and implementation (14 months). The duration of each phase
would depend on scheme size and community capacity to organize for collective benefit. This
component provides funding for community development and construction activities.
14.   Community Development (US$ 9.71 million): Community development activities
includes funding for three components:
(a)   capacity building activities;
(b)   hygiene and environmental sanitation awareness (HESA); and
(c)   women's development initiatives (WDI).
These activities occur both in the planning and implementation phase. The main thrust of
community development activities is to encourage users, particularly women, to participate in
decision making to increase ownership for long term scheme sustainability.
15.   Capacity Building Activities: Activities in the first component include community
organization/ mobilization and complementary nonformal education (NFE) classes. These
include a series of small workshops, group discussions, information campaigns and
participatory community action planning (CAP) training to enable users to organize and elect
a representative and responsive Village Water and Sanitation Committee (VWSC). The
VWSC will have at least 30% women and will represent other minority groups such as the
scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. NFE will be integrated with the CAP process and will
focus on functional literacy, decision making and problem solving. The unit cost for capacity
building activities for a village with a population of 500 is estimated at Rs 65,000.
16.   HESA Activities: The second component HESA will focus in improving personal and
domestic hygiene and environmental sanitation. HESA would be conducted in informal
settings and by using real life situations and experiences. Women would be the focal point
for HESA, and activities would be conducted through tapstand and/or women's groups.
Women would be involved in monitoring and evaluation by measuring changes in hygiene
practices such as water use and management, and tapstand hygiene. The unit cost for a
village with a population of 500 for HESA activities is estimated at Rs 5,000.
17.   WDI Activities: The third component (WDI) provides support to help (i) women
develop skills required to realize the benefits of improved water supplies; (ii) improve access
to the formal credit system; (iii) promote women's role in planning and implementing water
supply and sanitation schemes including environmental resource enhancement initiatives; and



- 57 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 13
(iv) encourage participation in resource mobilization activities such as collection of user
charges, and monitoring and evaluation. Project support would be in the form of training at
the rate of Rs 500/person. This component will focus its activities on NFE participants and
tapstand/women's groups.
18.   Pre Planning Phase. As part of the pre planning phase a social scientist and engineer
undertakes a prefeasibility study to assess need/demand for water supplies and source yields.
Need is measured in terms of time savings and demand in terms of user willingness to
contribute and participate. The cost of prefeasibility studies is presented in para 28.
19.    Planning Phase (US$ 5.70 million): The focus is on group building, self investigation,
problem solving and discussing options for water supplies and environmental sanitation
leading to the formulation of a community action plan (CAP) as a proposal for implementation
phase financing. The role of SO staff is to build capacity and facilitate the active participation
of women, confirm demand and willingness to contribute to project costs, and take
responsibility for operation and maintenance. During this phase 15% of the beneficiary
population would be trained in participatory CAP and monitoring in addition to training
targeted to women/tapstand groups and VWSC members (see Table I). Gender issues will be
incorporated in all project interventions. VWSC generally consists of 7-12 members, hence
on average 10 VWSC members will be trained per village. For HESA activities at least 2
women from each tapstand /women's group will be trained. The number of sessions/training
activity and intensity will vary from village to village and will depend on scheme size and
need. Project support covers the cost of SO staff for capacity building, HESA, and WDI
activities, training provided by the SO.
Table 1: Trainings Provided by SOs to Project Beneficiaries
Planning Phase               lmplementation Phase
Participatory CAP & monitoring (10  VWSC workshop (3 days)
days).
VWSC members (7 days)               VWSC treasurer training. (2 days)
Nonformal education (NFE)           VWSC training during construction. (3 days)
(24 weeks)
HESA training (7 days)              HESA training to school teachers, village health promoter
(VHP) and community leaders. (8 days)
Cross visits to neighboring RWSES   Mother & child health training to tapstand/women's
projects. (3 days)                  groups. (7 days)
Nursery establishment & catchment   Village maintenance worker (VMW) on the job training.
protection training. (3 days)
Latrine construction workshop. (2 weeks)
WDI workshop. (3 days)
Refresher training to VWSC members, treasurer, VHP &
VMW (total of 15 days)
20.    SO staff inputs per village will vary depending on scheme size and complexity but the
mix of skills required will be the same for all. Project support will include the salaries of (i) a
Community Facilitator (CF) with a high school diploma and experience in community



- 58 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 13
development work; (ii) a Community Worker (CW) with a high school diploma and
experience in hygiene and sanitation issues; (iii) a Community Development Supervisor (CDS)
with at least a graduate degree in social sciences and minimum 2 years experience in
community development and/or community water supply and sanitation; (iv) a team leader
with at least a graduate degree and minimum 2 years experience with community development
and! or community water supply and sanitation; and (iv) an accountant with a degree in
commerce and at least 2 years accounting experience. SO staff inputs on average include 12
months/village each of the CF and CW at Rs 500/month (recruited from project areas), 3-5
months/village of CDS at Rs 8000/month. The inputs of the team leader and accountant is
estimated at 0.5 months/village at Rs 10000 and Rs 6000 respectively. SO staff input is
highest in the planning phase.
21.   A 13% drop out rate is expected between the planning and implementation phase.
Hence the number of villages that will be developed during the Planning Phase each year is
124, 276, 375 and 375. The total SO staff cost for developing 1150 villages is US$ 2.22
million.
22.   Implementation Phase (US$ 4.01 million). The total number of villages that will be
supported for the Implementation Phase is 108, 242, 325 and 325 in 4 batches. In this phase
responsibility for community organization and strengthening is shared equally by the VWSC
and SO staff. In order to enable the VWSC to carry out its functions effectively trainings at
the village level focus on those skills needed to implement and manage schemes for long term
scheme sustainability; effective use of improved water supplies through HESA; and training
to enable women to take advantage of time savings through the WDI component.
23.   Training to VWSC members will focus on the roles and responsibilities of the VWSC
and SO, community monitoring and procurement issues. At least one village treasurer/village
will receive training on simple book/record keeping to enable the VWSC to maintain its book
of accounts. HESA activities will be targeted to traditional birth attendants, village elders and
school teachers with special emphasis on beneficiary women. The project provides funds for
training at least 3 primary school teachers/village, at least 2 women from each
tapstand/women's group or 2 women from each hamlet. HESA trainings and small
workshops will center on personal and domestic hygiene and environmental sanitation, latrine
options and drainages. SO staff will assist NFE participants and/or tapstand groups to
establish linkages with other organisations for income generation activities, explore options
and identify skill enhancement training. Project support includes the salaries of SO staff,
training to project beneficiaries (see Table I above). The cost of the training for the
Implementation Phase is US$ 2.03 million.
24.   Staff composition and qualification is similar to those specified for the planning
phase. SO role is expected to be phased down during the latter part of the implementation
phase (post implementation) as the VWSC assumes full responsibility for its water supply and
environmental sanitation schemes and other complementary community development
initiatives. Total SO staff cost for assisting the communities in implementing schemes in
1000 villages is US$ 1.98 million.



- 59 -
Annex I
Page 7 of 13
25.   Construction of Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Facilities for
Sinele and Regional Schemes (US$50.50 million): Design activities occur in the planning
phase and all construction activities occur in the implementation phase. Each geographical
region (Hills, Foot hills and Bundelkhand) has costs for:
(a)   survey, design and construction assistance'
(b)   water supply system including spring/stream gravity, tubewells with
handpumps/electric pumps, and stream pumping in the Hills and Foothills, and
tubewells with handpumps/electric pumps in the Bundelkhand. As this
program develops, more options will be introduced,
(c)    catchment protection including establishing tree nurseries, reforestation,
alternative energy sources to fuelwood, erosion control, and other site specific
programs which protect the water sources and ensure long term yield;
(d)   drainage systems are included in each village as a means of source protection,
mosquito control and disease control;
(e)    human waste disposal based on latrine construction. Efforts to develop
alternative means of waste disposal will be explored;
(f)    environmental management to look at overall village cleanliness such as solid
waste disposal, mosquito control, and wasteland reclamation; and
(g)   construction monitoring by the Service Agencies (SAs).
26.   The first year program is based on single schemes covering one or two villages. The
construction activities in regional multi-village schemes will be defined in a regional
development plan during the first 12 months of this project. The program aims to expand the
technology options in all regions and develop new and innovative approaches to long term
water and sanitation services.
27.   The project would support village water supply schemes (built to a high standard of
works in adherence to the specifications as would be set in the technology manuals ) that meet
the Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) basic service level which is : (i) an average of
250 houses per standpost, (ii) maximum horizontal carrying distance of 1.6 km and maximum
vertical carrying distance of 150 m, (iii) the per capita domestic daily water demand served
through a standpost /tubewell of 40 liters. Provision via private connections at the rate of 70
liters per capita is possible if the consumer is willing to pay Rs. 1000 as connection fees. The
design period for all systems is 20 years. Operation and Maintenance costs are based on
routine maintenance and all replacement costs over the 20 year design life of the scheme.
28.   Pre-Planning Phase (US$ .17 million). This includes the inputs from an engineer, a
junior engineer and a social scientist from the Support Organization to carry out a



- 60 -
Annex 1
Page 8 of 13
prefeasibility study for each village. As part of the Pre-Planning Phase, source flow rates will
be measured by the Support Organization to determine the low flow dependable yield which
will be confirmed by the Project Management Unit through site appraisals. The Support
Organization cost will only be reimbursed for those villages selected for the Planning Phase by
the Project Management Unit.
29.   During this phase it is estimated that 5 days per person for each village of the
following Support Organization staff would be required: (i) a community development
supervisor holding a graduate degree in Social Sciences with two years of community
development experience or having passed high school but with ten years experience in
community development and (ii) a Junior Engineer (overseer) with a Diploma in Civil
engineering with 5 years of experience in water supply and/or sanitation.
30.   Planning Phase (US$ 1.45 million). This covers the cost of Support Organization
staff to do a detail survey, design water and sanitation facilities, develop an environmental
management plan with the community, provide technical training and coordinate with the
community development supervisor and community facilitator to assist the community in
selecting appropriate technologies.
31.   The SO staff inputs and qualifications during this phase are: (i) 3 to 6 months per
village of a junior engineer/overseer with a diploma in Civil Engineering and at least 5 years
of experience in water supply and/or sanitation at Rs. 6,000 per month; (ii) I to 3 months per
village of a senior engineer with at least a graduate degree in Civil Engineering; preferably
with a post graduate Master's degree in public health or environmental engineering or in
environmental sciences, at Rs. 15,000 per month; and (iii) 20 to 90 days per village of a
Coommunity Technician from the community. Both the senior engineer and junior engineer
shall have a combined minimum of 10 years of experience in at least two of the following:
community development, public health or environmental sciences.
32.   A 13% drop out rate between the Planning Phase and the Implementation Phase is
anticipated. Therefore, 1150 villages serving an initial population of about 902,900 persons
are budgeted for development. Table 2 lists the number of villages and the population served
in each batch in the Hills, Foot hills and the Bundelkhand area.



- 61 -
Annex I
Page 9 of 13
Table 2: Planning Phase
Number of villages and Initial Population for Each Batch in
the Hills, Foot Hills and the Bundelkhand areas
Population    Villages per Batch   Total       Total
Scheme Type          Per Village   1    2    3    4   Villages   Population
Hills
Spring - Gravity                     400   29   29   57   57         172          68,000
Handpump                             500   25   46   46   21         138          68,000
Stream - Gravity                     450   51   79   98  117         345         165,250
Stream - Pumping                     700    0    6    12   17         35          24,500
Subtotal Hills                             105  160  213  212        690         3l1,550
Foot Hills
Artesian Well and Pump               1000    0     1    3    3         7           7,000
Stream - Gravity                     574    7    3    4    3          17           9,757
Stream/River (P)                     1380    0     1    2    3         6           8,280
Deep Tubewell (P)(60-120m)          2045    0    3    7    7           17         3t,280
Deep Tubewell (HP) (up to 60 m)      1000    3    3    2    3          11         14,006
Subtotal Foot Hills                         10   11   18   19         58          79,60f
Bundelkhand
DeepTubewell(P)(60-120m)             1560    0   25   58  118        201         313,560
Deep Tubewells (HP) (up to 60 m)     1000    9   80   86   26        201         201,000
Subtotal Bundelkhand                         9  105  144  144        402         514,560
TOTAL                                      124  276  375  375    1150            902913
Table 3: Implementation Phase
Number of Villages and Initial Population for Each Batch in
the Hills, Foot Hills and Bundelkhand
Population    Villages per Batch     Total      Total
Scheme Type          Per Village   1     2     3     4   Villages  Population
Hills
Spring - Gravity                     400    25    25    50   50        150        60,000
Handpump                             500    22    40    40   18        120        60,000
Stream - Gravity                     450    44    69    85  102        300       135,000
Stream - Pumping                     700      0     5    10   15        30        21,000
Sub-total Hills                              91   139   185  185       600       276,000
Foot Hills
Artesian Well and Pump               1000     0      1     2    2        5         5,000
Stream - Gravity                     574      6     3      3    3       15         8,610
Stream/River (P)                    1380      0     1      2    2        5         6,900
Deep Tubewell (P)(60-120m)          2045      0     3      6    6       15        30,675
Deep Tubewell (HP) (up to 60 m)      1000     3     3      2    2       10        10,000
Subtotal Foot Hills                           9    11    15   15        50        61,185
Bundelkhand
Deep Tubewell (P) (60-120 m)         1560     0    22    50  103       175       273,000
Deep Tubewells (HP) (up to 60 m)     1000     8    70    75   22       175       175,000
Subtotal Bundelkhand                          8    92   125  125       350       448,000
TOTAL                                       108   242   325  325    1000         785,185



- 62 -                          Annex I
Page 10 of 13
33.   Detail construction activities and costs are as follows:
(a)  Construction Assistance by the Support Organization staff( US$ 2.04 million!.
The per village inputs, in single village schemes, of the SO staff during this phase
include: 3 to 6 months of a Junior Engineer, I to 2 months of a Senior Engineer
and 20 to 90 days of a community technician. The qualifications of these
personnel are the same as those specified under the Planning Phase.
(b) Water supply (US$ 28.80 million). During the Implementation Phase the
construction, augmentation and rehabilitation of all water supply scheme design
activities carried out in the Planning Phase are executed. Broadly, the type of
village schemes in the Hills and Foothills comprise largely of (a) gravity piped
water systems with spring/stream sources. A typical village piped water system
would have an intake structure, a roughing filter, a transmission main with break
pressure tanks, valve and valve chambers, a reservoir, distribution mains and
public standposts and/or private connections; (b) tubewells with handpumps or
electric pumps including the cost for drilling a well up to 120 meters, providing
drainage protecting the well head and installing a Mark III handpump or electric
pump for wells greater than 60 meters; and (c) Stream/river pumping including
intake structure, filtration, pump, distribution system, reservoir, public standposts
and/or private connections. In Bundelkhand, typical water systems would
include tubewell with handpumps and small scale piped water systems with
components similar to the Hill piped water system, except such system would
possibly have a larger number of ground water pumping than surface water
sources.
(c) Catchment protection (US$ 0.57 million). The objective of catchment protection
is to ensure that the water sources will provide long term yield. These activities
will protect the water source by preventing contamination from surface
pollutants, potentially recharging the source and preventing erosion and siltation
in surface sources. The costs for these activities are based on a quote from
Himalayan Study Circle Pithoragarh defining the cost for community tree
plantation on about 5 ha of land upstream of the source managed by the users.
The Bundelkhand and Foothill populations are larger and the cost per village has
been adjusted accordingly.
(d) Drainage (US$ 5.69 million). For proper disposal of the waste water from water
systems the project will support well designed and reasonable construction of
sullage drains and community drains. Costs are based on 0.5 kilometers of
drains per village in the Hills, 1 kilometer per village in the Foothills, and 2
kilometers of drains per village in the Bundelkhand. The project supports the
development of new techniques, in addition to standare sullage and community
drains, for safe disposal of drainage water. These techniques include but are not
limited to irrigating agriculture land, drainage to tree nurseries or cattle troughs



- 63 -
Annex I
Page 11 of 13
and developing ponds for fisheries. All techniques will be integrated into the
Village Environmental Action Plan.
(e) Human waste disposal (US$ 9.42 million). The project is budgeted to support
the construction of demonstration latrines as well as the construction of
household latrines for a 50% coverage. Human waste disposal is very much
related to the HESA component. The project first uses the HESA activities to
inform and motivate the community on the issues of sanitation (including human
waste disposal). Sanitation is considered essential in protecting the water sources
and obtaining the health benefits from safe water supply. Because of this, this
project aims to ultimately achieve full coverage (waste disposal facilities for each
family) through the CAP process. The time to achieve this may extend past the
life of this project. This project will utilize the most appropriate sanitation
technology for the area, taking into consideration environmental issues such as
soil conditions, water table and distance to water source. The waste disposal
component cost is based on an average cost per latrine of Rs. 3700. The
community is not limited to latrine construction, however, latrines are considered
to be the facility upon which the base cost is derived. Beneficiaries will bear any
additional costs for more expensive facilities.
(f) Environmental management (US$ 0.32 million). Environmental management
includes the cost for environmental improvements and protection such as
constructing filtration structures before community ponds to prevent
eutrophication, tree planting around ponds to decrease the impact of evaporation,
mosquito and fly breeding control (such as removing places for water to pond
and introducing larvae feeding fish in the larger ponds), solid disposal such as
composting. Additional technologies shall be explored such as cooperative cattle
sheds with generation and resource recovery of wastes (biogas, compost, etc.),
and incorporating environmental projects with women groups for economic
activities (such as tree nurseries, fisheries, and kitchen gardens. Again, because
the population is larger in the Foothills and Bundelkhand, the cost for
environmental management has been adjusted accordingly. The project will
support this component by undertaking studies as required since information is
found to be very limited on this subject .
(g) Construction monitoring (US$ 2.04 million). The cost for Service Agencies to
monitor construction activities on behalf of PMU is estimated at 5% of the total
construction costs excluding SO costs.
34.  The summary of contributions from the community for each of the above construction
sub-components is described in Table 4 below. The total percent contribution by the
community is 13% of the total cost of the implementation phase.



- 64  -
Annex 1
Page 12 of 13
Table 4: Community contribution to the project
(US millions $)
Region        Construction Activity    Total  Community              Estimated Community
Contribution
Labor  Cash
Hills     Water Supply                  12.74   1.15    0. 13 9% labor and 1% capital costs
Catchment Protection          0.22   0.02    0.00 unskilled labor costs estimated at 10% total
Drainage                      1.60   0.14    0.02 9% labor and I% capital costs
Waste Disposal                3.29   0.99    0.44 Standard state cost recovery policy (500 Rs
cash contribution and 30% labor contribution)
Environmental Management  0.11   0.01    0.00 unskilled labor costs estimated at 10%total
Foot Hills   Water Supply                  1.99   0.18    0.02 9% labor and 1% capital costs
Catchment Protection          0.04   0.00    0. 00 unskilled labor costs estimated at 10%total
Drainage                      0.35   0.03    0.00 9% labor and 1% capital costs
Waste Disposal                0.73   0.22    0.10 Standard state cost recovery policy (500 Rs
cash contribution and 30% labor contribution)
Environmental Management  0.02   0.00    0.00 unskilled labor costs estimated at 10% total
Bundelkhand Water Supply                    14.06   1.13    0.28 8% labor and 2% capital costs
Catchment Protection          0.31   0.03    0.00 unskilled labor costs estimated at 10% total
Drainage                      3.75   0.30    0.08 8% labor and 2% capital costs
Waste Disposal                5.39   1.62    0.73 Standard state cost recovery policy (500 Rs
cash contribution and 30% labor contribution)
Environmental Management  0.19   0.02    0.00 unskilled labor costs estimated at 10%total
Total                        44.79   5.84    1.80 Total Contribution=US S 7.64
_____   Imillion
C. Studies and Sector Development (US 2.46 million)
35.     The project will support GOUP's efforts in sector development with two main
objectives;
(a) Project related studies necessary for project implementation,
(b) Studies necessary for long term strategic planning and Sector Development
36.    Project Related Studies ( US$  1.04 million):
(a) Regional Schemes: A study would be conducted to review the economic,
technical, financial and institutional feasibility of regional schemes. The study will
also identify the implementation model and scheme cycle to be followed for the
regional schemes to ensure their sustainable operations.
(b) Technical Options and Local Environmental Management: To expand and
improve on technical options in all construction activities. Review surface water
conservation and ground water recharge techniques currently followed in UP,
other Indian states and in other countries and recommend feasible technical
solutions and delivery systems for implementation in the project villages. Studies



- 65 -                                 Annex I
Page 13 of 13
will also be undertaken to determine how to achieve the greatest sanitation
coverage in a village.
(c) Support to Private Rural Initiatives: The project will support studies, pilots, field
testing and dissemination around particular themes such as women's development
in water and sanitation services, environmental management, O&M and
organizing approaches for regional schemes.
(d) Time Saving Study: A short study will be carried out to assess whether significant
numbers of water supply schemes are likely to meet the initial viability criteria set
up for the Project.
(e) Other Studies: to be identified.
37.   Long term Strategic Planning & Sector Development ( US $ 1.42 million)
(a) Next Project Preparation: towards the end of the project, GOUP will prepare a
follow-on project of a larger size for seeking a possible World Bank financing .
This will include identification of project area, the project design and
implementation strategy, cost estimates and undertaking pre- planning activities in
the first batch of villages.
(b) Long Term Policy Formulation: The development of rural water supply and
sanitation sector in Uttar Pradesh would require long term planning and significant
policy reform to improve sector performance. The project will undertake a major
policy study including analysis of experiences from the project to assist
formulation of policy and a long term development plan.
(c) Water Quality Monitoring and Leak Detection Studies: A study will be
undertaken to review the current water quality monitoring mechanisms in the rural
water supply schemes and recommend mechanism for pilot implementation which
should promote private sector capacity in water quality testing and identify
practical approaches to necessary corrective actions by the communities. The
project will also support a pilot operation to develop and demonstrate leak
detection and repairs techniques suitable for small rural piped water systems.
(d) Statewide Media campaign: A major media campaign will include production and
airing of a feature video film on gender issues and sanitation needs in a dramatic
format; 8 short video spots and 16 radio spots. those spots will focus on a number
of core sanitation behaviors and related social issues. In conjunction with
broadcasts on TV and radio, multimedia kits will be produced (in print and photo
format) for schools and distributed on a statewide basis, with intensive focus on
the Hills, Foot hills and Bundelkhand.






- 67 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project
Desien Criteria
Introduction: The project incorporates an interactive planning process involving
communities and support organizations and supports the
construction/rehabilitation of 1000 rural water and environmental sanitation
schemes serving a design population of about 1.17 million in the Hills, Foot hills,
and Bundelkhand regions.
2.    The design criteria represents the design parameters recommended in the Uttar
Pradesh Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project. The
Technology manuals (which will be completed satisfactory to the Bank before
planning phase contracts are signed) will contain detail designs for each technology
catagorized as water supply, drainage, human waste disposal, environmental
management and catchment protection. The design criteria relating to
environment, health, safety, operation and maintenance and technology will be
more clearly defined in the technology manuals. The design criteria in this annex
refers primarily to know water supply and sanitation technologies. Design Criteria
for catchment protection and environmental management require more
investigation. There will be on-going studies to expand the technology options
for all technology categories. All design criteria shall meet the environmental
criteria listed in Annex 18.
3.    Water Supply: The project supports the construction/rehabilitation (making use,
where feasible, structures/pipelines of existing systems that meet or are
rehabilitated to meet the technical standards) of schemes that meet the eligibility
criteria defined in annex 15. The broad types of schemes in the Hills and Foot hills
comprise of:
a)    gravity schemes (open/closed) with spring/stream sources designed and
operated for continuous supply;
b)    electric pumping schemes from spring/stream sources;
c)    hand pump schemes from groundwater sources; and
d)    catchment schemes from rainwater sources.
4.    The first year schemes in the Bundelkhand region shall be single village schemes.
A study will be conducted during the first year to determine the feasibility and
methodology for doing regional schemes. Typical schemes in the Bundelkhand
include:
a)    handpump schemes from groundwater sources, and
b)    electric tubewell pumping from deep aquifers.
5.    The project supports schemes (built to a high standard of works in adherence to
the specification which are being developed for the technical manuals) that meet
the service level defined in the design criteria. Quality control aspects would be



- 68 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
looked into during design review by the Project Management Unit (PMU),
construction supervision and monitoring and evaluation.
6.    Safe Yield. Source yield measurements are critical for unsustainable water supply
schemes. Ideally sources for gravity systems should be measured over a period of
time during the driest months. Sources should be measured at least once at the
end of the dry season during May or June and preferable twice (the two
measurements being made in different years) prior to construction. If the
cumulative yield of sources is less than 0.15 Vs, such sources shall not be selected.
7.    Spring/Stream Systems: Detail design specifications will be provided in the
technical manuals. The following criteria shall be applied to the design manuals.
8.    SpringlStream Intake Structure: Intake structures are site specific. The general
features for consideration in designing and construction are:
a)    built on stable soil resistant t erosion and scour, The site should not be
prone to landslides;
b)    built so that there is no possibility of contamination of the sources;
c)    easily accessible for regular inspection, cleaning, operation & maintenance.
d)    a collection chamber, if provided shall be built to exclude light to prevent
algae growth.
9.    Spring intakes specifics:
a)    they should be located at least 30 m from the nearest source of pollution
(This distance depends on the hydrology of the area);
b)    they should be provided with an overflow pipe (ending in an elbow with a
screen). The pipe also serves as a vent pipe;
c)    they should be located to prevent the entrance of surface water during
times of heavy rainfall;
10.   Stream intakes specifics:
a)    the upstream and downstream of the located at least 30 m from the nearest
source of pollution (This distance depends on the hydrology of the area);
b)    they shall be located and designed so that during low flows the design
discharge is available and during high flows when the stream is turbid as
much sediment as possible does not enter the transmission main;
c)    they should not be place in a place which could easily wash the system
away such as in the middle of stream. times of heavy rainfall;
11.   Transmission Main
a)    The routing shall avoid acute deflections in the alignment/ where acute
bends are unavoidable, anchor/thrust blocks shall be provided.
b)    The alignment shall be as short as possible with no/minimum
river/stream/gully crossings and with gentle slopes to allow gravity flow;
when river/stream/gully crossings or (unavoidable) not so stable routes are
encountered, adequate protection against damage shall be ensured.



- 69 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
c)    Air release valves shall be installed at appropriate high points where air
locks are likely to occur.
d)    Washout valves (gate valves) shall be installed at appropriate low points
(U-profiles) to facilitate draining of mains for repairs/cleaning.
e)    Break pressure tanks shall be provided, if required, when the difference of
pressure is 100 m in transmission mains and 60 m in distribution mains.
Pipes should be designed to handle 1.2 times the maximum pressure in the
line.
f)    Provision of taps/connections from the transmission mains to communities
en-route shall be avoided.
12.   Reservoirs:
a)    Reservoirs shall be of ferrocement tanks and/or masonry (stone or brick)
tanks in cement sand motor.
b)    The option of central storage vs. storage in a number of parallel tanks shall
be considered.
13.   Tubewells and Dug Wells:
a)    All wells shall be located at least 30 meters from a source of pollution such
as a latrine.
b)    Casing shall be sealed properly (i.e. with bentonite) against seepage of
polluted water through the annular space between casing and soil.
c)    All available parts of the tubewell shall be disinfected before installation to
prevent contamination by & breeding of iron bacteria.
d)    Deep tubewells shall be fitted with steel casing and screen and yield tested
before installation of a locally available deepwell Mark III handpump or an
electric pump. Where the yield is inadequate, further development o the
well shall be undertaken.
e)    Dugwells shall be excavated below the dry season water table, lined with
concrete rings and fitted with a cover slab (with access opening) and an
appropriate handpump.
f)    All wells shall be sealed to prevent ingress of surface water.
g)    All wells shall be constructed with a platform and drain.
h)    Platforms shall be constructed to suit the users with sufficient area for
washing and with drainage to a soakaway, a small garden, field or other
alternative as specified in the design manual.
14.   Rehabilitation: The possibility of rehabilitating existing sources and schemes and
incorporating them into new schemes shall be considered. This could also include
augmenting the supply to provide acceptable service levels through existing
systems.
15.   Water quality: An environmental assessment of each of the potential sources shall
be carried out at the prefeasibility stage to identify those sources most at risk from
pollution and ensure that adequate measures, such as catchment protection and
improved intake design, are taken during and after construction. At this time,



- 70 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
chemical treatment is not considered a sustainable option for most village level
technologies. All tubewells and dugwells shall be disinfected after construction
and before commissioning.
16.    General Design Criteria for Water Systems:
Proposed Design Criteria                           Remarks
Population Growth
Desian Period and
Design Period                All schemes shall be designed for a 20 year life. Cost
recovery shall consider the costs for replacement to cover the
20 year design period.
Population Growth            Forecast based on field surveys and average annual growth
factors derived from average population growth rates for the
districts.
Design Cagacity
Public Standposts            liters per capita day (Ipcd)
Private Connections          Ipcd
Health posts                 liters/day Health Posts under this project are expected to have
or be provided with sanitary facilities
Schools                      liters/student
Seasonal Variation factor
Peak Factor (average)
Storage Requirements
Gravity Schemes              Provide equalizing storage. The amount of equalizing
storage would vary with individual system requirements. The
design shall be based on an analysis of consumption pattern.
Handpump Schemes             Handpumps will use the natural storage in the well.
Electric Pump Schemes        Provide storage to minimize pump operation. Storage size
depends on the design population and pump capacity.
Rain Catchment Schemes       Those catchments which only augment the water supply
(Supplementing existing water  during the dry months should provide at least 2 months of
system)                      storage depending on the reliability of the existing water
system and the projected need.
Rain Catchment Schemes       months storage (dry season storage)
(Providin entire water suply)
Material                     High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) or cast iron ( cast iron
shall be laid at all stream crossings, rocky terrain, gully
crossings, and connection into structures).
Compaction and Depth of Bury  Pipelines are laid with a well compacted earth cover of at
least 90 cm. In rocky terrain where laying at such a depth is
not possible, BI pipe shall be used.
Velocity of Flow             Residual head at inlets = 5.Om
Residual head at standposts = 5.0 m
Residual head in mains = 10 m
Flow from tap                Maximum =.25 Ils
Minimum= .25 I/s
Water Oualitv                WHO International Guidelines



- 71 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
17.   Catchment Protection: The project would support catchment protection like tree
planting to provide safeguards against erosion/surface water runoff due to tree
felling and pollution of sources. All of these technologies will be defined in detail
in the technology manuals.
18.   Environmental Management: This project would support environmental
management type projects including surface water protection, fuelwood
alternatives, mosquito control, solid waste management, and other projects. All of
these technologies will be defined in detail in the technology manuals.
19.   Drainage: Drainage systems in the Hills are limited to short drains to prevent
ponding and erosion or gully washing. Drainage in the flatter areas are more
substantial and will provide good drainage during the majority of the year.
a)     Runoff will be calculated by the rational method (Q= 10 cia)
b)     The drainage may be open channel or curtain drain type and the shape shall
depend on the hydraulics of the area.
c)    The slope and drain geometry shall be designed to maintain gravity flow
and a scouring velocity of at least 0.6 m/s in open drains.
d)    Where necessary, filters or screens shall be place to prevent debris from
clogging the drains.
e)    Curtain drains shall be filled with coarse sand or pea gravel. The will be an
advantage in areas which require deeper cuts, at road crossings or where
land is not available for open channel construction.
f)     The drains shall discharge through soakage trenches, ponds, and natural
water bodies.
g)    Treatment (i.e. filtration) maybe necessary if sullage is a potential threat the
drinking water supply.
20.   Sanitation: Sanitation construction shall depend on type and bearing capacity of
soil, soil porosity, rate of infiltration, depth of excavation possible using manual
means, and depth to groundwater table. Alternative methods of waste treatment
are being considered. Standard pit latrines shall be based on the following:
a)    they shall be lined with stone, brick or concrete rings where there is a
danger of collapse,
b)    slabs shall be directly over the pit or offset, and raised above ground level
on a stone or brick base to prevent surface water from entering the pit,
c)    slabs for simple pit or VIP latrines shall be constructed from stone with
mud bedding and pointing supported by timber or bamboo spanning the pit,
from planks cut from hard and insect resistant timber, or from ferrocement
or reinforced concrete;
d)    slab for pour-flush latrines shall be of standard design suitable for flushing
with one to tow liters of water;
e)    superstructures shall be built from local materials such as stone or bamboo
matting for walls and thatched roofs, and shall have a door for privacy;
f)    the latrines shall be well ventilated.






- 73 -
Annex 3
Page I of 14
INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation
Terms of Reference for Main Project Financed Studies
Terms of Reference for Development Plan for Regional Schemes
I.    The UP Rural Water Supply Project has identified a potential need for the
construction and or augmentation of regional piped water supply. There is a need to define
the institutional framework and viability of regional piped water. The primary objective is
to determine the feasibility of doing regional schemes area and, if these schemes are found to
be feasible, identify the best mechanisms and methodology for implementing them.
Approach
2.    The overall approach is determining the feasibility of regional piped water schemes
and ultimately developing a plan for their implementation is based on 12 month of
consultancy accomplishing the following activities:
Phase I - Gathering Information: (6 months)
(a)    Government Policy and Institutional Framework - Identify the government
policy and institutional history in the delivery of water systems to rural areas.
(b)    Case Studies - Look at 10 existing regional piped water schemes from both
surface and groundwater sources (attempts should be made to find both well
functioning and problematic systems). Describe the following:
*  General scheme description (i.e. system description, number of
villages served, number of persons served, liters per capita, capital
costs, and operational cost);
*  Institutional framework for the design, construction, and operational
phases including any obstacles and limitations of these institutions;
*  User reaction (i.e. do people find these systems to be affordable, are
they using them or are they using traditional sources, are the systems
reliable, do these systems create a net health improvement or is there a
negative impact from poor sanitation?);
*  Other water sources in the community and the reliability of these
systems. Are the local sources, if any, being depleted? If so, why?
*  Other options for water supply, if any, and the comparison with the
regional piped water schemes. The comparison will include system



- 74 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 14
reliability, affordability (during both the construction and operational
phases), environmental impact, social impact(including land
acquasition and affected persons issues), user preference and
willingness to pay.
(c)    Regional Schemes Feasibility Report - Based on the case studies, summarize
the findings. Identify weaknesses in the delivery of the regional piped water
schemes and suggest mechanisms to overcome these weaknesses. Determine
if the community can maintain these systems (such as through government
institution via tariffs, private maintenance contracts, or community
maintenance). Describe any characteristics of systems which seem more
sustainable (i.e. Does the number of villages per scheme make a difference?
Are there technologies which seem to minimize maintenance?). Identify any
elements which, under current policies or institutional framework, would
make these types of systems unfeasible. Identify the time requirements to
develop a sustainable regional program.
Phase II - Prepare a Development Plan for Regional Piped Water Schemes (6 months)- If
regional piped water schemes are deemed feasible, a development plan shall be prepared.
(a)    Development Plan - Identify a reasonable plan which fits with the overall
philosophy, goals and framework of the Rural Water and Environmental
Sanitation Project. Specifically identify:
* Institutional framework, rules of various government agencies and
private sector and mechanisms for strengthening these agencies so they
can implement regional schemes.
*  Feasible types of works (i.e. maximum number of villages per scheme)
*  Types of systems which are capable of being maintained either because
of affordability or simplicity in operation.
*  Eligibility criteria for local communities, contracting agencies, NGOs
and local government institutions. This includes environmental and
social measures required. Social measures shall include any
resettlement.
*  Develop a policy framework for addressing negative project impacts on
affected persons, in conformity with the Bank Guidelines on
Resettlement. This policy framework should include types of potential
impacts and categories of affected persons; their entitlements and
assistance by the project; and systems of consultation and grievance
procedures. Where indigenous groups are affected, particular measures
should be taken to ensure that tribals receive cultrually compatible
social and economic benefits.
* Methodology for implementation



- 75 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 14
* Scheme cycles
(b)   Manuals - Prepare the following components to insert the program manuals.
The format shall follow the sarne format as the program manuals:
*  Operational Manual Component (the operations manuals should
incorporate a generic action plan for addressing social impacts,
particularly in relation to involuntary land acquisition and indigenous
groups.)
*  Technical Manual Component
*  Environmental Mitigation Component
*  Training Component
Institutional specialists with minimum of 10 years
experience in water supply systems.
Senior Engineer
Assistant Engineer
Institutional expert
Economist
Environmental Scientist
Social Scientist
Travel and per diem (car rental
Miscellaneous office cost (materials. etc.)



- 76 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 14
Terms of Reference for Study on Expanding Technology for the Supply or Water and
Environmental Sanitation Technical Options for Communities
1.    Study Objective: This study will investigate the variety of options for long term
sustainable water supply and sanitation by expanding the menu of technical options.
Currently the technology options are limited to traditional wells, spring, and surface water
catchment for water supply; latrine construction and lined drains for sanitation; and tree
planting for catchment protection. The goal is to provide the technical options which will
ensure long term sustainablility.
2.     Topics: The following will be the topics of study:
a)     Micro level Watershed Protection and Water Resources Management
i)    Reforestation - Methods of reforestation using indigenous species rather
than imported pine and eucalyptus. The use of grasses as a means of
primary succession and slope stabilization. Review incentives for
community management by looking at economic benefits from forest
products and the growth of commercial crops in forests (i.e. bee keeping,
lentil production, and fuel wood production).
ii)    Decreasing the dependence onfuel wood - Providing alternatives to fuel
wood use such as increasing propane distribution, biogas digester, solar, and
mini-hydro. Looking at more efficient stoves including solar cookers and
insulated ceramic or mud stoves.
iii)    Erosion control - Slope stabilization with riprap, gabions, and natural
vegetation such as grasses or trees.
iv)    Watershedprotectionfrom pollution - Protection of sources (both for
groundwater and surface waters) from agricultural and domestic pollutants
such as cattle waste, human waste, pesticides, fertilizers, and oil. This is a
non-hardware approach, for example using landscaping with specific plants
around agricultural areas to filter agricultural pollutants, using organic
farming techniques, or composting cow manure in appropriate places.
Hardware approaches such as latrine construction and biogas digesters
should be integrated with this component.
b)    Water supply technologies
i)    Rain Catchment - Rain catchment may be a viable alternative to expensive
pumping technologies. This study will explore the various options from roof
catchment in individual households to community systems. The advantages
and disadvantages of tank technology including water jars, ferro-cement
tanks, plastic tanks, underground tanks with hand pumps, and large land
catchment holding ponds will be considered. Issues such as mosquito
breeding in the clean water tanks and potential for fish rearing in the larger
ponds will be reviewed.
ii)    Alternative pumping technologies - Mini-hydro, solar, wind and biogas
pumping systems will be reviewed for their viability.



7 77 
Annex 3
Page 5 of 14
iii)    Well headprotection - Construction techniques (i.e. drainage, concrete
covers, and well seals) which prevent contamination of sources will be
reviewed.
c)     Environmental protection and sanitation
i)     Toiletsfor specific types of environments - The environments where toilets
are installed might be in difficult environmental conditions with seasonally
high ground water, rocky soils, clay soils, or high population densities. The
construction of a typical latrine might contaminate water sources. This
study will look at appropriate technology options for specific environments
and develop guidelines and procedures for site evaluation. Soil investigation
procedures, site selection based on distance from water sources and soil
types, and in areas without adequate soil types technology options are the
focus of this component.
ii)    Drainage - Drainage water often contains contaminants from human waste,
livestock waste, and solid waste. Filtration systems (either vegetation or
media filters) prior to surface water ponds, streams, rivers, or other water
bodies will be investigated. Pond construction and integrated fisheries may
be an option in areas without adequate elevation change. These ponds could
provide a good drainage basin and possibly support fisheries.
iii)    Solid waste disposal - Solid waste can also impact water sources. As
communities grow and develop, solid waste problems will increase. Setting
up solid waste programs before they are a problem helps provide long term
sustainable environmental protection. Composting and cattle waste disposal
will be investigated. Recycling plastic, especially for environmental uses
such as composting bins, toilets, and erosion protection devices, will be
reviewed.
3.     Procedure:
a)     Divide the TA into two regions, Bundelkhand and Hills. Review all technologies
existing in Uttar Pradesh by interviewing NGOs, donor organizations, community
technologies, and government organizations. (2 months)
b)     Expand on these technologies with appropriate national and international
technologies. (I month)
c)     Develop pilot designs and monitoring parameters. Meetings with NGOs and
assessment of technology needs will be basis of technology selection. The pilots
will be implemented in existing schemes and introduced in the CAP process as
potential alternatives. (Imonth)
d)    Implement pilot projects with eligible communities based on the communities
willingness to use the new approach. The pilot will use the existing frame work of
the NGOs (including community development specialists) to integrate into the
Community Action Plan Process (CAP). (9 months)
e)     Develop technical and training manuals. (3 months)



- 78 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 14
4.     Pilots: Each year, for two consecutive implementation phases, twelve pilots will be
implemented and tested for viability. There will be a total of 24 pilots. During subsequent years
monitoring and evaluation of the pilots will be carried out by the LJNDP water and sanitation
program. The pilots will be selected based on the sample technologies and community need as
expressed in the CAP. Only communities who want to try the new technologies and show they are
willing to pay for the system. Because the systems are new to the area, additional technical support
will be provided.
a)     Sample pilots: Some examples and approaches of pilot schemes include the
following.
i)     Areas with dwindling forestry and obvious impacts on the watershed:
*  review the existing vegetation and soil conditions;
look at alternative locations for fuel wood production, i.e. planting trees
in between agricultural spaces;
*  look at alternative fodder supply from forest litter and trees especially
with multiple uses i.e. planting fodder trees and plants in between
agricultural spaces. planting fodder trees in forests or fodder grasses to
protect against erosion;
e  look at alternative fuel supplies such as solar, propane, or mini-hydro.
*  decreasing cattle population; and
e  provide method of slowing down rainwater runoff so that water can
percolate to the aquifer and replenish the groundwater.
ii)    Areas with contaminated sources - protect the sources from contamination
by:
*  identifying and eliminating upstream sources of pollution;
e  providing drainage around the source to prevent runoff from
contaminating the source; and
*  providing the proper forms of sanitation.
iii)    Areas with groundwater sources with pollution potential from surface water
runoff:
*  provide a well seal; and
*  provide a well cover and ring for protection.
iv)    Areas without adequate water supplies or with only expensive options such
as pumping.
*  look at alternative means of pumping; and
*  look at rain catchment for individual housed or large communal systems.
v)     Sanitation pilots for areas with unsuitable soils.
5.     Output: Individual Reports on technology. Technical and Training Manuals for the
specific technologies with schedule costs. These manuals will be incorporated with the each of the
existing manuals including:



- 79 -
Annex 3
Page 7 of 14
a)    Community Level Technology Manual
b)    Prefeasibility Manual
c)    Feasibility Manual
d)    Detail Design Manuals
6.    As part of each manual, training modules should be prepared.
a)    Community Level Technology Options Manual - A simplified version with
pictures and technology options should be prepared for the community.
b)    Prefeasibility Manual - This manual is a precondition for prefeasibility
training. The manual is a guide for the SOs in the field. A training module
for the Prefeasibility Manual should be prepared in addition to the manual.
The prefeasibility manual contains:
i)    Description ofprefeasibility Study - The purpose of the prefeasibility
study is to determine the scheme eligibility to enter into the planning
phase and provide the information necessary to write a planning phase
proposal.
ii)    Preliminary Map - This Section shows how to produce a basic
scheme map.
iii)   Source Flow Measurement and Evaluation - Describes how to do
source flow measurements for a variety of source types and a
procedure for determining the quality of the source.
iv)   Preliminary Designs and Costs - Based on the village map, a few
types of schemes are identified and costed. The costs are based on
simple costs for pipe per meter, number of tanks, number of wells,
number and types of pit latrines for the soil conditions, length of
drains, area of reforestation, etc. A form (spreadsheet available to SOs
with computers) with a simple format for quick costing for a particular
scheme type. This is a very basic method of costing based on very
simple calculations. This section will be updated with new estimated
costs for the new technologies.
v)    Examples of Prefeasibility
vi)   Planning Phase Proposal
c)    Feasibility Manual - The feasibility manual provides guidance for design and
decision making on the community level. The feasibility manual is the
technical component of the CAP process and enables the community and the
SO to continue on to the design phase. This manual is the basis for the first 25
day technical training and a technical training component should be prepared.



- 80 -
Annex 3
Page 8 of 14
i)    Description of Feasibility Report - The purpose of a feasibility report
is to develop a list of options, with the participation of the community,
on a variety of community development issues including water supply,
sanitation, catchment protection, environmental management, and
economic development. With this the community can compare the
implications and their willingness to pay for a percent of the capital
costs, operation and maintenance, quality of service, time savings,
health benefits, economic benefit, and environmental improvement.
ii)    Detailed Survey and Mapping - Techniques on detailed survey and
mapping will be presented here.
iii)   Base Line Survey on Environmental Parameters for Village
Environmental Action Plan (VEAP)
*  Land use in the watershed (e.g. agricultural use, free grazing of
livestock, forest, etc.), and visual estimate of present erosion;
e  Vegetation cover: abundance per species, percent cover per
species;
e  Economic use of the watershed: fuelwood kg/ha and fodder kg/ha
and others;
-  Number of springs and dry season flows in liter per second (1/s) in
May;
*  Groundwater levels in May and after the monsoon in October;
-  Initial water quality and follow-up measurement on an annual or
bi-annual basis at the start of monsoon (water quality is reported to
be worst during this period).
e  An estimate should be made how much groundwater is available
and what are the sustainable groundwater and surface water yields
from the watershed; and
-  Rainfall and stream flows originating from the concerned
watershed ought to be measured by the communities, as a part of
the local environmental and micro level water resources
management component.
* Health Parameters
iv)   Community Design Process and Costing This is an overview of how
to develop designs for the community. It describes how to identify the
needs of the community and develop strategies for design. With the
detailed mapping, community participation, and better knowledge of
the area, community designs can be more accurately developed. The
designs include designs for the community water system, sanitation
program, environmental management, and catchment protection
program. The SO assists the community by increasing their awareness
of several technical options so the community can choose what is best
for them. Once three to five basic options have been designed the SO
shall recalculate the cost implications to the community. The method
of costing is the same as in the prefeasibility study. All schemes



- 81 -
Annex 3
Page 9 of 14
should be costed to reflect O&M (including replacement costs over 20
years) and presented to the community as an annual or monthly cost to
the community.
* VEAP - includes the feasibility and design of the environmental
management components. This section should identify how to
look at different options identified by the community.
* Water Systems
* Sanitation Systems
This section will be updated to reflect the exManded
technology options.
v)    Examples of Feasibility Studies
d)    Detail Design Manual - Within each technology option, designs and
specifications, construction techniques, environmental, social, and safety
issues, operations and maintenance (O&M), and sample methods of
procedures for design (e.g. how to do hydraulic analysis, volume sizing, pump
calculations etc.). Examples of new options include:
i)    Water Systems
* Household Catchment (water tanks or water jars with roof
catchment at each house)
*  Designs and Specifications
*  Construction Techniques (how to implement and build this
system step by step)
*  Environmental, Health, Social, and Safety Issues
*  Operations and Maintenance (O&M) (what is required and how
much it costs including replacement of spare parts as they wear
out)
*  Sample Methods and Procedures for Design (including capital,
O&M, and replacement costs) for a 20 year design. Design
including resurveying as necessary, hydraulic analysis etc.)
*  Examples of Designs and how to reach each step.
* Handumps (any new handpump system)
*  Designs and Specifications
*  Construction Techniques (well drilling options i.e. handdug or
punched, well head protection techniques, etc.)
*  Environmental, Health, Social, and Safety Issues
*  Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
*  Sample Methods and Procedures for Design (including capital,
O&M, and replacement costs) for a 20 year design.
* Examples of Designs and how to reach each step.



- 82 -
Annex 3
Page 1 0of 14
* Treatment systems
*  Designs and Specifications
*  Construction Techniques (i.e. well drilling techniques for deep
tubewells and well head protection)
*  Environmental, Health, Social, and Safety Issues
*  Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
*  Methods and Procedures for Design (including capital costs,
O&M, and replacement costs) for a 20 year design.
*  Examples of Designs and how to reach each step.
ii)    Sanitation (Human Waste Disposal)
*  DU Systems (Composting Toilets)
*  Designs and Specifications
t  Construction Techniques
*  Environmental, Health, Social, and Safety Issues
v  Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
t Sample Methods and Procedures for Design (including capital,
O&M, and replacement costs) for a 20 year design.
*  Examples of Designs and how to reach each step.
-  Pourflush systems (hydroponics, effluent to aquaculture)
*  Designs and Specifications
-  Construction Techniques
* Enviromnental, Health, Social, and Safety Issues
*  Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
*  Sample Methods and Procedures for Design (including capital,
O&M, and replacement costs) for a 20 year design.
*  Examples of Designs and how to reach each step.
iii)   Sanitation (Drainage)
*  Drainage Channels (alternatives to lined canals)
*  Designs and Specifications
*  Construction Techniques
* Environmental, Health, Social, and Safety Issues
*  Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
*  Sample Methods and Procedures for Design (including capital,
O&M, and replacement costs) for a 20 year design.
*  Examples of Designs and how to reach each step.
* Kitchen gardens drainage systems



- 83 -
Annex 3
Page 11 of 14
* Sample Methods and Procedures for Design (including capital,
O&M, and replacement costs) for a 20 year design.
* Examples of Designs and how to reach each step.
*  Lagoons for Drainage Effluent
* Designs and Specifications
* Construction Techniques
* Environmental, Health, Social, and Safety Issues
* Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
* Sample Methods and Procedures for Design (including capital,
O&M, and replacement costs) for a 20 year design-
* Examples of Designs and how to reach each step.
iv)    Environmental Management
*  Liquid Propane Distribution
* Designs and Specifications
* Construction Techniques (if any)
* Environmental, Health, Social, and Safety Issues
* Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
* Sample Methods and Procedures for Design (including capital,
O&M, and replacement costs) for a 20 year design.
* Examples of Designs and how to reach each step.
*  Biogas Digester
* Designs and Specifications
* Construction Techniques
* Environmental, Health, Social, and Safety Issues
* Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
* Sample Methods and Procedures for Design (including capital,
O&M, and replacement costs) for a 20 year design.
* Examples of Designs and how to reach each step.
v)    Catchment Protection
* Reforestation
* Designs and Specifications
* Construction Techniques
* Environmental, Health, Social, and Safety Issues
* Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
* Sample Methods and Procedures for Design (including capital,
O&M, and replacement costs) for a 20 year design.
* Examples of Designs and how to reach each step.



- 84 -
Annex 3
Page 12 of 14
* Sample Methods and Procedures for Design (including capital,
O&M, and replacement costs) for a 20 year design.
* Examples of Designs and how to reach each step.
* Erosion Control
*  Designs and Specifications
*  Construction Techniques
*  Environmental, Health, Social, and Safety Issues
*  Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
*  Sample Methods and Procedures for Design (including capital
costs, O&M, and replacement costs) for a 20 year design.
Examples of Designs and how to reach each step.
3.     Monitoring and Evaluation: Each system will be monitored and evaluated. The
evaluation will be based on the baseline survey in the Village Environmental Action Plan (VEAP),
changes to the community and cause and effect of the changes. They will document the institutional,
social, and physical conditions and compare with other technologies. Conclusions on what makes a
technology successful or causes it to fail will be documented. Adjustment to the program design will
reflect the successes and failures of the pilots.
* Year I and 2 (6 months total for 4 consultants, technical, social, environmental, and
health) - Collect data from the VEAP and establish a baseline for each village.
Document the social structure of the communities including literacy rate, women
participating in the program, number of SC/ST and how they fit in the community, and
other pertinent social parameters. Document the Institutional framework of the
community (i.e. was the community highly organized to begin with, what were there
institutional setup, who participated in the Village Water and Sanitation Committee, who
was responsible for maintenance, and how were collection of funds handled).
*  Year 2, 3 & 4 (9 months total for 4 consultants; technical, social, environmental, and
health) - Update the baseline survey and monitor the quality of the systems and evaluate
how well they are integrated (i.e. does catchment protection, solid waste disposal,
erosion control, drainage and/or sanitation adequately protect the source?)
*  Year 5 - Write up conclusions and make recommendations to improve the technology
designs and the way they are implemented.



- 85 -
Annex 3
Page 13 of 14
Terms of Reference for Study of Sector Policy and Strategic Plan
Background
I .    The Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP), through a Project Management Unit
(PMU) under the Rural Development Department is planning to undertake a rural water and
sanitation project supported by the World Bank. A component of the project is to a prepare a
State wide Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Policy and Strategic Plan that will form the
basis for future development in the sector. It is intended that the Policy and Strategy Plan will
be issued as a draft policy paper by mid 1998 with a view to adoption by end 1998.
Objective
2.    The objective is to develop a rural water supply and sanitation development policy
and strategy for the State that would ensure sustainability of investments in services and
maximise both social and economic benefits. This would be based on shifting from the
present approach to a demand driven approach to service delivery. Central to this, is
increased community and non-government sector (NGOs, Community Based Organisations,
private sector, informal sector) participation in the development and operations and
maintenance of systems, decentralisation of management to the lowest appropriate level, cost
sharing, and a more effective facilitating and regulatory role for the State including water
quality monitoring.
Implementation Arrangements
3.    The PMU will be responsible to prepare the strategy and policy document. The PMU
will be supported by national and international consultants as required. It is envisaged that
short term consultant inputs will be required from institutional, technical, social and
financial/ economic specialists. These consultants should be used to facilitate the preparation
process and drafting the various reports.
4.    The Department of Rural Development will establish an inter agency Steering
Committee consisting of representatives from the various sector interest groups including
Departments of Rural Development, Agriculture, Health, and Panchayati Raj, plus
representatives/stakeholders from the non governmental sector. The steering committee will
advise the PMU on important policy issues, review the inception, interim and draft final
reports and generally manage the preparation process. The composition of the Steering
Committee shall be discussed with the World Bank before inception of the study.



- 86 -
Annex 3
Page 14 of 14
Scope of Works
5.    It is envisaged that the study would be undertaken in four steps;
a)    First, an in-depth review that will determine the existing situation, performance
and status of the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation sector. This review will
include but not be limited to aspects related to; institutional, legal, and
regulatory frameworks, sustainability, service coverage, investments and
external support, technology, the role of communities, of the government and
the non governmental sector.
b)    Second, from the basis of the situation analysis a clear understanding of the
issues and bottlenecks constraining sector development would be established.
This will include but not be limited to regulatory issues, financial and
institutional arrangements, and inappropriate technical and social standards and
practice.
c)    Third, the development of a clear policy statement and strategy of how to
address these issue constraining sector development. This would include
proposals for sector reform and reorganization, and;
d)    Fourth, a prioritised plan of action to implement the policy and strategy. This
would establish a time frame and a plan of specific actions.
Reporting and Documentation.
6.    It is envisaged that the study would be completed in nine months. Within four weeks
of commencing the PMU should present an Inception Report that would set out a plan of
action for undertaking the study and schedule of activities. These would be reviewed by the
Steering Committee and the World Bank. After four months of study and deliberation the
PMU would prepare and present an Interim Report to the Steering Committee and the World
Bank, the Interim Report would set out progress and preliminary recommendations,
unresolved issues and a plan of action for completing the work. After seven months the PMU
will prepare a Draft Final Report, to which the Steering Committee and the World Bank will
respond and comment within one month.
Consultant Inputs
7.    Nine months of a sector planner/institutional specialist, technical and
financial/economist inputs. Forty months of a social, financial, legal and technical specialists.



- 87 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of3
INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water SuDIV and Environment Sanitation Proiect
Social Assessment
1.           Uttar Pradesh with a per capita income of Rs. 2698 remains one of the
poorest state in India, despite efforts to alleviate poverty. It lags behind most social
indicators, and in addition there exists wide variations between districts in terms of
population density, literacy levels, infant mortality rate, female age at marriage, female
work participation rate and per capita income. The low male: female ratio (882 females
for 1000 males) suggests girls and women have less access to health care and education
The majority of the population are Hindus (83%) followed by Muslims (16%) and the
remaining 1% are Christians, Jains, Buddhists, Sikhs etc. Of the total population in UP
the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes constitute 25% and 0.2% respectively.
2.           The total fertility rate (TFR) is 4 in the hills and corresponds to a high
female age at marriage (18) and high female literacy rate (36%) while Bundelkhand has
the highest total fertilty rate (5) in the state, lowest female age at marriage (15) and low
levels of female literacy.  Infant mortality rate per 1000 live births is 1 19 for the
Bundelkhand and 90 for the hills. Population density per square kilometer is 1 15 for the
Hills and 229 for Bundelkhand. The female share of the labor force is primarily
concentrated in the agricultural sector.
3.           The hill areas are sparsely populated and communication is difficult and
many areas are accessible only by foot. Settlements patterns are dispersed in small
clusters of hamlets and are located at a considerable distance from another. Each hamlet
has a predominance of a particular caste such that the general castes are found in one
hamlet and scheduled castes in another. In villages that are "not covered" by improved
water supplies the general and scheduled castes/tribes have their own source (s) of water,
usually traditional unprotected wells and/or spring sources. In the Bundelkhand
communication/interaction between the general castes and scheduled castes is minimal
compared to the hills.
4.           Differences in the roles of men and women are governed by gender division
of labor such that women not only perform more tasks than men but their work is more
labor intensive compared to men.. These norms of hierarchy and gender division of labor
is more pronounced among the upper castes of Bundelkhand because of the purdah (veil)
system, which confine women to activities relating to the domestic sphere and men to
public activities. In these areas children in particular girls and women over 35 years are
more involved in water fetching tasks. In the hills the lack of economic alternatives to
largely subsistence agriculture have necessitated at least one adult male in every household
to migrate for work. While outmigration of male family members have increased the
overall workload of women and girls it has also resulted in shifting the locus of decision
making to women in terms of household and farm management.



- 88 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
5.           In the project areas women and girls are responsible for collecting water
fodder, fuelwood; food processing, cooking, other domestic chores, and childcare in
addition to tending to agricutural and animal husbandry activities- As a result shortages
in water supply is felt more acutely by women. In the dry season (April-June) as the
pressure of household activities increase due to reduced availability of water children in
particular girls are the first to be pulled out of school to help with household tasks.
6.          Women in rural areas suffer more from malnutrition, anemia and loss of
energy due to their heavy workload of which water fetching constitutes a major task. (3-4
hours per day on average). Loss of energy due to women's heavy work burden is
directly related to depletion in health conditions of women who already suffer from
inadequate nutritional intake. Poor rural women spend most of their lives in pregnancy or
lactation which increase nutritional requirements, hence women are under nutritional
stress. Women undertaking arduous tasks are more likely to be exposed to malnutrition
and anemia.
7.           Constraints. Time constraints stemming from women's role in household
and farm managment may limit their ability to participate in RWSES activities and
trainings. In the hills, because of time constaints, participating in village meetings may
take a back seat to the priorities of fulfilling household susbsistence needs, tending to
social relations and child care. Women generally do not have extra time, and even if they
want to participate they may be able to do so only by short cutting other household and
economic activities.
8.           One major contraint that woud be encountered is caste distinctions and
attitudes which govern social relations between general castes and scheduled castes/tribes.
9.          The attitude of men towards women's involvment would influence the
degree and level of woman's participation, particularly in the Bundelkhand. Most men
believe that women will not be able to contribute in village meetings as they are illiterate
or are too busy with childcare and/or housheold chores. The dichotomy between the
public and domestic sphere forces women to conform to accepted gender roles.
10.          Norms of conduct between women and men and between upper and
scheduled castes/tribes create communication barriers between male field staff and
women, and between upper and scheduled caste/tribes, particularly in the Bundelkhand.
Women's lower literacy level, reduced mobility, and less ability to speak in public
meetings inhibit them from participating in public forums.
II.          Mitigation Measures. The project anticipated that most villages would
lack technical skills and experience in cooperative actions such as planning, constructing
and managing common facilities. The scheme cycle spans 33 months and moves at a pace
according to community pace planning phase, during which SOs build capacity and
faciltiate project beneficiaries to develop a community action plan (CAP), and



- 89 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
implementation phase, during which VWSC with SO support implemnt the CAP The
CAP process which is integrated with the hygiene and environment sanitation awareness
component (HESA) would increase options, increase their awareness of filth borne
diseases and ensure that scheme design and cost corresponf to user needs. To ensure that
all sections of the community participate the project has included complete village
coverage, a legally formed VWSC as criterion for scheme eligibility. 3 months provides
Support Organizations (SOs) the flexibility to organize/mobilize villages at a pace
appropriate to the local beneficairy group leading to the election of representative and
responsive VWSC.



I



bdo
UBW PM"- N"V"W mapw No sv*wwnm" owftom
Tdb 1. ftwohw" mm opumsms of Rood   -   ma phkrpww Doid ROW                                  Lbe mpwm
Odd*dC§ofA
WIN                                                                                                                                                                       %I
Cod                                                                                                                                                         Ft*
aLurdon                   --Jft--                             same Cod R" mm                                                                   CWdkgnlds VJ4$ 11100I                          Cmd FW. am
urm  am  me 97=                        Om  ling Tom Om  05110  NM?  SYIN  OM                                     OM   01102  laid  Om                                     OWN  1010  OM --8-1M-F-Tc-AW ROP Emdt m Rs
L kwomboW Cnft
A. PM WAISOhMA CMU
i.VdWe
I     .       .      .    2      No             14.4              14A                                   MA                I&A                17.4                                 332  IOA  39.0  10.9
x purrom NW FoOmme
Ofko Eqdpowd NW Fwdhn                   P~          4.14 6.42           0.4                       1 7,450   W            96A                KS                                   zol   4"    W"                       1402                                  M"  IGA 30i lzo
S. emomuff E*Om§K ammm WA ammft
CGRWIA-                                 P~                   4     2      2     .       .      .   to    ITS              383      MIA      Val                                   90.4              34A       IIA      1212                                  MA  WA  30A   fie
PHIGM                                     oKk          1     2      .    I      .     -      .    4     75       X2       4.3                U                                     6.5      14       SA,                2 4                                  10.0 100  300  I"
CO-Wd* Gabon                              dol,         .    I       .    I      .     .      .    2    135                3.6                 im                                   72                4.1                43                                    &S "A  MA   lxe
Iftch       I      .       .     .     .      .     .    I  1.000    22A                                                               28.8     322                                                               32-? "A  3DA   12.0
SlAt"  CAWAPWW EW*WMRL GIGNUNIM 0                                                                                 310       U-2      10.1      lsi                                  95 I     346      43i       Ili      III                              -1-09T
0,016"  PNU hRmebrArlt C46b                                                                                    --RT- WA                "A       13k?-                                300.1    002    146.7        II*     M7                                    417.4
L DPW Inodhows Comb
1. cowouiw owemot wid
Co"PAM                                  PWW                  6     &      3     4                21    175                30.3     40.3      tti      312                        105i               34A       473      111       24.9                       Ins  "A  30A   lza
NAM                                       oub                3     4      .     .                 7     75                As        6.6                                           15.1               ?A       162                                            ITA  UA   304  12A
cam"Saftwe                                Wilk               3     4      3     4                      125                10.8     14.4    IOA        14.4                        504               124       17.0     13.0      I?$                              US  MA           U
complaw eqtamd am swomm                                                                                            47A       G&4      2SA       34A                        1713               OCT      74A       $1.3     42A
X FuRdk1M wid FbIwas
Offte Ew4mmet wd kffam                   pmcbp               3     4                              7   sm                  45.4     00 5                                          1051               522       ?12                                           1234 140  306  124
BL"AW OPEU bmsumt cma                                                                                                         929    123i        ni       34.6                       2TY 4              IOBA     1458      313       42 4                       =67
TGW bwdWArd COM                                                                                                      71.7    2461      1342      "AT       34A                        ini       02    VU          131.7    VIA--   4xa
L Reowmd Cub
AL opww" C-ft~
pmiod obww                             OWWAffift       2    0     12    12   12    12    is   n         zr       I A      93        9.3      As        0.3      I's      7.8      56.0      1.6      9.8      11.4     02        101      IOA       92      42.0  0.0   0.0   6.0
MGT SpodMd                             dmff*o"         2    tZ    12    12    12    12    II   72       is       1.4      62        62       &2        92       62       52       V3        1.1      As        ILY      aA        I 6      72       4 1     41.3  4.0   6 6   4.6
p  m        , ,                        dNWAI"         2    12    12    12   12    12    "    n         12       0 7      4 1       4.1      4A        4 1      4 1      3 5      24 9      0.7      43       4.4       4.4       4 7      4 9      4 1     7Y 6  Of   A    &A
Subkitd bmwowAltd &W                                                                                               U        19.7     19.7    10.7       19.7    19.7      16.4    lil.3       U       204       21 I     21.6--   221       22.7     is.; -130;
    ,   Ilan
Ltd C.Wdrow                            dmff"WWW    12    12    12    12    12    12    $0   92          23       a 0      5.0       a 0      a 0       8 0      A 0      6 6      54 4      6.1      a 3       8 5      a 7       a 9      I 2      7 a     596  0 0   0 0   9.0
MAE                                    NW*="           2    S2    12    12    12    12    IS   72       20       11       6 9       a I      42        9 9      4.9      5 a      41 5      12       72        YA       7 a       7 a      I 0      6.6     450  0 0   a 0   6 0
cowwwft (MIS)                          OWMW"           2    12     1      3     1     1     1   21      20       i.2      si        of        1.7      of       06       a a      12i       U        T.2       0.6      Ij        06       0 7      a F      12J   00   Of   0.0
HoWb apKi"  CAnwAM                     doff NOWN       9    12    12    1 2    12    12    10   79      20       5.2      6 9       6 9      6.9       a I      6 9      5 a      45.5      5.3      72        ?4- 14             7 a      a 0      a a     50.0  I 0   9.0   I 0
W4090101  m.  Mae                                                                                                 154       267--   2Z4       53        2Z4      ZZ-4     W        i53-5    15.7      30A       23.9     25.4      25.1     258      211    1044
l MROPCAWAPAdCMign Lk*
ure r   -  c HRO $Pvc                  0001T "W"       -   12    12    12    V       12    if   70      25                a 6       a 6      a a      a a       8.6      7.2      30.4               9 a      0.3       9 5      9 7      10.0      8.5     MA   a 0   a 0   a O
Wk. -t ow. coroam                          IFAfdh          12    12    12    12    12    0    70       20                a a       4 I      of        la       6 I      5 G      403                72        7.4      74        y a      & 0      6 6      446  8 a   A 0   GM
CONWAFACIftR COFOLMNI                  OWFAMOS              12    12    12    12    12   is   Yo        20                                                               5 a      40 3               72        r 4      7 a       7 a      & a      6 a      441  8.0   0.0   9 0
SLOMW "RDW.WeirAdcmdm VA                                                                                                    9        X        M         ZH       282.95    16.7    131.1              233       24.1     24.7      25.3     25.6     ZZA      1456
4.T - '-Urk
Unk CowdndoFAk. Bqom                   d-ff wwft      12    12    12    12    12    12    is   a2       23       9.0      8.0       A 0        a       a 0      a a      a 5      54.4      a 1      63       a 5       a 7       a 9      9.2      7 a     59 6  0 0   0 0   6 a
c GI                          daffwmGn    12    12    12    12    12    12   If   82            Is       52       52        52       5.2      5-2      52        43      35 4       53       54       56        ST       56       60        51      3a A  0 0   I 0   9.0
sm"  Todombw Lht                                                                                                  13.1     Ili       IST -    ill    -Mll        Ul       II 0      WA       1&4      i&T       14.1     14 4      14.9     15.1     12A      96
L ft     wid AdubdiNaftim INS
Runcer, 1-                             'aw            12    12    12    12    12    12    10   A2       24       9.3      1.3       8.3      63        63       1.3      at       58.7      &4       By       as        91       93        98       9.2     12 2  00   0.0   60
hoOd OMM  Acomft                       dmff modu       2    12    12    12    12    12    is   n        is       as       6 2       52       52        52       5 2      4 3      311       as       5.4      5.8       8.7      5 A       6 I      5 1     34 5  a a   0 0   8.6
ACOMBON                                doff wwft      12    12    12    12    12    12    Mi  82        1 1      3A        32       3.6      &A        SA       3A       3 2      25.0      31       4.6       4 1      42        4.3      4.4      3.7     20.3  0 0   9.0   AG
caddw                                  deffowiffis    12    12    12    12    12    12    10   42        9       3 1       3 1      3 I      3.1       3.1      3 1      2 6      21.3      32       3 3       3.3      3.4       3 5      3 4      3 1     23 3  6 0   0 0   6.0
OdMm"  Mnmw and Adtddshadn                                                                                        I&I      20.4      20.4     2F.4      204      20.4     I?A      136.1     lei      21.3     21.8      22.4     22.1              21 I- I41L4
L TiwmbW Aftommom
TmwWG Aftmanam,                        dmO morft      12    12    12    12   12    12    io   92        To      242      24.2      24-2     24-2      24.2     242      202      195.4     246      35 3     25j       395      27 2      VA       23AI   101.3  0 0   0 0   &O
1. Ogko omd FacEfte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IV  >
010m, AMOK  I -  - uidw                  Mu"          Q     12    12    12    12    12    il   82       30      WA        IGA      14.4    16.4       10.4     " 4       A a      ?OA      lei      iss       11.1     11.4      11.7     lze      10.2     T1.7  to   as   &A    W   =1
A, AdwkdWodm wW Ongemmuft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              qq   -1
wAkwo        12    12    t2    12    12                                                                                                                                                                                                     (D  (D
12    6    82    100      34.6      34A      34A       34.6     34il     34 6      294    238.3    362        3&I       37 0     SYA       341      MA       34A    20.6
WAMS          3   0      0     N     0      0     0   353      Is       1.3     25A       25i      35i      25i      25A       21 A    1510        1.3     271      714      MA        392      299       353     149-2  0 0   0 8   a A
Vdiddo ambeemom emu)                     WAOM          3    U      12    12    12    i2    If   73      Is       0.9       3 5      3 1                         3-5      7 2      21.9      OA       3 a       3 ?      3 A       3 9      4 ;     _3.,4     13..S  0.9   e 8   a 4       Li,
&1640W Admkddndkm WW OWNINNIS                                                                                               .1       j A      IN         N       $4.6     S3.3    4011       W.3      GU        as       702       71.9     73.              J,                         0



'hi
5.0mm~~~~~~~~i                                OIM - N   Mm inwWImO UmUmbwO                                                                                                                                                               rtdnd adLaf
CmsW1m ggum.w   ~*MmQ                O WMmt          -12    12   12   12   12    10 70                a                2.8      2.8      2.5       A       2.8      223    151                 20       3.0      3.0      3.1       32       2.7     lITSi   Si         A
0861,freovpif                         tf 861m.      V 27      3N        101M01 10  237                5       3.       5.2      52       5.2      5.2      5.2      4.3    34.1       4.S      SR4      Ss       5.7      54       Si0      8.1      us252        A   Sig
8ec.*.3~~~~~~~              869m86~SWWW    10  2424  2424  24    20IN                        S      2i        U-.     15       3-5      52       32       2.      2.         U       Ii       371       38       3i       4.8      24      252U        D Si   AS
DOW                                  d86fninUm      12   12   12   12   12   12   1S   62             5       2.1       1       2.1      .1      2L1       2.1      1.7    14.2       2.1      2.2      2.2      2.3      2.3      2.4      2.0 S    1S2.S   Si   5.5
OiNdem*8ws4e.ffwf 86.6                              62 4864840484 79 M56                              4       7.1      T.       I.7      I.7      0.       I. I      .1     53i]      7.1    10.1      1064     10.8      SIA      I2 11.2  8.       SiSiO   SA   Si
&~~   .wri                                                                       0.2     lii      111      Iii       lii     112        Si     77i       5.4      12.3    12.6      12.9     13.2     129      III      552";  '  9.  12.  I2A 12.9 132  O  .
emdi0 p.r86sc.dm                                                                                                135.3   Zmi    215A    321A    iSA    2192    163.3  1.A22    137.0    Z35.1    252    242.4    247.1    253                  ZJ.3 212    A2
IL' 0m65Casts D
1. Ad*68*afio .4d 0ve.8,s
mfmii                         M     M       81 8 8 8 3 48    1e      1.7    10.4    24.2       242      24.2      242      202    120.1       Ii      10.0     25.0     26.5    27.2      27i      23.0    14425i   Si   Si
lMidhR.                                 mmi          S    30   M4    M4    M    M       M   448      Is       2i      156      1.        03      30    10.3        30.3   103.7       2.6    161.3    301       Ni.    4018    41          35.7   215.0  Si   Si   S
8s iAdr*8*4064n oldOv.whebd                                                                                                                              NJ2.  0  62 6.  0  50.4   322.0  4.  71     M         0.4     a".    60.7        Ni.     ST1
2.0O64. iiwmtsu
Deb Emiy  p.ir                          i  i         8    N8   84   84    84   84    70  448          5       0.0      5.2     12.1     12.1     12.1     12.1     10.1     8414      01       5.4    13.0      13.3    12.6      15.0     li9      fli2.0 AS i0  0.0
Accounbut                   dat866n60       610884    48648470O448                          11t     Ii      11.4     261       Ni.    26.6       2016    22.2    142.0       Ii0    lii       201      29.2     298S    10.7      102    156.0A 8A.0  6.6
8w~~~~                      86656081~~~~~~~kf   6    N5   St   84   84   84   70  448       5       :0       5.2     12.1     1.2.1    12.1     12.1      10.1    44.6      0.8      5.4    15.0       13.3     13.6     130      11.9    72.0  5.0   5.0  0.0
D.b.~~~~~~d                  .1608~~~~~fw"       .   .4    .4      4   84   70  448         4        7        .1     0.7      0.7       9.7      0.7      6.1    51.0       0.?      4.3     10 4     106      10.9    11.2       0 5     97.6  5.0  602   Si
fhid O48i 046. pwI M                                                                                            4.3     2529     6.       GAS      6005     60.5    50.4    32224       44      27.1     64.0     60.4    48.       60.7      NI.   355.0
Of046. mid P60wd
00c I sohm40i.                          mmi.d        6   M0    04    8      M4   M      70  448      10       1.7    10.4    24.2       242      24.2    242       20.2   129.1       tOA     1018    25.0      20.5     V72      2789     23.8   144.0  0.0   0.0  6.0
LIE M1840.86 P.448 "a   vi
ConmaiyftDmikpogmt 0SecEv(Mgu   dafinuvi             4    24   48   48   48   40    40  260          22       2.?    15.0      31.8    31.8      3186     31.8    20.5   17r2.3       2.7    14.0      34.0     34.8    30.0      se.7     31.3    182.0  5.0  5.0   5.0
a&. En0nwaf Iinwri                                   4   24    U6   48    48   48    40  260         20       223    13.8    2V.7       2.7      27.?     V.7    25.1   148.0         2.1    14.5    21.6       30.3    31.1      si11    272    1862  0.8   0.0   6.0
ErnWamnsrii(Cowmtu.)                 dog6.86.        4    24   48    8    a8    8    40   26         20       2.3     1384    27.7    27.7       27.7     27.7    22.1   149.0        2.3    14.9    2Ni        30.3     31.1     312      272    16S0.6  S     0.0  00
I46H ygsa g(6 can.Aav)                ielImmiio      4    24   48    48   48   48   40  260          20       2.3    13.8    27.7    27.7       27.7      27.7    23.1   146.0        2.3    14.5    200O    30.3    31.1         51.0    27.2   165.9  029   0.0  0.0
8.64840 MM Unis mrd Fad lIes Urft                                                                               916    57.4    114.8    114    -114.0    114A        95.7   62129       0.7    60.0    12286   125.0   1MA.   132.3    113            .02
L. Bauda84hi Unis
Conw.uiy70p.dei(1dgr)                staff mor       2    12   30    10   3N    N    30   180        23       1.5      0.0    23.0      2229    25.0    22.0       10.6   12406       123      6.3    25.5    20.2       298.     27.5    22.5    1202  0.0  :.0   5.0
Br. Pr CO                   W~a4fwf i mm    2   12   30    10   30   10   30  188           20      1-2      6.9     20.7     20.7     20.7      20.7     17.5   108 4       12       72      222      22.8    22.3      2329    20.4    12120  0.0   0.0  5.0
Er,ons.M   Bpdali(Ccnu*.r)           stuff wuvim     2    12   30   3N   10    3    30  140          20,     -12               2.7      20.7     20.7     20.7     17.3   10.04       1 2      72      22-2    2.8       22       221      20.4    12126..          A0 .0.0
H86lHchwp.wd.(Cm84081                staff MINu      2    12   10     1      0    N      0 100                12      6.0    30.7    20.7    20.1         20 7     173    106.4       1.2      1.2    22.2    22.6       23 3     2381    20.4   121.0  080   0.0  6.0
8640burakldsui Ibis                                                                                         486    28.7      6.1    86.1    86.1    60.1         71.1   448.1       4i9    3010      91       94.4    960       602      814.7   502.2
HO  ,dFotFAB U.nks*                     esch         4    24   48   48    48   48   60  200          14      1.4      0.7    ¶04        10.4     19.4     19.4     16.1   184.6       1.6    10.1      20.7     21.2    21.8      22.3     101    115.0  0.0   0.0  5.0
ewwww .m4L-8,                            ech         2    12   30    10   30    31)  30  184         12      0.        .1     1.4    10.4    10.4         10.4    10.4    10.7        0.7      4.3    11.1    11.4       11.7    12.       12.3     634  5.0  8.0 5.
gubt840 Trsavbo A8.0u1cs                                                                                        22.    138      2.7    29.7    207          20.7    26.5   161.6        2.3    14.5    21.0    22.6    33.4    34.3          21.5    180.2
C.~4 T   p..400.g As ost                                                                                          70      6          9235  17591    3752    37519   315.0  2,007.5       2723   1692    4022    412.3   422.0    432          372.0  2,230.1
Sho-T.rm                                  mi10   48                      1    17T              142    150         -    130.6    207.5    17`72     732                       613 -             1S -    6242.6 in.  14.4    631                   -   651.8  0.0  20.0  0.0
LGMuTumIbOwmislawO                        mug.              12   24     12     -                40    350         -     211    242.1    121.0                                 WI84             120.5   250.0   132.7          .        -        .    518.2  810 2 5JO     0
MLft" Tedv*d~   Aam    s                                                                                         .    276.7    448       232       733                     1,060.0        -    296.l    48110   327.1      W3                   -      9.182
aa.,mniU4A.3.PMU                           YW          I    I      I     I    1      1    1    7    160         2.0      2.0      2.0      21       22       22       2.9    20.2       2.0      3.0      2.1      3.2      3.2      3.3      3 4     22.1  0.0   0.0   00
Pdvhi8Au40-PMU                             VO          I     I     I     I    I    1       1    7   160         22       22       2.0      219      229      2.0      2.0    20.2       2.9      3.0      3.1      3.2      321      3.3      34      22.1 0. 0.0 5.0
Plhi.A~4-~ Imvir.P6s(how Ol a              VWE              20    0     10     10   10   10   10                         3.5      1.7      1.-7     1.7      1.7      1.7    12.1                324      1.0      IS       1.1      2.0      2.0    13.3  0.0   6.0  5.0
0lim l40.Ru- Rw86                  MIN                 -         6022   32   325 1.008    1.5                                       4.7     102      14.0     1410    43.2         -        .        .      5.1      Iii      16.2    15.6      49.7  9.0   010  5.0
Pho.,,8u.g8-T.chciW.a                                           106   242  325  32  1,000        3         -                         .3    20.9      290.1    20.1     60.5        .        .        -     10.2    23.5    52 4        322     60.3  5.0   00   6.0
Dubidd ALmS                                                                          5A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  0.2  72  2125 ~3.9       4819    481    182.1        5.0       9.6      5.0    226       42.7     57.2     5 6.6   206.6
L. hiumi. M Apa40.i. &id T86u
OrOd Emiiokn                              Vlgs                           5    10   15   15   45        30        -                  -      4.3      6.6    13.0      13.0     US0         -                        4 7      9.7    14.0      1553    44.7  0.0   0.0  0.0
pmpbw homeppmWft               EOm        124  278  374  374         .     -     . 1.150     8      29.6     94.1     88 2      602                 -        -    265.1    20.1      6760    92.3      94.6        -        -262.0  0.0   0.0  086
wdm CAmEy Tgs                              106   356    ? S7 25  325       -     -.86       0.5      1.8      50       0.3      6.0      47                        206a      1.6      5.3      89       00       5.3                        30- 1 0.05.to.66
ftb40 Stead. Us Aepisds w6 TiNvu                                                                                 30.1    60.       942      90.6     13.3     13.0     1320   332.8      30.6     722    101.1    100.2    15.8       14.0     15.3    356.4
P. P6050PEj 'Tr40*, miW Evs40
1. &qwpinl      ad £bOn A, &       wt a , TuonS
POMPPrd.UTcIA-oSkos£8   184 ps0ro            a           71   162  1TO   170      -     -513    6.4           .      13.1     1.8.     31.4     31.4        -04.6                            13.7     20.1     34 4     352                       103.4  5.8   010  5.8 0
Pekp.adPO.p86Ww        ftTmhip5d6) p. d              -4260100 00o                        .302         7        -        2      12.1     202      202                  -     01                 52      11.0    22.1      22.7                       "A 6010282        O Sr(D  (
Pw6c~~imyCAPuidMuimEvgTm08l0   Pu0c~~~~.ds  0a    60  150   150SO             453     12         -     2118    31.1      911      5191        -             156.7        -     2284    232       156.     562 3                      17123  5.0   5. 6  02
*mmyosDgi C-ol25 dsy)                 P.948.81            4260160160               -     .302        20              3 103    919       NA2    $602                   - 11.1                  3719    532       841      972                       235.4  520   0.0   0.0'
Tmh*4 d M &E M..dchwedTook   4p.048   -                    8    12    20   20                 so6     7        -       1.6      2.4      410      41 0                      12.1        -      1.7      2.6      4.4      425        .              12   .0   SI0  :A0         (
0h1 6.                        ..bxoLocm  busy..      -                 I    1            1           a                 1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7    10.4                II9      1s       1.1      1A       2.0      2.0     1150        8     SS
ftbbT,d Ta.s8sM         I              bss,          -     I    I                              a         60            1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7    15.4                116      I I      IA1      I 1A     lS       to      1,1258.



9 3                              Annex 5
_ a:::::::: ,:::: 0 00 0Page 3 of 9
-OOOO      EOOO
... ..... 
212RA~~~~~~
.4    --~vv-~-
I - n
I            
a   ji iE         J        
f*! e         j;noNo    
1111111m tIiiuit   3 



144
0
55               peee   -           -~~ow   M1W   'Fla   FE   if                                                      eHW                                                                                                                               5q!I*.I
"-it    -                  0u        YuL      POP      OK                 PIP,                        I' LU      mra    eoe       lot      -m    . 
ro      w        ,     S                             f        e        e                          L                            K       0         e                            Ol L                   £    £Ws                      Om WiCe                 Om       Pon".bq
we  we  rs  rot  -  -  ti    10       wc       -         -        lu                 -       ~~~~     ~~ ~~~~~                         ~     ~~~~~~~~Ii  ta      it  -  io  iti  0    - -    t I    -    -  'Oesm0  P *&6
we  we     re      tw-                          is       0        P        0t  Nu                                        se       r-        Ie       rims                         i                                   
we      we     we      1`0                -        00       tom       Ft       -                  eI a                       tot       to       Lto      -ratLm                                 -    t    I    I                   e                    amqe,
we      we9    weO    sc.       -                  wee      sit       ee       -        -se -                       -        cirst     Ie       rel                         eiioe   I    -           £    t    I                   - - dee             dudIPM o-ee
we  00    0-0    sea       -        -         IFp      rae      rot e    set                suet    -          -        re       tee      Wme      see       -                    i             t f         W     t           e.e PWMV
we  w      we      ea       -                             te     ie         P                 ot       -        -        we       ow        io       i,-'e                       ti               0      O                      o                         eoaqd
PoWrse          -        -         PU        WL         e      ree               0tw       -pe                        rtm       tia      mKgi                                                                                     IPUOe* SC        03PW'
as  O's    wo  out                       I'mt    aPt       oe         xSL                                -         Ltit    itit    st    eIt                                                                                                 elmes.Po,IeIspalow'
P.mPOI
VW"               -        we         e        w        n       -         rt              Wmit    tee                    tw       611i                                                                                     mm       mew-A00 --
to      we     we      w        -         -        ox       wit       rim      -        -         li                         Ie        0K       we       -                  root    ii               Bit  L    GE   -              'e"         *qc-UtVPddW uPkLdfG~
we  we  we  0-p.                  ti       we       to~~~~~~~~~~~r  fit          -K                         w`e      cop      0-0       ro                 00      0     -    -                Ide.l d
we      Wee n          Cam                                   IN w  0                                                           eP- tt  weP      IP       -         -        0        i                     I-Io    c     o    -A                 la Gom    'Itq..,d.ps
-.We       We     w       we e    -                   cu      tn        hi       -0U0Po                                                            10      fe                   ee      KL                    1 0       -             e                          ,    e
.  n  ffe        VI        No,      ft                          I'tt                                          VT                           I u     0               9    9                        ekp                         -a  I-el  - 
We       e     we       LU-                        gi       0M         5        -LOS                       -        -        Li        0-e       -C        e       -        wee e:O   c Is      -    Oi   U           A£ 10   -    de
we  we  we  moo  -  ww     rio      pee      pee      -         0-let    -        -         p-u      yea      rot       etc      -         see     tim-       -    £0   i0et    et   -           dee. Fe                        JSft 3
a   n  n                                         F."'       u      tn        ni em             ri IRS-                              iatrl    ix    mom          c                                                                        ietAoa.d   o.eplw
we      We    ire      LU                          -         iP       0-1 U    rot                wet                        -1        £0       V-ID     :Ii       c                 K Mc-      -           KU         U5          MeOW      ~        sedP.
we      s      wre    vIt                                   0-e       we.       wo                wet               -                  wLi Yu            0-0C      -        0l        Cit       -           isu e      t -         e              u-s~oPe
we  -   -                                                                                                                                                        LUwemad~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o   me -31PW
we  we   we      we~~I'    -        -        -         i        i-i      w                  Pt $L                                wI K     II       peS                5         i£                        £                  e             PxIe~m ±.
we      we     we      w                  -        - we                        we         i       p        -                           w        We       Ws        wia                                      t 0 Li  -              s           emweo~me
Pw'5 ,.dAepo  i        PUMPPd 1
we   w    we we                    -                  I        s-    wewe                    e                                  p         Li    00    -               ePI w               -          iioie    -                                                PPO
We      we    We       wee' eel                                       u    t    o£1     0-         e                                   0LI      IP        rel      0-                e                        Il  U     U   I       om           *W-"        m%4 -wjge
we  w      WeS      in                to                          ILewe             LI       wGI       -We                                  0-s      we       0- 0               wmw-It ft ee atwSeU
We      we     w        WI                                  r e           we  p         0-p       wooVS -5                                      0I'l0-p            0-,      e        um-                   a    a      xx          'em
we  n  n  I't  to  re  co            r I                                  cv       re       co                 I        I    .            .     .  9    I             osw                   d~~~~~mee I       -omLIM
"~AFoaj2 OA I
Fat  Ca  III    To                                    M       I'st      Ca        I'Si                                                                      in~~~~~~~~~~       pse.@s
UUL           Nou       ei       we        m         m       rne      ei                            p        a VIe Iewe                                                    I U5          .            .ma     .a  eevi am        swe
_                          -  ine~~~~~~~~~~~~~~qeem w~~~~~~~                                                 uIuueem                 *ro
9`0  I'm  III  'VI  IIP                                                   CA        s~~~~~~~~~Po  OK - -     -    UtawIekpAw-m
Fe  n  n  Fit                             I's      n        Al       Wu                                                                                                                                                       6moPoOimE.mDdini
We    n  K                     n         n       Iv        V        ri                                   rn      I'l.,      Ir:      "'llM.:Ings,                                                    -ofwp                              01111



mm coo                                                                                                                                                                       pow
phr                              mm god M "a                                                             T.Oft bk%ow C-OMW-bo in we                                        CWL  P.. 4N."
ua  am nw 9  smoss mm                      "me Tom  we   am                      pow      gme  smiso   no    Om                    I'm   Tetd   no    nm                   Ilimell  NW          111140   MAY  Om                TGW  Rde am& TM NW
gap              38          Sy    U                irz        4                  3.3       3.3       6.4        Al                           Is 0                 33        38         71        IA                           21.7     80       11A
qbp                                21               139                                     GA        8.4        12                           19                   I         11         pi        U                            31S      fla      WA
1.01     I         iss       I&I                           643              IIA
sm'soms - on"                                                         I n               346                           73       I II                 JA                            .,91                           Lo                                                          8-1,
a    12    17                36        1                                                                               Y.1                           1.3       1,.l       1:                            1.1,1   IJ
A
2                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8.0
A       41.4       0.0       GA                                                                     A        A
17                        I                             IA                            IA                   I I       :53       GA                                       IA      GA      9A
2                                                       GA        S I
sw_                                                                                                                                                  GA                            9.7                           Al        Al    1".                                I-               GA
0.01-              lwinml           ow                      11    I     I                17'                                                                                       1.3                           IA         33        34                                             IIA      GA
T".d    WOOD"                 Mbp                3    3      2    3                 11                          9.7                                                           23                  0 7         I         II       !34                           2 7     GA       U        OA
,P -Ift                                                                                                          1.1       3,2       A,                                      16.7                 1A         A        11,        a                            III
'i       to         'l
omp          vwwwlab*               ow                                                                                          'I       16.7       31-2                          17I                            1.,l     10         31.1-1                        "I                         GA
9                                                              2.i      IfA                                                                                            7                                     $04      ILI
3"
40,41                                                                           450
-------                                                                                           2-2      27A       40.1                                    1141
H                                                                               IOA       lwa       Wi        84.0                          217.1
0-0 TA--d tv wo a NO                dbp                   nn           AG   :  : .
"NOLD". - Du"                                                                                                                                   P"                           2MA           -
G.                      Cwb
lot                  23 4      34 4      04                                      2mi       so      so
G.-mv,                        ftp              39                                                                                                                                                                              Yi 1
:73     3"                  322       222        GSJ       OU
34                                                                                                                                                                         ".1  ::   ::    u
-114111,                                            In       311                 21:1      61        51a        W                            tal                  20        54A
-NW              6,                                          xi                 MA         61:      tOLY       IS"                          nu                      Al               I ".1     1.                             4111
6   1 2   17                 36     30                     -   -6.7          13.3       Ise                          369                     .      69        1.8       21-22                          429      am      GA        GA
OL66"  Nft                                                                                                            liss      iPgA       ns.3      2161                          MA                   lzi.?    I01111    ml         3867                          914.3
AAWOVA&Apmp                                                 1    3      2                 I      II.:                                      1-1       1 2                                                                    3 P       2i                            8-6      0
m  No                                                I           3                 7                           'A        3-3       44         13                                                0 1       3         4 I        31                           .3         :      ::       ::
b. F.9 Mb
so,        P-"                     -aw                                                                                                              'A                                                          1:         3'        GA                           SIA      A
-           win*             wbp                                                          Y." I                          11 'Al      A                                     10-1                           1.1       139,      US                            324       A
DN P TO-- -4                        -SW               3    3    2       3                11                                               11         3 1                                                                              37                           131      GA       0 0
III       IGA       262       367                           ?$A                  IIA       17.1      28.11     3"                             81.3
IIII              MI    "31                             31:        74.1    1:7                            IIIJ                            11-1      11 3     106                                      0                 Da
D,w T
Ofto, T*-wd or "a 40 a)             law                                36                        30                  I.;       GA        Go                                                              4      is 0      '04 a                                             It                GA
B..dwl&md                                                                                                      100      120.7     In                                      4798                  104      1781      less      2m 0                           5274
2.44"d 0-dIft md GF*VA.W, COIS                                                                                         137.4     313.1    IL31                                     1.3251                IQI       335 0     4737      4970                           450 0
9.66"                                                                                                                     5412    IA42A    &US.?   2.34&A                             6= 1                  11P.3   IX&I   2.3546   WSA
X                 N          M                                      3.4       MA        W         732                219 4                           36-2      40.1      82-3       663                349       0 0     0,0       4.1
32                I,         in                                     ni        au        I&A       MA                 IN.?                              A       64.2      415-:      31A                "IA       0-0               GA
mbp                    44   a      Is   IN          m        goi                          IMA       m          INA      I'doll              4301                              A      ...        I.        "I'                                   :A
le-P        .         .     .    a    n  is          n       SLY                                      8:        is0      254                  so 7-                                    .8,       ..        . ,                 ,, ,     ::       .::      ::
1332      UGA       zmi       274-3               ml                             "21       224A      3vio      3162                 MA
b. Fd =    -- 'P.,                    -ar                      -    I    11    I             I     11.1                             -        2-2       4A        4.4                10                                        2 4       4 9                            2 3     0.0     I 0
a"                     4     3                      to      Go                             GA        4A         'A        4A                 32:                            1.4       1111       4-:                                                     1:
ow-    a  -                                                                               :      'S                                                  4         4                                                             4                  :10                III      0-:
101-                                                              I    3      2                                                           2.2         A         A                 10                                                  4         GA                 '2,      It                 A
D.G, T.6                                                                                 I      la,:                                                rl        21
-d(PWWWIZM                 law          .         .     .                                                                        1                                       13                                       1 12 8       3       342                 el 6
G                                                                                                                                 01,
aw                                                                                          fl.j      %I        144        164
D.* TA-9 tr ON n                                            I    I      I     I          1.      75.                                                                              21                                                                               "I                         .8.
0.6kw F.9 Nft                                                                                                                    16.3       U.1       30 0      n 0                                                144       29 4      43 9      46ii               IF.
D.WT*-m(ftwmIm.*                    -NW         .         .     .   12   10   "O    -                                                                                                                                     92 0      1 zz 6    2594                433:      0 0      4 0      0 0
wbp         .    .                                                                                              ':                          .13                             I I      lff? 3    1837        ssi                4248              a 0       a I
:16     11:
M  3                762 5                          too      :111      3061       3138                9504
D-M TO--I tr No so                                          I   70           n                                                 11.      14.1       :GS       A I                                                                                                            0 a
OWN.Od so C--.ft                   C.                                                                                                       V,   Mlf   MA                           I.M2                            ins   47LI  167A   MA                            iiieu
a    n      a     n                                                   I        1.2       2.A       2 4                 7 3                            1 3
; 3       2 1       24                  &I      OLD      0.
L C.--ft bwdp-d -    now"
Go    10         :.n       II                             2        LI        12         1 :                                                                   2-0        11                  F3      2.0     A.:
3"-    - &-mv,                      obw                   4242   :     U                300       1 1                           IA        3.6       4 7                                                          I           41       6-1      IIA                 'OA
-01W        .         .     .    I    10   Is        30        2                                                  0       0 9                  I I                                     0 3       II         I It                2It
Nft                                                                                                                       4;        1.         SA       9-9                 32.1                           9 2       Al        II I      IIA                 39i
(D



0~~~~~~~~~~~Lm                         rL rs IM rtww                                                               1,1F               LV CM                                                                                                       P2W00 
414~~~~~~~~~~~~ts                             9      'C       gt        c                          IOtIec                      va       Ilt      09
'.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------a                                                                                       u                 t0                           S
eV      r00oIS                             61       16       066C.  I                              or      -           I*    6161    016                           -        OMN      61 :61   6                  -    -    -       G60          f0.WI6       Pomp4idm
#6  #6    #6    ~~~         ~      ~~ILl  I1  61        6  C                      - I6L's                      C1       (1C      #0 I       0-                        66       6    -sew  -61
r6  60    66     6(1       -        #0~rzw   0 " 91    Ilc    -'s        -                   61      -         10       i        44z       VMS                          U      6    -                                 -        -( 4 -
61      we      n1      1                  1       06        (         6                -         IIaItg   -         #to      lot       0  I                       -I6               K4         £    at   £    .    .-      .      se
6  60      We      16"      -        II       01        #4       -        -         I                                    (1v it   #1                                   66                  1    1    1 a    Pt         -        oww
.0    O's    01,19  U.  .1    "OZA  M  I.cot  ::t    W"         W"        K                                                              IZ                 IOW                               PrA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'P4~d 
WI    0   ar     #l6a               #601      I64 as     6      1*41rev                              -        # I0w     I'm      top6    CV 601a 
#6  #6  #6  #06  6A1  161  66  -  #60     -        (61       Ill      Ii       -                  -        66      01-         61616           -      ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      MM
#6  #6  #6  #106  A661  1064  1164  #61  -  1660      6661      (All     PIll     #11                -        66       66(        34666600                           dq.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--3oe
#6  66  #6   6011              #11~~~~~~~~~~~'K  fKac  I'M  Ca                         A'cl               I#CI     rwVL      #66      #3                          66      61           1 06                --d
#6  #6    #6      1111~~~~'IL       *Ca 61I6O                   tit 100  1(0C 1(6tel 106                                         10       .1006                                  6-        6     6      3      -               q                         6.gh
n  I 0  We  0 tot  0 K  I'al    fell    cil  9 m   tit                                                      a       Ut         a    U    U    0                   MW              09 "A a# P..Pj doo~~~~~~~~~~~'P4
0                #0lI                60        3       63       #1                          111                 (0       01       6                                                       tot  Do                                           0i40A             PW
#6  #      O's    #11t                11        1                 #0                          004 -o            #1       #1  C(0                     -                  go       I1   -     1    1    1    -    -             -  .63         wOS6d4P.W
#6    0    #6s      'l  #60           #6       061      F6                                    Oct      -         I       (14       #6       C        -         -        60       It         6    6    C    -    -    -         mew.40.dmipd.
66  00     66D    I0 I                1C C     10       9  I     -                           0        -        11         1       #1       -                           6             - V.  I          4 I        -    - .                          (uo*4  W    on
#0  60  06  #44  -  41  04  01  #0  -  #64  -       (1       il        (1       (0       -         -        61       44         1    1    1    6    -    -~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~H P-
06  00    00      46  -~~~0'a       C1       (1 0,  1 ro        C'"                         CA -t              61I    61U        a4 a                                  0                  (     (M 
O's  0 a  OF  C K  vIt  C &I  Is  CK                 696      lot      C$                                   St       ot         11I   ot   I    .            .     .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'PS~i 
0         or     660       -         0         'U#0    v"1      (6                -         (610si             I U3     034      #66      #16c                         a       Mt                                                                          -. a U  so  0'
#6    #6   #6   (01~~~~~8  -         1    (1           #                                    (1                          404O  #4I"                           -         611  03              1161           - 
Ir:  rnz  I  ot                                                                                                                                                        oaqp         (vVZj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ORdmRj)PAWjdw
Is66        (61       #4       #                           #616     -         (sit,    :to      110      (3                           cc-VPSat00tot4Mmw
6(0 -    0I        14      #64      1                           #4t00     -        fret     (001      (66      C1Ii                                                                                                                 WF
#6       -         (       #14       #1 v      6                          Ft                                                                         cc64  264C #4.4.                               .6sow                          'PgP-*d--
#6 0    6      (4       -        (          1       (         1       -(1                                    1       0          1       4                            3      I                           1    -     -                                A'PIAJ6d46     -S0
#6 #0   #       16                          1        0                                     6       -        #          1       (                                              t1660     I    1    I    I                   lo-
66      #         0# a   6 t'#C                     C1       #         1                           6       -#19               #4 C      4        (        -        -         C 61    I4         1    a    I    6    -v   "d'P
06  #0  66  II  -  (1  11  44  -  -  -  44  -       Cl        #1       #4       -        -         -        (01      6    -    1    1    4    - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W~~-11'V-
WI      IV      #6      #6       -        #4        61       #1C      -                            6 U               I004    #I        #1                 -        -C66(1             3.        II4   et   0                -
w6e#    #6         1(        -         3       41         6       #44 wi   -        -          U1      -        4         I1 #01    r#1     #01                         U I6   OK-          3466660U 0-                A-A 6-3-
#6  #0  #6  #11    -         46       n~~~~~~          ~~~~                    ~ ~~~~I #04 #6 v$  63  -  0      I0  w6     e       ire                         we      K           et666 34  64 060(     -                                    44 P
& U               I6       #1         4 I     #4   0                       6       -  iLI             01       14s       t0op~'   p
#6s     00 a    #0      644t     -         0        (1C      v4 I                                 L04      -         #         1       (                                     18     6.11  -    3    66   (1 -         -     -      60            4640      *P      .1
#6 #    #      wo                 I 1    0  1        10       C                            6       -.0I               46       4 &                                  1  0V    6t   -          1    4    C                   sa-66w         .UGA&  PS d
I 00  v  v          9        I~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P00*
'PU W   '~3    PU  P0k  1646     436          6    466    iSI         1646              0000      1641     13406646                    66*       166      44       666   %I          C 464  1C6 46661        g6664    6
WW  d          :, 6W.   666                         C'                                                                                                                                                                                              AWAEwP   W  16646  03m-h
to6     w     reV                                                                                                                                                   6 43C3I0 v  'oV                                       sw&dw uw



[Ill'[                     IH| fiil||lgi|l  i|[f imul T||    mlul||l|T||
It                                      I      Ilt                    II    1                                       
.....       ....         ..    .....         ....         ..      .,   .       ...         ..         .....    ....-,
~...    38*3             am                 subs          m.     ...... ...                ..   ......   ....
" .. . t"" .. _ ~~~~~~~.                                     . .    .    ". . . _     . . _.    .   t n. .   _.. .     . w. F
_.-    fU  alas          xi;                              af  _.__   -lam                  al   .._    .s; 3
....~~~~~. ....    ..            .....         ....     .. .....    ....    ...   ... ..    .... 
ga.a.  mlii                A ;>o KX ii a3.a.  xlii m 3..   13                               mm  33.5.^  mlxii
ii ! tI                  E     a ilhj          aH      I,iia                 taaa al              H
~~~~~~~~~~.                     . .   .   . .   .   .  . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   .   . .   .  . .   . .   .   . .   .   .   . .   .   . .   ...C
.     . .     .     . .     .     .     . .  .     .     . .   .     . .     .   .     . .     . .  .     . .     .     .     . .     .   .     . .     .     . .     .     .     . .     . .     .     . .   ... .     ... . . . ...
-!^gaa                                                                                        _!sw                         e  --c  *p     c! _c  C--  f°i  Oa s  
. ..... .h.  .. . ...                                    .  .    .. .... .. .  .....       .  ..  ....  ..    .. 
f ws0  s§W_X £    . '__  § o1-  P va  ~;~~ &'^P                      -  -              3t8   . -w_  
be     6       . _  6 W to | a c  ffi   |    t  t ...         -                    a         I    i 6         I I
z~~~~~~~~~~~
i YtS I                                            it 2: I1 iY _ ___ | Y _   _S 1  9 a a as 
6   .   ..               .     ...  . ..   ....                         .    .         ..   .. .                 . .  .  .
*6.ofi      80. .6.    6o                    b°° 66  °e°°                       °-o L..a.                        E.° 6  .. 'e
::::0°     :::       .:         6. 6:.:6 :;:          ::..6 :::                                           660 :  ::: :::
c~~ ~ ;09                           ;c  ;~O  000                                                    1 0 *
6  JO  L  a                                                         -  L6  -
S  xauuv



Sd Cod                                                                                                                                                             fty.
~~40I                    -                             0o Cod £3033WM                                                      Taub 0,061*3 cdo1*.§. g2m g                                   Cal  Fa.  *3.
Old N            N 300 Moii   U0m  33011 gm  Toid   VW                            wi0n03  00  NM0    910       000       IMO      743d    SIM        NW0    073         33        03       am00      Gm       Toad    Rd.   god,  T  Rdo
kNpTd0W(fW3&.120                 d                -          22   U   132      -  Il      52A                                   33-227   1002   1.357.1              2803.1                                 4014 A     201    1,074A        -       0.2I0  10.0    0.0      $01
Duo T**&      p t  U4f 0 i-    -    0   To   is   20    -  II                             2301         -                7.0     Mm0    1M.3    213.3            -   131.                           01.3    010.0       M3.     2M04A             2030.0    50.0    010       0.0
OWdd WA*3OI                                                                                              -               77.6   I OIlS   1.403.0   I 77I.l            4,343.1        .                1.3  1I220.3   I 034.4   2344.0              S 300.0
M   nd uuAOoAdbo .0                                                                                             -    030.    1.731    21111   2.306                 7.114.1                       03A   2.1201   3.10.0  2.500              -    AT.3
Z.  ..,                           .    .~~~ 20 250M         3       -1            0         -                3.0      31        7-2       7.2        .      21.0                         4.2       4.3      8.0       0.1        -      200a   10.0    0.0       0.0
Oh th.0o             -MP              -22440   0            M      -120                    -        -       1.2      Us        0.0       2.0               11.3                         3  .7     7.0      1.1       3.3               21.1   10.0    0.0       0.0
bin.04Om*                        -.OP        -       4     3     10         M0 M                       -                0         UA      12.2      14.7        .      42.2                         7.0      12.0     10.1      101         -      0.2   I0.0       0.0      la
,IB              -ups                         I   W  101            30       7         -        -         .       1.0      2.0       2.0        .        .I                                   1.2       2.5      3.0                 I 10  10.0    0.0       0.0
&AO"  MD-                                                                                                                12.1      20.3     27.2      27.5        -        .2        .         -      15.4     24.1      33.7     24.0        -    13.
. Fod Nib
hl3Ub0p.a                                .    . -u        1    2    21                   I 0 10                               0.2       0.0      0.0                 1.4        .                          0.3      0.7       0.7        -       II    10.0     0 0      0 0
.oG.od                                  .    .    a    3    3    3             I 1                   0 -           0         OA       04        0.4                2.2        .1.0                       0.0       0.0      as                 26I   10 0      0 0     02
sv~~ M- mum)          -          -           .    1    2    2    -               Is1        -                        A0         0.       002.                                                      00       1.1       1.1        -       2.7   10.0    0.0       I1
0oTAZA          M1.p3-l        d..                         3    0I          I     Is      20         -                 -       1.7       2.:      2.          -        .                                     .1      42        4                  0.7   10.0    0.0       0.0.
D., T.*.od Or   a s              d.p                    3     2    2    2          10       10a                         0.0      0.0       00       00 a                20 I                        1.0      I10       0.7       0.7        .       3.0   10.       0.0     .01
00444td Fed0 003-                                                                                                         1.7       3.7      0.0       0.0               17.3        .         -       2.0      4.0       7.3      7.1               21.
0.oPT*O-df" MyI20.4             'AM.         -          -   22   30  103    .  10            0                            .      12.7     2012      MA                100.0                           -      10.3      300      75 2        .     120.2   10.0    0.0       .0.
DM pTd...0lPw .o"M  -D -p                                 01010         0       11          t                           23;     20.2      21.0       0.3        -      50.4        -        -       2.7      24 3     20 7       I0         . 0            10.0    0.0       01
bMdi 0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                         -        .   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~223    322.0  50 4  06 7   -     151.3                          2.7     20.0     02.4      03.23              138.0
b UC.o.d§-Ad£06.0.M. -oo,                                                                                              17.1      Su.      0216      3.1              S201-A                         20.2     3.7      103.2    120.7         .    317.0
10101or-by                       d.o         .         20 2 033                -  l        .43                         3322.     333      319       36.0              2M.7         .               201       30.7      75.2     77.1        -     22419    0.0    0.0        0.0
d.''W .. 9                                             22 04            1      .2 I17.01"'                             IIA.      201      2016       0.3        .       5                           12 I.I 21  22.6    2.2      I0.7               W .7     0.0     0.0      0.0
8~~- am ft               .o.                  44   U    35  182           3M    47.44         .         -      032      0023    110.2    12.4           -     410.l        .               0.       103.5    l20.0    IOD.7         -     430.1     020    0.0      0.0
Sft.-FPoWf                                   -    .    .          10   is    .20    5.01 M                                       0.4      Ii.?      201         -     32                                     t .     50  21.1  322A                03.7    0.0    0.0        0.0
ObMdd mm3                                                                                                               l00.0    1071      22.5    203.7          -     720.0                        1  12.3    173.1l    250.1    200        .      10.3
P,       Age ~ ~ ~~-                 1    2    2                   an3.3       .                          II       21        I.:        -        .0                                                                                                        co   .  0 0  . 0  .  .  .
*          4    4    4      - 1007.72 r"                             I?        7          1       70          .     2.                            II       00        00       0                  00      00      0         .
at,-  m    M.*)d.oS                                  I    2    2            05312              -                 .        41       02       0.2                Z 20.       .                           .1     I0.A      10.7        -      20.1    0.0    0.0       .01
0oP TA06od(P.M   200.            d.gt        .               3    6                1   273             -        -         .       I       32.1      Z2.1        .      0.2         .                  -      12.1      2414     204         -       2.3    0.0      0 0      0.0
DooeT,Wd 0W0MM  0                d.gs                   3    3    2    2            M I 37.03          -                 .2      323       2.2       2.2        .      10.0                          3  .0    3.0      2.5       2.0               1250    0.0    0.0        0.0
m*owd    Pod  3.-                                                                                                 -      I5O       ass      0418      441               122.1        .         .       01      31         0 11                - A540.1
0.WTW.wd(MMW00I23J               .04g        -               2 3 02            -  0103  I 20.03  .5-                             31       13.2      02       02         2.3                            .     02       2101     401          -      74 A00
0.opTA-dO9 WW  00 NO                d-    0   To N                      0         10 022                               12.3    507.      310       220          -      3                           132       is0.0    1201      20.0              23.0       1      0.       .
0.~~~d 0.od43..d                                                          .        .      122      503.0    2l0.0    420.5         -    32.0          .         .      122     2122      242.I    342.0 3-   103177.08.1952.  132  22.2  49.  5026  IOTF
b d    .ko.3Ukq06  *  0                                                                                         13202     31012    0T?1      724.7        - I0.0             .         .     141.0    414.5    0940    02.0           - 2.042.?
bMddh.306..*3o                                                                .        -   2.2411   0.2111  13.03.1  570001            -  432000          -        -   27011  100214  1031.5  21 2221              .  523041.015  2.323.652.900
Told                                                                                                        17.1    021    41201   IIA14A  I0I14    17.531A                 50.0371      00.2    0061   SAG.302 12          10J s.510.2  21.323A     .    .200A
x
'0



1TCast    P.   du
Ltd 004  NW0  5710                                       IN0II000 T0   Om    01 57 PM                 00110O          TmO    0m            - WmBOMS21         001    dw    Ra    Emk  7w St
A~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --b0
64*8 _                       _Am       .    7    5      .    .         .         12    N00            11.4  115         .       .      -             2707     -   . 1231       . -         -   -  292 0     00    10.6      0.
W         _ ^ __i &*W                               -24    24          2 24M   4     *       13      *5       -   242    242       42    242    24          -    1211      *253)52 11           W2  VS    -  1321        GA    30.0      to
ThwV0S*                                 Wmt   _          .         .     .     .     - .       5      315 8   .-                        5.6  .  ...                                        .    .O.l             51      6.0   24.0      0.
T Il.10p_d LowgmM                .0   w             -   12   12    6    4  0                  42     0 W      -  101.7  101.?    01    51A         11       .    101.1   .1   4 111.0  Ug  5O 50           -  3644      00    10.6       00
W014*uu                                Iuoms   0.2  02  02  2    02    *    -                  17 .         403    403    403    403    403         -            201.7 410  42.2  432  44.2  454    .    -2150          00    240       *0
Ebbs" _m_i .                                                                                                  454   23.7   23.0   114   I1.4    7.1                O P.  46.1 3. 1014 127.7 1*01  UT7   *    1.40
L Lrn T~ =r00gtg PWU'4 md USeo Dr
NPqidP P *w                             m*e                                    a   *          12    4*0                      - -  *        3.0    3.0            16*0      -               -0 0 0.         *101         00  *00          6.0
Lo4rng*0Poky  m                         M""              4    8      .         .    .         12     M        -  11.7   W72                                       31 -  .  -    2112   *  .4 2220    .    -    -      34  01    30.0     6.6
W    Oy  WW L.*   DOte4m go             mute        *         12   1212    -    -                    40020 1eO  .41                                         *    1017      -    *          VA  3. S.    -    *111        9.0   2010      *.0
_Se406Mh% CW,P                         Ia_5n              1    1    1    1    1    *          *              ..M   144.1  144.1  144.1   1441   1441       -    720      .50J  1*42 150  142.0 IW         - O   0?      01    20.1      to
mtioh" Lem Tu  01        te4*wu  SW                                                                                 24aJ   2002   176Y   2f1.7  227.1        -   1.301.4       2510 413.2 196.0  42 261.X    - 1423.0
T_                                                                                                              45.4  577      M.?  21   176.1 5             2    292 401 1  M4  71"  ZDA 43.0,3                 2A42
.0
Ca 
wD
x
ko
0
r0






- 101 -
Annex 6
Page I of 12
INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water SUPply and Environmental Sanitation Proiect
Rural Water SuPIly and Environmental Sanitation Proiect Management (PMU)
Memorandum of Association and Rules
1.     Name of the Society:  The name of the society shall be  'UP Rural Water Supply &
Environrnental Sanitation Project Management Unit" (hereinafter referred lo as 'PMU')
2.     Location: The PMU shall have its head office at Lucknow in the State of Uttar Pradesh with
liberty for il to establish one or more subordinate offices or outlets elsewhere in the state, If so
required.
3.     Address of the Society: UP Rural Water Supply & Environmental Sanitation Project
Management Unit, 5174, Vishal Khand, Gomli Nagar, Lucknow 226 010.
4.     Area of Operation: The area of operation of the society shall be whole of Uttar Pradesh.
5.     Objectives  The PMU shall act as an independent and autonomous body to coordinate and
monitor implementation of UP Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project
(hereinafter referred to as "the Project"). The following are the main objectives of the Project:-
a)    to provide sustainable safe drinking water schemes for all the project villages;
b)    to provide sustainable environmental sanitation facilities (like sullage drains, private
latrines etc.) for all project villages;
c)     strengthening water quality monitoring systems and leakage control measures;
d)    to promote hygine and environmental sanitation awareness to village communities;
e)    institutionial strengthening including greater community participation at the grassroots
level:
f)    to promote a participative process by which eligible village communities, as defined in
Rule 6 (r), can make all key decisions conceming their schemes.
6.     Functions To achieve the above objectives the PMU shall carry out the following functIons:-
(a)    to undertake all activities that may be necessary for the implementation of the project
and in particular for the achievement of the objectives referred to in article 5 above;
(b)    coordination and monitoring of the activities for implementation of the Project;
(c)    deleted,
(d)    to coordinate and monitor setting up water quality laboratories and Including procurement
of lab equipment and instruments by the Health Department of Government of Uttar
Pradesh;
(e)    to obtain assistance of private consultants appointed by the World Bank for following
activities:
(i)    review of water supply scheme designs:
(ii)    environmental sanitation designs;
(iii) water quality monitoring system:



- 102 -
Annex 6
Pagc 2 of 12
(iv)    community participation and health education activities.
(f     construction supervision, monitoring leak detection survey and supervision;
(g)    coordination and management of training programmes for personnel  of PMU,
District Project Managemetit Unit (DPMU) and others e.g. village water and
saniitationi commillees. village facilitators, NGO's and village comrnunities including
Gram Pradhans and primary school teachers;
(h)    to secure active involvement and participation of NGO's committed to the cause of
rural water supply and environmental sanitation;
(i)    to provide guidance and directions to the implementing agencies referred to in article
6 (d) above:
(j)    deleted;
(k)    to organise conferences, symposia, workshops etc. on matters related to the project;
(I)    to make rules and regulations for the conduct of the affairs of the PMU and add or
amend, vary or rescind them from time to time:
(m)    to establish its own salary structure and benefit structure and to employ, retain or
dismiss personnel as required in PMU and DPMUs.
(n)    to accept, make, enclose or otherwise execute cheques, drafts, receipts, bills of
exchange or other instruments and securities as are required for the conduct of the
PMU's business;
(0)    to undertake any legal actions that may be necessary to ensure the fulfillment of
contracts made between the PMU and others;
(p)    to enter into contracts without a requirement for government approval, other than by
government representatives on the FMU's Executive Committee;
(q)    to accept or to provide any grant of money, loan, securities or property of any kind
and to undertake and accept the management of any endowment trust, fund or
donation not inconsistent with the objectives of the PMU;
(r)    to incur expenditure after drawing up a budget and with due regard for economy and
propriety;
(s)    to prepare annual report and accounts of the PMU;
(t)    to purchase, hire. take on lease, exchange or otherwise aquire property, movable cr
immovable and construct, alter and maintain any building or buildings as may be
necessary for carrying out the objectives of the PMU;
(u)    to take all such action and to enter all such actions as may appear necessary or
incidental for the achievement of the objects of the PMU;
7.     First Members of the Executive Committee
The names. addresses. occupations and designations of the first Members of the Executive
Committee of the PMU to whom by the rules and regulations of the PMU the management
of its affairs is entrusted as required under section 2 of the Societies Registration Act, 18o
(No XXI of 1860) are as follows :-



- 103 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 12
SI    Names, Occupation and address   Designation
No   of Members
1     Agriculture Production                  Chairman
Commissioner
2.    Secretary, Rural Development,           Vice Chairman
Govemment of UP.
3     Commissioner, Rural Development         Member
Uttar Pradesh
4     Principal secretary, Finance            Member
Government of UP or
representative
5     Secretary, Panchyati Raj,               Member
Govemment of UP or
representative
6.    Secretary, Planning, Govemment          Member
of UP or representative
7     Managing Director, UP Jal Nigam,        Member
8.    State Health Education Officer UP       Member
9.    Director PMU                            Member and
Executive
Secretary
A copy of the rules of the PMU certified to be correct copy by three members of the
Executive Committee is filed alongwith this memorandum of Association.
We, the several persons whose names and addresses are given below having associated
ourselves for the purpose described in this Memorandum of Association do hereby subscribe
our names to this Memorandum of Association & set our several and respective hands
hereunto and from ourselves into a society under the Societies Registration Act, 1860(No.
XXI of 1860) this 2nd day of Nov., 1994 at Lucknow.
St.        Name         Occupation and address    Designation    Signature   Atasd
No.                           of members                         Of         by
members
Sri Bhola Nath    Agriculture Production  Chariman
Trwan.            Commirssoner
Sr Harish Chandra  Secretary Rural        Vice
Gupta             Development. Govt oi    Chairman
Uttar Pradesh
3     Sri Alok Sinha    Commissioner. Rural     Member
Dvlopment uittar
Pradesh
4     Dr Yash Pal Singh   Secretary. Panchayab Raj.   Member
Govemment of Uttar
Pradesh
5     Ms Aradhran Johr,  Spacial Secretary,     Member
Finance. Govemment of
Uttar Pradesh
6     Sri B P Pande     Special Secretary.      Member
Planning Government of
Uttr Pradesh
7     Sr, Ram Surat     Managing Director LtMar  Member
Singh             Pradesh Jai Nigann
8     Dr J L Chittoria  State Health Education  Member
Officer. uttar Pradesh
9     Sri Pararmswaran    Dlrector. PMU         Member and
lyer                                     Executive
Secretary
Dated: 2.11.94



- 104 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 12
Rules of the UP Rural Water Supply And Environmental Sanitation
Project Management Unit
1.     Name of the Society: The name of the society shall be 'UP Rural Water Supply &
Environmental Sanitation Project Management Unit" (hereinafter reffered as "PMU")
2.     Headquarter of the Society:  The PMU shall have its head office at Lucknow in the state
of Uttar Pradesh with liberty for it to establish one or more subordinate offices or outlets elsewhere in
the state, if so required.
3.     Address of the Society:  UP Rural Water Supply & Environmental Sanitation Project
Management Unit, 5/74, Vishal Khand, Gomti Nagar, Lucknow-226 010.
4.     Short Title:  These Rules shall be called  "UP Rural Water Supply & Environmental
Sanitation Project Management Unit".
5.     Scope and Application:
(i)    These Rules shall extend to all the units and activities of the PMU.
(ii)    These Rules shall come into force from the date on which the PMU is registered under the
Societies Registration Act. 1860 as applicable to the State of Uttar Pradesh.
6.     Definitions:  In these Rules unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)    'Act" means the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (Act No. XXI of 1860).
(b)    deleted;
(c)    (i) the "PMU" or the "Society" shall mean the UP Rural Water Supply and Environmental
Sanitation Project Management Unit;
(ii) the "DPMU" shall mean the sub unit of PMU to supervise the work of the project at
district(s) level;
(d)    "Executive Committee" means the Executive Committee of the Society as constituted under
the Rule 12;
(e)   the "Chairman" means the Chairman of the PMU referred to in rule 19;
(f)   the "Executive Secretary" means the Executive Secretary referred to in rule 20. Director of
the UP Rural Water Supply & Environmental Sanitation Project Management Unit shall be
the Executive Secretary of the PMU;
(g)   the "Director" means the Executive Secretary of the PMU appointed by the Govemment of
UP under rule 20;
(h)   the "State Government" means the Government of Uttar Pradesh;
(i)    "Secretariat" refers to the Director and staff of the Society who are responsible for
implementation of all the activities of the PMU under rule 21;
(j)    "Project" means UP Rural Water Supply & Environmental Sanitation Project as formulated
by the State Government and includes the project as modified and elaborated by the State
Government from time to time on the basis of reviews.
(k)    deleted;
(I)    'Rural Development Department" means Rural Development Department of Uttar Pradesh;
(m)    "Panchayati Raj Department" means Panchayati Raj Department of Uttar Pradesh;
(n)    "Health Department" means Health Department of Uttar Pradesh;



-  105  -
Annex 6
Page 5 of 12
(o)       deleted;
(p)       words imparting the singular number also include the plural number and vice-versa;
(q)       words imparting the masculine gender also include feminine gender;
(r)       "Eligible Village Community" means a village or habitation having a need for and willing  to
share in costs of a drinking water scheme, which is technically feasible, economically viable
& sustainable.
7.        General body: The General Body of the PMU shall consist of the following members:-
1      Agnculture Production Commissioner                               Chairman
2       Secretary Rural Development Department. Government of U P       Vice Chairman
3       Pnncipat Secretary Medical. Health & Family Welfre. Govermment of UP or    Member
his representative not below the rank of Specili Secretary
4       Principal Secretry. Finance, Govemment of UP or his representaiv not  Member
below the rank of Special Secretary
S       Pnncipal Secretary. Department of Uttarakhand Development. Gommrnent  Member
of UP or hi repsentative not below the rank of Special Secreary
e       Secretary. Urban Development, Government of UP or his represntaree not    Member
below the rank of Special Secretry
7       Secretary. Panchayati Raj Govemment of UP or his repreaentatrtv not below    Member
the rank of Special Secretary
8       Secretary, Planning Govemment of UP or his representative not below the  Member
rank of Special Secretary
9      Commissioner. Rural Development Uttar Pradesh                    Member
10     Manoging Director, UP Jai Nigam                                  Member
I1     Director. Panchayati Ral. Uttar Pradesh                          Member
12     Dirctor General, Medical. Hearth & Family Weftre,                Member
13     State Health Education Officer UP                                Member
14     Director. Information and Public Relabon UP                      Member
15     Director of the PMU                                              Member
Eieub_v Secretry
1 b    Representatve of Raerv Gandhi National Dnnking Water Mission. Ministry of    Member
]   Rural Development. Government of India
t 7   |*Two CDOs of Project distncts to be                              Member
18   ~ nominated by the Chairman by rotaton                             Member
19  7  Three Support Organismons                                        Member
20   Iorking for the project to nominate                                Membe
21  L  one representatOv  ach                                           Member
8.        Terms of the Members of the PMU:  The membership of the exofficio members of the
PMU and of the Executive Committee shall terminate when he ceases to hold the office by virtue of
which he was member and his successor to the office shall become such member.
The three SO representatives on the PMU General Body shafl be appointed in consultation
with the SOs working for the project. The SO representatives on the General Body shall be changed
every year.
9.        Roll of Members:                The PMU  shall maintain  a role of members at its registered  office
and every member shall sign the roll and state there in his/her rank or occupation and address. No
member shall be entitled to exercise rights and privileges of a member unless he/she has signed the
roll as aforesaid.
10.    Change of Address:  If a member of the PMU changes his/her address he/she shall notify
his/her new address to the Executive Secretary, who shall there upon enter his/her new address in
the roll of members. But if a member fails to notify his/her new address the address in the roll of
members shall be deemed to be his/her address.
11.       Vacancy: Any vacancy  in the PMU  or in the Executive Committee shall be filled in by the
authority entitled to make such appointment. No act or proceedings of the PMU or of the Executive
Committee shall be invalid merely by reason of the existence of any vacancy therein or of any defect
in appointment of any of its members.



- 106 -                                                Annex 6
Page 6 of 12
12.    Executive Committee: The Executive Committee shall consist of the following members:-
1.   Agriculture Production Commissioner     Chairman
2.   Secretary, Rural Development Depanlment,  Vice Chairman
Govemment of U.P.
3.   Commissioner, Rural Development Uttar Pradesh  Member
4.   Secretary, Panchayati Rai, Govemment of UP or his   Member
representative not below the rank of Special Secretary
5.   Principal Secretary, Finance, Government of UP or his  Member
representative not below the rank of Special Secretary
6.   Secretary, Planning, Govemment of UP or his  Member
representative not below the rank of Special Secretary
7.   Managing Director. UP Jal Nigam         Member
8.   State Health Education Officer UP       Member
9.   Principal Secretary, Department of Uttarakhand  Member
Development, Govemment of UP or representative
not below the rank of Special Secretary
10.  Director o the PMU                      Member and
Executive
Secretary
13.    Meeting and Proceedings:
(a)     The General Body of the PMU shall ordinarily meet once in every year and the Executive
Committee shall meet at least once in a quarter at Lucknow or at such other convenient
place as may be fixed by the Chairman. Provided that the Chairman may whenever he thinks
fit, direct the Executive Secretary to call a special meeting.
(b)     For every meeting of the PMU or of the Executive Committee a notice of not less than ten
clear days specifying the place, date and time of the meeting and in case of special business,
the general nature there of shall be given to all members. But in case of emergency the
Chairman may reduce the above period of notice to such number of days as he deems fit in
the circumstances of the case.
(c)    Every meeting of the PMU or of the Executive Committee shall be presided over by the
Chairman or in his absence by the Vice Chairman.
14.    Quorum:
(a)     Not less than seven members of the PMU and four member of the Executive Committee
shall constitute the quorum at their respective meeting. A fresh meeting must be convened
by the Executive Secretary in case this requirement of quorum is not met at any meeting. At
such adjourned meeting no quorum shall be necessary and the members present may
transact the business for which the meeting was called.
(b)    Should a person who is a member of the PMU by virtue of the office held by him  be
prevented from attending a meeting of the PMU or the Executive Committee, a substitute to
take his place at the meeting may be nominated by him. Such a substitute will be entitled to
take part in the proceedings of that meeting for which he has been nominated and will also
have the right to vote thereat.
(c)    Each member including the member presiding at the meeting of the PMU or of the Executive
Committee shall have one vote but the presiding member shall also have a casting vote in
addition to his vote as a member in case of equality of votes. All the matters shall be decided
by a majority of votes.
15.    Resolution:
(a)    A member after giving notice of fifteen days or with the permission of the Chairman can
move resolution at a meeting of the PMU or of the Executive Committee.
(b)    Any business which it may be necessary for the Executive Committee to perform may be
performed by a resolution in writing circulated among all its members and any such
resolution circulated and approved by a majority of the members recording their consent of
such resolution shall be as effective and binding as if such resolution had been passed at the
meeting of the PMU/ the Executive Committee as the case may be. Proceedings of every
meeting signed by the Chairman shall be properly kept by the Executive Secretary and shall



- 107 -
Annex 6
Page 7 of 12
be read out at its next meeting and confirmed either with or without amendments as the case
may be.
16.   Minutes:
A copy of the minutes of the proceedings of each meeting shall be fumished to the Executive
Committee members as soon as possible after the completion of a meeting.
17.   T.A. Rules:
The Executive Committee will make rules for traveling and daily allowances in respect, of the
joumeys undertaken by employees, members of the PMU or the Executive Committee, or the
committees, sub-Committees or Boards in connection with the business of the PMU or the Executive
Committee.
18.   Functions and powers of the Executive Committee:
(i)    Save as herein expressly provided as having to be passed by the Society in the general
meeting all the duties, powers, function and rights, whatsoever, consequential and incidental
to the carrying of the objectives of the PMU shall only be exercised or performed by the
Executive Committee.
(ii)   In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the Executive
Committee will...
(a)    make, amend or repeal any by-laws relating to administration and management of
the affairs of the PMU subject to the observance of the provisions contained in the
Act;
(b)    consider the annual budget and the annual action plan, its subsequent alterations
placed before it by the Executive Secretary from time to time and pass it with such
modifications as the Executive Committee may think fit;
(c)    accept donations and endowment or give grants upon such terms and conditions as it
may think fit;
(d)    delegate its powers, other than those of making rules, to the Chairman, Executive
Secretary or other authorities as it may think fit;
(e)    appoint committees, sub-committees and Boards etc. for such purpose and on such
terms as it may deem fit, and to remove any of them;
(f)    recruit and appoint all the key administrative and technical staff of the PMU;
(g)    set policy for the Secretariat of the PMU;
(h)    monitor the financial position of the Secretariat of the PMU in order to ensure smooth
income flow and to review annual audited accounts;
(i)    do generally all such acts and things as may be necessary or incidental to carrying
out the objectives of the PMU or any of them.  Provided that nothing herein
contained shall authorise the Executive Committee to do any act or to pass any bye-
laws which may be repugnant to the provisions hereof , to the powers hereby
conferred on the Executive Committee and other authorities, or which may be
inconsistent with the objectives of the PMU.
19.   POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHAIRMAN:
The Agriculture Production Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh shall be the Chairman of the PMU and the
Executive Committee and shall preside all meetings of the same.



- 108 -
Annex 6
Page 8 of 12
The chairman may himself call, or by a requisition in writing signed by him, may require the
Executive Secretary to call, a meeting of the Executive Committee at any time and on the receipt of
such requisition the Executive Secretary shall forth with call such a meeting.
The chairman shall enjoy such powers as may be delegated to him by the PMU and the Executive
Committee.
20.   APPOINTMENT, POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE EXECUTIVE SECRETARY:
The executive Secretary of PMU will be appointed by the Govemrnment of Uttar Pradesh in order to
facilitate the development and operationalization of the PMU and its secretariat.
The Executive Secretary will be supervised by and responsible solely to the Executive Committee.
The Executive Secretary will liaise with the State Govemment, the representatives of the
Govemment of India and the Worid Bank for any matter pertaining to the day to day operation of the
PMU and its secretariat.
The Executive Secretary will have overall responsibility for planning and executing the work of the
secretariat, for supervising the work of the technical units, directing and overseeing implementation
through the Secretariat, financial and technical officers.
The bankers of the PMU shall be appointed by the Executive Secretary with the approval of the
Executive Committee. All funds of the PMU shall be paid into the PMU's account with the said
bankers.
The Executive Secretary shall also perform such functions as may be delegated to him/her by the
PMU, Chairman and or Executive Committee from time to time.
21.   SECRETARIAT: Executive Committee with the assistance of the executive Secretary will
establish a Secretariat constituting of technical and financial professionals to serve as the project
implementation arm of the PMU.
22.   POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE SECRETARIAT:
The Secretariat consists of the Executive Secretary and staff. As the implementation arm of the
PMU it will exercise day to day management of the PMU's activities and will have two main
functions--programme and financial management including the disbursement of funds. In particular,
it will be responsible for:
(a)    developing detailed implementation plans for all components of the Rural Water Supply and
Environmental Sanitation Project activities alongwith relevant institutions e.g. World Bank,
Govemment of India, Non-Govemmental Organisations etc;
(b)    contracting out all implementation to appropriate entities;
(c)    making grants, issuing contracts or arranging other kinds of agreement with the range of
Organisations/institutions involved in the project and disbursing funds for the implementation
of planned activities;
(d)    coordinating all project activities;
(e)    monitoring the implementation of activities and utilization of funds disbursed;
(e    hiring local consultants;
(g)    preparing regular implementation and financial reports for the executive committee;
23.   FUNDS:
(1)    The funds of the PMU shall consist of the following
(a)    Recurring and non-recurring grants made by the Govemment of India and /or the
State Govemment for the furtherance of the objectives of the PMU.



- 109 -
Annex 6
Page 9 of 12
(b)   Income from investment.
(c)   Income from other sources.
(d)    Grants, donation or assistance of any kind from foreign Govemment and other
concemed agencies with prior approval of the Central Govemment.
(2)    There shall also be a special fund which would consist of :-
(a)    Such amount as are received with a specific condition that income thereof alone
shall be used for the purpose of the P.M.U. (with the Corpus being left intact).
(b)    Such other amount as General Body may decide to divert from the regular fund to
the special fund to be used in the manner specified in clasuse(a).
(3)    Any expenditure on this project to be incurred by the State Govemment would have to pass
through the budget of the State Govemment.
24.   OPERATION OF THE FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS:
The funds and bank account of the PMU shall be operated jointly by the Director and Head of the
Accounts organization of the PMU, who may hereafter be appointed by the PMU.
25.   AUDIT: The accounts of the PMU shall be audited by a Chartered Account to be appointed
by the Chairman/Executive Secretary of the PMU. The nature of the audit to be applied and the
detail arrangement to be made in regard to the form of accounts and their maintenance and the
presentation of the accounts for audit shall be prescribed by the byelaws to be framed by the
Executive Committee.
The Auditor shall also submit a report showing the exact state of financial affairs of the PMU. The
copies of the balance sheet and the auditors report shall be certified by the auditor.
26.   ANNUAL REPORT : An annual report of the proceedings of the PMU and all work
undertaken during the year shall be prepared by the Executive Committee. This report and the
auditor's account of the PMU shall be placed before the PMU at the Annual General Meeting.
Within 30(thirty) days after holding an Annual General Meeting there shall be filed with the Registrar
of Societies, Uttar Pradesh:-
(1)    a list of names, addresses and occupation of the office bearers of the PMU;
(2)    an annual report of the previous year. Both the list and the annual report shall be
certified by the Chairman and the Executive Secretary; and
(3)    a copy of the balance sheet and of the auditor's report certified by the auditor.
27.   Properties of the PMU : All properties of the PMU shall belong to the PMU itself.
The income and the property of the PMU shall only be applied towards the promotion of the
objectives as set forth in the Memorandum of Association of the PMU subject to such terms and
conditions as the Executive Committee may impose in respect of expenditure to be incurred from
grants sanctioned to the PMU from time to time. The PMU shall:
(a)   seek and receive grants, loans and such other goods and materials as the Govemment of
India/State Govemment may sanction from time to time;
(b)    provide funds to the relevant units of PMU for disbursement to public and private sectors;
(c)    organise and arrange for supply of equipments and other inputs to appropriate organisations;
(d)    arrange and organise training and infrastructural support to appropriate organisations;



- 110 -                                            Annex 6
Page 10 of 12
(e)    draw, accept, make endorsements, discount and negotiate with the Government of India and
other authorities promissory notes, bills of exchange, cheques or other negotiable
instruments;
(f)    invest the funds or the money entrusted to the PMU as it deems fit subject to the specific
terms of grants received, if any;
(g)    purchase, take on lease, accept as gift, construct or otherwise acquire any property, movable
or immovable, wherever suitable, which may be necessary;
(h)    employ directly or indirectly by grants to other institutions/persons to further the programme
to be undertaken/supported by the PMU;
(i)    to enter into contract with any Govemment or Authority, Local Self Government, Non-
Government organisation or otherwise to obtain from such Government or Authority, Local
self-Govemment and/or Non-Government organisation any rights, privileges, concessions,
financing or otherwise that the PMU may deem desirable to obtain and carry out, exercise
and comply with the agreements, rights privileges and concessions so required in furtherance
of the objects of the PMU;
(j)    do all other things as may be considered necessary by the PMU and may be incidental or
conducive to the attainment of its objectives.
No portion of income or property of the PMU shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way
of profits to persons who may at any time be or have been members of the PMU or by any person
claiming through such members provided that nothing herein contained shall prevent payments in
good faith of remuneration, allowances or honorarium in return for any service rendered by them to
the PMU.
28.   SUITS AND PROCEEDINGS: The PMU may sue or be sued in the name of the PMU
through its Executive Secretary.
(a)    No suit or proceeding shall abate by reason of any vacancy or change in the holder of the
office of the Chairman, the Executive Secretary or any office bearer authorized in this behalf.
(b)    Every decree or order against the PMU in any suit or proceeding shall be executable against
the property of the PMU and not against the person or the property of the Chairman, the
Executive Secretary or any office bearer.
(c)    Nothing in sub-rule (b) above shall exempt the Chairman, the Executive Secretary or office
bearer of the PMU from any criminal liability under the act or entitle him to claim any
contribution from the property of the PMU in respect or any fine to be paid by them on
conviction by a criminal court.
29.    MODIFICATION OF THE OBJECTIVES OF THE PMU:
Subject to the prior unanimous approval of the State Government, PMU may alter or extend the
purpose for which it is established:
(a)   if the Executive Committee shall submit the proposition for such alteration or extension as
aforesaid to the members of the PMU in a written or printed report;
(b)   if the Executive Committee shall convene a special General Meeting of the members of the
PMU according to these Rules for the consideration of the said proposition;
(c)   if such report be delivered or sent by post to every member of the PMU (ten) clear days
previous to such special General Meeting as aforesaid;
(d)   if such proposition be agreed to by the votes of three-fifths of the members of the PMU
delivered in person at such special General Meeting as aforesaid; and



- ]11 -
Annex 6
Page 11 of 12
(e)   if such proposition be confirmed by the votes of three-fifths of the members of the PMU
present at a second special General Meeting convened by the Executive Committee at an
interval of one month after the former meeting.
30.    MODIFICATION OF THE RULES: These Rules or any Rules made by the PMU hereafter
may be altered or canceled with the prior approval of the State Govemment and at any time by a
resolution passed by a majority of two-third of the members present at any meeting of the PMU duly
convened for the purpose. The modified Rules will be deemed to have come into force in accordance
with the provisions of the Act.
31.    BYE-LAWS:  The Executive Committee shall, with the previous approval of the State
Govemment frame bye-laws in the form of Operations Manual not inconsistent with these Rules for
the affairs of the PMU. The PMU may likewise add, amend, alter or rescind any bye-law so framed.
32.    FIRST BYE-LAWS OF THE PMU: The Executive Committee shall be responsible for having
first bye-laws made. These should receive approval of the State Govemment before coming into
effect.
33.    ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING: The PMU shall hold an Annual General Meeting every year
and not more than 15 (fifteen) months shall elapse between two successive Annual General Meeting.
The balance sheet and the Auditor's Report shall be placed at the Annual General Meeting of the
PMU for its consideration.
34.    CONTRACTS:
(a)    All contracts and other instruments for and on behalf of the PMU shall subject to the
provisions of section 5-A of the Act, be expressed to be made in the name of the PMU and
shall be executed by the persons authorized by the Executive Committee.
(b)    No contracts for the sale, purchase or supply of any goods or material shall be made for and
on behalf of the PMU with any member of the PMU or the Executive Committee or his
relative or firm in which such member or his relative is a partner or shareholder or with any
other partner or shareholder of a firm or a private company in which the member is a partner
or director.
35.    COMMON SEAL:  The PMU shall have a common seal of such make and design as the
Executive Committee may approve.
36.    STATE GOVERNMENT'S POWER TO REVIEW WORK:
(a)    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in these Rules the State
Government may appoint one or more persons to review the work and progress of
the PMU and hold enquires into the affairs thereof and report thereon in such manner
as the State Government may direct.
(b)    Upon receipt of the report, the State Govemment shall consult with the Executive
Committee regarding any issues, which, it feels, should be dealt with or actions,
which, it feels, should be taken.
37.   The State Government can also issue directions to the PMU on any matter which it deems
fit.
38.    DISSOLUTION OF THE PMU:The dissolution proceedings shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of the Act as amended from time to time in its application to Uttar Pradesh.
39.    NOTICE: Notice may be served upon any member of the PMU either personally or by
sending it through post in an envelope addressed to such member at the address mentioned in the
roll of members. Any notice so served by post shall be deemed to have been served on the day
following that on which the letter, envelope or wrapper containing the same is posted and in proving



-I 12 -
Annex 6
Page 12 of 12
such service it shall be sufficient to prove that the cover containing such notice was properly
addressed and put into the post office.
40.    RECORDS OF THE SOCIETY:  The PMU shall keep in its registered office proper books of
accounts, in which should be entered accurately:-
(a)    all sums of money received and the source thereof , all sums of money expended by the
PMU and the object or purpose for which such sums are expended;
(b)    the PMU's assets and liabilities.
The other records will be
(1)    Agenda Register.
(2)    Membership Register.
(3)    Proceedings Register.
(4)    Cash Book.
(5)    Records of the employees of the PMU.
(6)    Records of the Accounts and Claims
We, the following members of the Executive Committee, certify that the above is correct copy of the
Rules of the PMU.
Si. NO.  Name & Address                     Signature
1.      Sri Bhola Nath Tiwari,
Agricuture Production Commissioner,
Govemment of Uttar Pradesh
2.      Sri Harish Chandra Gupta,
Secretary, Rural Development,
Govemment of Uttar Pradesh
3.      Sri Parameswaran Iyer,
Director, PMU
Dated: 5.11.94



INL)IA
UP RURAL WATEk SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Organigram for Project Management Unit (PMIJ)
EXECUlTlVE COArrEE
Chim
Vice Chairrrm
|to Director                                                         _
I                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~
OPERATIONS/ MAE UNffT           fRI COMMUNW:AllONS          MIS UNIT                       TECHNOLOGY UNIT              FINANCrE  ADMIN. UNIT
UNIT
* UJNlTCOORDINATOR(I)           *UNTCOORDINATOR (I)         *MSSPECIALIST                  * UNITCOORDINATOR (l)        *FINANCECONTROLLER((l)                          w
HRD&"ECIAUST                                               SR ENGINEER
M& ESPECIAUST(l)        *          V(M.-XS DE V             *COMPUTER MOGRAMMER 1)         *ASSTT ENGINEER              *PROJECTOFFICER
SPECIAUST                                                                              (Croncr & Accowm)
* TRAINING AND              *DATA ENITRY OPERATORS(3)                                  * ACCOUNTANT( I)
CONICA TON
SPECIAUST                                                                             *CASHIER(l)
*NEUL T SPECIAUST
I                     I                                                                                -     I'
DPMUS H                                                                                 |                     |SVPPORT STAFF
(7 UNI)        -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  _ _ -                      SECRETARY(2)
ODRIVERS(1)
* GUARD/ PEON (7)
t
*  ON DEPUTrATION           *   CONSULTANTS              *   ON HIRE                                                           X






INDIA
UJP RUJRAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PRO,JFCT
Organigram for District Project Management Unit (DPMU)
PMU
Hills                                                                          Bundelkhand
DPNfU Pitboragarh             DPNW Aimora                    DPMtU Srinagar                 DPMU) Debradun                 DPMUI Jhansi                   DPMUJ Mahoba                   DPMUJ Banda(Karvi)
*Community Development        * Snilr Eng    (I)               Satary Engmeer (I)           * Community DevrIopment        * Samney Eng-er (1)            * Co....uyl D-.lop=ent        *Con,n,,tq D-eIvopnenI
Specialist(I)               *Cmmumwty evlotpmet               DcreiIot(D                    Spc- nst (I)                   SpECOishsty D1*Slopmm          Spahsit n)                     Sp-tAh*st (I1)
* Sanntary Enjpnw( I)                  tYW     Pt1 t           Spt. s. (I)                 6Sm,Sr,y Engineer(1)             Speciahist (I)               0D S-etay Engineer (i)         9S Satry E.gineej1)
EnviroimatI Specials (I)     MEnvimnnenLl Speeihst( -) H          neet Secial)            U Environ.eetiSpecialst ])     DEnvionmental Spec:iahst(l)    UE-omental Spenst t   )
* Healsis & Hygiene    U~ Heats&M HgeeUHat    yin                                       elh&HgeeU & HygimeHgiee                                       Health & Hyg-cn            U Health & Hygien
Speciulist ( I                                                       (1)                    Specialit ( )                  SpecalIt t)                    Spiast (I)                     Specialint (I
* Accuiank 1        Atant(I)                                S Ancouitniat (1)              S Accontant (I)                S Accotat (I)                  * Ac  inta (1)                 6 Accuatani (I)
Batch I                       Batc 2                         Bth 2                           ICh I                         Bltch I                        Batch 2                           Batch  2
Support Staff                 Support Staff                  SupportStaff                   Support Staff                  Support Staff                  Support Staff                    Support Staff
*Steno                          Steno                        *Steno                         *Steno                         *Steno                         *Steno                           *Steno
*Peon                         *Peon                          *Peon                          *Peon                          *Peon                          *Peon                            *Peon
*   ON DEPtUTATION                    *    CONSULTTANTS                 *    ON HIRE                                                               -
X






INDA
Mttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitatlon Project
Implmentation Schedule
1996             1997             1 998            1999             2000             2001
ID  TaskName                                                      04 01 020Q3104 01 IQ2IQ32 Q4 0110201 Q30 401 lI02103104 1 QI Q2 IQ3 10401 2034
I  Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Projed_
2  Batch1. (108schemes)                                              t    .                            .   '
3      Pre Planning
4      Planning                                                      i                |_ __|
5      Implementation                                                -
6  Batch 2. (242 schemes)                                                            __t_-__ __1_
7      Pre Planning
8      Planning
9      Implementation                                                i_-_--_-_-_j
10  Batch 3. (325 schemes)                                                             i
. .,
11      Pre Planning                                                  i
12      Planning                                                                       |
13     Implementation
14  Batch 4. (325 schemes)                                                                                              _     _      __i_                          _
15      Pre Planning   -                                                               I                                     -
16      Planning                                                      I                                                                                    i
17     Implementation
18  Bundelkhand (Multi Regional Schemws)
19      Study
20  Studies and Sector Development                                     -                                i
0 )
F x
1'0
Task                                 Milestone                            Rolled Up Task                        Rolled Up Progress
Progress                             Summary           r                  Roled Up Milestone 0






- 119 -
Annex 10
INDIA                                      Page 1 of 1
Uttar Pradesh Proposed Rural Water and Sanitation
Draft Strategic Plan for the Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Sector
Issue                 Efects                          Action                        Timing
A. Rural Water      -difficult to ensure     (i)put responsibility for policy on rural  (i) May, 1996 by
Supply &            consistent formulation and  water supply under the Rural Development  (negotia,tions)
Sanitation Policy    application of policies  Department
Responsibilities    when responsibilities for
multiple            Rural Water Supply and    (ii) place flow of government funds for new  (ii)implement
departments         Sanitation are split among  rural water schemes through Rural    Financial Year
responsible for     Urban Development,       Development Department                  1997/8)
RWSS                Health, Panchayat Raj and
Rural Development
Departments.
B. Rural Water      -past hardware intensive,   Prepare and adopt rural water supply and    GOUP to issue draft
Suipply and        top-down, gap-filling     sanitation policy and strategic plan.   policy paper by Dec
Sanitation Policy    investment programs have  New policies need to be based on      31, 1999, adopt by
- water supply and    succeeded in ensuring  assessment of the existing situation, and  June 30, 2Q00).
sanitation policies    wide water supply     should include (a) a clear definition of the
have evolved        coverage.                role of the government, its related
piecemeal in        -sustainability, efficient    institutions and the private sector in the
response to changing  expansion of existing  rural water supply and sanitation sector (b)
circumstances       systems, and improving   provision for a shift from supply-driven to
sanitation, now have     demand driven approaches to service
priority over extending  delivery (c) recommendations to increase
coverage.                sector sustainability



II



- 121 -
Annex I I
Page 1 of 1
INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water SUDDIVy and Environmental Sanitation Project
Transfer of Policy Making Responsibility
for Rural Water Supply Sector to an Interim Committee
UP Govemment
Rural Development Department - 6
Number: 1913 1 384-96
Dated: 31 March 1996
Notification
The undersigned is directed to state that the committee created under the chairmanship of Agriculture
Production Commissioner vide notification No. 1814/ 38-6-96 dated 27/3/96 will in the interim period,
i.e. until the decision specified in the above notification of 27-3-96 comes into effect, also take all
policy decisions pertaining to rural water supply.
Mata Prasad
Chief Secretary
No:          /38-6-96                    dated above
Copy forwarded to the following for information and necessary action:
1. Agriculture Production Commissioner, UP Govemment.
2. Principal Secretary, Finance, UP Govemment.
3. Secretary, Rural Development, UP Govemment.
4. Secretary, Secretariat Administration, UP Govemment.
5. Secretary, Urban Development, UP Govemment.
6. Special Secretary, Rural Development, UP Govemment.
7. Special Secretary, Confidential - 1, UP Govemment.
By order,
(Indrani Sen)
Secretary, Rural Development






- 123 -
Annex 12
Page I of 1
INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water SuDply and Environmental Sanitation Proiect
Transfer of Policv Makin! for Rural Water SuppyI Sector
to Rural Development Department
The undersigned is directed to state that the State Government has decided that, effective from 14-97,
the policy, budget and administration of rural water supply in the State, currentlv with Urban Development
Department will be handled by Rural Development Department. To implement this decision, the Hon'ble
Governor is pleased to create a commnittee., with the following members:-
I.     Agriculture Production Commissioner                         Chairman
2.     Principal Secretary, Finance                                Member
3.     Secretary, Rural Development                                Member
4.     Secretary, Urban Development                                Member
5.     Secretary, Secretariat Administration                       Member
6.     Special Secretary, Rural Development                        Member Secretary
The above comrnittee will submit its recommendations regarding the necessary administrative
arrangements in this regard within three months.
Mata Prasad
Chief Secretary
End. No. 1814 (1)1 38-6-96    dated above.
Copy forwarded to the following for information and necessary action:
1.     Agriculture Production Commissioner, UP Government.
2.     Principal Secretary, Finance, UP Government.
3.     Secretary. Rural Development, UP Government.
4.     Secretary, Secretariat Administration, UP Government.
5.     Secretary, Urban Development, UP Government.
6.     Special Secretary, Rural Development. UP Government.
7.     Special Secretary. Confidential-I, UP Govermnent.
By order
(Indrani Sen)
Secretary, Rural Development






- 125 -
Annex 13
Page I of3
INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water SuDnlv and Environmental Sanitation Proiect
GOUP Order on Village Water and Sanitation Committee
No: 4430/ 33-1-95-373/95
From:
Padam Singh,
Secretary,
Government of U.P.
To,
District Magistrate,
Uttarkashi, Tehri Garhwal, Pauri Garhwal, Chamoli, Dehradun, Nainital, Almora, Pithoragarh,
Udham Nagar (Rudrapur), Jhansi, Lalitpur, Jalaun, Hamirpur. Mahoba. Banda, Deoria and
Bijnor.
Panchayati Raj Section-I        Lucknow: Dated: 15th  December, 1995
Subject: Formation of 'Village Water and Sanitation Committee' and 'Joint Village Water
and Sanitation Committee' in the villages covered under the World Bank funded UP Rural
Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project.
Sir,
On the above mentioned subject, I have been directed to state that GO No:5493/33-1-405/94
dated 4th Nov. 1994 and No 3735/33-1-95-373/95 dated 13th October 1995 are hereby cancelled
and the following instructions are being issued to constitute 'Village Water and Sanitation
Committees' and 'Joint Village Water and Sanitation Committees' in villages covered by the proposed
World Bank funded 'UP Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project' under the United
Provinces Panchayati Raj Act of 1947 for implementation, operation and maintinance of the schemes:-
1.    A 'Village Water and Sanitation Committee' will be constituted as a sub commnittee of Village
Panchayat under section 29(6) of United Provinces Panchayati Raj Act 1947 in every scheme which is
limited to a single village/ habitation. The village panchayat concerned will delegate its powers to the
committee in such a way as to enable the committee to fulfill its responsibilities properly.
2.    Every Village Water and Sanitation Committee will consist of 7 to 12 members who will be
elected by the community, but the actual number will be decided by the community. It is mandatory to
ensure proper representation of women, SC/ST, other weaker sections of the society and all Wards of
Gram Panchayat. There will be a minimum of 30 percent women and 20 percent SC/ST members in
the committee. All these members will have equal rights. All the decisions in committee will be taken
on a majority basis. Members of the committee will be elected by the user community. Chairman and
Secretary cum Treasurer of the Village Water and Sanitation Committee will also be elected by the
community. Preference will be given to women while electing the Secretary cum Treasurer for the
committee.
3.    A 'Joint Village Water and Sanitation Committee' will be constituted in case of those schemes
which cover more than one Village Panchayat under the provision of section 30 and its sub



- 126 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 3
sections of United Provinces Panchayat Raj Act 1947. It is binding that only one Joint Committee will
be formed for a Regional Scheme.
4.    There will be following members in this Joint Committee:-
I.    Chairpersons of all the  Village Level Water Supply and Sanitation     Member
Committees covering all the Gram Panchayats of a Regional Scheme.
2.    One SC/ST Member from each Village Water and Sanitation Committee      Member
3.    One Woman Member from each Village Water and Sanitation Committee      Member
5.    Chairman and Secretary cum Treasurer of Joint Village Water and Sanitation Committee will
be elected by the members of the Village Water and Sanitation Committees included in the scheme.
Preference will be given to women while electing the Secretary cum Treasurer for the committee.
Members of the Joint Committee will have equal rights and all the decisions will be taken on a
majority basis. In case of a dispute between the constituent committees of the Joint Committee, the
matter will be referred to the Prescribed Authority whose decision in this regard will be final.
6.    In case of Regional Schemes having more than 25 members an Executive Committee, for
facilitating decision making and functioning, will be formed by electing one member from each Gram
Panchayat in such a way that there is a minimum of 30 percent representation of women and 20
percent representation of SC/ST. All members of the Executive Conmmittee will have equal rights and
all decisions will be taken on a majority basis. The Chairman of Joint Village Water and Sanitation
Committee will be ex-officio Chairman of the Executive Committee.
7.    Both the above kinds of committees can collect from villagers a voluntary community share
(by way of cash or labour) of the capital cost of construction works (Water Supply, Sullage Drains
and Household Sanitary Latrines) and also voluntary contributions for the operation and maintenance
of the facilities. These committees will also endeavour to promote health education among the
villagers. These committees will discuss and agree on the designs of the construction works so that
the facilities created could match what the user community desires. Help of voluntary organisations
could be taken up for fulfilling the above tasks. These committees will also be authorised to sign
necessary agreements/ contracts for implementing the project.
8.    The amount collected in the form of the community's cash contribution against the capital
costs of works and for operation and maintenance of the facilities will be kept in a separate account
opened in a local Bank or Post Office in the name of Village Water and Sanitation Committee/ Joint
Village Water and Sanitation Committee (as the case may be). The account will be operated by joint
signatures of Chairperson and Secretary cum Treasurer of the committee concerned.
9.    The Project Management Unit will take assistance from the voluntary organizations for
forming these committees. The Voluntary Organisations will start a series of community consultation
meetings which would result in community choosing its representatives for the committee.



- 127 -
Annex 13
Page 3 of3
10.   The above committees will annually put up a statement of physical and financial progress
before the Village Panchayat. The Village Panchayat will review it and it can make recommendations,
if any, to improve project implementation.
Please take necessary action on the above mentioned.
Yours sincerely,
Sd-
(Padam Singh)
Secretary
No. 4430/ 33-1-95-373/95      of date
Copies forwarded to the following for information and necessary action:-
I.    Secretary, Rural Development Department, UP Government.
2.    Commissioner, Jhansi, Garhwal and Kumoun.
3.    Chief Development Officer, Uttarkashi, Tehri Garhwal, Pauri Garhwal, Chamoli, Dehradun,
Nainital, Almora, Pithoragarh, Udham Nagar (Rudrapur), Jhansi, Lalitpur, Jalaun, Hamirpur,
Mahoba, Banda, Deoria and Bijnor.
4.    Commissioner, Rural Development, U.P.
5.    Director, Project Management Unit (PM!U), 5/74, Vishal Khand, Gomti Nagar, Lucknow.
6.    Director, Panchayati Raj, U.P.
7.    District, Panchayati Raj Officer, Uttarkashi, Tehri Garhwal, Pauri Garhwal, Chamoli,
Dehradun, Nainital, Almora, Pithoragarh, Udham Nagar (Rudrapur), Jhansi, Lalitpur, Jalaun,
Hamirpur, Mahoba, Banda, Deoria and Bijnor.
8.    District Development Officer, Uttarkashi, Tehri Garhwal, Pauri Garhwal, Chamoli,
Dehradun, Nainital, Almora, Pithoragarh, Udham Nagar (Rudrapur), Jhansi, Lalitpur, Jalaun,
Hamirpur, Mahoba, Banda, Deoria and Bijnor.
By order
(Padam Singh)
Secretary






INDIA
Utte Pradesh Rural Watlr Supply nd Enviromnental Sanitation Projed
Standad Deitied Sdcem Cyce
1wo                           1tS97                          111
Task Narn                                                           Duration    04      01      02     03      04     01      02      03     04      01      02     03      04
Scheme Cycl                                                              571d 12t23_________-_i___1_                                                                        1013
Pro Planning Phase                                                  116d 12/23                       7126
Support Organizaton ISO) Selection                                65d
Advertise for SO selction                                      7d
Disseninate about RWSES through NGO & odr neffmuks            20d          11
Distribute Information Kit on RWSES Project/Criteria to SOs   20d            1/23
District Project Management Unit (OPMU) receive SO applicaton  30d       t2
Assess SO apphcations (desk work)                             32d               1 3
Appraise SO capacity (field vmiss)                            40d
Projed Management Unt (PMU) receive SO appica                   d 40d
Inform Chief Development Officers (CDOs) of applcons rece     40d               14
Staff Tecnwcal Appraial Conutittee (STACJ review  orited S    40d 4
Hold Finance Committee (FC) to prqualy SOs                    40d
SOs Prequalided                                                Od                                       |
Servce Agency (SA) Seectio                                        65d      i
Receive SA aplications                                        25d                316
Prepare errns of rerences (TORs) kt SAs53                                  t1o
Clear TORs d shorlised SAs with fthe a*                       14d          I1/2
Prepare shortists of SAs                                      15d              2 24
Shodtlsi SA in STAC meetif s                                  30d           K-  11                      |
Hod Finance Commnitee (FC) to seled SAs                       30d
SAs selebted                                                   Od                                                                                                        -:
3122
VllIge/Scheme SebcUon Procefs                                     92d                           7110
Schedule prequaifled SOs & SAs for prelesaility workshop      1 5d
4*111
Task                     -   -        Miksone                               Roled Up Task                         Roded Up Progress
Progress                              Sumnmary           T ;       0        Rolled Up Miestone (
Page 1



INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Waler Supply and Environrmental Sanitation Projet
Standard De)iled Scheme Cycle
1996                           1997                           1998
Task Nm                                                               DuratIon    04      a1      02  1 03       Q4      Q1      02      Q3     04      01      02      03      04
Hold workshop on prefeasiblty studie5 (4 day x 3)               12d                    19
Review SO Staff Abilities                                       12d1                   4
Change Staff if requited                                        12d
Conrduct prefeasbility studies                                 25d
DPMU receive SO prefeasibility studies                         20d                  1-  5
SAs site appraise proposed schemes                             2511d61
DPMU assess prefeasibilrly & site appraisal reports            30W 116/28
STAC review & approve villages/schemes                         1011                          7110
Planning Phase (PP) Proposal Preparation Workhop                   24d1                 6f29       7126
Hold SO workshop for PP proposal preparation (5 days x3)       1511  7/16                                                                                                        -
PMU inform Chief Development Officers (CDOs) of vilges selec    15d1
STAC & DPMU review and approve PP proposals                    15d                      Ii.
Hold Finance Commnittee (FC) to approve villasichens            14d 1                     17126
Planning Phase contracts issued & 1 st paymrent nade            Od1                            7/26
Planning Phase                                                        320d                       BIB              _ _        ;x      t 8/15
Start Planning Phase                                                011
SO OrientationrTraining for Planning Phas                          60d                                    1'.16
HESAMJDI training to Corn. Dev. upervisiors/Workers (10 days  301
Parnicipatory CAP and monionring training (10days x 3)         39/11
HESANVDIItrainingltoCom. Dev. SupenrisiorsNJorkers,110 days     30d                                  loiio!6
Survey/Technical Design (25 days)                              301                            -49111
SO staff trained                                                01                                 2  16
10/16                                                                ' 
SA OrtentationrTralning                                            60du0/8    m                                1V16
Train SAs on M&E methods & tools (5 days x 2)                   1011                               -410a18                                                                 o
Collec baseline data/50% villages (PMU monitonring)            30W                                       12/16
Task                                   Milestone                              Roled Up Task                     w    Rolled Up Progress
Progress                               Summary            T  ____Rolled Up Milestone  >
Paqe 2



INDtA
ULttar Pradesh Rural Watet Supply and Environmental Sanittion Project
Standard Detailed Schene Cycle
1996                           1997                           1998
Task Name                                                           |Duration    04      Q1      02      03      0 04   01      02      03      04     01      02      03      04
Community Organization                                             79124                                       12123
Organize & inlorrn about RWSES                                  7d
Discuss roles/responsibilities of Village Water Saniation Commilt  1Od                             10112
Train villagers on parlicipatory CAP & monitoring              1 5d
Elect a representative VWSC                                     7d                                       12112
PMU obtain copy of VWSC proceedings from SO                     4d                                        12117
Train VWSC members                                              Sd                                        12123
VWSC Bank account opened                                        Od                                         12123
Community sell Investigation (PRA/SARAR)                           12d                               1213       12126
Prepare resource maps                                           3d                                       12116
Undertake health baseline surveys                               3d                                       1 2116
Prepare time use profiles                                       Sd                                        12118
Assess all existing sources                                     3d
2124
Undertake preliminary village survey                            2d                                         2126
Baseline data completed (community moniloring)                  Od                                        i 12126
Community Problem Analysis                                        124d                                12127                 5120
Discuss findings of 1157                                       1Od                                          1
Start NFE classess (optional)                                  24w                                       S_20
M&E plan prepared                                               Od                                                 1i 5120
Hygiene & Environmental Santation Awarener IHESA) Activitle        62d                                12126          316
Organize women's/tapstand groups for HESA                       4d                                         2128
train women on HESA                                             7d
Undertake prornotional HESA Acif                                                                                360
HESA Plan prepared                                              Od                                               3
316
Task                    --            Milstone*                              Roled Up Tas                           Rolled Up Progress
Progress                               Sunmary                                Roled Up Milestone
Page 3



INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project
Standard Detailed Scheme Cycle
__           1996                           1997                            1998
Task Name                                                              Duration    04   0i         02     q3  1 Q4        01  L02         03      Q4    01    02    03 104
Women's Development Initiatives (WDI)                               18d                                1V19        118
Assess women's training needs                                    5d        I                                 V24
Promote women's role in RWSES                                   10d                                          114
Make cross visits                                                3d
WDI Plan prepared                                                Od                                            118
Village Environment Action Plan (VEAP)                               6d                                 12130     114
Train villagers on nursery establishment & catchment protection  3d
Discuss forestry & calchment protection issues                   3d        I14
Undertake clean up campaigns                                     2d                                           13
VEAP prepared                                                    Od         i                                 1/3
Environmental Sanitation Activities                                 69d                                    112               4114
Discuss the use of latrines                                     20d                                             215
Promote use of latrines                                         30d                                                  4114
Discuss latrine options & drainages                              3d                                               311
Environmental sanitation plan prepared                           Od                                             4  3111
Water Supplies                                                      20d                                    1/17 I    218
Confirm proposed source is acceptable/no dispute                 3d
Discuss service level, design & technology options              12d
Identify Village Maintenance Worker (VMW)                        2d                                            '
Scheme Layout Plan is prepared & discussed with users            5d         i                                   218
O&M Plan prepared                                                Od                                              218
2nd Payment                                                         42d                                     2110         3129
DPMU Receive SO progress reports (narrative & financial)        30d                                            .   3115
Make site visit to monitor progress                                                                             - 3122d
,n
Task                                   Milestone                               Rolled Up Task            m            Rolled Up Progress
Progress                               Summary              7      ,           Rolted Up Milestone   )
Page 4



INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Protect
Standard Detailed Scheme Cycle
1_           1996                           1997                           1998
Task Name                                                             Duration    04     01      02      Q3      Q4     01      02  1 03        Q4      01     Q2      03      04
Make recommendation to PMU for 2nd payment                     30d                                               , 329
2nd Payment made                                                Od                                                    9
Audit                                                              20d                                         31         4/22
Carry out audit                                                20d                                                    22
Technical Design                                                  109d                                     2/10 '/1C
Review resource map & scheme layout                             4d                                            1
_ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ *211   3
Field Survey                                                   10d                                             2/25
Technical Survey                                               20d                                               3120
Prepare Bill of Quantdies                                      15d                                                 417
Explain design & cost estimates to users                        2d                                        ;       >/9
Technical training for SO staff                                25d                                                  ,   6/16
Compliete Iplmp tentiUon Phase (IP) Proposeat                       5d                                                                                                                Li
Explain tIpartite contract to VWSC                              2d
Finalize on CAP Outpluts                                        Sd                                                 41
ToW viage cash contrbutons eoIscsd                              Od
Finl Payment                                                        id                                        31`11
DPMtU receive kniplsmnentaon Phase Propous                     SOd                                                     6/27
Review proposals                                               55d                                               * !   6/13
Mae bmal paymenLfo r panning phase                             30d                                                      W.. 711
Processin  of l _bplementon Phse (IP) Pfoposs                     104d                                          41 7j
DPMU/SA ske appraise                                           55d
(b >
DPMU review SA reports                                         S                                                           19
Negotiate wilh SOs                                             45d                                                                                                          0 6/28  Ox
DPM,I mnake r        _cnrndbn to P"jUZ                        42d                                        .o 
i                                       i      W627
Task                                   idssonw                               Roled Up Tak       *                   Roled Up Progress
Progress                               Sammy                                  Roled Up Misso



INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project
Standard Detailed Scheme Cycle
1996                           1907                           1998
Task Name                                                        J   Duration      4     Q1      02      03      04     01      Q2  1 03       04  Q|          02      03      04
Inform CDO of schemes approved                                 45d                                                I|    714
STAC meeetings to approve schemes                              45d                                                      - 7/3
Hold FC to approve schemes for financing                       30d
Joint VWSC/SO account is opened                                30d
Sign tripartite contract (VWSC. PMU & SOs)                     30d                                                           8/15
Implementation Phase                                                  357d                                                          *It                     -                3
Make 1st payment                                                    4d/18
l                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
District Workshop                                                   Id                                                         8/16
el  8/16
Organize workshop (CDOs. SOs & DPMUs)                           ld
Training to SO Staff                                               24d                                                     319     9/15
Refresher Training in HESA (5 days x3)                         15d                                                         1  9/4
Construction SupervisionTraining (8 days x 3)                  24d                                                         I~i9/15
Training of Trainers for WDI (3 days x3)                        9d115
Training for SO Accountants                                     2d
Community Organization                                             47d                                                       9/11         11/4
Hold workshop for WJSC                                          3d        i                                                       13
Train VWSC Treasurer                                            2d                                       |i
Organize labor                                                 15d                                                               9/27
Collect local materials                                        15d                                                                10/I5
Procure non-local materials                                    15d
Transport and porter non-local material                        14d                                                                    1/4
Non-local materials portered to sie                             Od                                       I                           11t4
Part payments                                                     32d                                                          10128        12/3                                  0 x
Receive proforma invoice                                       30d                                                                t- 12/1                                      o 4
Task                      .     -     Milestone                              Rolled Up Task            w -          Rolled Up Progress
Progress                              Summary                                Rolled Up Milestone (
Page 6



INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project
Standard Detailed Scheme Cycle
1996                           1997                           1998
Task Name                                                             Duration    04      01     02      Q3      04      01     02      03      04      QI     02      03      04
DPMU make recommendations to PMU (non-local malerials)         30d        I                                                             1213
Part payments made                                              Od                                                                       1
12/3
Water Supplies                                                     90d                                                              12/2   _          3116
Clear sde & dg trench line                                     90d                                                                            !3116
Protecd source area                                            30d                                                                          1128
Complete all construction                                      40d                                                                              3/16
Train VWSC during construction                                  3d                                                                        I 1131
Train VMW (on lte job training)                                90d
2nd Payment                                                        i3d        I                                                         n                4/23
Receive SO progres report                                      30d                                                                             v  4/20
OPMt/SA monitor pnroess                                        60d
.                          ~~~~~~~~~ul
DPMU make rcommendatiorns to PLUl                              28d                                                                             t   4123
2nd Pa   mO                                                                                                                                      * 4123
HESA                                                              120d                                                             1115 !  .     _    3124
Underlake HESA Activies                                       120d
3124
Conduct mother & chid health trainhp to woene'tAatand gro       7d                                                                    i* 12117
Train school tachersae leaderslltge healt promoter (VH          8d                                                                       12/2C
Envlrronental Saniation                                           12W                                                                12/27  _d25
Disamss enveotimental santation & rr_agsm  bus                  Sd                                        i
Hold worshop for latrine construction                           2w                                       I                                      ' Y      
Co hs osjct hou o  saftion lenes (H0SL                         60- 65/25
Coruct draages                                                 60d                                                                           _      8
VN_g EnvIronet Acdon Pta (VEAP)                                    20d                                        'I                                          i/
knpemen VEAP                                                   20d
Tsk                   -eston.                                                 Rold Up Task                          Rodsd Up Proge
Progress                               Sunmwy             T           ;       Rdad Up weson



INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project
Standard Detailed Scheme Cycle
1996                          T1997                            1998
Task Name                                                               Duraion    04       a1      02      03      04      Q1      02     Q3      Q4      01      Q2      Q3      04
Womeu's Developnmnt IniUatves                                        SOd                                                                           4/21   -   7  6/29
4  41  3    2
Organize small workshops for women                                3d
Carry out WDI Plan                                               60d           i                                                                             6129
Regional Review Meeting                                               Id                                                                                6/6  616
Hold meeting to share lessons learned (VWSC. DPMU/PMU & S         1d                                                                                        6
Post Phase Activities                                               102d                                                                                 618              1013
Training (Refresher)                                             1 3d                                                                                6
6/19     7/3
Train VWSC Treasurer                                          2d
__________________                                                                                                            6/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
Train VMW                                                     2d
r6/20
Train VHP                                                     7d                                                                                        r6/29
Train WVSC                                                    4d-
/3
HESA                                                             60d                                                                                 6
6/8          8/15I
Conbtinue HESA actvities                                     60d                                                                                            8/15
Village Environment Action Plan                                  60d                                                                                 6881
Continue VEAP                                           ___                                                                                                 8/15
Environmental Sanitation                                         40d
6122        8/6
Continue construction of HSLs                                40d        i
8/6
Self Evaluation of CAP (corn. monItorIng)                         6d
________________________________________________________________________                                                   7I~~~~71 33 7/29
Evaluate HESA activities                                      4d        I
Evaluate WDI                                                  2d
3rd Payrnent                                                     40d
7/1      8/2S
Receive Imnlementation Contract Completion Report (ICCR)     30d8/18
Receive technical audit from SA                              30d                                                                                             8/22            r 
Portfolio Managers prepare Scheme Conpletion Report (SC      30d                                                                                                             OD: 8o
10"?8/25       _    rt
Task                      -RMibstone                                            Roled Up Task             ~ --          Rolled Up Progress                       _0 4-
Progress                                Summary                                 Rolled Up Milstone <C
Page 8



INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Suppty and Environmental Sanitation Project
Standard Detailed Scheme Cycle
1        ~~~1996                         1997                           1998
Task Name                                                            Duration    04      01      02      03      04     01      02      03      04     01      02      03      04
PMU review SCRs & recommend payment                        30d                                                                                            8/29
Annual Review Meeting                                           Id                                                                                     8 1      8131
Organize meeting (PMU. SOs 6 SAs)                           1 d                                                                                          "b/31
Financial 6 Technical Audit                                    55d                                                                                    81           1013
Undertake financial & technical audi of SO,  VWSC/SO Ac    30d                                                                                              1013
Make final payment                                          Od
Undertake impact monilonng/50% comrnunaies (PMU)           40d                                                                                              9/16
(D >
:so 
'0 :)
(D
0 x
rh
Task                                   M Mieslone*                           Roled Up Tak                           Rolled Up Progress
Progress                               Summary                                Roled Up Milestone  >
Pane. q



I



- 139 -
Annex 15
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water SUPDlV and Environmental Sanitation Proiect
Eligibility Criteria
A. SuiDort Org-anization Eligibility Criteria
I.     The PMU would select Support Organizations according to the following criteria:
(a)    legal status: evidence of legal registration;
(b)    constitution: constitutional provision to engage in rural water supply and
sanitation service delivery and related activites;
(c)    track record: proven track record of at least three years experience in rural
water supply and sanitation (RWSS) or community development activities
evidenced by satisfactory completion of a participatory/demand driven project;
(d)    finance: accounts audited and certified by a chartered accountant,
(e)    staff: demonstrated staffing capacity to carry out the proposed services or
ability to procure such staffing capacity. (This includes adequate community
development and design and construction field level and supervisory staffl.
2.     Support Organizations are identified and pre-qualified during the Pre-Planning Phase. The
PMU/DPMU staff will ensure that the above criteria are met.
3.     In addition, during field visits, PMUWDPMU staff will conduct a review which would
include a detailed manpower assessment (with reference to staff needed for implementing the TOR
of SOs), the type and availability of existing staff to work on the project, and an assessment of
other resources which the SO could bring to the project. Discussion of financial tumover and
expected conmnitmnents will also be reviewed to determine the impact and level of schemes which
the SO would be capable of implementing. In order to further rank SOs, the following qualitative
scale will be used to assign points. SOs not achieving at least 65 points should be disqualified from
those meeting basic criteria. The criteria must be independently assessed by at least two staff, with
the average score used as the basis for decision making.
4.     The PMU will be responsible to shortlist Support Organizations. This shordist along with the
eligibility criteria will subsequently forwarded to the Chief District Officer (CDO) for review and
commnents. Once the PMU receives the CDO's comments it will proceed with the final prequalification.



- 140 -
Annex 15
Page 2 of 6
Characteristic                             Available         Scored Points
Points
Purpose/ intention suitable for providing direct  10
services to communities
Experiences of grassroots support, specifically:
- previous activities in providing Water         15
Supply
- previous activities in health and sanitation   10
- other CD activities                            10
Methods/Skills:
- skill in participatory methods and tools       15
- financial and record keeping skills            10
- general management skills                      10
Geographical Orientation and demonstrated
loyalty to particular comnmnunities over a period
of time                                           10
Continuit of leadership in development             0
TOTAL                                            100
5. Staff proposed by a pre-qualified Support Organization will be thoroughly assessed and evaluated
during a training orientation. Support Organizations whose staff have been evaluated as weak would be
required to propose other staff for the project penod as a condition fbr Planning Phase contract signing.
Qualified Support Organizations would then be required to undertake training in orientation to rural
water supply and sanitation concepts, and procedures and methods of participatory development.
Support Organizations would initially be hired only for the Planning Phase during which their
performance would be carefully assessed before signature of an Implementation Phase contract.
Assessment of Support Organization's performance would include information from the client
communities as well. In addition, SO perfornance in scheme account keeping would be audited by a
private auditor during the Planning Phase. A satisfactory audit of the Planning Phase would be a
condition for Inplementation Phase Cortract signing. Finally, both a technical and financial audit of the
full cycle would be carried out by a private auditor. A satisfactory audit would be required for SO pre-
qualification of the next batch of schemes.



- 141 -
Annex 15
Page 3 of 6
B. Scheme Selection
6.     The Process for Scheme Selection: The underlying principle will be to select schemes on the
basis of transparent criteria including those for scheme demand, need, technical feasibility, economic
viability, and social and environmental soundness.
7.     Support Organizations (SOs) would be trained to conduct prefeasibility studies, which provide
information about the local conditions and proposed schemes which meet eligibility critena. SOs will be
given a maximum number of prefeasibility studies to submit based on an estimnation of their capacity to
undertake water supply and sanitation schemes. Usually these will amount to 15% more than they will be
expected to undertake in each cycle to allow for scheme dropout. SOs will initially conduct such studies
within the range of their existing work areas, or at least within areas where they have existing links and
capacity to provide support to communities. Every village prefeasibility study will be confirmed by a site
appraisal by the PMU/DPMUs. Upon successful completion of the Planning Phase, eligibility of
communities will be confirmed before proceeding with the Implemrentation Phase.
8.     The Rajiv Gandhi Drinking Water Mission has identified "not covered" (NC) habitations
through a major initiative to identify those habitations which have no publicly provided source within
certain parameters. These represent approximately 4% of UP villages (12% habitations). SOs will be
given district-wise lists of no source and partially covered (PC) habitations. SOs will give priority to NC
habitations within their working areas. Existing lists of partially covered (PC) villages will also be
provided as a starting point to help guide the SOs. SOs will also be free to identify other villages that
meet the same cnrteria of need, demand, social, technical, and economic parameters. The cnteria below
incorporate the Rajiv Gandhi Mission Criteria and add additional parameters with adequate social and
economic justification for schemes. Schemes that do not meet the eligibility criteria shall be dropped.
This should ensure that GOI's mandate is met and also provide the basis to select viable schemes. The
list of villages shortlisted by the SOs, according to the eligibility criteria, will be shown to the CDO who
will provide comments to the PMU/DPMU.
9.     Scheme Eli2ibility Criteria. The following eligibility criteria would be applied at each
phase (Planning and Implementation) in the scheme cycle using the information available at that
phase. Each scheme accepted for PMU financing would need to meet these criteria. During initial
operations, the following criteria and indicators would apply:
(a) Need (and Economic Viability)
(i)   Felt Need: which would be determined at Pre-Planning Phase by
ascertaining whether the average time saving expected per household per
day would be greater than 2 hours and 30 minutes (for piped water
schemes), 1/2 hour (for hand pump tubewells and other point sources), and
per capita scheme costs were below defined thresholds (Rs2000 for piped
schemes and Rs500 for handpump schemes); or
(ii) average per capita water availability of safe water is less than 15 liters/day
and per capita costs are within the thresholds referred to in (i) above; or
(iii) a majority of the households are dependent upon heavily polluted sources
and a scheme could provide cleaner water through protection of existing
sources or cost effective amelioration of existing sources in the



- 142 -
Annex 15
Page 4 of 6
Bundelkhand/Plains and per capita costs are within the thresholds of (i)
above or
(iv) benefit/cost ratio over 1.5, using value of time savings or cost savings and
value of incremental water produced as benefits. The value of time saved
should be based on the market wage rate for unskilled labor in the local area
during non-harvest times.
(b) Technical Feasibility
(i)   Undisputed perennial source(s), water quality at the tap meets Indian
Standard (WHO guidelines) and the minimum yield of the proposed source
is sufficient to meet 40 Ipcd or demand (on the design population and
including leakage and wastage) and the house connection demand of at least
70 Ipcd, per GOI norms. Only if there is no other solution, and existing
sources are heavily polluted or provide under 15 lpcd, would a source
supplying 25 Ipcd be accepted;
(ii)  compliance to engineering standards and service levels with established
PMU standards.
(iii)  Appropriate mitigation measures for any adverse environmental impacts,
and appropriate arrangements for protecting or enhancing the source(s).
(c) Sustainability and Willingness to Pay
(i)   Capital Cost-Sharing Rules in Hill Districts:
10.    The community will pay, prior to the commencement of any construction works, a cash
payment of 1% of capital cost as evidence of commitment and an indicator of demand for services.
The village will contribute also by paying for all labor (by providing their own labor, cash or a
combination) for digging of trenches for all water supply pipelines. Those choosing house
connections will pay a cash fee of Rs 1000, with at least half paid before construction begins and
the remainder prior to commissioning and commencement of system operations. This fee will
cover the incremental capital costs of providing for the additional capacity above the basic
minimum service level. Amounts collected for these fees, prior to beginning construction will be
considered in the required 1% of capital cost.
(ii) Capital Cost Sharing Rules in Non-Hill Districts:
11.    The community will pay, prior to the commencement of any construction works, a cash
payment of 2% of capital costs, as in the Hill Districts. The community will make an additional
cash payment sufficient to cover 10% of total capital cost prior to the commissioning of the water
supply system. Villages benefiting from the project will pay for all the unskilled labor for the
construction of drainage works (by providing labor, cash or a combination). Those choosing house
connections will pay a fee of Rs 1000, on the same basis and time schedule as in the Hill districts.
Amounts of this fee collected prior to beginning construction will be considered in the required up-
front payment of 2% of capital cost.



- 143 -
Annex 15
Page 5 of 6
(ii) Operation and Maintenance Costs:
12.    Participating villages will decide who operates and maintains the facilities, but will bear
100% of operation and maintenance costs. A monthly fee will be regularly billed for meeting these
costs, beginning at the time of system commissioning and continuing on a frequency of no longer
than every three months. The monthly fee for house connections will be at least three times the fee
for standpost users. In pumping schemes, those with house connection will pay a monthly fee of at
least Rs 30 per month per connection and those with standpost service will pay a monthly fee of at
least Rs 10 per household. There will be a 5% surcharge on the monthly fee to establish a
maintenance fund.
(iv) Exceptions to Agreed Cost Sharing Rules:
13.    All of the villages eligible to participate in this project, by agreement between GOUP and
the Bank. are relatively poor and have an inadequate current level of service (less than 40 lcpd) or
have current water supplies which are dangerous to health. Moreover, most of the eligible villages
are located where it is relativelv expensive to provide adequate, acceptable quality services.
Consequently, the existence of these conditions is an insufficient basis, by itself, to justify an
exception to the above cost sharing rules. The rules are intended to apply to the vast majority of
the cases so that fairness will be maintained across villages which will benefit from the project.
14.    The implications of this is that exceptions should only be granted in a few cases where the
following criteria are met:
-  The population served includes a higher proportion of people whose income is below
the poverty level than the average for the eligible villages or a higher proportion of
tribal people and scheduled castes than the average for the eligible villages by at least
one and a half standard deviations above these averages (for example, if the average
level of people whose income is less than the poverty level is 40% and the standard
deviation among eligible districts is 10%, a village would have to have 55% of its
population below poverty level (i.e. 40+10+5=55) to qualify on this criteria and the
calculation for the other criteria are done in the same way); or
*  have higher costs per capita by at least one and a half standard deviations above the
average per capita cost of eligible villages for which the project technical designs have
been completed; and have costs which have been determined by project management to
be the least cost solution for meeting the projected village demand.
15.    If one of these criteria is met, project management may negotiate a reduction up to 1% (in
Hill districts) and 2% (in non-Hill districts) in the up front cash contribution to capital cost, subject
to Bank approval. In no case, should the fee for extra service provided by house connections or the
labor requirement be reduced for digging trenches for water supply pipelines in the Hill Districts or
for providing unskilled labor for drainage works in the Non-Hill Districts be reduced.
(v)  establishment of a single/regional legally recognized, representative Village
Water and Sanitation Committee (VWSC), comprising of at least 30 percent
women and 20 percent scheduled castes/scheduled tribes;



- 144 -
Annex 15
Page 6 of 6
(vi)  assurance, before the Implementation Phase, through a signed document,
from the VWSC and the Support Organization that there is complete
coverage within the revenue village, including surrounding hamlets that wish
to participate, and that all habitations within the revenue village which are
not now served will be served, including Scheduled Castes (SC) and
Scheduled Tribes (ST) habitations;
(vii) Communities with a high degree of discord or who cannot reach consensus
on all aspects of participation before the prefeasibililty phase, would be
ineligible to participate. Such a community must demonstrate that it has
overcome such difficulties if they desire to participate in future scheme
cycles. Community willingness for all the sustainability indicators would be
appraised before the Planning Phase, and actual cash contributions would be
deposited and formation of a legally recognized VWSC would be completed
before the implementation contract.
16.    As per GOUP policy, there are two levels of subsidies (Rs 2375 and Rs 2250) for pit
latrines; one for SC/ST and one for below poverty line households. The mission agrees with
GOUP's present subsidy levels for SC/ST and below poverty line people. The project will provide
subsidy to other people also but at a reduced level of Rs 1500 per unit
(viii) Environment Protection and Catchment Protection
17.    For each component that is implemented, the village will contribute a minimum of 10% of
the capital cost (in either cash or in kind).
(ix) Land Acquisition:
18.    Where private land is to be acquired to obtain access to water source(s) and/or for siting of
facilities, an agreement must be obtained between the VWSC and the owner agreeing to the use of
the land. (The cost of private land will be counted as part of the village cash contribution). Land
acquisition for single schemes will only be done on a voluntary basis and will be documented.



- 145 -
Annex 16
Page I of 3
INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water SuDPly and Environmental Sanitation Project
Cost Recoverv Policv
The GOUP and the Bank have agreed on the following general policy:
The villages whuch benefit from the proiect will be responsible for approximatelv 10% of the
capital costs of water supplv and draz.a: ar! fv. all of thz zc  ra:;on ard -aintenance costs Tli,
Project (including the GOUP share of proiect costs) will finance the residual capital costs.
The capital costs are sigrificantly different in villages in eligible Hill districts and In other
eligible distncts Consequently. implementation of this general policy agreement requires the
development of slightlv different cost-sharing rules for the two types of villages. The water supply
systems have been designed to allow house connections, by permitting users who are willing to pay
the extra costs of the higher level of service from house connections to select this option. Thus,
implementation of the general policy agreement also requires different cost-sharing rules for those
choosing house connections and those who will be served from standposts.
Capital Cost-Shannng Rules in Hill Distncts
The commuruty will pav, pnor to the commencement of anv construction works, a cash
payment of 1% of capital cost as evidence of conumutment and an indicator of demand for services.
The village will contnbute also by paying for all labor (by providing their own labor, cash or a
combination) for digging of trenches for all water supply pipelines. Those choosing house
connections will pav a cash fee of Rs 1000, with at least half paid before construction begins and
the remainder prior to commissioning and commencement of system operations. This fee will
cover the incremental capital costs of providing for the additional capacity above the basic
minimum service level. Amounts collected for these fees, prior to beginning construction will be
considered in the required 1% of capital cost.
Capital Cost Sharing Rules in Non-Hill Districts.
The communit- will pav, prior to the commencement of any construction works, a cash
pavment of 2% of capital costs. as in the Hill Districts. The community will make an additional
cash payment sufficient to cover 10% of total capital cost prior to the commissioning of the water
supply svstem. Villages benefiting from the project will pay for all the unskilled labor for the
construction of draunage *works (by providing labor, cash or a combination). Those choosing house
connections will pay a fee of Rs 1000, on the same basis and time schedule as in the Hill districts.
Amounts of this fee collected pnor to beginning construction will be considered in the required up-
front pavynent of 2% of capital cost.
Land Costs
All public land acquired to implement the project will be provided free. Private land
acquired will be purchased at market rates by the villages. The cost of the pnvate land w ill be
counted as part of the village cash contribution.
Operation and 191aintenance Costs.
Participating villages will decide who operates and maintains the facilities. but w6ill bear
100% of operation and maintenance costs. A monthly fee will be regularlv billed for meeting these
costs, beginning at the time of s% stcm comirussioning and continuing on a frequency of no longer



- 146 -
Annex 16
Page 2 of 3
than every three months. The monthlv fee for house connections will be at least three times the fee
for standpost users. In pumpung schemes. those with house connection will pay a monthly fee of at
least Rs 30 per month per connection and those with standpost service will pay a monthlv fee of at
least Rs 10 per household. There %vill be a 5% surcharge on the monthly fee to establish a
maintenance fund.
Exceptions to Agreed Cost Sharing Rules.
All of the villages eligible to participate in this project, by agreement betveen GOUP and
the Bank. are relatively poor and have an inadequate current level of service (less than 40 lcpd) or
have current water supplies which are dangerous to health. Moreover, most of the eligible villages
are located where it is relatively expensive to provide adequate, acceptable qualitv services.
Consequently, the existence of these conditions is an insufficient basis, by itself, to justify an
exception to the above cost sharing rules. The rules are intended to apply to the vast majority of
the cases so that fairness will be maintained across villages which will benefit from the project.
The implications of this is that exceptions should only be granted in a few cases where the
following criteria are met.
(1)    The population served includes a higher proportion of people whose income is
below the povertv level than the average for the eligible villages or a higher
proportion of tribal people and scheduled castes than the average for the eligible
villagzes by at least one and a half standard deviations above these averages (for
example, if the average level of people whose income is less than the poverty level
is 40% and the standard deviation anong eligible districts is 10%, a village would
have to have 55% of its population below poverty level (i.e. 40+10+5=55) to
qualify on this criteria and the calculation for the other criteria are done in the
same wav); or
(2)    have higher costs per capita bv at least one and a half standard deviations above
the average per capita cost of eligible villages for which the project technical
designs have been completed. and have costs which have been deternined by
project management to be the least cost solution for meeting the projected village
demand.
If one of these criteria is met, project management may negotiate a reduction up to 1% (in
Hill districts) and 2% (in non-Hill distncts) in the up front cash contribution to capital cost, subject
to approval of the Bank Mission. In no case, should the fee for extra service provided by house
connections or the labor requirement be reduced for digging trenches for water supply pipelines in
the Hill Districts or for providing unskilled labor for drainage works in the Non-Hill Districts be
reduced.
Uniform Policv:
The possibilitv of establishing uniform policies for user financing and management in the
Rural Water and Sanitation sector bx transfer of responsibilitv for all Rural Water and Sanitation
activities to RDD would bc wclcomed and encouraged by the mission. The current lack of
consistencv between existin(g sector policies and the policies which have been agreed for the project
makes it unlikely that the implementation of the project and its performance would be as successful



- 147 -
Annex 16
Page 3 of 3
as it can be. The problem will be particularly serious In the project districts. The mission believes
that the best solution to this problem would be uniforrn statewide policies. In the event that such
policies cannot be agreed in the short term, the mission would receive assurances from GOI that it
supports the principles of the project, particularly as they relate to the project proposals for capital
cost-sharing bv beneficiaries and commnumty responsibility for all O&M costs These prnciples
are expected to be endorsed by the new State Government as well.
As per GOUP policy, there are two levels of subsidies (Rs 2375 and Rs 2250) for pit latrines; one
for SC/ST and one for below poverty line households. The mission agrees with GOUP's present
subsidy levels for SC/ST and below povertv line people. The project will provide subsidy to othcr
people also but at a reduced level of Rs 1500 per unit
Environment Protection and Catchment Protection:
For each component that is implemented, the village Will contribute a miniimum of 10% of the
capital cost (in either cash or in kind).






- 149 -
Annex 17
Page 1 of 1
INDIA
XUTTAR PRADESH RUJRAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
SANITATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$'000)
Quarterly                Cumulative Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year            Disbursements           Amount               % of Total
FY1997   September 30, 1996                     600                   600                     1
December31, 1996                      300                  900                      2
March 31, 1997                       600                  1,500                     3
June 30, 1997                         700                 2,200                     4
FY1998   September 30, 1997                   1,000                 3,200                     5
December 31, 1997                   1,500                 4,700                     8
March31, 1998                       1,500                 6,200                    10
June 30, 1998                       2,500                 8,700                    15
FY1999   September 30, 1998                   2,500                11,200                    19
December 31, 1998                   3,000                14,200                    24
March31, 1999                       3,000                17,200                   29
June 30, 1999                       3,500                20,700                    35
FY2000   September 30, 1999                   4,000                24,700                    40
December 31, 1999                   4,500                29,200                    49
March 31, 2000                      4,700                33,900                   57
June 30, 2000                       4,800                38,700                   65
FY2001   September 30,2000                    3,000                41,700                    70
December31, 2000                    3,000                44,700                   75
March 31, 2001                      3,000                47,700                   80
June 30, 2001                       2,500                50,200                   84
FY2002   September 30, 2001                   2,500                52,700                    88
December 31,2001     -              2,500                55,200                   92
March 31, 2002                      2,400                57,600                   97
May 31, 2002                        2,000                59,600                   100



I



- 151 -
Annex I R
Page I of 2
INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water SUDDIy and Environmental Sanitation Proeect
Project Monitoring Indicators
Project           Inputs                 Indicators                          Means of impact evaluation  Target
Development
Objectives
1. deliver        1. community
sustainable health   development activities
and hygiene
benefits to the   a) community
rural population  organization/mobilizati   -number of female VWSC members    monitoring visits and       more than one third
through           on                                                         implementation phase
improvements in                                                              proposals
water supply and
environmental                            - number of SC/ST VWSC members    monitoring visits and          more than 20%
sanitation                                                                  implementation phase
services,                                                                    proposals
- VWSC account with full balance   special studies              minimum 80%
- functioning Tapstand committee   special studies              minimum 80%
- proportions of VWSC functioning  special studies              80%
(i.e., meeting)
-VWSC memben per scheme trained    progress reports submitted by    at least 90%
SOs
-Village maintenance worker trained  progress reports submitted by    at least 90%
SOs
- whether time saving assessment   SO progress reports and PMU    100% of communities
undertaken by communities          field visits
-cross visits to successful schemes  progress reports submitted by    at leat I per community
undertaken                         SOs
b)hygiene and         -whether healthy homes survey       SO progress reports and PMU    at least 90% of schemes
environmental          undertaken by community            field visits
sanitation awareness
training               -health impact through incidence of  PMU studies on sample of   N/A
diseases                           schemes
2. construction of 1000   -number of schemes constructed  number of scheme compIetion   1000
water supply schemes                                      reports
-schemes in operation I and 3 years    PMU post inplementation  minimum 90% and 80/%,
after construction                 phae visit and special studies   respectively
-Tapstands in working condition (I&3   PMU post inplemnrtation  minimum 90% and 30%
years after construction)          visits and special studies   respectively
a) construction of     -Number of latrines constructed    SO progre  reports and PMU    50% of households
household latrines                                        field visits
-Health impact through incidence of  PMU studies                N/A
disease
b) catchment protection   -number of schemes constructed  Implementation phase         90% of schemes
contracts and scheme
completion reports



- 152 -
Annex 18
Page 2 of 2
Inputs                 Indicators                          Means of impact evaluation   Target
-quantity and quality of source yield  PMU special study         no decrease in quantity
after I and 3 years                                              and quality
c) drainage            -number of schemes constructed      Implementation phase         90% of schemes
contracts and scheme
completion reports
3. SO assistance       - rejection rate of SO proposed staff  pre-planning phase SO staff    less than 10%
screening
- adoption of demand driven approach    - PMU monitoring visits  N/A
- compliance with Planning and      - independent audits         N/A
Implementation Phase contractual
agreements
4. PMU management    - compliance with eligibility criteria  extenal audits             100%
- cost of service delivery         per capita cost of service    N/A
delivery
- time required to deliver service  actual time spent compared to   N/A
standard scheme cycle
2 Promote long     1. Transfer of policy   Issuance of governmnt order        N/A                          April 1, 1997
term sustainability   making for the rural
of the sector by  water supply sector to
providing         the rural development
assistance to     departme
GOUP to identify
and implement an
appropriate policy
framework and
strategic plan for
the sector
2. Longtenm policy     - submission of a draft final srategic  N/A                      12/31/1999
formulation study (49    plan
months of consultants)
- finalization of draft strategic plan  N/A                      06/30/2000
- implementation of policy reforms  Government decisions         N/A
3. Development plan    - completion of study               Policy decisions by GOUP     N/A
for regional schemes
(IS months of
consulanti inputs)
4. Study on exqanding    - completion of sudy report       adoption of new technologies    N/A
technology options (60
months of coaultants)
5. Statewide media     Demand for sanitation               N/A                          N/A
campaign on sanitation
and gender awareness                                     I                            I                        I



- 153 -
Annex 19
Page I of 2
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
SANITATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Supervision Input
1.    The staff input indicated in the table below  is in addition to regular desk
supervision for procurement review, correspondence, and review of reports, which is
estimated at 6 staff-weeks during the first project year and about 5 staff-weeks thereafter.
Approx.               Activity                       Skills Needed          Staff
dates                                                                       Weeks
Sept      - expedite start up               - Institutions/management          6
1996      - visit selected schemes & support   - Community/Participation
agencies                         specialist
- review procurement
March     - Monitor work program            - Institutions/management          6
1997     implementation                    - Community Participation
- Field visits identify/discuss issues   - Engineering
- review procurement
Sept.     - review work program             - Institutions/management          6
1997      - Field visits                   - Community Participation
- - monitor procurement           - HRD Specialist
- review PMU Bye-Laws
- review training
March     - review draft work program       - Institutions/management          6
1998      - review procurement             - engineering
- review PMU Bye-Laws            - construction management
- discuss findings of policy study                                       l
Sept.     - evaluate community ownership    - Institutions/management          6
1998      - field visit                    - Community participation
- review procurement             - Engineering
- review work program
- discuss draft final Strategic Plan



- 154 -
Annex 19
Page 2 of 2
March    - monitor work program           - Institutions/management         6
1999     implementation                   - Engineering
- review procurement            - Health/hygiene specialist
- field visit
- review health & hygiene program
Sept.     - Carry out mid term review     - Institutions/management        10
l 1999   - review work program            - Community participation
- review PMU Bye-Laws           - Engineering/sanitation specialist
- review sanitation program     -HRD specialist
March    - Discuss follow-on project      - Institutions/management         4
2,000     -review draft work program      - Community participation
- field visits
- review PMU Bye-Laws
sept.     - monitoring work program       - Institution/management          4
l 2000   implementation                   - community participation
2000      - review procurement            - engineering
- review PMU Bye-Laws
- field visit
March    - review draft work program      - Institution/management          4
2001     implementation                   - community participation
- review procurement
- review PMU Bye-Laws
- field visit
Sept      - Monitor work program          - Institution/improvement         5
2001     implementation                   Engineering
- review procurement            - Health/HRD specialist
- review draft work plan
- review PMU Bye-Laws
- review PMNU management
operation
March    - review draft work program      - Institution/management          4
2002      - review procurement            - engineering
- review PMU Bye-Laws
- field visit
Sept.    - review completed costs         - institution/management          5
2002      - review PMU Bye-Laws           - social - science
- field visi                    - engineering



- 155 -                          Annex 20
Page I of 11
INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Proiect
Environmental Assessment
Background - The main objectives of this project are (a) the supply of sufficient
safe drinking water; (b) environmental sanitation; and (c) improvement of
environmental and public health in the villages of two of the poorest areas of Uttar
Pradesh: the Hills and the Bundelkhand. To achieve this objective the project
supports a comprehensive community development component and training
program, which includes environmental sanitation education, health training,
training on latrine construction, training in watershed management, including
nursery management, source protection and technical assistance. Environmental
improvements lead to improved social and economic improvements (quality of
life), especially for women and children. Some of the main environmental and
health improvements include:
a)    Supply of sufficient safe drinking water through construction of sustainable
water supply schemes and protection of the sources through micro-
catchment protection;
b)    Time and energy savings for women and children by bringing water, and on
the longer-term fuelwood and fodder closer to the home;
c)    Reduced bacterial contamination due to controlled and safe disposal of
human wastes, will have positive health impacts over-time;
d)    Increased water supply for bathing, washing and cleaning and possibly
water supply for livestock and small-scale irrigation for horticulture, which
will improve the family incomes. The major limitation for the two last
activities, which are not financed under the project, will be the availability
of water during the dry season;
e)    Improvements in hygiene and sanitation, which together with improved
environmental sanitation will result in less public health hazards and
decreased incidence rates of water related diseases. This will provide more
energy and time for altemative economic activities and a higher quality of
life,
f)  - Improved ecological conditions in the watersheds will increase the water
availability, and improve the quality of the drinking water sources;
g)    Watershed reforestation and/or spontaneous forest regeneration together
with improved community based watershed management, which should
include controlled access for fodder and fuelwood collection and control
access of free livestock grazing and altemative supply of energy (LPG,
solar cookers, biogas digesters, improved clay ovens (smokeless chulas),
and pressure cookers) will over time improve the fuelwood and fodder
situation, and provide opportunities for other marketable products such as
fruits and processed fruit products;



- 156 -
Annex 20
Page 2 of I 1
h)    Spontaneous forest regeneration and/or reforestation of watersheds
together with improved community based watershed management, which
includes controlled access for fodder and fuelwood collection and control
of free livestock grazing, will increase over-time biodiversity and increase
the economic, social and environmental sustainability of these ecosystems.
2.    In the no project scenario, under which deforestation and erosion will continue, the
availability of drinking water for people and livestock will become worse than at
present, since desiccation (drying out) of the project areas will continue. This will
also have negative impacts on the availability of fodder and fuelwood and
undermine the livelihood systems of the Hills, Foot hills and the Bundelkhand. The
undermining of livelihood of systems will even further stimulate rural-urban
migration, which is already high at present, especially in the Hills. The project will
have a positive impact on the restoration of the livelihood systems in the project
areas.
3.    The environmental component of the project will be implemented through a
demand driven approach. An awareness campaign will create demand, which has
already been demonstrated in the project areas. The environmental component will
be implemented through the preparation of Village Environmental Action Plans
(VEAPs), which will be part of the Community Action Plans (CAPs). The VEAP
will be prepared and implemented by the villagers themselves, by means of a
participatory planning process, with the assistance of Support Organization (e.g.
NGOs and Community Based Organizations), an Environmental Specialist from
the District Project Management Units (DPMUs) and other staff in the (DPMUs).
4.    Water Resources: The major environmental and public health issues in the Hills,
Foothills and Bundelkhand are the availability of sufficient quantities of safe
drinking water, especially during the summer months, and the lack of
environmental sanitation.
5.    Hills and Foot Hills Water Quality and Quantity - The hill region has a number
of perennial rivers fed by snow melt and groundwater seepage. Most of the smaller
rivers are drying out during the post-monsoon period and the summer months
(pre-monsoon: April-May-June). The drying out of small rivers seems to have
aggravated by massive deforestation in the hills during the last 30 years. This
deforestation was mainly caused by commercial logging of the Forest Department,
logging by villagers for timber and fuelwood, extension of agricultural land,
overgrazing and excessive fodder collection. This massive deforestation has upset
the regional hydrological cycle. According to information during the monsoon the
runoff has increased considerably, damages to infrastructure and property have
dramatically increased, while drinking water scarcity during the pre-monsoon
months had increased significantly.



- 157 -
Annex 20
Page 3 of 11
6.    Not much information is available about the water quality, especially pathogenic
contamination of the larger and smaller rivers. The little data available for springs
show relatively high COD concentrations between 16 and 32 mg/I, which indicates
organic pollution. The Total Coliforms numbers (MPN) are around 2,400, which
can be considered unsafe drinking water Organic loading and pollution with
hazardous chemicals seems still limited. Some of the smaller streams seem to be
more polluted, mostly organic loading. Pesticides and fertilizers use in the hills is
still very limited. River sediment loads during the monsoon are very high, caused
by natural erosion and because of human impacts on the vegetation. The drinking
water supplied from the large and smaller rivers needs to be treated to be able to
supply safe drinking water, one of the main objectives of the project.
7      Chlorination is not recommended, since the large fluctuations in organic loads
makes adequate dosing by the communities extremely difficult. The accent should
be on preserving the water quality by upstream interventions and effective locally
available and manageable low cost treatment techniques e.g. filtration or other
viable structure techniques to be identified during technology development.
8.     The groundwater reservoir in the upper part of the hills is very limited and that
because of the relatively shallow soils the groundwater is mainly stored in the
superficial layers. In the valleys and Foothills the groundwater potential is higher,
because of thick sediment layers. Observed groundwater levels in the valleys
varied from 5 to likely 10 meters.
9.     Since groundwater in the hills is likely mainly stored at shallow depths under
phreatic conditions (no protective impermeable layer), it is especially vulnerable to
pollution from the surface. This implies that the project should pay adequate
attention to the protection of the upstream micro-catchment area to be able to
supply safe drinking water. This implies that the activities in the micro-catchment
area have to be limited e.g. no open pit latrines, no pesticide and fertilizer use, no
grazing, no open air human defecation, no small-scale industrial activities and
preferably no human habitation.
10.   Changes in the ecology of the hill system, caused by massive deforestation in the
last decades, has upset the delicate hydrological groundwater balance, which
caused according to local sources increased surface water runoff and decreased
infiltration and groundwater recharge. Resulting in significant reduction of
perennial springs, which served as the local drinking water supply sources. In a
number of cases, according to local sources, reforestation with local tree species,
e.g. oak, restored the perennial springs.
11.   The project engages in micro watershed reforestation activities and protection of
these micro catchments in order to increase the availability and quality of drinking
water. People will likely construct tanks for small-scale irrigation for horticulture
in the rainy season or for farm forestry. This enhances the sustainability of land



- 158 -
Annex 20
Page 4 of II
use and provides considerable economic benefits. According to SO sources, there
is a high demand for catchment tanks. The major limit will be the availability of
sufficient water.
12.   Afforestation of the micro-catchments will also increase the availability of fodder
and fuelwood, which will lessen the actual heavy burden of women. Other
activities which will reduce the pressure on the renewable forest resource base and
protect the availability of drinking water sources, are the stimulation of adequately
designed and constructed biogas plants and the set-up of LPG distribution centers
in the project areas.
13.   The communities, with the help of NGOs, should monitor and evaluate the impacts
of project activities on vegetation cover, species composition, water availability
and water quality from springs and groundwater, fodder and fuelwood availability
and erosion control.
14.   Bundelkhand Water Quantity and Quality - The rainfall pattern is highly
variable in the Bundelkhand even in the same locality. Evaporation in the
Bundelkhand is very high, which causes the rapid drying up of open reservoirs
during the months of April-May. Methods of reducing evaporation and artificial
recharge of groundwater resources should be investigated, as well as other
technologies. At present more than 70% of the net irrigated area is by canals. As
the canals are taken from reservoirs on rivers with very little discharge during the
summer months, there is a shortage of irrigation water during the summer months.
There are numerous surface water retention structures in this region. Irrigation is
confined entirely to the (post-monsoon) crops. The availability of water decreases
sharply after December and most of the wells are more or less dry by February. In
relation to water quality no data are available.
15.  '-In the typical granite terrains of the Bundelkhand region (Jhansi and Lalitpur
districts), groundwater is generally stored under phreatic conditions in a mantle of
the upper weathered region of the granite layer. The thickness of this layer varies
from at times zero on the hillocks and ridges to 10 meter in the lower valleys. The
depth of the groundwater varies from around 3 to 18 meters. The capacity of the
geological formation to retain groundwater for a complete cycle of wet and dry
months is limited. The present groundwater extraction does not indicate mining.
16.   Groundwater should preferably be preserved for drinking water supply purposes
during the rather frequent drought years (1985, 1987 and 1988). Groundwater
levels respond quickly to rainfall, but decline rapidly after the monsoon ends, since
groundwater escapes by way of river base flow and groundwater outflow. During
drought year groundwater recharge is not complete. During a normal monsoon
year the groundwater resources are completely recharged. Also in the
Bundelkhand watershed conditions should be restored to facilitate and maximize
groundwater recharge, especially during dry years.



- 159 -
Annex 20
Page 5 of I I
17.    Since groundwater occurs under phreatic conditions, it is prone to pollution from
the surface. Surface activities in recharge areas and around wells should be non-
polluting. The use of open pit latrines in these areas should be prohibited. Dry
closed latrines are preferred. A water quality monitoring program for well water
will be implemented
18.   In the lower part of Banda district the groundwater situation is completely
different. Many wells are fitted with two pumps, pumping twice as much as is
allowed and use it for irrigation. It seems that overpumping of groundwater for
irrigation is a problem. There is need for stricter groundwater management and
enforcement of legislation. UP has no groundwater legislation. Groundwater in
this area is much deeper and is pumped from the third aquifer. Irrigation wells are
constructed without seals, so that water from the surface and the higher aquifers
can pollute the deeper third aquifer. The pollution status of the third aquifer is
unknown. The groundwater seems to have a high iron content, which makes it less
suitable as a drinking water source. Other water quality parameters are unknown.
Sources in the hills dry up during the post-monsoon months, likely because of
watershed degradation. To improve the situation a similar approach as in the UP
Hills of improvement of the infiltration and water holding capacities of the upper
watersheds can be followed.
19.    Hills: Sanitation - In the hills, sanitation is almost non-existent. The project
envisages a large scale sanitation intervention. Inappropriate technologies or
construction practices might cause serious groundwater pollution, which is a major
drinking water source. Appropriate sanitation technology and construction
supervision has to be applied to avoid groundwater pollution in areas where it is
used as a drinking water source. Groundwater velocities might be faster than
anticipated because of shallow soils, so that pollution might show up faster in
springs, groundwater and small rivers.
20.   Bundelkhand: Sanitation - In the Bundelkhand districts of Jhansi and Lalitpur
the situation is almost similar to the situation in the Hills with respect to the
vulnerability of groundwater to surface pollution. Groundwater will often be taken
from the weathered and fractured granite, subsequently, the groundwater velocities
might be higher than anticipated and pollution occurring at a greater distance from
the wells might show up in the drinking water. Appropriate sanitation technology
will be applied in areas close to the drinking water wells. A water quality
monitoring component will be implemented to guarantee a safe water supply.
21.   The situation in Banda district is very different. Drinking water is taken from the
third aquifer. When drinking water supplies are located sufficiently away and
upstream from pit latrines, there seems to be little danger of pollution of drinking
water sources by pit latrines.



- 160 -
Annex 20
Page 6 of 1 1
22.   Potential Negative Environmental And Public Health Impacts From
Construction and Source Tapping - There are potential negative environmental
and public health impacts associated with the delivery of water and sanitation
services in addition to the impacts discussed above. Some of these impacts have
become evident in other World Bank supported rural water supply and
environmental sanitation projects. These potential negative impacts include:
a)    Contamination of spring source during development and construction;
b)    Induced erosion caused by pipe laying, general construction activities,
deforestation and improper drainage,
c)    Improper construction of latrines leading to unsustainable sanitation and
groundwater contamination;
d)    Improper construction of spring intake structure leading to short lived
water supply and possible destruction of the source;
e)    Potential for cross contamination due to improperly joined pipes, broken
valves or leaky tanks;
f)    Source tapping may deny water to previous users of the source not
connected to the scheme;
g)    Tapping of entire streams and springs causes downstream river beds to dry
up with consequent negative impacts on downstream users and
biodiversity. The eligibility criteria for source selection avoid these
problematic sources. The villagers only can obtain support if there is no
conflict in relation to the water source;
h)    Construction activities may induce deforestation and encroach on
undisturbed natural habitats at the spring intake structure, quarry sites and
pipe trenches. This may have impacts on water availability and water
quality and on the remaining natural forest habitats.
23   -Mitigation and Monitoring Plans - This project has taken great care to
incorporate environmental improvement programs including sanitation,
environmental management and catchment protection as part of the long-term
strategy for each community. Each community will produce a Village
Environmental Action Plan (VEAP) specific to the communities environment and
needs. The VEAP is a long-term plan to mitigate against existing and future
environmental problems such as source depletion, source contamination, health
and hygiene programs, fodder depletion, fuelwood depletion and solid waste
management.
24.   More detailed environmental impacts and mitigation measures are included in the
various training and technical manuals. Subsequent training and technical manuals
will continue to improve due to the built in monitoring and evaluation component.
A summary of mitigation measures incorporated into the Village Environmental
Action Plan and to be specified in the training and technical manuals is listed
below.



- 161 -
Annex 20
Page 7 of I1
25.   Site Clearance and Earth MovinLe: Site clearance, including tree cutting, and
earth moving during site selection and construction of intake structures, reservoirs,
and pipe laying can leave the affected area prone to erosion The steep slopes and
monsoons amplify the impact
a)    To avoid the monsoon season, the project has planned construction only
during the dry season,
b)    Vegetation and tree felling will be restricted to the minimum;
c)    Construction, tree cutting and removal of vegetation on steep slopes will
be avoided or minimized;
d)    Soils will be properly compacted after backfilling and replanted;
e)    Alternative siting will be considered for system components to avoid
encroachment on wildlife, natural habitats and sensitive ecosystems,
f)    The project includes tree planting or revegetation with other plants, e.g.
grasses, to protect intake structures from pollution and erosion. This will
be done at all sites prone to erosion or pollution, where earth moving and
site clearance occurs,
g)    Unstable slopes will be avoided for quarrying of construction materials,
because of the potential for landslides and damage to vegetation along
footpaths and hillsides, which increases erosion;
h)    Excavated material will be graded and replanted;
i)    Residues of construction materials will be taken back to the village;
j)    In case oil or other chemicals are used on the construction site, careful
handling is required and residues will be taken back to the village, in order
not to pollute the water source.
26.   Improper Drainare: Erosion and waterlogging due to improper drainage of
overflow from water supply systems and leakage water from leaking pipes might
occur. Improper drainage design and maintenance undermine the construction
components such as concrete tanks and pipes. Erosion around these concrete
structures destabilizes the foundation and exposes pipes and tanks to increased
weathering or possible decomposition by UV light in the case of PVC pipes, which
decreases the structural integrity and diminishes the lifetime of the water supply
system.
a)    Poor drainage from tapstands and handpumps increases localized ponding
of water, which increases the unhealthy conditions around the taps or
pumps and which augments the health risks of the population. Stagnant
drainage water is a breeding ground for bacteria and disease transmitting
mosquito vectors such as malaria, filariasis and others. Additionally, well
water is more susceptible to contamination from polluted surface water
run-off
b)    Adequate designed and constructed sanitary storm drains around the water
supply structures must be maintained. The community health and education
program as well as the village maintenance worker training incorporates
the need and the know-how for maintaining functional drainage systems,



- 162 -
Annex 20
Page 8 of I I
c)    Washing and livestock drinking facilities will be installed a safe distance
down hill from the tapstand to avoid cross contamination. The Community
Action Plan will assess the need for such facilities and incorporates them in
the design,
d)    Adequate drainage for overflow and washouts from the water supply
system components should be provides;
e)    Drainage from tapstands and handpumps must drain to a safe place such as
near a field, kitchen garden or soakaway. They should be sufficiently long
to reduce the health risks and have an adequate capacity. By no means
should these drains discharge into village ponds, since they carry
pathogenic organisms, while village ponds are often used as source of food;
f)    New drainage routes will be avoided.
27.   Source Selection and Tapping: Source pollution due to improper design and site
selection poses a serious environmental health problem. Contamination may be
caused by bacteria and other pathogenic organisms, fecal matter disposed uphill or
upstream, agricultural chemicals, other hazardous chemicals such as oil and others.
a)    Other impacts of source tapping include changes in natural vegetation and
reduction of water availability downstream for humans, livestock and
wildlife. The occurrence of these impacts should be carefully evaluated at
the time of water source selection.
b)    Procedures for testing water quality, such as presence/absence of bacteria,
or the test tube total and fecal coliform tests, some basic drinking water
quality parameters such as iron or fluoride, arsenic, nitrate and others will
be investigated in conjunction with the sanitary inspection at the source;
c)    Proper location and design of intake structure to ensure protection from
pollution and the possible inclusion, if needed, of an effective basic, but
easy to maintain treatment system such as a filter;
d)    Sources must be non-disputed sources and the interests of downstream
users must be protected;
e)    Catchment recharge areas should be protected from deforestation and
certain uses of chemicals such as pesticides, oil and others, to protect water
quantity and quality. To avoid future water source depletion the recharge
catchment should be kept under an adequate vegetation cover, which
should include trees. These issues are explained in the training programs.
28.   Latrine Construction and Sanitation: Improperly designed latrines which do not
consider soil type, water table or drainage patterns, could pollute groundwater and
surface water sources. Poor soils for pit latrines include clay soils, which do not
drain and rocky soils, which drain too quickly. Since clay soils are impermeable
and do not drain, pits built in clay soils can be flooded, which transports sewage to
the surface. Pit latrines built in these soils form a health hazard, which is not the
objective of the project and have in general a much shorter lifetime. The impact is
two fold: First, pathogens are brought to the surface exposing persons to diseases;



- 163 -
Annex 20
Page 9 of 11
second, persons who traditionally defecate in the open fields will have negative
connotations towards pit latrines and go back to unsanitary habits.
a)    In quick draining soils, like rocky soils, the liquid waste drains too fast,
which does not allow the bacteria enough time to effectively breakdown
the solid fecal matter. Moreover these soils, since the groundwater travels
fast and the resident time needed for pathogenic organisms to die off is
strongly reduced, which means that the groundwater downhill can become
seriously polluted with pathogenic organisms. This is a public health hazard
which has to be avoided, specially if the groundwater downhill is used as
drinking water source, but also if the pathogen loaded groundwater comes
at the surface downhill in the form of seepage water it forms a public health
hazard. The project has build in mechanisms to avoid these impacts.
b)    Siting of latrines and the selection of the technology must be based on a
site analysis, which should consider soil type, depth of the water table,
drainage patterns and the direction of groundwater flows in the area. The
golden rule is that no water sources should be selected downstream from
nearby latrines,
c)    Training on latrine siting and the choice of technology for different
environmental conditions will be carried out,
d)    The project incorporates environmental sanitation education to explain the
link between human waste and diseases and clarifies the need for proper
disposal.
29.   Desien and Construction: The quality of design and construction of systems is
paramount in delivering long lived schemes. If the intake structure collapses after
one year, the intended environmental health benefits are not sustained. The
breakdown of systems such as leaky tanks, broken or cut pipelines and broken
handpumps, usually means loss of available water per capita, which is in conflict
with the objective of the project.
a)    It is essential that the quality of the design and the construction remains at
the highest possible standards and that standards improve with time;
b)    The monitoring program will provide feedback on which system works best
and where, which problems were found and what were the reasons for
these problems, e.g. poor concrete mixture, improper curing, poor
maintenance, or lack of community involvement;
c)    The project has developed a set of technical manuals and technical training
manuals to improve design and construction quality. These manuals and
training modules must reflect lessons learned in previous construction
years, based on the monitoring program. This process of lessons learned
and feed back into the training manuals should be a continuous process;
d)    Location of livestock stalls shall be a minimum of 20 meters from any
water supply structure. in order to maintain sanitary conditions around the
water source.



- 164 -
Annex 20
Page 10 of 11
30.   Induced Development and Water Use: Improved access and increased supply of
water, together with improved economic conditions, because of small-scale
irrigation, has resulted in induced development. People do not migrate out
anymore, but stay in their village and people who migrated before return. This will
result in higher population densities than actual carrying capacity of the project
areas. This will have impacts on water demand, and increased pressure on the
natural resource base, such as forest and fodder resources. The ultimate result is
that all scarce natural resources, including water, will be scarce. Community
education and planning must consider these issues.
31.   The Village Environmental Action Plan (VEAP): The VEAP is a long term
program for improving and protecting the community environment. The Support
Organizations (SOs) will assist the community in developing their VEAP during
the Community Action Plan (CAP) process. Each VEAP will reflect the
individual needs of the community and provide the bases for the environmental
management component and catchment protection component of this Project. The
VEAP includes the following components:
a)    a detailed Village Map of the existing situation;
b)    a base line survey of Environmental Parameters;
c)    detail environmental programs;
d)    detail designs, which will be constructed during the implementation phase;
and
e)    a projected Village Map with environmental improvements.
32.   Village Map: The Village map will show the existing environmental condition of
the community such as forested/deforested areas, ponds, rivers, streams, water
sources, agricultural land, hamlets, garbage dumps, manure drying, and general
gradients. The map will identify pollutants (i.e. from garbage, cattle manure, or
oil) and the impact to the environment (i.e. contaminated groundwater).
33.   Baseline Survey on Environmental Parameters: The baseline survey and the
Village Map represent the existing situation in the village and provide the
community with a record to compare any changes. The following parameters will
be surveyed:
a)    Land use in the watershed (e.g. agricultural use, free grazing of livestock,
forest, etc.), and visual estimate of present erosion;
b)    Vegetation cover: abundance per species, percent cover per species;
c)    Economic use of the watershed: fuelwood kg/ha and fodder kg/ha and
others;
d)    Number of springs and dry season flows in liter per second (1/s) in May;
e)    Groundwater levels in May and after the monsoon in October;
f)    Initial water quality and follow-up measurement on an annual or bi-annual
basis at the start of monsoon (water quality is reported to be worst during
this period).



- 165 -
Annex 20
Page 11 of 11
g)     An estimate should be made how much groundwater is available and what
are the sustainable groundwater and surface water yields from the
watershed, and
h)     Rainfall and stream flows originating from the concerned watershed ought
to be measured by the communities, as a part of the local environmental
and micro level water resources management component
34.    Baseline Survey on Health Parameters: Based on information from health clinics
and the community
a)     Diarrhea (various forms, including cholera and gastro-enteritis)
b)     Various worm diseases (e.g. Ascaris, Trichuris, Ancylostoma and others),
c)     Skin diseascs (e.g. skin infections caused by washing with polluted or insufficient
water: water wvashed diseases)
d)     Other diseases related to deficient water supply of low quality and lack of basic
sanitation. such as typhoid and hepatitis
e)     Malaria and other water-borne diseases.
3 5.   Detailed Environmental Programs: Once the community has gone through the
CAP process and decided on their action plan, they will develop a detailed
description of their environmental program. Programs define goals and a
framework on how to achieve them. Typical programs might include:
a)     clean-up campaigns;
b)     surface water protection;
c)     mosquito control;
d)     sanitation,
e)     drainage,
f)     composting;
g)     nursery establishment,
h)     stimulation of biogas digesters and organization of liquid propane gas
distribution,
i)     erosion control, and
j)     other environmental management issues.
36.    Detail Project Designs: For any construction work financed during
implementation phase, detail designs shall be developed.
37.    Projected Village Map: The projected map is a guide to the community on long-
term goals.






- 167 -
Annex 21
Table I
INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Sunoiv and Environmental Sanitation Proiect
Economic Analysis Data
(Estimate of Charges as a Proportion of Monthly Income)
Schene Type                                          Hills     Hll.s     Hu1lm      HulS    Footrnills  Foothils  Foothils  Footh,ilm   FoOtdls a Bundelkhend      A    _wrag  ^AWee
Spnng      Welt    Stream    Stream    Antesian   Stream    Slrnrm    Deep    ODp            Dep       Deep  HMle       Bundelmnd
Gravity  HandPumo  Grviy   Pumping    Weil    Grviy           R-e,       uer     TuDbell  Tubeoe_   Tuabel
Pumped   Pumped    HaldP   Pumped   HeonP
PoPuIar Dper sCheme                                     400       S0        450        750     1 0X        574      1 39      2 045      1 000     1 560     1 Om
HouSehoid5 (a5smg 55 people pe, nousehold)               73        91        82        127       152       104       251        372       182       284        182
Estimate at Capial Contrtt,t,ons
Tobti Co f aWater Supply Haa,r. (RSODX)           1017 369   470 404 1084333  1449717  1.362 607 1 506 020 3.159 191 2 873640   921 166 2,976 496 1.203 217
% Coo in kind prodeda by the communtv                   9%        9S%        9%        9%        9%         9%        S%        9%        9%         8%        8%
% Coat m cash                                          91%       91%        91%       91%       91%       91%        91%       91%       91%        92%       o2n
Total COSt in kind proded (,RS XE)                   91 563    42 336    97 590   130 475   122 635   135 542   294 327   258628    82 9095  23 120    98 287
Tobi Coist i Casn requ,ed RBRe XE)                  925 806   428 068  986 743 1 319 242 1.23° 972 1 370 475 2 874 864 2.615 012   538 261 2,739 376  1.106'S
To109 Cost  k,ind (RicapA)                              229        a5       217        186       123       236       206        126        83        153        66
Totl Costn Casn (Ricapha)                             2 315       856      2.193     1.885     1.240     2 3J8      2 083     1.279       83t      1756      1.187
Toal Costm kind Rwhousefold)                          1,260       468      1 194     1023        677      1.298     1 133       693       457        U42       528
Total Costn  San (Re(touvaeold)                      12.730     A709    12 060    10 365       6920    13.132    it 45r       7033      4910       9.,55     8,0Wt
LIP"ontl I" I% o tol capttal const                      t%         t%        1%        1%°       1%         11        1%        1%        1%         2%        2%
UP FRONT FEE PER HOUSEHOLD (RJIhoueeholad)              139        52        132       114        75        45        126        771                           32       101    1       71
Total Community Contnbuton (Rshouimeolgl              1.399       519      1.326     1,137       751      1 443     1 259       770       507      1.051       6t0 1.012 37       88667
DAM PER HOUSEHtOLD
O&M Coit (as a % ol captal coet)                        3%        3%         3%        3%        3%        3%         3%        3%        3S         3%        3%
MOttIly ODM Fele bet htV.shold                        34 84      12 92     33 06     28 54     18 72     36 20      31 47     19 31      12e5      28 20     1 53
5%surcehrge                                            174       065        1 65      1 43      08 9        1        r 1 57    097       083        1 31      c3
Total monthrlyOAM  e pe lhouaeod                      3658       1357      3471      2996      1965      3S01       3304      2026      1328       275t      178     2857           243
Aflordablity Calculatlons
Cacth ircome-1 per Houeetold Per Month
honest ecgr                                             390       30        380        380       390       380       380        380       380       200        200      380           ZC
qulitole                                                X         ISX       85         800 am0O800                   800        800       8C0       350        350      800           380
,nepen                                                1300      1350       1 350     I 350       350       350       350      1 M30     1 30        7X0        700    1.350           700
enag.e                                                 15X       1Soo      1500      1500      1.5X       1500      1500      1 5X      1,500       750        750    1,80C           750
Total Incomes per hOuetold pet month
lowest aecle                                            6X        650       am        6So        8X   t00   m         So       8am        WC        700        700      bo0           700
quetole                                               1.200      1 250     1 2D0     1,200     1 200      1 200     1.20D     1.200     15200        90        950    1.200           gO
mediarn                                               2.00      2 XX       200       2,XX      20XX      2,XX       20 X0     2.000     2,70       1,800     180    230l0           1.60
enrage                                                2.250     2250       225D    23250       2250      2,250      2.250     2.250     2,250      2XX       2.0D0   2.250          2,000
UP nromt lot s a % o0 monlhly Cash income
lowe  dacie                                            37%         S        35%       30%       20%       38%        33%       20%        13%      106%       66%      27%          8nu
gorSe                                                  17%        6%        177%      14%    %             1%        1iS%      10%        tS        60%       38%      13%           4S%
meOdn                                                  1%         *4b       1C%        as        6%        11%        9%        e%        4%        30%       19%       7%           24%
auage                                                   9%        3%         9%        0%        5%       10%         t%        5%        3%        28%       11%       7%           22%
Up lrons le ee a % of total monthly Income
1~tdeciel                                              17%        6%        17%       14%        9%       18%        16%       10%        6%        30%       16%      13%           24%
quatle                                                 12%       -4%        11%       10%        6%       12%        10%        6%        4%        22%       14%       8S%           1%
median                                                  7%        3%         7%        6%        4%        7%         6%        4%        3%        12%        7%       5S            9%
aerage                                                  t%        2%         6%        S%        3%        6%         6%        3%        2%        10%        7$       4%            1%
Mon1lhy O&M lee as a % of Monthly Casi Incom
lowes !fle                                             10%        4%         8%        8%        5%       10%         8%        5%        3%        14%        9f       7%           11%
queltie                                                 5$        2%         4%        4%        2%        5%         4%        3%        2%         8S        5%       3%            ff
meden                                                   3%        1%         3%        2%        1%        3%         2%        2%        1%         4$        2%       2%            3%
enrage                                                  2%        1%         2%        2%        1%        3%         2%        1%        1%         4%        2%       2%            2%
Monthly OAM lee acs a  of Total Monthly Ineofne
IO." decov                                              5%        2%        4%         4%        2%        5%         4%        3%        2%         4%        2%       3%            n%
qubrne                                                  3%        1%         3%        2%        2%        3%         3%        2%         1%        3%        2%       2%            2%
mredan                                                  2%        1%        2%         1%        1%        2%         2%        1S        1S         2S        1S       1S            1
avrage                                                  2%        1%        2%         1%        1%        2%t        19        1%        1%         1S        1S       1S            1'4
e e           sn m_       e -     -                                   Aerge for Hil ls                                   Anerege for rIUndiekhOild
up-ront     Dam                                    up-hont      DAM
Fee                                                Fee
MonthIl Cash  Income                               woif hof    l1con       % of eIcome
howeotlecile             27%         7%            Xt~deKel                  85S       11%
qumtde                    13%        3%            quartile                 4S%         6%
median                     7%        2%            median                    24%        3%
enrage                     7%        2%            avrage                    23%         3%
MontlhlymaiJmCoe                                   rMontil Totl Income
howee (1cle               13%        3%            -weet deila               24%         3%
quete                      8%        2%            qunati                    18%        2%
medlin                     5%       1%            meden                      9%         1%
anraoe                     4%        1%            anede                      9S         1%



- 168 -
Annex 21
Table 2
Time Savings from Other Studies
Lpcd   Total time    Time/litre   Average
to collect              time per trip
(in minutes)  (minutes/litre) (in minutes)
1/ 2/    1/ 2/           3/           4/
Before Project          19         50.92         2.68         38.8
After Project           31         28.52          0.92         7.7
Implied
Arc                  -0.54
Easticity
% reduction                       -44.0%       -65.7%      -80.2%
in time
1/ Based on a Study for UNICEF by the All India Institute of Public Health.
2/ Litres per capita per day consumed for household purposes only.
3/ Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices (KAP) Studies carried out before and
after nine schemes in the pilot project in Nepal. Reported in the Staff Appraisal
Report for Nepal Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, Page 38.
4/ Data from 35 completed pilot schemes in Nepal.



- 169 -
Annex2l
Table 3
Estimation of the Economic Value of Time Saved
Wet       Dry       Other   Season
Non-    Harvest   Harvest/  Activities
Harvest            Non-Harvest
Low       High     Medium   Opportunities for alternative income generating activities (existing situation).1I
4         4          4      Months
25%      100%         80% Proportion of dally water requirments that must be obtained
away from the household le when rain water Is unavailable for use.
This also represents the maximum time savings, in terms of dry season equivalents,
that can be captured through the project.
Even in the wet season approximately 25% of all household water
requirements are still obtained away from the household. This is mainly for drinking
and cooking as water for animals and crops can be obtained from rainwater.
Type of Connectlon
30%       30%         30% House Connections
70%       70%         70% Standpost & Well Sources
Where piped systems will be provided, the project will supply
approximately 70% of households with standposts co well
supplies and approximately 30% with a household connection.
Proportion of time previously spent obtaining water that can be
saved through the project
90%       90%         90% House Connections
75%       75%         75% Standpost & Well Sources
Weighted Average of Time Saved by Type of Connection
7%       27%         22% House Connections
13%       53%         42% Standpost & Well Sources
Welghted Average of Time Saved by Season
2%        9%          7% House Connections
4%       18%         14% Standpost & Well Sources
7%       27%         21%
54.325% Annualised factor to adjust market wage (opportunity cost of labor)
35.00 Rs/day     Market wage (opportunity cost) of labor when employment opportunities
are available
19.01 Rs/day     Weighted annual opportunity cost of labour
8.00 Hours/day   Normal working hours per day
2.38 Rs/hour    Economic value of bme savings
0.90            Standard Conversion Factor 21
2.14 Rs/hour    Economic value of time savings expressed in border prices
1/ Through Womens Development Initiatives provided through the project, the altemative income generabng
activities available to women will increase so that such opportunities with the project would be likely
to be classified as high for each period.
2/ Provided by the World Bank



- 1 70 -
Table 4A: Scheme Benefits and Costs         Stream Pumping - Hills                                               Annex 21
Table 4A
Basic Population and Demand Parameters
(a) Present Population                  700          (d) Design Population                1040
(b) Population Growth Rate pa          2.0%          (e) Household Size                    5.6
(c) Planning Horizon)                    20          (f) Present Households                127
Basic Cost Parameters
(a) Standard Conversion Factor                                          0.90
(b) Recurrent O&M cost (% of Hardware)                                 5.0%
( c ) O&M Cost (Mkt prices Rs/initial households/month)                  53
Cost Estimates per Capita Present Population (Rsischeme)
Planning/Development Phase                                     Implementation Phase
Mkt Price Border Prices  %                                     Mkt Price Border Prices   %
Software          214          193   78%                         Software         150        135    6%
Hardware           61          55   22%                          Hardware       2,233       2,010    94%
TOTAL             275         248                                TOTAL          2,383       2,145
Benefit Estimates
Time Savings              Wet        Dry      Other      Total
(a) Proportion of water obtained   25%        100%      80%                          (c) Opportunity Cost of Labor Rs/day    35.00
outside of household'                                                              (d) Value of Time Saved (Rs/hour)  2.38
(b) Weighted time saved'           6.6%      26.5%     21.2%        54.3%                                    (c)-(by8
Refer Annex 11 Table 3
Benefit / household            Benefit / capita
Hours    Mkt Price    Mkt Price         Mkt Price   Border Price Border Prices
per day   Rs/day     Rs/year            Rs/year     Rstyear    Rs 000/year
Time Savings                3.8        8.97     3,276                 596        536    0.536
Incremental Consumption     0.8        1.79      655                  119        107    0.107
Benefit Cost Flows JRs. '000)
COSTS                         BENEFITS                      NET BENEFIT             Incremental
Project                                               Time   incremental              Total    Hardware   Population
Year     Hardware     O&M      Software     Total   Savings Consumption    Total                Only       Served
1      291.293                48.119  339.412                                  -339.412    -291.293        700
2      867.130   52.129      137.606  1056.865   191.349    38.270    229.619  -827.246    -689.640        714
3      289.043   65.136       45.869  400.048  312.162      62.432    374.594   -25.454      20.415        728
4           0   65.136            0   65.136  398.242       79.648    477.891   412.755     412.755        743
5           0   65.136            0   65.136  406.282       81.256    487.539   422.403     422.403        758
6                65.136                65.136  414.322      82.864    497.186  432.050      432.050        773
7                65.136                65.136  422.362      84.472    506.834  441.698      441.698        788
8                65.136                65.136  430.938      86.188    517.125   451.989     451.989        804
9                65.136                65.136  439.514      87.903    527.416   462.280     462.280        820
10                65.136                65.136  448.090      89.618    537.707  472.571      472.571        838
11                65.136                65.136  457.201      91.440    548.642   483.506     483.506        853
12                65.136                65.136   466.313     93.263    559.576  494.440      494.440        870
13                65.136                65.136   475.425     95.085    570.510   505.374     505.374        887
14                65.136                65.136  485.073      97.015    582.088   516.952     516.952        905
15                65.136                65.136  494.721      98.944    593.665   528.529     528.529        923
16                65.136                65.136   504.369    100.874    605.243   540.107     540.107        941
17                65.136                65.136   514.553    102.911    617.463   552.327     552.327        960
18                65.136                65.136   524.736    104.947    629.684   564.548     564.548        979
19                65.136                65.136   535.456    107.091    642.548   577.412     577.412        999
20                65.136                65.136   546.176    109.235    655.411   590.275     590.275       1019
21                65.136                65.136   557.432    111.486    668.918  603.782      603.782       1040
22                65.136                65.136   557.432    111.486    668.918   603.782     603.782       1040
23                65.136                65.136   557.432    111.486    668.918   603.782     603.782       1040
24                65.136                65.136   557.432    111.486    668.918   603.782     603.782       1040
PV at Disc. Rate of
12%     1,157.1   491.1        185.3   1,780.9  3,142.3    628.5    3,770.8  1,585.8    1,771.1    6,247.7
EIRR          =     27.4%      31.7%
B/C Ratio     =     2.12        2.29
Average Incremental Cost (Rs per person)    =     285
Switching Values
137%      323%        856%   89%        -50%        -252%       -42%



- 171 -
Annex 2 1
Table 48
Table 4B: Scheme Benefits and Costs        Stream Gravity - Hills
Basic Population and Demand Parameters
(a) Present Population                450             (d) Design Population                  669
(b) Population Growth Rate pa        2.0%             (e) Household Size                     6.5
(c) Planning Horizon)                   20            (1) Present Households                  82
Basic Cost Parameters
(a) Standard Conversion Factor                                           0.90
(b) Recurrent O&M cost (% of Hardware)                                  3.0%
( c ) O&M Cost (Mkt prces Rs/initial households/month)                     37
Cost Estimatea per Capita Present Population (Rs/scheme)
Planning/Development Phase                                     Implementation Phase
Mkt Price Border Pricar  %                                      Mkt Price Border Prlees     %
Software          2e8        241    74%                           Software         192         173       7%
Hardware           94         85    28%                           Hardware        2.572       2,315     93%
TOTAL             362        326                                  TOTAL           2,764       2,48U
Benefit Estimates
Time Savings'            Wet         Dry       Other     Total
(a) Proportion of water obtained   25%        100%       80%          205%             (c) Opportunity Cost of Labor Riday  35.00
outside of household'                                                                (d) Value of Time Saved (Rsihouwr)    2M
(b) Weighted time saved'          6.6%       26.5%      21.2%        54.3%                                     (c) (bY8
Refer Annex 11 Table 3
Beneftt I household             Bneftl I Capita
Hours   Mkt Price   Mkt Price            Mit Prics   Border Price Border Prices
pr day  Rs/day      Ri/year              Riyear      Ri/year    Rs Oa /yeWar
Time Savings                4.0       944        3,447                 627         584     0.564
Incremental Consump on      0.8       1.89        689                  125         113     0.113
Benefit Cost Flows (Rs. 000B
Proct                                                  Time   Incremental               Tool    Hadware    Pepue
Year     Hardware    O&M      Software     Total    Savings Consumption    Totbl                  Or*         Seved
1    218.21852              39.519    257.736                                   -257.738    -218.217           450
2    647.89956   23.385    111.807    783.092  129.454       25.891     155.345  427.747    -515.940            460
3    215.96652   29.216     37.269    282.452  211.187       42.237    253.425   -29.027        8.242           466
4            0   29.216          0      29.216  269.061      53.812    322.873  293.657       293.657           477
5            0   29.216          0      29.216  274.702      54.940    329.642  300.426       300.426           467
6                29.216                 29.216  280.342      56.068     336.411   307.194     307.194           497
7                29.216                 29.216  285.983      57.197    343.180  313.963      313.s63            507
8                29.216                 29.216  291.624    s5.325       349.948  320.732      320.732           517
9                29.216                 29.216  297.264      59.453    35a.717  327.501       327.501           527
10                29.216                 29.216  303.469      60.694    364.163  334.947      334.947           538
11                29.216                 29.216  300.674      61.035    371.609  342.392      342.392           549
12                29.216                 29.216  3158679      63.176    379.054  349.638      34.8138          50
13                29.218                 20.216  322.083      64.417    3se.500   357.284     357.284            571
14                29.216                 29.216  328.288      65.658    393.946  364.730      364.730           562
15                29.216                 29.216  335.057      67.011    402.088  372.852      372.852          s64
16                29.216                 29.216  341.826      68.385    410.191  380.975      380.975           an
17                29.218                 29.216  348.595      68.719    418.314  368.097      389.097           Ist
18                29.216                 29.216  355.363      71.073    426.436  397.220      397.220           630
19                29.216                 29.216  362.696      72.539    435.236  406.019      406.019           643
20                29.216                 29.216  370.029      74.006    444.035  414.619      414.819           6ss
21                29.216                 29.216  377.362      75.472    452.835  423.616      423.818          6an
22                29.216                 29.216  377.362      75.472    452.835  423.618      423.618            66
23                29.216                 29.216  377.362      75.472    452.835  423.018      423.618            660
24                29.216                 29.216  377.362      75.472    452.83s  423.616      423.618 6a
PV at Disc. Rats of
12%      865.1      220.3          150.9    1,212.7   2.126.7      425.3     2,552.0   1,065.9       1,216.8      4,017.6
EIRR            =      25.8%      30.4%
B/C Ratio=      =      21.0       2.35
Average Incremental Cost (Rs per person)   =     =      302
Swttching Values
123%       484%          706%    88%         -50%         -251%       -42%



- 172 -
Annex 2 1
Table 4C
Table 4C: Scheme Benefits and Costs       Spring Gravity Schemes - Hills
Basic Population and Demand Parameters
(a) Present Population                400             (d) Design Population                  594
(b) Population Growth Rate pa         2.0%            (e) Household Size                      5.5
|(c) Planning Horzon)                   20             (f) Present Households                  73
Basic Cost Parameters
(a) Standard Conversion Factor                                            0.90
(b) Recurrent O&M cost (% of Hardware)                                   3.0%
( c ) O&M Cost (Mkt prices Rstinitlal households/month)                    39
Cost Estimates per Capita Present Population (Rslscheme)
Planning/Development Phase                                       Implementation Phase
Mkt Price Border Pricer    %                                     Mkt Prce Border Prices     %
Software          263        237    71%                            Software         316         284    10%
Hardware          106         95    29%                            Hardware       2,708       2,437    90%
TOTAL             369        332                                   TOTAL          3,024       2,721
Benefit Estimates
Time Savings'            Wet         Dry       Other       Total
(a) Proportion of waler obtained   25%        100%       80%           205%            (c) Opportunity Cost of Labor Rs/day   35.00
outside of household'                                                                (d) Value of Time Saved (Rs/hour)   2.38
(b) Weighted time saved'          6.6%       26.5%       21.2%        54.3%                                     (c)-(b)/8
Refer Annex 11 Table 3
Benefit / household              Benefit / caitLa
Hours    Mkt Price   Mkt Price             Mkt Price   Border Price Border Prices
per day   Rs/day    Rs/year                Rslyear    Rs/year    Rs 000/year
Time Savings                4.0       9.54       3,484                  633         570    0.570
Incremental Consumption     0.8       1.91        697                   127         114    0.114
Benefit Cost Flows (Rs. 000)
COSTS                          BENEFITS                              EIncremental
Project                                                 Time    Incremental             Total    Hardware   Populabon
Year     Hardware     O&M     Software     Total      Savings  Consumption    Total               Onty       Served
1     204.8238             43.9686     248.792                                   -248.792    -204.824        400
2     607.7214   21.939   125.1558     754.816    116.294     23.259    139.553  -615.263    -490.107        408
3     202.5738   27.408    41.7186     271.701    189.719     37.944    227.662  -44.038       -2.320        416
4           0   27.408           0      27.408    241.709     48.342    290.051   262.642     262.642        424
5           0   27.408           0      27.408    248.269     49.254    295.523  268.115      268.115        432
6                27.408                 27.408    251.400     50.280    301.680  274.272      274.272        441
7                27.408                 27.408    256.531     51.306    307.837  280.428      250.428        450
8                27.408                 27.408    261.661     52.332    313.993  286.585      286.585        459
9                27.408                 27.408    266.792     53.358    320.150  292.742      292.742        468
10                27.408                 27.408    271.922     54.384    326.307  298.899      298.899        477
11                27.408                 27.408    277.623     55.525    333.148  305.740      305.740        487
12                27.408                 27.408    283.324     56.665    339.989  312.580      312.580        497
13                27.408                 27.408    289.024     57.805    346.829  319.421      319.421        507
14                27.408                 27.408    294.725     58.945    353.670  32e.262      328.262        517
15                27.408                 27.408    300.426     60.085    360.511   333.103     333.103        527
16                27.408                 27.408    306.697     61.339    368.036  340.628      340.628        538
17                27.408                 27.408    312.967     62.593    375.561   348.153     348.153        549
18                27.408                 27.408    319.238     63.848    383.086  355.677      355.677        560
19                27.408                 27.408    325.509     65.102    390.611   363.202     363.202        571
20                27.408                 27.408    331.780     66.356    398.135   370.727     370.727        582
21                27.408                 27.408    338.620     67.724    406.344  378.936      378.936   .    594
22                27.408                 27.408    338.620     67.724    406.344  378.936      378.936        594
23                27.408                 27.408    338.620     67.724    406.344  378.936      378.936        594
24                27.408                 27.408    338.620     67.724    406.344  378.936      378.936        594
PV at Disc. Rate of
12%     811.5     206.7        168.7   1,164.8  1,908.3    381.7    2,290.0  879.8          1,048.6    3,567.8
EIRR          =      23.9%    28.9%
B/C Ratio     =      1.97     2.25
Average Incremental Cost (Rs per person)    =     326
Switching Values
108%      426%         521%    76%       -46%       -231%       -38%



- 173 -
Annex 21
Table 4D
Table 4D: Scheme Benefits and Costs       Handpumps - Hills
Basic Population and Demand Parameters
(a) Present Population                600          (d) Design Population                743
(b) Population Growth Rate pa        2.0%          (e) Household Size                   6.6
(c) Planning Horizon)                  20          (f) Present Househoids                91
Basic Cost Parameters
(a) Standard Conversion Factor                                       0.90
(b) Recurrent O&M cost (% of Hardware)                               3.0%
(c_) O&M Cost (Mkt prices Rs/initial households/month)                 1 4
Cost Estimates per Capita Present Population (Rsischeme)
PlanningiDevelopment Phase                                  Implementation Phase
Mkt Price Border Prices    %                                 Mkt Price Border Pnces   %
Software         242         218   74%                        Software         173        156    15%
Hardware          65          77   26%                        Hardware         951        856    85%
TOTAL             327        295                              TOTAL          1,124       1,012
Benefit Estimates
Time Savings             Wet        Dry     Other     Total
(a) Proportion of water obtained  25%       100%      80%         205%            (c) Opportunity Cost of Labor Rs/day   35.00
outside of household'                                                            (d! Value of Time Saved (Rslhour)  2.38
(b) Weighted time saved'          6.6%      26.5%    21.2%        54.3%                                   (c)-(b)18
Refer Annex 11 Table 3
Benefit / household          Benefit / capita
Hours    Mkt Price    Mkt Price        Mkt Price   Border Price Border Prices
per day   Rs/day    Re/year            Rstyear    Rs/year    Rs 000/year
Time Savings               3.9        9.25    3,376                 614       552    0.552
Incremental Consumption    08         1.85     675                  123        110    0.110
Benefit Cost Flows (Rs. '000)
COSTS-a                     BENEFITS                      NET BENEFIT            Incremental
Project                                             Time   Incremental             Total    Hardware   Population
Year    Hardware    O&M       Software    Total   Savings Consumption    Total               Only      Served
1    95.43078               39.519  134.950                                 -134.950     -95.431       500
2    279.54234   10.124     111.807  401.474  140.875     28.175    169.050  -232.424    -120.617      510
3     93.18078   12.640     37.269  143.090  229.820      45.964    275.783  132.693     169.962       520
4           0   12.640           0   12.640  292.799      58.560    351.359  338.719     338.719       530
5           0   12.640           0   12.640  298.876      59.775    358.651  346.011     346.011       541
6                12.640               12.640  304.953     60.991    385.943  353.303     353.303       552
7                12 640               12.640  311.030     62.206    373.236  360.596    360.596        563
8                12.640               12.640  317.107     63.421    380.528  367.888    367.888        574
9                12.640               12.640  323.184     64.637    387.820  375.180     375.180       585
10                12.640               12.640  329.813     65.963    395.776  383.136    383.136        597
11                12.640               12.640  336.443     67.289    403.731   391.091   391.091        609
12                12.640               12.640  343.072     68.614    411.886  399.046    399.046        821
13                12.640               12.640  349.701     89.940    419.642  407.001    407.001        633
14                12.640              12.640  356.883      71.377    428.260  415.620    415.620        646
15                12.640              12.640  364.065     72.813    436.878  424.238     424.238        659
16                12.640              12.640  371.247      74.249    445.496  432.856    432.856        672
17                12.640              12.640  378.429     75.686    454.115  441.474     441.474        685
18                12.640              12.640  386.163     77.233    463.396  450.756     450.756        699
19                12.640              12.640  393.897     78.779    472.677  460.037     460.037        713
20                12.640               12.640  401.632     80.326    481.958  469.318    469.318        727
21                12.640               12.640  410.471     82.094    492.565  479.925    479.925        743
22                12.640               12.640  410.471     82.094    492.565  479 925    479.925        743
23                12.640               12.640  410.471     82.094    492.565  479925     479.925        743
24                12.640               12.640  410.471     82.094    492.565  479.925    479.925        743
PV at Disc. Rate of
12%     374.4     95.3        150.9   610.4    2,312.3    462.5    2,774.7  1,867.0    2,017.9    4,460.8
EIRR          =    60.0%     88.0%
B/C Ratio           4.55      5.9]
Average Incremental Cost (Rs per person)   =     137
Switching Values
499%      1959%        1237%   306%    -81%        -404%      -67%



- 1 74 -
Annex2 1
Table 4E
Table 4E: Scheme Benefits and Costs        Tubewell Handpumps - Foothills
Basic Population and Demand Parameters
(a) Present Population                 1000         (d) Design Population                 1486
(b) Population Growth Rate pa         2.0%          (e) Housenold Size                     5.5
(c) Planning Horizonl                   20          (f) Present Households                 182
Basic Cost Parameters
(a) Standard Conversion Factor                                         0.90
(b) Recurrent O&M cost (% of Hardware)                                 3.0%
( c ) O&M Cost (Mkt pnces Rs/initial households/month)                   14
Cost Estimates per Capita Present Population (Rs/scheme)
PlanningiDevelopment Phase                                    Implementation Phase
Mkt Price Border Prices    %                                   Mkt Price Border Prices   %
Software          154         139   65%                         Software         163         147    15%
Hardware           83          75   35%                         Hardware         935         842    85%
TOTAL             237         214                               TOTAL           1,098        989
Benefit Estimates
Time Savings'             Wet        Dry     Other      Total
(a) Proportion of water obtained   25%       100%      80%          205%             (c) Opportunity Cost of Labor Rs/day  35.00
outside of household                                                               (d) Value of Time Saved (Rs/hour)   2.38
(b) Weighted time saved'           6.6%      26.5%    21.2%        54.3%                                     (c)-(b)/8
Refer Annex 11 Table 3
Benefit I household           Benefit / capita
Hours    Mkt Pnce    Mkt Price          Mkt Price   Border Price Border Prices
per day   Rs/day     Re/year            Rseyear     Re/year    Rs 000/year
Time Savings                3.7        8.77    3,202                 582         524    0.524
Incremental Consumption     0.7        1.75      640                  116        105    0.105
Benefit Cost Flows IRs. '000)
COSTS                        BENEFITS                       NET BENEFIT             Incrwerwtl
Project                                              Time   Incremental               Total    Hardware   Population
Year     Hardware   O0M        Software    Total   Savings Consumption    Total                Only        Served
1   185.58315                59.229  244.812                                  -244.812    -185.583        1000
2   549.99945    19.861     170.937  740.797  267.257      53.451     320.709  -420.088    -249.151       1020
3   183.33315   24.811       58.979  265.123  435.996      87.199    523.196  258.073      315.052        1040
4           0   24.811            0   24.811   556.000    111.200    667.200  642.390      642.390        1061
5           0   24.811            0   24.811   567.005    113.401     680.406  655.595     655.595        1082
6                24.811                24.811   578.534    115.707    694.240  669.430     669.430        1104
7                24.811               24.811   590.062    118.012    708.075  683.264      683.264        1126
8                24.811                24.811   602.115    120.423    722.538  697.728     697.728        1149
9                24.811                24.811   614.168   122.834    737.002  712.191      712.191        1172
10                24.811               24.811   626.221    125.244    751.465  726.654      726.654        1195
11                24.811               24.811   638.798    127.760    766.557  741.746      741.746        1219
12                24.811               24.811   651.374    130.275    781.649  756.839      756.839        1243
13                24.811               24.811   664.475    132.895    797.370   772.560     772.560        128
14                24.811               24.811   677.576    135.515    813.091   788.281     788.281        1203
15                24.811               24.811   691.201    138.240    829.441   804.631     804.631        1319
16                24.811               24.811   704.826    140.965    845.791   820.980     820.980        1346
17                24.811               24.811   718.975    143.795    862.770  837.959      837.959        1372
18                24.811               24.811   733.124    146.625    879.749  854.938      854.938        1399
19                24.811               24.811   747.797    149.559    897.356  872.545      872.545        1427
20                24.811                24.811   762.994    152.599    915.593  890.782     890.782        1466
21                24.811               24.811   778.715    155.743    934.458  909.647      909.647        1486
22                24.811                24.811   778.715   155.743    934.458  909.647      909.647        1486
23                24.811               24.811   778.715    155.743    934.458  909.647      909.647        1486
24                24.811               24.811   775.715    155.743    934.458  909.647      909.647        1486
PV at Disc. Rate of
12%     734.6      187.1       229.7   1,131.4  4,389.2    877.8    5,267.1  3,571.3        3,801.1     8,925.9
EIRR          =    62.2%      84.7%
B/C Ratio           4.66      5.71
Average Incremental Cost (Rs per person)    =     127
Switching Values
486%       1909%       1555%   316%      -81%        -407%      -68%



- 1 7 -
Annexv I
Table 4F
Table 4F: Scheme Benefits and Costs         Tubewell Electric Pump - Foothills
Basic Population and Demand Parameters
(a) Present Population                 2045          (d) Design Population                3039
(b) Population Growth Rate pa          2.0%          (e) Household Size                    6.6
(c) Planning Horizon)                    20         ff) Present Households                 372
Basic Cost Parameters
(a) Standard Conversion Factor                                         0.90
(b) Recurrent O&M cost (% of Hardware)                                 5.0%
( c ) O&M Cost (Mht prices Rs/initial households/month)                  36
Cost Estimates per Capita Present Population (Rs/scheme)
Planning/Development Phase                                    Implementation Phase
Mki Price Border Prices    %                                   Mkt Price Border Prices   %
Software          128         115   66%                         Software         143         129     9%
Hardware           67          60   34%                         Hardware        1,492       1,343    91%
TOTAL             195         175                               TOTAL           1,635       1.472
Benefit Estimates
Time Savings'             Wet        Dry      Other     Total
(a) ProDortion of water obtained   25%        100%     80%          205%             (c) Opportunrty Cost of Labor Rs/day    35.00
outside of household'                                                              (d) Value of Time Saved (Rs/hour)   2.38
(b) Weighted time saved'           6.6%      26.5%    21.2%         54.3%                                    (c)'(b)/8
Refer Annex 11 Table 3
Benefit / household           Benefit / capita
Hours    Mkt Price    Mkt Price         Mkt Price   Border Price Border Prices
per day   Rs/day     Rs/year            Rs/year    Rs/year     Rs 000/year
Time Savings                3.9        9.27    3,384                  615        554     0.554
Incremental Consumption     0.8        1.85      677                  123        111     0.111
Benefit Cost Flows (Rs. '000)
COSTS                        BENEFITS                       NET BENEFIT             Incremental
Project                                               Time   Incremental              Total    Hardware   Population
Year     Hardware     O&M      Software    Total   Savings Consumption    Total                 Only       Served
1   576.077958              101.772  677.850                                   -677.850    -576.078       2045
2  1721.483874   103.390    298.566 2123.440  577.605    115.521      693.127 -1430.314   -1131.748       2086
3   573.827958   129.213     99.522  802.562  942.776      188.555   1131.331   328.769     428.291       2128
4           0  129.213            0  129.213 1202.283    240.457   1442.740  1313.527    1313.527         2171
5           0  129.213            0  129.213  1226.096    245.219    1471.316  1342.103    1342.103       2214
6               129.213               129.213 1250.463    250.093   1500.556  1371.343    1371.343        2258
7               129213                129.213  1275384     255.077   1530.461  1401.248    1401 248       2303
8                129213               129.213 1300.858    260.172    1561.030  1431.818    1431.818       2349
9               129.213               129.213 1326.887    265.377    1592.264  1463.051    1463.051       2396
10               129.213               129.213 1353.469    270.694   1624.162  1494.950    1494.950        2444
11               129.213               129.213 1380.605    278.121    1656.725  1527.513    1527.513       2493
12               129.213               129.213 1408.294    281.659   1689.953  1560.740    1560.740        2543
13               129.213               129.213  1436.538    287.308   1723.845  1594.633    1594.633       2594
14               129.213               129.213  1465.335    293.067   1758.402  1629.189    1829.189       2646
15               129.213               129.213 1494.686    298.937   1793.623  1664.410    1664.410        2699
16               129.213               129.213 1524.591    304.918   1829.509  1700.296    1700.296        2753
17               129.213               129.213 1555.049    311.010   1888.059  1738.846    1736.846        2808
18               129.213               129.213 1586.061    317.212   1903.274  1774.061    1774.061        2864
19               129.213               129.213 1617.628    323.526    1941.153 1811.941    1811.941        2921
20               129.213               129.213 1649.748    329.950   1979.697 1850.485    1850.485         2979
21               129.213               129.213 1682.975    336.595   2019.570  1890.358    1890.358        3039
22               129 213               129.213 1682.975    336.595   2019.570  1890.358    1890.358        3039
23               129 213               129.213 1682.975    336.595   2019.570  1890.358    1890.358        3039
24               129.213               129.213 1682.975    336.595   2019.570  1890.358    1890.358        3039
PV at Disc Rate of
12%     2,295.2   974.3        399.7   3,564.7  9,4887       1,897.7  11,386.5  6,601 8     7,001.5    18,258.6
EIRR          =     44.0%      52.2%
B/C Ratio     =      3 19      348
Average Incremental Cost (Rs per person)          195
Switching Values
288%      678%         1652%   185%    -70%         -348%       -58%



- 176 -
Annex 2 1
Table 4G
Table 4G: Scheme Benefits and Costs         Stream Electric Pump - Foothills
Basic Population and Demand Parameters
(a) Present Population                 1380          (d) Design Population                2051
(b) Population Growth Rate pa          2.0%          (e) Household Size                    5.6
(c) Planning Horizon)                    20          (f) Present Households                251
Basic Cost Parameters
(a) Standard Conversion Factor                                         0.90
(b) Recurrent O&M cost (% of Hardware)                                 6.0%
(c ) O&M Cost (Mkt prices Rs/indial households/month)                    58
Cost Estimates per Capita Present Population (Rs/scheme)
Planning/Development Phase                                    Implementation Phase
Mkt Price Border Prices    %                                   Mkt Price Border Prices   %
Software          155         140   77%                         Software         135         122     5%
Hardware           45          41   23%                         Hardware        2,495       2,246    95%
TOTAL             200         181                               TOTAL           2,630       2,368
Benefit Estimates
Time Savings'             Wet        Dry      Other     Total
(a) Proportion of water obtained   25%        100%      80%         205%             (c) Opportunity Cost of Labor Rs/day    35.00
outside of household'                                                              (d) Value of Time Saved (Rs/hour)  2.38
(b) Weighted time saved'           6.6%      26.5%     21.2%        54.3%                                    (c)'(by8
Refer Annex 11 Table 3
Benefit / household            Benefit / capita
Hours    Mkt Price    Mkt Price         MIt Price   Border Price Border Prices
per day   Rs/day     Rs/year            Re/year    Rs/year    Rs 000/year
Time Savings                4.0        9.47    3,455                  628        565    0.565
Incrementai Consumption     0.8        1.89      691                  126        113    0.113
Benefit Cost Flows (Rs. '0001
COSTS                         BENEFITS                      NET BENEFIT            Irncremental
Project                                               Time   Incremental              Total    Hardware   Population
Year     Hardware     O&M      Software     Total   Savings Consumption    Total                Only       Served
1   633.18816               74.3229  707.511                                   -707.511    -633.188       1380
2   1892.81448   113.670    216.2187 2222.703  398.034      79.607    477.641 -1745.063   -1528.844       1408
3    630.93816   142.062     72.0729  845.073  649.519    129.904    779.423  -65.651        6.422        1436
4           0   142.062           0  142.062  828.295    165.659    993.954  851.891       851.891        1465
5           0  142.062            0  142.062  844.691      168.938   1013.629  871.567     871.567        1494
6               142.062               142.062  861.653    172.331    1033.983  891.921     891.921        1524
7               142.062               142.062  878.614    175.723   1054.337  912.275      912.275        1554
8               142.062               142.062  896.141     179.228   1075.370  933.307     933.307        1585
9               142.062               142.062  914.234    182.847   1097.081   955.018     955.018        1617
10               142.062               142.062  932.326    186.465   1118.792  976.729      976.729        189
11               142.062               142.062  950.984    190.197   1141.181   999.119     999.119        1682
12               142.062               142.062  970.207    194.041    1164.249  1022.187    1022.187       1716
13               142.062               142.062  989.431     197.886   1187.317  1045.254    1045.254       1750
14               142.062               142.062 1009.219    201.844   1211.063  1069.001    1069.001        1785
15               142.062               142.062 1029.573    205.915   1235.488 1093.426    1093.426         1821
16               142.062               142.062 1049.927    209.985   1259.913  1117.850    1117.850        1857
17               142.062               142.062 1070.847    214.169   1285.016  1142.954    1142.954        1894
18               142.062               142.062 1092.331     218.466   1310.798  1168.735    1168.735       1932
19               142.062               142.062 1114.382    222.876   1337.258  1195.196    1195.196        1971
20               142.062               142.062  1136.432    227.286   1363.718  1221.656    1221.656       2010
21               142.062               142.062 1159.613    231.923   1391.535  1249.473    1249.473        2051
22               142.062               142.062 1159.613    231.923    1391.535  1249.473    1249.473       2051
23               142.062               142.062 1159.613    231.923   1391.535  1249.473    1249.473        2051
24               142.062               142.062 1159.613    231.923   1391.535  1249.473    1249.473        2051
PV at Disc. Rate of
12%     2,523.4    1071.1      290.0   3769.8   6,536.9      1,307.4  7,844.2  3,234.0      3,524.0     12,320.7
EIRR          =    26.9%      30.0%
B/C Ratio     =    2.08       2.18
Average Incremental Cost (Rs per person)    =     306
Switching Values
128%      302%         1115%   86%       -49%       -247%      -41%



- 177 -
Annex 2 1
Table 4H
Table 4H: Scheme Benefits and Costs         Stream Gravity * Foothills
Basic Population and Demand Parameters
(a) Present Population                  574         (d) Design Population                 853
(b) Population Growth Rate pa          2.0%          (e) Household Size                    5.6
1(c) Planning Horizon)                   20          (n Present Households                 104
Basic Cost Parameters
(a) Standard Conversion Factor                                         0.90
(b) Recurrent O&M cost (% of Hardware)                                3.0%
I c ) O&M Cost (Mxt prices Rs/initial householdsimonth)                 40
Cost Estimates per Capita Present Population (Rs/scheme)
PlanninglDevelopment Phase                                    Implementation Phase
Mkt Price  Border Prices    %                                 Mkt Price Border Prices   %
Software          217         195   74%                         Software         169         152    6%
Hardware           74          67   26%                         Hardware       2,833       2,550    94%
TOTAL             291         262                               TOTAL           3.002      2.702
Benefit Estimates
Time Savings"             Wet        Dry     Other      Total
(a) Proportion of water obtained   25%        100%     80%          205%            (c) Opportunity Cost of Labor RAsday    35.00
outside of household'                                                              (d) Value of Time Saved (Rs/hour)  2.38
(b) Weighted time saved"           6.6%      26.5%    21.2%        54-3%                                    (c)'(b)/8
' Refer Annex 11 Table 3
Benefit / household           Benefit / caetta
Hours    Mkt Price    Mkt Price         Mit Price   Border Price Border Prices
per day   Rs/day     Rs/year            Rs/year    Rs/year    Rs 000/year
Time Savings                3.8        8.98     3,277                 596        536     0.538
Incremental Consumption     0.8        1 80      655                  119        107    0.107
Benefit Cost Flows (Rs. '000)
COSTS                        BENEFITS                       NET BENEFIT            Incremental
Project                                              Time   Incremental               Totatl    Herdwatre   Population
Year     Hardwvare   -O&M      Software    Tobel   Savings Consumption    Tobli                Only       Served
1   302.554026               42.084  344 638                                   -3.44.638    -302.554      574
2   900.912078    32.494     119.502  1052.908  156.868    31.374    188.241  -864.666    -745.164        585
3   300.304026    40.602     39.834  380.740  258.137      51.227    307.364   -73.376      -33.542       597
4            0   40.602           0   40.602  326.607      65.321     391.928   351.326    351.326        609
5            0   40.602           0   40.602  333.042      68.608    399.651   359.049     359.049        621
6                40.602                40.602  339.478     67 896    407.373  368.771      388.771        633
7                40.602                40.602  346.450     69.290    415.740   375.138     375.138        S48
8                40.602                40.602  353.421     70.684    424.106   383.504     383.504        659
9                40.602                40 602  360.393     72.079    432.472   391.870     391.870        672
10                40 602                40 602  367 365     73 473    440.838   400 237     400.237        685
11                40.602                40 602  374 873     74.975    449 848   409.246     409.246        6S9
12                40.602                40.602  382.382     76.476    458.858   418.258     418.256        713
13                40.602                40.602  389.890     77.978    487.88    427.266     427.268        727
14                40.602                40.602  397.934     79.587    477.521   438.919     43'.919        742
15                40.602                40.602  405.979     81.196    487.175   448.573     448.573        757
18                40.602                40.602  414.023     82.805    49e.828   458.226     456.226        772
17                40.602                40.602  422.068     84.414    506.481   465.880     485.880        787
18                40.602             - 40.602  430.649      88.130    518.778   476.177     478.177        803
19                40.602                40.802  439.229     87.846    527.075   486.474     48S.474        819
20                40.602                40.602  447.810     89.562    537.372   496.770     498.770        835
21                40 602                40 602  457.464     91.493    548.956   508.355     508.355        853
22                40.602                40.602  457.464     91.493    548.956   508.355     508.355        853
23                40.602                40 602  457.464     91.493    548.956   508.355     508.355        853
24                40.602                40.602  457.464     91.493    548.956   508.355     508.355        853
PV at Disc. Rate of
12%     1,202 1    306.1   161.2   1,636.6  2,577.0       5)5.4    3,092.5   1,124.5       1,285.7     5,121.1
EIRR           =     22.9%      26.1%
B/C Ratio      =      1 89      2.05
Average Incremental Cost (Rs per person)      =     320
Switching Values
94%        367%    698%    69%        -44%        -218%       -36%
Page 1



- 178 -
Annex 2 1
Table 41
Table 41: Scheme fBenefits and Costs       Artesian Handpumps - Foothills
Basic Population and Demand Parameters
(a) Present Population                1000         (d) Design Population                1486
(b) Population Growth Rate pa         2.0%         (e) Household Size                    6.6
(c) Planning Horizon)                   20          (f) Present Housenolds               182
Basic Cost Parameters
(a) Standard Conversion Factor                                        0.90
(b) Recurrent O&M cost (% of Hardware)                               3.0%
( c ) O&M Cost (Mkt prices Rs/initial households/month)                21
Cost Estimates per Capita Present Population (Rs/scheme)
PlanningiDevelopment Phase                                   Implementation Phase
Mkt Price Border Prices    %                                  Mkt Price Border Prices  %
Software         191          172   82%                        Software         163        147    10%
Hardware          42          38   18%                         Hardware       1.467       1,320    90%
TOTAL             233         210                              TOTAL          1,830       1,467
Benefit Estimates
Time Savings'            Wet        Dry      Other     Total
(a) Proportion of water obtained  25%        100%     80%          205%            (c) Opportunity Cost of Labor Rs/day   35.00
outside of household'                                                            (d) Value of Time Saved (Rs/hour)  2.38
(b) Weighted time saved'          6.6%      26.5%    21.2%        54.3%                                    (c)-(b)/8
Refer Annex 11 Table 3
Benefit I household           Benefit I capita
Hours    Mkt Price    Mkt Price        Mkt Price   Border Price Border Prices
per day   Rs/day     Rs/year           Rstyear    Rs/year    Rs 000/year
Time Savings               3.7        8.77    3,202                 582        524    0.524
Incremental Consumption    0.7        1.75      640                 116         105    0.105
Benelit Cost Flows (Rs. '000)
COSTS                        BENEFITS                      NET BENEFIT           Incremental
Project                                             Time   Incremental              Total    Hardware  Population
Year    Hardware   O0M        Software    Total   Savings Consumption    Total                Only      Served
1   273.87135                65.907  339.778                                 -339.778    -273.871      1000
2    814.86405   29.396     190.971  1035.231   267.257   53.451    320.709  -714.522    -523.551      1020
3    271.62135   38.730      63.657  372.008  435.996     87.199    523.196  151.188     214.845       1040
4           0   38.730           0   36.730  556.000    111.200    667.200  630.471      630.471       1081
5           0   38.730           0   36.730  567.005    113.401    680.406  643.676      643.676       1082
6                36.730               36.730   578.534    115.707    694.240  657.511    657.511       1104
7                36.730               36.730  590.062    118.012    708.075  671.345     671.345       1126
8                36.730               36.730  602.115    120.423    722.538  685.809     685.809       1149
9                36.730               36.730  614.168    122.834    737.002  700.272     700.272       1172
10                36.730               36.730  626.221    125.244    751.465  714.735     714.735       1195
11               3a.730                36.730  638.798    127.760    766.557  729.828     729.828       1219
12                36.730               36.730  651.374    130.275    781.649  744.920     744.920       1243
13               36.730                36.730  664.475    132.895    797.370  760.641     780.641       1268
14                36.730               36.730  677.576    135.515    813.091   776.362    776.362       1293
15                36.730               36.730  691.201    138.240    829.441  792.712     792.712       1319
16                36.730               36.730  704.826    140.965    845.791  809.062     809.062       1345
17                36.730               36.730   718.975    143.795    862.770  826.040    826.040       1372
18               36.730                36.730   733.124    146.625    879.749  843.019    843.019       1399
19               36.730                36.730  747.797    149.559    897.356  860.627     860.627       1427
20                36.730               36.730   762.994    152.599    915.593  878.863    878.863       1456
21                36.730               36.730  778.715    155.743    934.458  897.728     897.728       1486
22                36.730               36.730  778.715    155.743    934.458  897.728     897.728       1486
23                36.730               36.730  778.715    155.743    934.458  897.728     897.728       1486
24                36.730               36.730  778.715    155.743    934.458  897.728     897.728       1486
PV at Disc. Rate of
12%     1,087.5   276.9       2564    1,591.1  4,389.2    877.8    5,267.1  3,111.6    3,368.0    8,925.9
EIRR          =    42.5%      53.3%
B/C Ratio     =    3.31       3.86
Average Incremental Cost (Rs per person)   =    178
Switching Values
286%      1124%       1214%   196%    -71%         -354%      -59%



- 179 -
Annex 2 1
Table 4J: Scheme Benefits and Costs         Tubewell Electric Pump - Bundelkhand                                    Table 4J
Basic Population and Demand Parameters
(a) Present Population                 1560           (d) Design Population                2318
(b) Population Growth Rate pa          2.0%          (e) Household Size                      5.6
(c) Planning Horizon)                    20           (fi Present Households                284
Basic Cost Parameters
(a) Standard Conversion Factor                                          0.90
(b) Recurrent O&M cost (% of Hardware)                                  5.0%
( c ) O&M Cost (Mkt prices Rs/initial households/month)                   48
Cost Estimates per Capita Present Population (Rs/scheme)
Planning/Development Phase                                     Implementation Phase
Mkt Price Border Prices    %                                    Mkt Price Border Prices   %
Software          153          138   78%                         Software          126         113     6%
Hardware           44           40   22%                         Hardware        2,072       1,865    94%
TOTAL             197          178                               TOTAL           2,198       1,978
Benefit Estimates
Time Savings              Wet         Dry     Other      Total
(a) Proportion of water obtained    25%        100%     80%          205%             (c) Opportunity Cost of Labor Rs/day    35.00
outside of household'                                                                (d) Value of Time Saved (Rslhour)  2 38
(b) Weighted time saved'            66%       26.5%    21 2%         54 3%                                     (c)'(b)/8
Refer Annex 11 Table 3
Benefit / capita
Hours    Mkt Price    Mkt Price          Mkt Price   Border Price Border Prices
per day   Rs/day      Rstyear            Rs/year    Rs/year     Rs 000/year
Time Savings                2.8         6.65    2,429                  442         397     0 397
Incremental Consumption     0.6         1.33      486                   88          79     0.079
Benefit Cost Flows (Rs. '0001
COSTS                         BENEFITS                       NET BENEFIT             Incremental
Pro)ect                                                Time   Incremental              Total    Hardvvare   Population
Year     Hardware     O&M       Software    Total   Savings Consumption    Total                 Only        Served
1      596.649                80.704  677.353                                   -677.353    -596.649       1560
2    1.783.198   107,093     235.362 2125.652  316.164       63.233    379.396 -1746.256   -1510.894       1591
3      594.399  133.841       78.454   808.694  516.036    103.207    619.243  -187.451    -108.997         16'23
4           0   133.841            0   133.841  657.763     131.553    789.316  655.475      655.475        1655
5           0   133.841            0   133.841  670.879    134.176    805.055  671.213       671 213       1688
6               133.841                133.841   684.392    136.878    821.270   687.429     687.429        1722
7               133 841                133.841   697 905    139.581    837.486   703.645     703 645        1756
8                133.841               133.841   711.815    142363     854.178   720.337     720.337        1791
9                133.841               133.841   726.123    145.225    871.348   737.506     737.506        1827
10               133.841                133.841   740.828   148.166    888.994   755.153      755.153       1864
11               133.841                133.841   755.533    151.107    908.640   772.799     772.799       1901
12               133.841                133.841   770.636    154 127    924 763   790.922     790.922        1939
13               133.841                133.841   786.136    157 227    943.364  809.523      809.523       1978
14               133.841               133.841   802.034    160.407    962.441   828.600      828.600       2018
15               133.841                133.841   817.932    163.586    981.518   847.677     847.677       2058
16               133 841             - 133.841   834.227    166.845    1001.072   867.231     867.231       2099
17               133 841                133.841   850.919    170 184   1021.103   887.262     887 262       2141
18               133.841                133.841   868.009    173.602    1041.611   907.770    907 770       2184
19               133.841                133.841   885.496    177.099   1062.596   928.755     928.755       2228
20            -  133841                 133.841   903.381    180.676   1084.057   950.216     950.216       2273
21               133.841                133.841   921.266    184.253    1105.519   971.678    971.678       2318
22               133841                 133.841   921.266    184.253    1105.519   971.678    971.678       2318
23               133.841                133.841   921.266    184.253    1105.519   971 678    971.678       2318
24               133.841                133.841   921.266    184.253    1105.519   971.678    971.678       2318
PV at Disc. Rate of
12%     2,3774    1,009.2       315.5   3,593.9  5,192.9      1,038.6  6,231.4   1,969.9     2,285.4     13,923.9
E[RR           =     21.6%     24 5%
B/C Ratio      =     1 73      1.84
Average Incremental Cost (Rs per person)           258
Switching Values
83%        195%        624%    55%        -38%       -190%       -32%



- 180 -
Annex21
Table 4K
Table 4K: Scheme Benefits and Costs        Handpumps - Bundelkhand
Basic Populabon and Demand Parameters
(a) Present Population                1000           (d) Design Population                  1406
(b) Populabon Growth Rate pa          2.0%           (e) Household Size                       5.5
(c) Planning Horizon)                   20           (f) Present Households                   182
Basic Cost Parameters
(a) Standard Conversion Factor                                           0.90
(b) Recurrent O&M cost (% of Hardware)                                  3.0%
(c ) O&M Cost (Mkt prices Rsrinitial households/month)                    18
Cost Estimates per Capita Present Population (Rs/scheme)
Planning_ Development Phase                                     Implementation Phase
Mkt Price Border Prices  %                                      Mkt Price   Border Prices   %
Software          191         172   83%                           Software          163         147    11%
Hardware           39          35    17%                          Hardware         1,293      116.4    89%
TOTAL             230         207                                 TOTAL            1,458      1,311
Benefit Estimates
Time Savings              Wet        Dry       Other      Total
(a) Proportion of water obtained   25%       100%       80%           205%             (c) Opportunity Cost of Labor Rs/day  35.00
outside of household                                                                (d) Value of Time Saved (Rs/hour)    2.38
(b) Weighted bme saved'           6.6%       26.5%      21.2%        54.3%                                      (c) (b)18
Refer Annex 11 Table 3
Benefit / household              Benefit / capita
Hours    Mit Price    Mkt Price           Mkt Price   Border Price Border Prices
per day   Rs/day     Rs/year              Rs/year    Rs/year    Rs 000/year
Time Savings               2.6        6.29      2.296                  417        376       0.376
Incremental Consumption    0.5        1.28       459                    83         75       0.075
Benefit Cost Flows (Rs. '000)
COSTS                          BENEFITS                       NET BENEFIT             Incremental
Project                                                Time    Incremental              Total    Hardware   Population
Year    Hardware    O&M       Software     Total    Savings  Consumption    Total                 Only       Seved
1     241.993                65.907   307.900                                     -307.900    -241.993      1000
2      719.230   25.953     190.971    936.154    191.628    38.326    229.954   -706.200    -515.229       1020
3      239.743   32.426      63.657   335.826    312.617     62.523    375.141     39.314     102.971       1040
4           0   32.426           0    32.426   398.662       79.732    478.395    445.969     445.969       1081
5           0   32.426           0    32.426   408.553       81.311    487.863    455.437     455.437       1062
6                32.428                32.426   414.819      82.964    497.783    465.357     465.357       1104
7                32.426                32.426   423.085      84.617    507.702    475.276     475.276       1126
8                32.426                32.426   431.727      88.345    518.073    485.647     485.647       1149
9                32.426                32.426   440.370      68.074    528.443    496.017     496.017       1172
10                32.426                32.426   449.012      89.802    538.814    508.388     508.388       1195
11                32.426                32.426   458.029      91.606    549.635    517.209     517.209       1219
12                32.426                32.426   467.047      93.409    560.457    528.031     528.031       1243
13                32.426                32.426   476.441      95.288    571.729    539.303     539.303       1268
14                32.426                32.426   485.834      97.167    583.001    550.575     550.575       1293
15                32.426                32.426   495.604      99.121    594.724    562.298     562.298       1319
16                32.426                32.426   505.373     101.075    600.447    574.021     574.021       1345
17                32.426                32.426   515.518    103.104    618.622    586.195      556.195       1372
18                32.426                32.426   525.663     105.133    630.796    598.369     596.369       1399
19                32.426                32.426   536.184    107.237    643.420    610.994      610.994       1427
20                32.426                32.426   547.080     109.416    656.496    624.070     624.070       1456
21                32.426                32.426   558.353     111.671    670.023    637.597     637.597       1486
22                32.426                32.426   558.353     111.671    670.023    637.597     637.597       1486
23                32.426                32.426   558.353     111.671    670.023    637.597     637.597       1488
24                32.426                32.426   558.353     111.671    670.023    637.597     637.597       1486
PV at Disc. Rate of
12%     960.1       244.5  256.4    1,434.8   3,147.2      629.4      3,776.6   1,937.2      2,193.6      8,925.9
EIRR            =     32.9%      42.0%
B/C Ratio       =     2.63       3.14
Average Incremental Cost (Rs per person)       =      161
Switching Values
202%       792%   756%    135%        -62%         -308%       -51%



Table 4L: Summary of EIRRs, NPVs, B/C Ratios and Average Incremental Costs for Individual Schemes
(i.e. assumes that each scheme commences in Year 1)
Scheme Type         EIRR        EIRR  NPV/I    NPV /1                Switching Values           B/C Ratio     B/C Ratio    AIC
Total   Hardware  Total   Hardware   Hardware O&M   Software   Benefits    Total         Hardware    Rs/capita
Only                        Cost    Cost    Cost                                Only
SpringGravity              23.9%      28.9%    880      1,049    108%       426%    521%    -38%       1.97             2.25      326
Wel with Handpump           60.0%     88.0%   1,867     2,018     499%     1,959%   1,237%    -67%    4.55               5.91      137
Stream Gravity             25.8%      30.4%   1,066     1,217    123%       484%    706%       -42%    2.10             2.35      302
StreamPumping              27.4%      31.7%   1,586     1,771    137.1%     323%    856%       -42%    2.12             2.29      285
Foothills
ArtesianWells&Pumps        42.5%      53.3%   3,112    3,368     286%      1,124%   1,214%    -59%     3.31             3.86      178
Stream Gravity             22.9%      26.1%   1,124     1,286     94%        367%    698%    -36%      1.89             2.05      320
Stream River(Pump)         26.9%      30.0%   3,234    3,524     128%        302%   1,115%    -41%    2.08              2.18      306
Deep Tubewell (Pumnp)      44.0%      52.2%   6,602    7,001     287.6%      678%   1,652%    -58%    3.19              3.48      195
Deep Tubewel (Handpump)   62.2%       84.7%   3,571    3,801     486.1%    1,909%   1,555%    -68%    4.66              5.71      127
Bundelkhand
Deep TubeweD (Pump)        21.6%      24.5%   1,970    2,285      82.9%      195%    624%    -32%      1.73             1.84      258
DeepTubewell(Handpump)   32.9%        42.0%   1,937     2,194    201%        792%    756%    -51%    2.63               3.14      161
/1 in Rs. '000 at 10% discount rate.
>3 D



- 182 -
Annex 21
Table 5
Table 5: Number of Schemes at Various Levels
Project    Pre- Planning Implemenation     Total
Year Planning
1      124        0             0       124
2      276      124             0       400
3      377      276           108       761
4      373      377           242       992
5        0      373           325       698
6        0        0           325       325
7        0        0             0         0
Total        1,150    1,150         1,000



Table 6: Benefit Cost Flows (Rs. '000) - All Schmes
(with staggered starts as per project design)
COSTS                          BENEFITS                         NET BENEFIT               Inc.
Project                                               Time       Inc.                   Total    Hardware    Popn.
Year    Hardware    O&M       Software    Total     Savings  Consumption    Total                 Only      Served
1      558.0                            558.0                                       -558.0     -558.0
2     6,047.3             13,754.1    19,801.4                                   -19,801.4   -6,047.3
3   113,161.2    3,007.0   48,251.4   164,419.7   14,978.6    2,995.7   17,974.3  -146,445.4   -98,194.0    56,346
4   303,315.2   13,218.7   81,269.2   397,803.0   66,908.5   13,381.7   80,290.2  -317,512.9  -236,243.7   243,198
5   450,332.8   29,842.5   94,481.8   574,657.1  160,783.0   32,156.6    192,939.7  -381,717.4  -287,235.7   512,154
6   540,496.1   52,927.0   40,664.2   634,087.3  285,572.2   57,114.4    342,686.6  -291,400.7  -250,736.5   816,904
7               52,927.0              52,927.0  357,381.3   71,476.3    428,857.6  375,930.6  375,930.6   833,198
8               52,927.0   ,          52,927.0  392,408.1   78,481.6    470,889.7  417,962.7  417,962.7   849,847
9               52,927.0              52,927.0  400,298.3   80,059.7    480,357.9  427,430.9  427,430.9   866,923
10               52,927.0              52,927.0  408,319.7   81,663.9    489,983.6  437,056.6   437,056.6   884,300
11               52,927.0              52,927.0  416,453.9   83,290.8    499,744.7  446,817.7  446,817.7   901,925
12               52,927.0              52,927.0  424,769.8   84,954.0    509,723.8  456,796.8  456,796.8   919,936
13               52,927.0              52,927.0  433,273.4   86,654.7    519,928.1  467,001.1   467,001.1   938,350
14               52,927.0              52,927.0  441,974.6   88,394.9    530,369.5  477,442.5   477,442.5   957,180    L
15               52,927.0              52,927.0  450,807.2   90,161.4    540,968.6  488,041.6   488,041.6   976,297
16               52,927.0              52,927.0  459,805.4   91,961.1    551,766.5  498,839.5  498,839.5   995,789
17               52,927.0              52,927.0  468,995.4   93,799.1    562,794.5  509,867.5  509,867.5  1,015,699
18               52,927.0              52,927.0  478,362.4   95,672.5    574,034.8  521,107.8   521,107.8  1,035,989
19              52,927.0               52,927.0  487,910.8   97,582.2    585,492.9  532,565.9  532,565.9  1,056,654
20               52,927.0              52,927.0  497,656.0   99,531.2    597,187.2  544,260.2  544,260.2  1,077,749
21               52,927.0              52,927.0  507,598.5  101,519.7    609,118.2  556,191.2  556,191.2  1,099,282
22               52,927.0              52,927.0  517,794.3  103,558.9    621,353.2  568,426.2  568,426.2  1,121,370
23               52,927.0              52,927.0  527,378.7  105,475.7    632,854.5  579,927.5  579,927.5  1,142,383
24               52,927.0              52,927.0  534,654.1  106,930.8    641,585.0  588,658.0  588,658.0  1,158,345
PV at Disc. Rate of
12%  807.990.3 248.685.0   171,170.4 1,227,845.7 1,863,574.4 372,714.9 2,236,289.3 1,008,443.5 1,179,614.0 4,335,822
EIRR           =            26.4%      32.8%            H >
BICRatio       =            1.82      2.12
Average Incremental Cost (Rs per person)  =       283                         O x
Switching Values                                                                                                        0 
125%         406%        589%         82%      -54%      -271%    -45%



Table 7: Benefit and Costs of the Total Project (Rs. '000)
(with staggered starts as per project design)
Project  Studies    PMU      Sub total    Scheme     Total     Scheme       Total        PopN     Number of Schemes at Stage:
Year    TAs       Costs      Project    Costs      Project    Benefits     Project     Served
Overhead                Costs                   Net                  Pre-    Planning  Implemen
Costs                                        Benefit               Planning         -ation
1  1,464.8    17,863.3    19,328.0     558.0    19,886.0              -19,886.0                  124
2 22,934.2    49,407.0    72,341.2    19,801.4    92,142.6             -92,142.6                 276      124
3 17,508.2    73,366.0    90,874.2   164,419.7   255,293.9    17,974.3   -237,319.7   56,346     377      276     108
4  9,523.2    73,803.4    83,326.6   397,803.0   481,129.6    80,290.2   -400,839.5  243,198     373      377     242
5 12,201.6    33,613.8   45,815.4   574,657.1   620,472.5   192,939.7   -427,532.9   512,154              373     325
6  9,783.6    30,812.4   40,596.0   634,087.3   674,683.3   342,686.6   -331,996.6   816,904                      325
7             27,491.9   27,491.9    52,927.0    80,418.9   428,857.6    348,438.7   833,198
8                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   470,889.7    417,962.7    849,847
9                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   480,357.9    427,430.9    866,923
10                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   489,983.6    437,056.6    884,300
11                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   499,744.7    446,817.7    901,925
12                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   509,723.8    456,796.8    919,936                            m
13                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   519,928.1    467,001.1    938,350
14                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   530,369.5    477,442.5    957,180
15                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   540,968.6    488,041.6    976,297
16                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   551,766.5    498,839.5    995,789
17                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   562,794.5    509,867.5    1,015,699
18                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   574,034.8    521,107.8    1,035,989
19                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   585,492.9    532,565.9    1,056,654
20                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   597,187.2    544,260.2    1,077,749
21                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   609,118.2    556,191.2    1,099,282
22                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   621,353.2    568,426.2    1,121,370
23                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   632,854.5    579,927.5    1,142,383
24                                   52,927.0    52,927.0   641,585.0    588,658.0    1,158,345
PV at Disc. Rate of
12%   49,985.2  251.580.1  251.565.2  1.227.845.7  1.479,411.0  2,236,289.3  756,873.3  4,335,821.9
1,150    1,150    1,000
=            20.4%
B/C Rato                   =            1.51
Average Incremental Cost (Rs per person)          =            341 D x
Switching Values
1514%     375%      301%          62%        51%       -34 %



- 185 -
Annex 22
Pa ae 1 of I
INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water And Environmental Sanitation Project
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
I.    Monthly Progress Report of Pilot Study - Prepared by PSU Foundation
Lucknow
(i)    November 1994;
(ii)   December 1994;
(iii)  January 1995,
(iv)   February 1995,
(v)   March 1995
Draft Final Report of PSU Study - May 1995
(i)    Volume I (Main text);
(ii)   Volume II (Annexures),
(iii)   Socio Economic Survey;
(iv)   NGO inventory;
(v)   Prototype of Project Information Pamphlet.
3.    Final Report - Planning Phase of the Pilot Community Planning (CP) and
Hygiene Education (HE) activities, experience, lessons, findings and strategy.
Prepared by PSU Foundation, Lucknow
(i)    Volume I (Main Text) September 1995
(ii)   Volume II (Annex) September 1995.
4.    Need of Artificial Recharge in 25 Districts of UP - Status Paper (prepared
by M.I. Department, GOUP (December 1994).
5.    Ground Water Surveys and Investigation for Drinking Water in UP (World
Bank Project) - prepared by Ground Water Department, GOUP. (October 1994).
6     CP-HE Strategy Paper prepared by PMU. (March, 1995)
7     Sanitation Strategy Paper - prepared by PMU.
8     Time Savings (Economic Criteria) study prepared by Giri Institute of
Development Studies, Lucknow.
9.    NGO Assessment.






IBRD 27982
32                    78                                          80                                           82                                           84               32
j
-                                                                                         INDIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY
, TTARKASH               4                                                       AND ENVIRONMENTAL
,S_    MRAIRKASHI            ;t 
'b' . t '  s.                                         SANITATION PROJECT
,DIN' _ \@                         CHAMOIJ 
A     * h.     tEHD.   ARHWAL/            0                                '                                            PROJECT DISTRICTS'
V          CIiOIIiLII   (                               I                    - < PmpORAG^ '    - RIVERS
-30,                                                    £                            / THOAGA n                            0      DISTRICT CAPITALS                          30
O                          GARHWAI                                                                                            STATE CAPITAL
ALMORA          ',          , /                                                  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
Al o        rah                                                    -         STATE BOUNDARIES
.    MnO~Foro  o                    _t                               _;                                               -' -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Oilor                   Nni TalO0
!   i rOB,1nor                         t NoiniTalO  \'Includes the ne' c,smct of Udhonm Shngh
} .)                      NAINITAL    >                            J                             Nagoa- n the Hdi1s egmor, the bo-nd-ry
/ J                              _                          _                                                 of whIch            b -t ava le at tie of
0Meert                                                  o Morpd,bod  ipubl;cot,on
0- OGizgobrod    |                     Raompur                                                                                        I 25   S0    75   100 K,lometers
4\                                                         I~;>uodhhx                                                       I      I       I       I
*  .  mloodshoh'hm  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~0P,Ibh,t                                                                    1 _____________
o                                                               0        25        50       75        1 00 Mes
'  \.   <'                    ~~~~~~Ba-elly 
28       '               oh                   0                                    Lokhimp.r            ,                                                                    28
B.do.n                               0                     %, 
-      Sh.hoahanp,r 0                                             '
00                                                                       StP'0
Mathuro0a  ,               h         Fathor        S4topor                               Boch m'&
H '&,   )    Hardol  b            9                             Sano. Ka o       #
S        Agra                    inpuri                         ,                                                 Chau,ahO                                        j
*    ~~~~~~   }        9  \  )                           _ < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Faiz       Bas                    Deorma . 
ol~~~~ KaW>                                                  Unnoo                                                     
..                     rdoL                                                           ChoorohRoe B
JAIAUN                                                           Sulnp . A0 
-26                                                  It"an                      ) Fate \ r                                                              0            '        26-
I                                                                        0w (Go iBO  MO oator                      Bhhprj
'" BENOLKHAN                                                             Bel   Ju r
_-JHANSI -  H AMIRPUR                                                                                  Ghaz,pur 
jhwWo'%C  (PLATEBU),-                                     r  0
M,r,,eJ -  ,etzopu r
t                 *Do A ne- dist, Maohoxb,, sas createdham                  _
0                      = r,~~~~a   ithe nhes district capta beings
I-tes M or,b The new district boundory was                                           Robertsganj I 
LtALITPUR                     not amsolable at the time of p.blicotion.                                                     ;  '
If
-24                                                                                                                                 N         _       . 4                     24
The -o-ndo,,escojors denoe,r,ot,ons ond -yn o5.0  ,o.,nfloO
shonn on fins mop do noS .np-y on e poC ol Mre Wo,d Ro-k
Groop ony ,.do-eni oo  e 1.r 1 -oi  oti of -y wrrory or o-y
endorremen- or occeplonce ot ro-h bo-ndor.es
78                                              80                                               82                                              84
MAY 1 996









IMAG ING
Report No:      15516 IN
Type: SAFR



