                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 27288

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (CPL-40560; SCL-4056A)

                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40.7 MILLION
                          (ORIGINAL AMOUNT: US$ 59.6 MILLION)

                                        TO THE

                    STATES OF UTTAR PRADESH AND UTTARANCHAL

                                          FOR

 UTTAR PRADESH AND UTTARANCHAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
                              SANITATION (SWAJAL) PROJECT




                                     November, 2003




Energy and Infrastructure Unit
South Asia Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective September 2003)

                  Currency Unit = Rupee
                         Rs.1.0 = US$ 0.022
                      US$ 1.00 = Rs.45.93

                        FISCAL YEAR
                      April 1 to March 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
     ANR           -        Assisted Natural Regeneration
     ARWSP         -        Accelerated Rural Water Supply Program
     CAPW          -        Catchment Area Protection Works
     CAS           -        Country Assistance Strategy
     CCL           -        Cash Credit Limit
     DPMU          -        District Project Management Unit
     ERR           -        Economic Rate of Return
     FAO           -        Food and Agriculture Organization
     FM            -        Financial Management
     GOUP          -        Government of Uttar Pradesh
     GOI           -        Government of India
     GP            -        Gram Panchayat
     IBRD          -        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
     ICR           -        Implementation Completion Report
     JPS           -        Jal Prabandhan Samiti
     LACI          -        Loan Administration Change Initiative
     MIS           -        Management Information System
     M&E           -        Monitoring and Evaluation
     NGO           -        Non Governmental Organization
     O&M           -        Operation and Maintenance
     PMU           -        Project Management Unit
     PSR           -        Project Status Report
     PRIP          -        Private Rural Initiatives Program
     QAG           -        Quality Assurance Group
     RWSES         -        Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation
     SAR           -        Staff Appraisal Report
     SHG           -        Self Help Group
     SEE           -        Sustainability Evaluation Exercise
     SOs           -        Support Organisations
     SWSM          -        State Water and Sanitation Mission
     TA            -        Technical Assistance
     UA            -        Uttaranchal
     UP            -        Uttar Pradesh
     VWSC          -        Village Water and Sanitation Committees


                 Vice President:     Praful Patel
              Country Director       Michael Carter
                Sector Director      Vincent Gouarne
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Deepak Ahluwalia

                                             INDIA
Uttar Pradesh & Uttaranchal Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                                        Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                              1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                             1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                   2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                      3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                      10
6. Sustainability                                                                          12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                           14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                         16
9. Partner Comments                                                                        17
10. Additional Information                                                                 19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                       20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                       22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                       23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                       34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                       37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                          38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                      39
Annex 8. Studies funded under the Project                                                  40
Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution                                                           51
Annex 10. Sustainability Evaluation Exercise Analysis                                      66
Annex 11. Summary of Stakeholder Workshops held in Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal           68
Annex 12. Swajaldhara Program - Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)                          71
Annex 13. Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sanitation Mission - MOU                          77
Annex 14. Decisions of the Government of Uttaranchal for initiating Process of Reform in   81
the WATSAN sector

Project ID: P010484                                                  Project Name: Uttar Pradesh & Uttaranchal Rural Water
Team Leader: Deepak Ahluwalia                                        TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 17, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: Uttar Pradesh & Uttaranchal Rural Water                  L/C/TF Number: CPL-40560; SCL-4056A
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (35%); Sanitation (35%); Sub-national government
                            administration (16%); Other social services (14%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Gender (P); Environmental
                            policies and institutions (P); Participation and civic engagement (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/28/1991                                     Effective: 08/28/1996                08/28/1996
     Appraisal: 02/29/1996                                         MTR: 10/19/1999                  10/19/1999
      Approval: 06/25/1996                                      Closing: 05/31/2002                 05/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/PMU
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Joseph Wood
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Heinz Vergin
Sector Director:                Vincent Gouarne                                Shawki Barghouti
Team Leader at ICR:             Deepak Ahluwalia                               Xavier A. Legrain
ICR Primary Author:             Midori Makino; Tashi Tenzing;
                                Shankar Narayanan; Tim
                                Lamrock


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Uttaranchal (UA) Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project
is commonly called "Swajal" which signifies "one's own water" in Hindi and has two main objectives: (i)
deliver sustainable health and hygiene benefits to the rural population through improvements in water
supply and environmental sanitation services which will increase rural incomes through time savings and
income opportunities for women, test an alternative to the current supply driven service delivery mechanism
and promote sanitation and gender awareness; and (ii) promote the long-term sustainability of the rural
water supply and sanitation sector by providing assistance to Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) to
identify and implement an appropriate policy framework and strategic plan.

3.1.2 Given that; (a) over half of project beneficiaries (approximately 1.2 million rural inhabitants) would
be in the poverty group; (b) there was an acute water / infrastructure shortage in the project villages; and
(c) the existing providers possessed weak capacity to meet the growing demand, the Project was regarded
as highly responsive to borrower circumstances and development priorities. The introduction of a demand
driven and participatory approach and the creation of a state policy framework were crucial for the country
and the sector at the time of appraisal. The project objectives were also fully consistent with the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that focused on the need for state-level reform interventions and
poverty alleviation through increasing the role of beneficiaries and support organizations (SOs). The
Project's objectives are also consistent with the Bank and Government of India (GOI)'s current country and
rural water sector strategies, which have mainstreamed the demand driven, participatory and cost sharing
approaches to service delivery.

3.1.3 The first development objective, however, seems relatively long and complex, containing several
possible indicators of benefits. This could have been formulated in a simpler manner by only focusing on
the principal outcome of the Project resulting from the activities directly financed by the Project.

3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1 The objectives have not been revised. However, in order to facilitate management and speed up
development of larger states in India, the Government created three new States of Jharkhand, UA, and
Chhattisgarh which were carved out of Bihar, UP, and Madhya Pradesh in November 2000. This
bifurcation of UP into two states; UP and UA (which then became the 27th state of India) influenced the
second objective, which led to development of policy framework and strategic plan for the two new state
governments of UP and UA.

3.3 Original Components:
 3.3.1 The original project components consist of; (i) strengthening and operation of the Project
 Management Unit (PMU) ($8,300,000); (ii) selection and construction of water supply and environmental
 sanitation facilities for single and regional schemes ($61,200,000); and (iii) studies and sector
 development (2,460,000).

 3.3.2 The components were reasonably related to achievment of development objectives. The Project
 design had taken into account the relevant lessons learned from prior rural water projects implemented in
 Maharashtra and Karnataka; and in a neighboring country (Nepal) where a similar approach was pilot
 tested, including; (i) importance of a coherent community participation approach with the community at
 the center stage; (ii) role of women and other key stakeholders in the sector; (iii) emphasis on Operations
 and Maintenance (O&M) cost recovery and capital cost sharing and (iv) integration of water supply
 service delivery with environmental sanitation through awareness creation.



                                                      - 2 -

3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1. The main components have remained the same throughout the Project. However, as the Project had
been designed to accommodate changes based on lessons of previous batches, new proposals and ideas for
improvement were tested and implemented during the project period, including additional studies, an
experimental batch, and creative tools to enhance community mobilization.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1 The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not evaluate the Project at any time. However, based on
team member and client interviews as well as review of project preparation and appraisal documents, this
Project's quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The reasons are: First, as described in section 3.1, the
Project's objectives were consistent with CAS and GOI priorities at the time of appraisal. Second, the
project design captured the essence of rural water sector reform. Third, analysis on possible environmental
and social issues as conducted and showed that the proposed Project should not have any negative impacts.
Fourth, many of the major issues and risks were identified during project preparation, including (i)
resistance to the demand driven approach; (ii) excessive time and effort to build capacity in SOs,
communities, and PMUs; (iii) failure in maintaining financial sustainability of the schemes; and (v)
resistance to carry out statewide sector study and development of strategic plan. The Project preceded the
introduction of Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) guidelines on financial management
and reporting and no formal financial management assessment was conducted at the appraisal stage.

3.5.2 Sufficient resources had been allocated, proper monitoring and evaluation (M&E) plans had been
developed, and flexibility in the design had been embedded in the Project to minimize the identified risks.
However, as mentioned in section 3.1, the development objectives could have been simplified, and if the
emphasis on "increase in rural incomes through time savings" would be stated as a direct link in the
objective, stronger consideration should have been given to develop income generating activities and/or to
establish linkages with other agencies involved in income generating activities in the design of the
components to ensure that the beneficiaries could make productive use of the time saved to earn extra
income and to achieve the objectives fully.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1 The Project's outcome is satisfactory, as it achieved most of its major relevant objectives. The
Project is also likely to achieve substantial development results without major shortcomings.

4.1.2 The first objective has been achieved substantially, as described in detail in section 4.2. Delivery of
sustainable health and hygiene benefits to the rural population has been achieved through the village
communities' change in attitude, which are demonstrated by the significant improvements in performance
indicators, including (i) incidence of diarrhoea in children under five (from 14% to 3.6% in UA and from
13% to 5.4% in UP); (ii) washing hands before eating (59% to 85% in UA, 22% to 67% in UP); (iii) safe
use of water (43% to 90% in UA, NA to 92% in UP); (iv) safe disposal of infant excreta (41% to 44% in
UA , 3.8% to 57% in UP); and (v) use of latrines (16% to 99% in UA, 3.8% to 31% in UP).

4.1.3 The physical achievements are demonstrated by the number of infrastructure facilities constructed in
the states' 19 districts (12 in the hills of UA, including Almora, Bageshwar, Pithoragarh, Nainital,
Champawat, Udham Singh Nagar, Tehri, Chamoli, Rudraprayag, Srinagar, Dehradun, and Uttarkashi and
7 in the Bundelkhand region of UP, including Hamirpur, Jalaun, Lalitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Banda, and
Chitrakoot) by Project closure, which exceeded the targets set at appraisal. In addition to the 1,214 villages



                                                       - 3 -

served, a large number of villages are continuing to show interest to participate in the schemes, as they hear
success stories from the project villages.

4.1.4 The demand driven and participatory approach, which has been tested as an alternative to the
traditional supply driven service delivery, has shown successful results. The Project, through establishing
the Village Water and Sanitation Committee (VWSC) as a legally constituted sub-committee of the Gram
Panchayats (GP), have allowed the village communities to fully participate in the process and gain a sense
of ownership of the infrastructure schemes constructed under the Project. The VWSCs, with assistance
from the SOs, have prepared the design of the schemes, managed the investment funds, procured materials,
managed the construction, and undertaken O&M by themselves. The concept of O&M cost recovery and
capital cost sharing has been introduced and practiced through the village communities' cash and labor
contribution.

4.1.5 In addition to the hardware component, a large number of software programs, including: (i) training
and capacity building for the PMUs, SOs, VWSC and other beneficiaries and (ii) awareness building /
communication of health and hygiene benefits and role of women through media campaigns have delivered
health and hygiene benefits to the broader rural population in UA and UP.

4.1.6 In terms of women's involvement in the communities, the Project has not only increased the number of
women as members of the VWSCs, but also focused on Non Formal Education (NFE), hygiene and
environmental sanitation awareness (HESA) and Women's Development Initiatives (WDIs) towards: (i)
improving the literacy levels of women participating in the NFE activities; (ii) focusing on the need for
health, hygiene and environmental sanitation awareness amongst villagers through regular conduct of
HESA camps; and (iii) enabling access of women to credit through encouraging the formation of Self Help
Groups (SHGs) as forum that allowed women to come together, discuss issues, save money, and explore
possible income generating activities. The time saved through improvements in infrastructure has allowed
women to actively participate in these activities, which have contributed to greater empowerment of women
in the Project communities of UA and UP.

4.1.7 The second objective has also been achieved, as the Project has contributed to the formulation of
long term sector policies and strategies in both UP and UA. Most of the key lessons learned from the
Project have been incorporated in the sector policy, in the form of draft "cabinet notes". They include; (i)
integration of water supply and environmental sanitation, using community management of the schemes and
bottom-up planning; (ii) cost recovery through gradually increasing cost sharing to 50%, phased financing
strategy for the sector, provision of institutional/local loans and credits for users, and better flow of funds;
and (iii) focus on improving existing schemes, piped water supply, protection of water sources, and
institutional support structure comprising small, independent service oriented agencies.

4.1.8 The innovative features and success of the Project have attracted a lot of attention, and influenced the
Government of India (GOI) to introduce a major policy change in 1999 in its rural water and sanitation
program. The Sector Reform Project, which incorporates the key principles of the Swajal Project was
introduced in 1999 and is being implemented in 67 districts spread over 27 states across the country.
India's national sector strategy has also allocated 20% of GOI plan funds for nationwide rural water supply
program called "Swajaldhara" which came in effect in December 2002 (details in Annex 11). In addition,
the Planning Commission, GOI, has named the Swajal Project as one of the successful governance
initiatives from Indian States.




                                                       - 4 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Strengthening and Operation of the Project Management Unit (PMU)

4.2.1 This component is rated as highly satisfactory for both UP and UA. Since its creation on November
7, 1994 as an autonomous institution under the Societies Registration Act 1860, the PMU has been the
overall implementing agency of the Project. The PMU has been headed by a Director and organized into
five relevant units- operations, monitoring and evaluation, human resource development, technology, and
finance and administration/MIS, using appropriate gender balance and skill mix from the public sector,
private sector, and NGOs. The PMU/DPMUs have been responsible for; (i) selecting the SOs using
transparent eligibility criteria; (ii) helping communities prepare and implement infrastructure schemes with
the SOs; (iii) appraising, selecting, and financing schemes that fulfill eligibility criteria; and (iv) monitoring
major scheme related activities.

4.2.2 After the bifurcation of the state in November 2000, the PMU split in two: part of the PMU remained
in Lucknow and focused on the new UP, and another PMU was formed in Dehradun to cover the state of
UA. In total there have been five project directors during the project implementation period of seven years,
and many staff that stayed with the Project from the beginning to the end. In addition, there are eight
District Project Management Units (DPMU)s in UA (Dehradun, Chamoli, Srinagar, Uttarkashi, Bhimtal,
Almora, Pithoragarh, and Bageshwar) that have covered 857 villages, mostly located in the hill areas, and
two DPMUs (Jhansi and Banda) in UP that have covered 357 villages in the Bundelkhand plain areas.

4.2.3 Project documents and interviews with various stakeholders indicate that the competence and
motivation of the staff at PMUs and DMPUs were highly regarded from the Project start and continued
despite the challenging nature of the Project, bifurcation of the state, and changes in project directors. This
can be explained partly by the economic incentives provided to the staff recruited from the private sector
and NGOs which included performance based bonus systems. However, most of the PMU and DPMU
staff, including the government employees seemed to be genuinely interested and committed to the Project
because of their passion and belief in the project concept. Despite the long working hours and limited length
of job security, the overall staff turnover rate has been very low and their job satisfaction has been rated
very high throughout the Project.

Component 2: Selection and Construction of Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Facilities

4.2.4 This component is rated as satisfactory. The indicators set at appraisal were revisited and revised at
mid term review (see annex 1) to better monitor the Project's development outcomes, and the results have
shown that most of the indicators outperformed the targets by Project closure. The pace of progress differ
between the states mainly due to the lower baseline in UP compared to UA, as well as the implementation
delays experienced in UP (details are discussed in section 5.3.4). At appraisal, both single and regional
schemes had been incorporated in the project design, but due to the complexities involved with multi village
schemes and delays in developing the models for such schemes, the Project was mostly focused on
constructing single village schemes.

4.2.5 Regarding the hardware component, against the appraisal estimate of constructing drinking water
supply schemes in 1,000 villages (650 in UA and 350 in UP) covering a beneficiary population of 785,000,
schemes in 1,214 villages (857 in UA and 357 in UP) covering a beneficiary population of 992,000 have
been completed under the Project. O&M has been taken over fully by the communities, and most of the
schemes are functioning well. Nearly 54,000 latrines have been constructed, raising latrine coverage in
project villages from 4% to 29% in UP and from 16% to 63% in UA, against an end-project target of 50%.


                                                      - 5 -

In addition, 186 drainage works and 35,778 soak pits, garbage pits, and compost pits have been completed.
In UP, a drive to increase sanitation works, including latrine construction was carried out in the
consolidation phase of the Project, where latrine construction picked up at a rate way above that during the
earlier phases due to increased marketing of the cash incentives provided to the VWSCs with high latrine
coverage. While this cash incentive scheme has contributed to achieving physical results, concerns remain
that this would cause doubts in the sustainability of the schemes and feasibility of scaling up, as it might
erode the concept of the demand driven participatory approach which expects incentives to be perpetrated
through understanding, need, and commitment.

4.2.6 In addition to improvements in water supply and environmental sanitation services, community
development activities were included in this component to promote active participation of the communities
in all stages of decisions about the planning, construction, and management of their schemes, to increase
local ownership, effective use, and sustainability. Other software activities included; a community
self-monitoring tool called Healthy Home Survey (HHS) and Information Education and Communication
(IEC), which was developed to promote behavioral changes with regards to health and hygiene issues in the
communities.

4.2.7 In the VWSC, women (38%) and persons from scheduled castes/tribes (30%) are strongly
represented. Consultant studies confirm substantial time savings accruing in a sample of water supply
schemes financed under the Project, and over 1,500 functioning women's SHGs under the Project with
accumulated savings of Rs 13.8 million. Providing the women the option to perform SHG activities, where
they can form their own forum to get together, discuss issues, save money, act on O&M of the
infrastructure schemes etc., has greatly strengthened women's role in the communities and their capacity to
access the formal credit system. These may not have been quantifiable benefits, but are significant
achievements that have contributed to gender equity in the rural communities of UP and UA.

Component 3: Studies and Sector Development

4.2.8 This component is rated as satisfactory. One major output of this component was a policy study to
assist the state governments to identify the issues affecting sector performance and formulate appropriate
policy reforms for the sector. The two studies have been completed in time, and the two state governments
have utilized them to develop strategic plans for their rural water supply and sanitation sectors,
summarized as cabinet/policy notes (attached in Annex 11). Key policy decisions already taken include:

l Communities will bear at least 10% of capital cost and 100% O&M expense for all future single
     village and handpump water supply schemes in both states;
l All existing handpumps to be transferred to Gram Panchayats (GP) for O&M. The transfer has already
     taken place in UP and a decision to do so has been taken by UA;
l Sanitation and RWS merged into one government department in UA, planning stage in UP;
l The PMUs established under the Project will continue in both states with government funding as State
     Water and Sanitation Mission and coordinate GOI sector reform program and Swajaldhara program.

4.2.9 In addition, a total of 40 studies have been conducted under the Project, most of which have been
proposed and prepared during the implementation period (list attached at Annex 8). The breakdown of the
categories shows that twelve studies are in the human resource development / health & hygiene category,
thirteen studies are in the operations / M&E category, eight are in the technical category, five are in the
institutional / financial category, and the remaining two are in the environmental category. Many studies
were conducted repeatedly to enable comparison of results over time. Most of the studies have produced
useful results and recommendations which have been taken into account in the Project's later batches and in


                                                      - 6 -

formulation of sector policies.

4.2.10 As evidenced in the previous sections, the Swajal Project has greatly benefited the rural communities
of UA and UP, and contributed significantly to India's RWSS sector reform program. However, some
issues would need to be tackled in scaling up the Swajal approach to the entire states. The constitutional
amendment (section 29 of the UP Panchayat Raj Act) that took place in July 1999 by the UP Legislature
has allowed GPs to only set up a limited number of sub committees, including Jal Prabandhan Samiti (JPS)
which will be responsible for drinking water and irrigation. The VWSCs created under the Swajal Project
retained the decision making power and ownership of infrastructure throughout the Project, however, the
full responsibility of the infrastructure service delivery have formally transferred to the GPs, which
currently have very little capacity or experience to deliver the services. While the new model of empowering
the GPs has proved to be effective in some states that have tested it, capacity building of the GPs and
formalization of the village participation for example through by-laws between VWSCs and the GPs would
be important to retain the Swajal concepts.

4.2.11 Another issue that needs to be incorporated in replicating the Swajal concept to the entire states
relates to the two public providers that have not played a large role in the Project; (i) Jal Nigam that is
mandated to prepare, execute, promote, and finance schemes and also to operate, run, and maintain
schemes if and when directed by the Government; and (ii) Jal Sansthan that is mandated to plan, promote,
and execute schemes and to operate an efficient system of water supply. Although the state governments in
UA and UP have identified the need for restructuring these two institutions in scaling up the demand driven
approach, the restructuring process has been very slow especially due to the large number of staff
employed by the two institutions. The public providers' continuing power has the risk of interfering with the
formulation of the future sector. The essence of the Swajal appproach is that the participating communities
are given options to make informed choices of the service levels and technology they can afford with full
knowledge of implication of their choices. This concept would be somewhat foreign to the technically
oriented Jal Nigam culture and way of doing business and it could land up making decisions for the
communities, particularly on the choice of technology. Therefore, significant amount of capacity building in
the area of community mobilization would have to be embedded in their restructuring efforts.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1 Based on the appraisal method and assumptions, the overall economic rate of return (ERR) for
Component B of the Project was 19.5%, compared with appraisal estimates of an average of 26%, taking
both the software and hardware costs into account. The lower than expected rate of return is mainly due to
the reduced time savings compared to estimates at appraisal. Based on hardware costs only, the ERR was
27% compared to 31% at appraisal. The benefit of reduced hardware investment costs involved was more
than offset by the reduced value of time saved as mentioned above. For the overall Project, including the
costs of Component A and Component C, the ERR at Project closure was 13.2% compared to an appraisal
estimate of 20%, with a benefit/cost ratio of 1.07, compared with 1.51 at appraisal.

4.3.2 These results are based on an estimate that 54% of the time saved (a seasonal adjustment to the
opportunity cost of labor) can be used in economic activities. The rates of return are highly sensitive to the
extent to which opportunities exist for time saved to be applied to economic activities. Field surveys
indicate that limited opportunities exist in many of the remote villages for incremental income generating
activities due to constraints other than time/labor (e.g. land, capital and market access), and that the extent
to which the saved time was applied to economic activities is less than 54%. For UA the surveys indicated
about 30% of the time saved was applied to economic activities, and for UP, whilst no specific figures were
obtained, the survey teams observed little additional income generating activities, except for the SHG work
and O&M tariff collection for the infrastructure schemes. If 30% of the time saved was used in economic



                                                       - 7 -

activities, then the overall ERR of the Project would be as low as 8%.

4.3.3 The analysis method overstates the economic impact on this basis (see Annex 3), but the exclusion of
the value of other benefits that have been achieved underestimates the overall impact of the Project. The
analysis followed the ERR analysis method used at appraisal, where health and other benefits the women
would gain through time savings were not estimated. However, the large impacts the Project has given on
reducing the incidence of diarrhea and increasing women's confidence/independence through allowing them
to participate in community, O&M, and SHG activities, would have contributed to a higher overall return if
these benefits had been incorporated in the analysis.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1 The Project's financial rate of return was not calculated, however, analysis on willingness to pay and
affordability was done at appraisal. The expected upfront cash contribution to capital costs, and the
monthly charges for O&M that the villages would have to pay to participate in the schemes were compared
with the estimated income and affordability for the various beneficiary groups. Because of the demand
driven and participatory concept and the flexible technology options used in the Project, the usual risk of
imposing an unaffordable scheme was thought to be reduced since all costs, commitments, and obligations
would be fully discussed and approved by the community before any work would be undertaken.

4.4.2 At Project closure, the financial viability of the villages' infrastructure schemes was reviewed. The
specific indicators of financial sustainability have shown less than anticipated contributions to O&M,
especially due to the over-estimation of the target O&M figures which were based on Jal Nigam estimates.
Results show that the proportion of completed schemes where more than 90% of O&M target tariffs are
being collected after one year is about 60%, and the proportion of completed schemes where more than
90% of O&M target tariffs are being collected after three year ranges from 45% in UA to 60% in UP. As
described in section 6.1.3, the O&M tariffs included all the O&M expenses and 10% reserves for future
repairs. As many of the villages accumulated large reserves without the need of tapping them, the VWSCs
in some cases decided to charge lower O&M tariff charges, which resulted in misleading collection
performance.

4.4.3 It is early in the operational phases of the schemes implemented under the Project, and experience
elsewhere has shown that the longer-term financial sustainability of these types of schemes depends on the
willingness-to-pay of the beneficiaries which in turn depends on longer-term changes in practices and
attitudes which evolve in relation to the water supply service. The sustainability also depends on the real
ownership of the scheme by the community; how transparently the VWSC manages the funds and also on
whether a policy/practice exists of availing external assistance for rehabilitation/reconstruction of schemes
let to run down.

4.4.4 A crucial factor will be the time and money costs of obtaining water from other (previous) sources.
Where there is unemployment and limited income generating opportunities, the beneficiaries may perceive
these costs to be lower than the contributions they are required to make for the services provided under the
Project, and this will be particularly so when the household cash position is stretched. This is seen to be a
constraint in UP ­ Bundelkhand, but to a lesser extent in UA where households are widely supported by
external cash remittances. However, poorer households also tend to be more willing to pay than better-off
households, and this is reflected in the indicators above when comparing UP and UA, where UA households
have higher incomes, remittances, and better employment opportunities.

4.4.5 The operating costs of the hills and foothills schemes (mostly gravity-based) are lower than those in
Bundelkhand (mostly pumping schemes), but are exposed to greater risk of destruction due to natural



                                                       - 8 -

calamities, such as landslides. The introduction of an insurance scheme facilitated by the PMU to cover
these risks is seen as a positive move to cover the financial costs of reconstruction in these events.
However, with the motorized pumping schemes in Bundelkhand, the replacement costs of the machinery
involved are not being reserved for in the current level of contributions and, in the event of failure and need
for replacement of the machinery, it is uncertain where the funds for this would be sourced. If there is a
perception amongst the communities that government institutions have some responsibility in this event,
then there will be a reduced willingness to pay.

4.4.6 In summary, most of the Project villages have been successful in collecting the O&M target tariffs,
especially compared to the traditional schemes where the public sector continues to provide the services. As
for the long term financial sustainability of the village schemes, it would be too early to judge at this stage
due to the reasons mentioned above, however, it is more likely in the hills of UA than in Bundelkhand ­ UP.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1 The institutional development impact has been rated as substantial. The Project has improved
PMU/DPMUs' ability to make effective use of its human and financial resources. Since the Project was a
new concept in India, it required high quality and motivated personnel at the implementing agency level to
face the many challenges and to develop creative and appropriate solutions along the way. During the
project implementation period, not only the PMU/DPMU staff, but also the SOs and the VWSC members
had to fight against the resistance to implement a new approach.

4.5.2 Since it was recognized that the SOs would play the key role in achieving effective community
participation, efforts were made to ensure that they would be selected and trained in an appropriate manner.
The SOs were selected based on the following criteria; (a) evidence of legal registration; (b) constitutional
provision to engage in RWSS delivery and related activities; (c) audited and certified accounts; (d) proven
track record of at least three years' experience in RWSS or community development activities evidenced by
the satisfactory completion of a participatory and demand driven project; and (e) demonstrated staffing
capacity to carry out the proposed services or ability to procure such staffing capacity; followed by due
diligence. At first, some difficulties were encountered in identifying suitable SOs, as there were few
qualified candidates. However, with the training and support offered by PMUs/DPMUs, as well as the
trusting relationship built with the Project villages, many of the SOs built their capacity to successfully
implement the schemes and expressed interest to cover additional villages in the follow-on batches.

4.5.3 According to the Swajal concept, the ultimate responsibility for the construction and management of
the infrastructure schemes was given to the villages themselves. The schemes were selected by the SOs
using the transparent eligibility criteria, including; (i) need and economic viability; (ii) technical feasibility;
and (iii) sustainability and willingness to pay. Once the schemes were selected, the village communities,
through formation of the VWSCs played the central role in implementing them. By preparing the design of
the schemes, managing the investment funds, procuring materials, managing the construction, undertaking
O&M, and by sharing a significant share of the costs, the villages have not only gained ownership but also
the knowledge and skills which would be valuable resources for the future replication of the Swajal concept
and for other activities in the villages.

4.5.4 The government has demonstrated its commitment to maintain the valuable human resources and the
institutional memory to ensure future sustainability and scaling up. As an evidence, respective state
governments have appointed the PMUs established under the Project to continue with government funding
as state missions for RWSS sector. The missions have been appointed to coordinate the ongoing GOI
sector reform program, and the respective PMUs will coordinate the newly launched GOI Swajaldhara
program.



                                                        - 9 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 Bifurcation of the state of UP was outside of implementing agency control, although state and
national governments would have had some control over it. Significant time and effort were spent in
bifurcating project costs, establishing a PMU in the new state, UA, and setting up systems to effectively
transfer responsibilities from PMU Lucknow to the new PMU Dehradun. The one year extension granted to
the project, as well as the flexibility and motivation by the Project staff contributed to a well managed and
relatively smooth bifurcation, despite the complexities and difficulties encountered in the process.

5.1.2 Natural calamities like earthquakes and flash-floods which risked the success of the schemes
especially in the hills could not be controlled by the implementing agencies. However, a mitigation plan was
developed by the PMU to adopt the "insurance" option during the course of the Project. In total, 112
VWSCs have insured their water supply schemes for three years and have paid their share of Rs 4.41 lakhs
to the insurance company. 33 villages affected by incidents of natural calamity managed to obtain funds
from the insurance company to repair the schemes to make them functional again. During the first three
years, the VWSCs are only required to pay 50% of the premium as the rest are being paid by the Project
under state share. However, there are doubts about the VWSCs' capacity and willingness to continue to
insure the assets when they are required to pay the full premium after the first three years, particularly
since the premium is for the full scheme including the distribution system which has much less risk of being
affected by natural disasters.

5.1.3 The increasing problem of source depletion would have affected the water availability in the hills of
UA. This was also addressed by the implementation of Catchment Area Protection Works (CAPW) in 162
villages and Assisted Natural Regeneration (ANR) works in 67 villages. The measures included forestry
works such as plantation, grass patches, soil conservation work such as check dams and gabions, and
rehabilitation of existing Khals (ponding structures). However, these activities would need to be linked to
broader watershed management efforts if a large impact on integrated catchment protection is expected.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 Government commitment has been demonstrated through the development of the sector policies and
the formalization of the PMUs as state missions under the government structure. Despite the bifurcation
that took place in the middle of the implementation period, the two state governments of UP and UA have
managed to develop respective policies and comprehensive strategic future action plans for the sector.

5.2.2 However, as mentioned in the previous sections, some issues identified in the government plans would
need to be addressed properly to scale up the concept. They include lack of capacity at the GP level to
take on the role of a service provider, their possible political influence on the community schemes, and
allocation of sufficient resources for the software activities to ensure village ownership/management of
the schemes.

5.2.3 Maintaining a uniform service delivery approach for the state would have been subject to
government control. During Project implementation, it was noticed that some interference were made by Jal
Nigam, for example, through construction of new schemes without requiring any cost sharing from the
villages. Such contravention of earlier Government Orders will undermine Swajal efforts. The government
would need to ensure consistency in its policy and manage the relationship between the traditional service
provider, Jal Nigam, and the new approach of community managed schemes.




                                                      - 10 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 Management effectiveness and staffing for the PMUs have been generally subject to implementing
agency control. As mentioned in section 4.2, the PMUs/DPMUs have been staffed with a mix of competent
and motivated people from the public sector, private sector, and NGOs. Although the turnover of the
Project director for UP was high, PMU/DPMU staff turnover was relatively low, and the Project culture
promoted transparency and an environment that allowed creative suggestions for efficiency improvement
from any stakeholder level.

5.3.2 The Project cost estimates at appraisal for the hardware component (based on Jal Nigam estimates)
were significantly higher than the actual Project costs, which resulted in two cancellation of funds (refer to
section 5.4 and Annex 2). The reduction in costs resulted from lower than expected village demand for
funds due to popularity in low cost technology options. The types of schemes offered in the hill region
comprised of; (i) gravity (open/closed) with spring/stream sources designed and operated for continuous
supply; (ii) electric pumping from spring/stream sources; (iii) hand pumps from groundwater sources; and
(iv) catchment schemes from rainwater sources. For the Bundelkhand region, (v) hand pumps from
groundwater sources; and (vi) electric tubewell pumping from deep aquifers were offered. The per capita
expense for the high cost options (approx. Rs1,200 - 2,400) would typically cost two to five times more
than the low cost technology options (approx. Rs200-400), but the main reason for the low cost technology
selection by the communities was the unreliable and expensive power supply to run alternative schemes.
However, according to some DPMU staff, low cost technology options were chosen because the decisions
were made by the male household members who had the economic power, despite the high demand of piped
water supply expressed by women.

5.3.3 Scheme Cycle was planned to span 33 calendar months and included three main phases -
pre-planning, planning, and implementation. The pre-planning phase of 7 months included the
pre-qualification of the SOs, pre-feasibility study preparation and assessment, and signing of planning
phase contract. The planning phase of 12 months included orientation and training for SO staff, community
action planning, and finalization of implementation phase proposal. The implementation phase of 14
months included the training of SO staff, construction planning, and construction of the scheme. During
Project implementation, the consolidation/O&M phase was added to allow the stakeholders to complete the
schemes behind schedule and to draw lessons from their schemes, identify quantifiable output targets, and
make monitoring plans for the future. This phase has allowed the Project villages to complete their
schemes, strengthen their O&M systems, and to ensure sustainability of their infrastructure schemes.

5.3.4 Implementation delays were experienced during the Project period, especially for the Bundelkhand
region in UP. UA's superior performance can be explained by its greater community cohesion/involvement,
partly due to its smaller village sizes, more homogeneity, and greater degree of hardship faced by hill
communities for accessing infrastructure facilities, which created stronger demand for project interventions.
In order to catch up with the exit dates, the PMU of UP took actions, including; (i) allowing flexibility in
the scheme cycle to meet Bundelkhand specific situations, (ii) management changes in DPMUs; and (iii)
better marketing of the incentive systems to motivate the DPMUs, SOs, and the participating villages to
complete their schemes on time.

5.3.5 Community mobilization innovations were made by the PMU in UP, as its population was rather
heterogeneous comprising several socio-economic subgroups, and rendered mobilizing the entire village and
designing a single water supply scheme for the village a difficult task. Multi-mini water supply model,
which led to construction of separate water supply schemes for each cluster of homogeneous households
was adopted successfully. As these are groundwater pumping schemes, it would be necessary to continue to


                                                     - 11 -

monitor their performance over several years of commissioning of the schemes to learn from this
innovation.

5.3.6 An experimental Batch (3x) was introduced during project implementation, between the planned
third and fourth batches, as the Project recognized that the limited number of capable NGOs would make
future scaling up difficult. The experimental batch 3x included the private sector, public sector such as Jal
Nigam, and GPs as SOs. Lessons learned from this experiment would feed into the future development of
the sector.

5.3.7 Dropping out of villages from the Project schemes was partly subject to the implementing agency
control. The actual drop out rate of 15% was not far from the appraisal estimate of 13%, and an
independent study revealed that many of the causes were related to source and community disputes that
should have been solved at the community level. However, the causes related to; (i) SO's failure in
facilitating the process of community mobilization; and (ii) intervention by Jal Nigam and Jal Sansthan
during the planning stage, could have been avoided if the Project had better clarified and enforced the roles
and responsibilities of the various stakeholders and ensured sufficient capacity of the SOs.

5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1 At appraisal, the Project size was estimated to be Rs. 3,007.6 million ($71 million equivalent) of
which IBRD loan would be $59.6 million. However, during the implementation period, there were
significant cost savings due to higher demand in usage of low-cost technology options, as well as the
movement in the $/Rupee exchange rate. This resulted in cancellations of $7.23 million in June 2000 and
$11.7 million in December 2002, reducing the loan amount from $59.6 to $40.7 million.

5.4.2 The studies and sector development expenses, as well as the combined cost of operating the two
PMUs in UA and UP exceeded the SAR estimates because of the costs associated with the bifurcation of
the state that took place in November 2000. This, coupled with the lower than expected investment
expenses have resulted in a smaller relative share of the hardware component, compared to the software
components. The final expenditure figures are attached at Annex 2.

5.4.3 The Project's disbursement and procurement performance were monitored by financial specialists
throughout the implementation period. Records show that the audit reports for the Project have been
received on time as stipulated under the loan agreement and no major accountability problems have been
noticed.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1 The overall sustainability rating is likely, as there is a large probability of maintaining the
achievements generated in relation to the Project objectives. In addition to the success in Project outcome
described above, the rating is supported by the clear commitments demonstrated by the governments of UA
and UP through creation of policy environments and appointment of the PMUs to continue as state
missions for the RWSS sector.

6.1.2 A Sustainability Evaluation Exercise (SEE) has been developed as a tool to assess the impact of the
Project on the community and facilitate the community to plan, develop, and implement interventions to
redress the problematic areas. So far, six such SEE have been conducted by the PMU. All participating
villages have been rated according to the sustainability index developed by the PMUs, and the parameters
for the index include; (i) the status of water supply structures (25%); (ii) O&M / chlorination and filtration



                                                       - 12 -

status (10%); (iii) O&M tariff collection (35%); (iv) functioning of VWSC (10%); and (v) sustainability of
software status / latrine usage and health benefits (20%). About 5% of the villages scored less than 49, and
were considered Least Sustainable (LS), about 57% of the villages scored between 49-74 and were placed
under Moderately Sustainable (MS), and 38% of the villages scored above 74 and were justified as Highly
Sustainable (HS). The villages that scored LS were evaluated on a quarterly basis and possible
interventions were implemented on a village-wise basis. The table below shows the results of the latest SEE
conducted in March 2003 (detailed results are in Annex 9).

                                     Uttar Pradesh           Uttaranchal                Total
 Highly Sustainable                    206 (58%)              237 (29%)               443 (38%)
 Medium Sustainable                    137 (38%)              523 (64%)               660 (57%)
 Least Sustainable                      11 (3%)                53 (7%)                 64 (5%)
 Total (%)                             354 (100%)            813 (100%)              1167 (100%)

6.1.3 The results of the SEE and discussions with the stakeholders reveal some key issues that need to be
addressed in the future to ensure sustainability of the schemes constructed, and the new concept introduced
under the project. In addition to the points raised in section 4.2., the following issues have been identified.

(i) Proper chlorination - for water chlorination to be an effective disinfection method, bleaching powder as
well as hydrogen sulphide strips need to be easily available to the villagers. The village maintenance
workers should also be well trained to fix the correct dosing rate and check correctly for residual chlorine;

(ii) Collection of O&M - the proportion of completed schemes where more than 90% of O&M target
tariffs are being collected have decreased over time partly due to over-estimation of the target O&M figures
(which includes chlorination costs, power charges for the pumping schemes, expenses for ensuring proper
maintenance, and 10% reserve for repairs). In many cases where simple schemes were built, the reserves
were never spent and therefore kept accumulating. Having demonstrated the cost sharing principles to the
communities, many VWSCs gained confidence in collecting funds in the event of future repair and
therefore decided to charge lower O&M tariffs. The collection performance appears to have worsened also
due to the fact that the O&M targets initially set were based on Jal Nigam estimates. Given that full cost
recovery of the O&M is the central principle of the Swajal concept, and the heavy weight given to this
indicator, lessons to accurately estimate the O&M requirements should be taken into account in monitoring
the future performance indicators.

(iii) Institutional model - the government plans to formalize the PRIs' role to be the SOs in future schemes,
a shift from the mainstreamed NGO model used in the Swajal Project. While the PRI model appeared to
cost less than any other institutional models that were tested, experience shows that the DPMU staff
provided significant technical backstopping when implementing the PRI model. The comparative
assessment of SOs has also shown that the PRI model tends to suffer from lack of SO capacity and strong
political influence by the Gram Pradhans. In order to scale up the Swajal concept using the PRI model, it
would be important to ensure that proper capacity building programs are in place and political influence in
decision making is minimized.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 As mentioned above, the respective state governments have made appropriate transition arrangements
for the Project's future operation by appointing the PMUs created under the Project to serve as the key
policy implementation missions in the rural water sector. The Government of UP and UA have made a
provision of Rs.10 crores and Rs.4.65 crores in the state budget of 2003/04 and would also meet any
Project spillover costs and the costs of maintaining the state and DPMUs. The new state missions intend to



                                                      - 13 -

continue with the SEE studies described under section 6.1 to maintain the M&E system.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1 The Bank's performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. Records show that the Bank
supported the traditional supply driven approach which lacked sufficient emphasis on efficiency
improvement and community participation during many years of project preparation without any progress.
However, the task management shifted along with the scope of the Project, and a demand driven aspect was
introduced during the 11th mission. According to the team that took the Project to the Board, the Project
was conceived in an era when the demand driven concept was not the mainstream approach in the rural
water sector. Despite huge resistance from the supporters of the traditional approach, both in and outside of
the Bank, the new Bank team at appraisal performed with persistence and patience. They believed in the
new Swajal concept which had been pilot field tested in similar situation in Nepal and demonstrated
successful results. They worked hard at establishing good coordination with key staff from the counterpart
team who shared the same commitment to the new concept.

7.1.2 The Project took into account major relevant aspects and ensured consistency with the Bank's
fiduciary and safeguard policies. The implementation plan was well thought through, relevant lessons
learned from past projects were taken into account in the design, and potential risks and measures to
address them were considered.

7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1 The Bank's performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. Supervision missions maintained
continuity in team members, included the required expertise, were conducted regularly, and provided
adequate reporting and filing of documents. Despite the fact that the project villages were located in remote
and rural areas, each Bank mission took the time and effort to split into smaller groups and visited many of
the villages to see the implementation progress in the fields. In addition to reviewing documents and
interacting extensively with the PMUs, visits to the field provided insights and richer experience for the
mission members to learn about the real benefits and issues faced by the local communities.

7.2.2 The performance ratings given in PSRs have been realistic, and sufficient attention was given to the
likelihood of the Project's development impact. The Bank monitored the loan covenants/agreed actions, but
acted as a partner to the implementing agencies, and made creative proposals for new studies and
approaches to facilitate /improve project implementation including; (i) piloting of different SO models to
test options for scaling up; (ii) monitoring and evaluation including SEE exercises; (iii) adoption of the
insurance scheme for natural calamities which was the first ever attempt in India; (iv) health impact
assessments; and (v) research and social marketing based IEC campaigns by bringing in a private sector
advertising company. According to some project directors, "despite the many arguments and difference in
opinion, the Bank team and the PMU staff always developed mutually agreed solutions, which
transformed their professional relationships into personal friendship". The quality of advice given by the
Bank to the implementing agencies were perceived to be highly useful and follow-up on agreed actions
timely and adequate. Many of the senior managers of the Bank visited the project villages to review the
progress and learn from success cases, but major intervention by Bank management was not necessary
during the implementation period.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Because of the factors mentioned above, the overall Bank performance has been rated satisfactory.




                                                     - 14 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower participated fully in project preparation, and its performance is rated satisfactory. Although
the Project took over three years to prepare, the Government maintained its commitment and made
available resources required to materialize the Project. Especially when the demand driven approach was
introduced, rather than being risk averse to the new concept, the Government promptly appointed a reform
minded project director and allowed him the autonomy and flexibility to develop a team to finalize the
project preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. The Government managed to provide
adequate support to the PMUs at the same time as granting autonomy for their day to day operation. The
Government commitment was demonstrated through development of the sector policies with assistance
from the Project's TA component, and through creation of a strategic plan to implement the policy. The
state Governments managed to appoint competent project directors and transferred the human resources
management to the PMU level. In addition, adequate counterpart funds were provided at all times, and good
governance was maintained.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 The respective PMUs and the DMPUs' performance as implementing agencies is rated highly
satisfactory since they discharged their responsibilities promptly with due diligence. As mentioned in
section 5.3, human resource has been managed well and implementation delays encountered during the
Project have been managed promptly. The Project has met most of the performance targets and complied
fully with legal and financial covenants. The financial management (FM) arrangements have been
considered satisfactory through the life of the Project. An off-the-shelf computerized accounting package
was used quite successfully by the project staff to maintain their accounts and financial reports generated
from the system has been considered adequate for project management purposes. A major challenge during
the life of the project was the challenging task of transferring the assets and liablities and settling the
accounting and disbursement issues, that arose as a result of bifurcation of the states. However, the project
staff managed this quite admirably and successfully. The Bank FM Team assisted and guided the project
teams in this difficult task. FM staff participated in the Supervision Missions, including the field visits and
had wide consultations with the VWSCs, SO staff, project staff and the project auditors. Financial
performance by way of flow of funds, timeliness of submission of audit reports remained satisfactory. The
final audit reports have been submitted and no audit observations or disallowances remain pending on this
date.

7.6.2 The PMU has also been successful in disseminating information and marketing the Swajal approach.
The progress of the Project and the concept of Swajal were promoted through newspaper articles, monthly
newsletters, and media campaigns throughout the states of UA and UP. The Project attracted many national
and international visitors who came to the Swajal villages to study the schemes and to meet the
communities.

7.6.3 Proper M&E was done for the Project, including; (i) compliance; (ii) process and development; (iii)
community; (iv) impact; and (v) strategy. These issues were monitored through regular supervision
missions, regular visits to the schemes by PMU and service agency staff, scheme completion reports
prepared by SOs and service agencies, and audits conducted by independent auditors. Six monthly
sustainability evaluation exercise of completed schemes were carried out to assess the impact and identify



                                                      - 15 -

sustainability issues.

7.6.4 Despite the large number of stakeholders involved, the PMU/DMPUs have managed the governance
aspects of the implementation process very well. The SOs were selected based on transparent eligibility
criteria and the technology options were presented to the villages using the manuals that contained detailed
designs for all infratstructure schemes with adequate instructions and design criteria relating to
environment, health, safety, O&M, and techonology. Tripartite agreements (IPTA) were signed between the
VWSC, SO, and DPMU after the completion of the planning phase and any issues between them were
settled amicably without diluting the provisions made in the IPTA. The study on community contracting
revealed that the extent of transparency was high in almost all villages, and the community procurement
rates were sometimes lower than those of Jal Nigam, as the village purchase committees had stronger
incentives to find the appropriate materials at lower costs.

7.6.5 Given the community driven nature of the Project, the village communities themselves can also be
characterized as implementing agencies in addition to being the beneficiaries, as they have played the main
role in implementing the Project. Significant awareness and capacity building for the communities have
contributed to proper book keeping and O&M at the village level which enhanced accountability, cost
savings, value addition, and effective operations of the constructed infrastructure schemes.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Given the reasons above, the overall borrower performance has been rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1 Key lessons learned from the project include the following:

l Development Objective should be Formulated Clearly: In order to facilitate progress monitoring and
     measuring of the Project objective achievements, it is crucial to formulate the development objectives
     clearly. The objectives should be simple, focusing on the Project's principal outcomes that are direct
     results of the activities financed by the Project.

l Community Participation and Empowerment are Keys for Sustainability: The Project achieved
     satisfactory and sustainable outcomes primarily because it empowered the communities and women
     stakeholders through making them the decision makers and operators of the infrastructure schemes.
     Such empowerment efforts have led to the choice of more affordable and appropriate technological
     options that are better suited to the needs of the villages, reduction of drudgery, and increase in the
     villagers' ownership and motivation to perform O&M of the schemes. In addition, allowing the
     communities to manage funds, maintain books of accounts, and carry out procurement, contributed in
     cost reduction of the schemes. Cross visits among communities also proved to be an effective method
     for creating awareness, learning lessons, and adopting changes among stakeholders.

l Basic Principles of Proven Approaches should Not Be Diluted when Scaling Up Reforms: GOUP
     and GOUA plan to scale up the Swajal concept in rest of the states. In implementing such reforms, GPs
     will be the implementing agencies and Jal Nigam will play the SO role. Significant capacity building
     for both GPs and Jal Nigam, and continued involvement and empowerment of the village communities
     will be important to maintain the Swajal principles.

l High Quality Staff, their Ownership, and an Enabling Environment are Keys to Success:
     Significant investments in the human resource development brought about high quality leadership and



                                                       - 16 -

     teams of dedicated and competent professionals. The clients' ownership and commitment to the Project
     contributed to development of a sound Project design and well managed implementation process.
     Adequate attention paid to skill development of the Project staff / stakeholders was also a key factor in
     implementing innovative and path-breaking principles such as cost sharing of RWSS services.

l Community Mobilization Efforts and Implementation Cycles Differ Depending on the Scheme
     Chosen: The Project should accommodate the time it takes to plan and implement different
     technological options, such as tube-wells, dug-wells or piped water supply schemes. It is also important
     to adopt different community mobilization efforts that could vary depending on the technical options -
     for example, the level of awareness required of the village communities could be different for a dug
     well serving a few households, compared to a gravity system serving the whole village.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Comments on ICR from the Government of Uttaranchal:

        I acknowledge with thanks the receipt of Electronic Version of Implementation Completion Report of
Swajal Project. I have to submit a few discrepancies which are as below:-
1.    Currently Dr. R.S. Tolia is the Chief Secretary of Government of Uttaranchal instead of Mr.
Madhukar Gupta.
2.    You have been kind enough to rate this project "Satisfactory" Category. However, I would like to
draw your kind attention to the Para 4.1.8 of ICR which is reproduced below:-
"The innovative features and success of the Project have attracted a lot of attention, and influenced the
Government of India (GOI) to introduce a major policy change in 1999 in its rural water and sanitation
program. The Sector Reform Project, which incorporates the key principles of the Swajal Project was
introduced in 1999 and is being implemented in 67 districts spread over 27 states across the country.
India's national sector strategy has also allocated 20% of GOI plan funds for nationwide rural water supply
program called "Swajaldhara" which came in effect in December 2002 (details in Annex 11). In addition,
the Planning Commission, GOI, has named the Swajal Project as one of the successful governance
initiatives from Indian States."
3.    Needless to mention that this project was implemented without prior experience of community
Participation and Demand Responsive Approach.

Hope you will be kind enough to incorporate for the above-suggested changes.

(Gambhir Singh)
Director, Swajal, Uttaranchal

Comments on ICR from the Government of Uttar Pradesh:

          We are in receipt of your e-mail dated 31.10.2003 and we thank you for the same. As regards the
Project being rated as 'Satisfactory' on the basis mentioned in the para 4.2.11 & 4.2.12 of the ICR, it
definitely is the prerogative of the Bank to assign the rating. But nevertheless we would
further like to clarify the two issues to review the rating in the light of position stated below:-

Section 4.2.11
Some clarification appears to be necessary regarding VWSC as formed in Swajal project and the Jal



                                                      - 17 -

Prabandhan Samiti (JPS) to be constituted under the amended Panchayati Raj Act. As per Act, JPS is a
committee of Gram Panchayat responsible for water and will have a Chairman and six members of the
Gram Panchayat. To ensure sufficient representation of the community/user groups, a provision has been
made to co-opt seven members from the village community/water user groups. This JPS will take over the
role of VWSCs under the Swajadhara sceme.

Since JPS is a committee of the Gram Panchayat itself, the question of formalization of the village
participation through byelaws between the VWSC and GPs does not arise. This committee will be headed
by the Gram Pradhan and would have total freedom for decision making by virtue of its constitutional
status. Ownership of the water supply infrastructure would rest in the Gram Panchayat, which is the only
statutory and elected body representing the entire village community. In fact, the assets created during the
Swajal Project have also been transferred to the Gram Panchayats. We would like to reiterate that
involvement /ownership by the Gram Panchayats is the only replicable and sustainable option for future
service delivery which has also been proposed by us in the Swajal's follow-on project.

As regards the capacity or experience of the Gram Panchayats to deliver the services is concerned, it may
be noted that even the Swajal VWSCs had absolutely no experience in implementing water supply schemes.
Their capacity had to be built up through various training programmes. Similarly there is adequate
provision for Capacity Building of the Gram Panchayats and JPS/VWSC under the Swajaldhara scheme.

Section 4.2.12
The roles of the two Public Sector Undertakings i.e. Jal Nigam and Jal Sansthan have been defined in the
Swajaldhara programme as that of a Support Organisation/ Service Agency who could assist the Gram
Panchayat, if the GP so desires, to plan and execute their project. The role of Jal Sansthan is now limited to
urban areas. UP Jal Nigam has already oriented its approach in line with Swajal concept wherein no water
supply schemes are undertaken without community participation. It has set up a Community Participation
Directorate for ensuring Community participation as a mandate under ARWSP. Under Swajal project UP
Jal Nigam carried out planning and implementation activities in about 60 villages of District Lalitpur. On
account of this venture, this organisation has gained some experience of community based and demand
responsive approach and is applying these concepts in ARWSP program also. However, ARWSP will
gradually get replaced within a period of 04 years with the Swajaldhara program, which has the mandate of
demand responsive solutions and community participation through out the scheme cycle of the project.

Also, we would like to state that restructuring of UP Jal Nigam was never a mandate of the Swajal Project
as such. The recommendations of sector studies have been sent to Jal Nigam for necessary follow up
action. The issue of restructuring arises subsequent to the experience gained during implementation of
Swajal and must not be considered while rating the Swajal Project.

At last I would like to mention the fact that Swajal has been categorized as one of the most successful
projects of the World Bank. The lessons learnt from the project have completely changed the approach of
the Government of Uttar Pradesh and the GOI and have ultimately led to launching of the Swajaldhara
Programme by GOI to replace all existing rural water supply schemes in India gradually. It indeed would
be a tragedy if such a landmark project were to be rated as merely 'Satisfactory'!

With regards

(Arun Singhal)
Director, Swajal, Uttar Pradesh




                                                     - 18 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA

10. Additional Information

See Annexes.




                                             - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Key Development Objective Indicators

S.NO.                           Indicators                        Target     Baseline       Achievement
                                                                                          UA           UP
  1   % Persons washing hands before eating                        75%        54%        85%          82%
  2   % Households using safe water for drinking and cooking
      purpose                                                      65%        45%        90%          80%
  3   % Mothers with infant children who practice safe disposal
      of infant excreta                                            50%        32%        44%          71%
  4   % Children under five years suffering from Diarrhea
      during the last two weeks                                    4%         13.9%      3.6%         5.5%
  5   % Households using latrines (Latrine coverage
      in completed village)                                        50%        12%        63%          31%
  6   % Schemes with potable water quality                        100%        N.A.       100%         100%
  7   Average actual time saving per household as
      result of scheme                                           >2.5Hrs.     N.A.      3.5 hrs        NA
  8   % VWSC members trained                                      100%        N.A.       100%         100%
  9   % SC/ST VWSC members                                        >20%        N.A.       22%          48%
 10   % VMW trained                                               100%        N.A.       100%         100%

 11   Cross visits to successful schemes (average per               >2        N.A.        2.4          2.0
      schemes
 12   % Villages where community contribution to
      capital cost fully received                                 100%        N.A.       100%         100%
 13   % Female VWSC members                                       >30%        N.A.       40%          36%
 14   Average Number of functional woment SHGs                 1 per Village  N.A.        1.1          1.4
 15   # Schemes commissioned                                       1000       N.A.       857          357
 16   % of completed schemes where actual B.C.
      Ratio is less than 1.5 (B1,B2,B3 Schemes
      Time Saving Study)                                           <5%        N.A.       20%           NA
 17   % schemes in operation after 1yr.                           100%        N.A.       98%          100%
 18   % schemes in operation after 3yrs.                          100%        N.A.       97%          99%
 19   Tapstand in working condition after 3yrs.                   100%        N.A.       97%          99%
 20   # of drainage schemes constructed                            290        N.A.        99           87
 21   % of drainage schemes with clean drains after
      1 year                                                      100%        N.A.       98%          53%
 22   % completed schemes where O&M collection is
      more than O&M expense after 1 year                          100%        N.A.       100%         100%
 23   % completed schemes where more than 90% of O&M
      target tariffs are being collected after 1 year             100%        N.A.       63%          58%
 24   % completed schemes where more than 90% of O&M
      expenses are being collected after 3 year                   100%        N.A.       45%          60%
 25   Sector Study submissions:                                 Final report  N.A.    Final Report Final Report
      (I) Inception Report                                          to                 Submitted   Submitted
      (ii) Draft Report                                        be completed
      (iii) Final Report                                        by March
                                                                   2001
 26   Preparation of Strategic Sector Plan                        Jun-01      N.A.     Prepared     Prepared




                                                      - 20 -

Physical Progress Indicators



           Item Description        Unit             Revised end-Project Target        End-project Achievement
                                                   UA           UP        Total    UA          UP         Total
Part A : PMU Operation
No. of DPMUs                       Nos.              8            2        10       8            2         10
Audit                              Nos.           1031         1256       2287    1174         1254       2428
Site Appraisal                     Villages       2178          392       2570    2178         456        2634
SO & SA Training                   Participants   2850         1222       4072    8325         4731       13056
PMU/DPMU Trg and Comm.             Participants    274          118        392     962         375        1337
Part B : Software Activities
Participating SOs                  Number          68           25         93       68          50         118
Selection of Villages              Villages        860          357       1217     857         405        1262
VWSC formed & Functional(Excl. PRI)Villages        822          347       1169     819         347        1166
HESA-Health Home Surveys           Villages        860          357       1217     857         357        1214
VEAP- Cleanup campaigns            Villages        860          357       1217     857         357        1214
DPRs prepared                      Villages        822          347       1169     819         353        1172
SHG Formed                         Number          860          357       1217    1046         504        1550
Part C : Construction Activities
Water Supply Works
Under Construction                 Villages
Commissioned                       Villages        860          357       1217     857         357        1214
Drainage Works
Under Construction                 Villages
Commissioned                       Villages        203          87         290      99          87         186
Household Latrines
Latrines Constructed               Number        28000        26054       54054   31549       22163       53712
Environmental Management Works(VEAP)
Soak Pits Constructed              Number         6900         2910       9810    6647         5330       11977
Garbage Pits Constructed           Number         6500         2735       9235    5823         6194       12017
Compost Pits Constructed           Number         6400         2636       9036    7590         4194       11784
Part D : Sector Development Studies
Multi village schemes              Stage of                 Complete                         Ongoing
                                   Contract
Time Saving Study                  Number            4            4                 3            3

Next Project Preparation           Stage of       To be        To be             Initiated   Initiated
                                   Contract     initiated    initiated
                                               after Sector after Sector
                                                  Study        Study
Sector Studies                     Stage of       To be        To be            Completed Completed
                                   Contract     completed   completed
                                                   by           by
State Wide Media Campaign          Stage of    Dissemin. to Dissemin. to         Dissemin.  Dissemin.
                                   Contract    end by June end by June           complete   complete
                                                  2000         2001




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                   Appraisal              Latest Estimate          Percentag
                                   Estimate                                            e of
Component                         US$ million                US$ million
                                                    UP            UA      Total
A. Strengthening and operation      8.32            6.7          2.79     9.49        114%
of the PMU

B. Selection and construction       60.21           22.1        13.68     35.78        59%
of water supply and
Environmental sanitation
C. Studies and sector               2.47            1.7          1.66     3.36        136%
development
Total Project Cost                   71             30.5        18.13     48.63        68%


Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
         Source             SAR     Estimates after Ist cancellation  Estimates after IInd Cancellation
                          Estimates             06/00                              12/02
                                       UP        UA          Total      UP          UA         Total
World Bank Loan             59.6      22.8      29.6          52.4      25.9        14.8       40.7
GOUP/GOUA                    3.8     1. 96      2.15          4.11      1.69        1.48       3.17
Community                    7.6      2.61       4.3          6.91      2.91        1.85       4.76
Contribution
Total Project Cost           71      27.37      36.05        63.42      30.5       18.13       48.63




                                                  - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Introduction

1.        At appraisal, the project was justified in economic terms by both direct and indirect benefits. A
target population of 800,000 rural inhabitants (rising to 1.2 million as populations rise to design level)
would be directly benefited through the time and effort saved in collecting water, and would become
healthier because of more and cleaner water, improved health knowledge and better sanitation and hygiene
practices. The SAR pointed to indirect benefits (unquantified) of enhanced operational capacity of NGOs in
the project areas, improved practices and techniques for cost-effective water and sanitation services through
R&D, and the development of procedures for public funding of demand driven water and sanitation
services. The first of the project's development objectives was "the delivery of sustainable health and
sanitation services which will increase rural incomes through time savings and income opportunities for
women" and so the economic and financial outcomes of the project are central to the overall assessment of
achievement of the objectives of the project.

2.        This annex undertakes the ex-post evaluation of the economic benefits of the project on the same
basis as that undertaken at appraisal (the ICR requirement), makes some further comment on the basis of
the SAR analysis, and makes suggestions for improvement in the analysis of these types of interventions in
the future. This Annex was prepared with the assistance of the Investment Centre Division [T. Lamrock, TCIP]
of FAO under the World Bank/FAO Co-operative Programme during the ICR mission of the project in
May/June 2003.

The SAR Economic Evaluation Method

3.        The economic analysis at appraisal estimated the value of the benefit of time saved in water
collection, and the value of increased water consumption. The SAR identified the time savings and the value
of increased water as the only reliably quantifiable benefits, and the project design included rural surveys to
monitor and measure the time saved due to the water supply schemes. This time saved was then valued at
an opportunity cost of non-skilled casual labor, seasonally adjusted to reflect varying opportunities for the
productive use of time during the year. A standard cost/benefit analysis method was used. Whilst it was
recognized that health benefits would also result, the SAR did not attempt to value benefits that would
derive from the improved health status of the beneficiaries. However, studies on health status and practices,
and in particular, on the incidence of diarrhoea in young children, were conducted through the project
implementation period.

Data for the ICR Analysis

4.        The data for the ICR analysis was collected during two independent surveys, covering each
Uttaranchal and Uttar Pradesh, conducted during the final months of project implementation. (Report on Final
Round of Time Saving Study with Sample Cutting Across All Batches ­ Dalal Mott MacDonald, May 2003; and Time Saving
Study in Swajal Villages ­ Redecon (India) Pvt. Ltd). The survey in Uttaranchal covered a total of 85 villages,
approximately 10% of the total villages in the project, and that in Uttar Pradesh covered 65 villages,
approximately 20% of those involved (In the latter survey some village data was deemed unreliable and a final sample of
48 villages was analyzed). The purpose of the surveys was to measure the actual time savings that have
resulted from better accessibility to drinking water compared to the baseline data for the pre-project level of
consumption, and to measure the actual incremental consumption that the improved water services have
delivered. During these surveys, the actual skilled and un-skilled wage rates were collected, as well as an
indication of to what purposes the time saved was put at household level.



                                                           - 23 -

Time Saved

5.       The following table gives the results of the time savings surveys for the two states compared with
those estimated at appraisal.

                                                   Hills and Foothills                    Bundelkhand
                                                      (Uttaranchal)                      (Uttar Pradesh)
                                                 Appraisal             ICR          Appraisal          ICR
 Time spent collecting water before the             4.9                 4.7             3.5              2.5
 project
 Time spent collecting water after the              1.1                 1.9             0.8              1.1
 project
 Time saved per household                           3.8                 2.8             2.7              1.4

6.       In both regions, the time savings were over-estimated at appraisal. The time actually spent in
collecting water after the project remained higher than anticipated, and the appraisal over-estimated the time
spent collecting water before the project in the Bundelkhand villages.

Incremental Consumption

7.       The SAR noted that reduced time in collecting water will increase consumption, and that previous
studies had indicated an arc elasticity of demand of -0.54. However, supply constraints of water,
particularly in the drier seasons, limit consumption and a figure of 20% additional time savings was
assumed to accrue to incremental consumption. This assumption was borne out in the surveys in
Uttaranchal where detailed data was collected on incremental consumption. Because of the less than
anticipated overall time savings, the time values of incremental consumption at completion were less than
that at appraisal, as indicated below:

                                                   Hills and Foothills                    Bundelkhand
                                                      (Uttaranchal)                      (Uttar Pradesh)
                                                 Appraisal             ICR          Appraisal          ICR
 Time value of Incremental                          0.8                 0.50            0.60             0.31


 consumption
1Data for the actual incremental consumption was not collected for UP; consultants estimated that time taken for
incremental consumption was 20% of the time saved in collecting water after the project.

Value of Time Saved

8.       The time saved was valued at appraisal at the opportunity cost of labour. The unskilled wage rate
was used as the basis of valuation, adjusted to reflect that the opportunity costs are higher in the dry season
compared to the wet season. For the time saved to have a value, it is not necessary for this time to be
actually spent undertaking economic activities, but there must be an opportunity cost ­ income lost in
foregoing other economic activities. Therefore, to use this as an appropriate basis of valuation, alternative
economic opportunities must exist, either to reduce costs, or to increase income, using this time.

9.       The appraisal methodology looked at the seasonal variations in opportunity costs ­ higher in the
dry and mid season when harvest activities take place but when the greatest time is spent collecting water



                                                     - 24 -

away from the household, and conversely lower in the wet season. Assumptions were made about the time
saved using private house connections compared with standposts/wells. These assumptions have been
reviewed during the ICR and found to be valid, with the exception that the proportion of time previously
spent that was saved through the project is the actual figure which is 58% overall, and the proportion of
private connections was around 15%. The "annualized factor" which adjusts the opportunity costs
depending on seasonal variations was 54.3% at appraisal, but has reduced to 39.6% at ICR due to the
actual time saved being less than that estimated at appraisal.

10.      The calculations for this "annualized factor" are contained in the following table:

11.      At appraisal, the unskilled wage rate was approximately Rs. 35 per day. With adjustments for the
seasonal variations on alternative income generating opportunities, the opportunity cost of time saved was
valued at Rs 2.38 per hour. At completion, the unskilled wage rate averaged Rs. 60 and Rs 49 per day in
UA and UP respectively. With seasonal adjustments updated in line with data obtained during the ICR
mission, the opportunity cost of time saved was Rs 2.97 per hour and Rs 2.43 per hour in UA and UP
respectively. The analysis further adjusts these values by the standard conversion factor of .9 to estimate a
shadow price. Using these hourly rates applied to the time saved and incremental consumption value, an
average was taken, weighted by the number of schemes in each state to estimate the value of time saved per
household and per capita. At appraisal, the time saved and incremental consumption per capita p.a. were
valued at Rs 461 and Rs 104 respectively. At ICR, the figures were Rs 360 and Rs 68. The details are as
follows:

12.      Costs per capita for Component B ­ construction of water supply and environmental sanitation
schemes - were obtained from the surveys in which the cost data for all selected schemes was available
individually. These were significantly lower than estimated at appraisal for the hardware elements. This
was particularly so for the pumping schemes in the Bundelkhand where the hardware costs were one-third
that estimated. However, the costs for the community development activities in Uttaranchal were
significantly higher than estimated, but lower in Bundelkhand. For the ICR analysis, a weighted average
was taken. The following table sets out the comparison of investment costs at appraisal and at the ICR:

13.      For the overall costs of the project, the data was taken from the overall financial reports from the
PMU, adjusted by the inflation rates for India (provided by the Bank), and further adjusted by the standard
conversion factor of 0.9.

Cost and Benefits Streams

14.      The analysis considered firstly the impact of Component B separately, and then included the costs
of Component A ­ Strengthening and Operation of the Project Management Units ­ and Component C ­
Studies and Sector Development. The cost and benefits streams were reconstructed on the same basis as at
appraisal. The actual investment costs were valued in economic terms for both the hardware and software
elements, with an allowance for 2% and 5% of the hardware capital cost for operation and maintenance of
gravity/hand pump schemes, and for electric pump schemes respectively, in accordance with norms
specified by the PMU. The benefits per household of the time saved and incremental consumption were
valued taking into account increases in village populations served leading up to the design capacity of the
schemes.

Overall Results

15.      The ex-post analysis undertaken on a sample of project villages indicates that the majority of



                                                      - 25 -

schemes indicate positive economic returns. However, some 25% to 40% of schemes have not resulted in
sufficient value of time savings to satisfy the test of an economic rate of return of greater than 10%, with
some 12% of schemes with rates of return of less than 5%. The average ERRs for both states were however
19.5%. The results are shown in the following table:

16.      The overall economic rate of return for Component B of the project was 19.5%, compared with
appraisal estimates of an average of 26% taking both the software and hardware costs into account. This is
mainly due to the reduced time savings compared to estimates at appraisal. Based on hardware costs only,
the ERR was 27% compared to 31% at appraisal. The benefit of reduced hardware investment costs
involved was more than offset by the reduced value of time saved as mentioned above.

17.      For the overall project, including the costs of strengthening and operating the PMUs and for the
studies and sector development activities, the economic rate of return at ICR was 13.2% compared to an
appraisal estimate of 20%, with a benefit/cost ratio of 1.07, compared with 1.51 at appraisal.

Sensitivity

18.      The results of the analysis depend totally on, and are very sensitive to, valuations placed on time
saved. At appraisal, the hourly unskilled wage rate was adjusted by 54% to take into account seasonal
variations in opportunities for utilizing time saved. The ICR has adjusted this to 39.6% in line with the
updated assumptions derived from the surveys and experience during the project. Had this assumption not
been adjusted (annualised factor remains at 54%), the rates of return for the project would have been
similar to those at appraisal - the effects of reduced time saved being offset by lower investment costs - with
an overall rate of return of 20%

19.      The vehicle for support to income generating activities was the self-help groups (SHGs), formed
primarily to take responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the schemes and the associated
financial responsibilities. The design of the project also anticipated that these groups would be assisted in
savings and inter-loaning activities, and with forming linkages with the banks. In addition, during the
implementation of the project, the groups were assisted with training in income generating activities. A
report prepared for Uttaranchal indicated over 1,000 SHGs had been formed and that training had been
provided for activities such as pickle making, sewing, vegetable production, fruit preservation, candle
making, etc. The report noted that approximately 23% of the SHGs had undertaken various activities for
income generation, with the predominant activities being vegetable production, dairy, and mini tent houses.
The savings and loan activities were reported to be functioning well with loans being mostly for domestic
expenditures as opposed to investment or working capital for new enterprises.

20.      During field work for the ICR surveys, it was observed that incremental income generating
opportunities were limited in project villages. It was observed that, whilst some extra time is spent on
increased vegetable and milk production in some of the villages, and some small nurseries have been
established, there was little or no inflow of cash from time saving. The field visits undertaken during the
ICR indicated that households often use the saved time for own consumption or other activities even if the
returns are low, and that much of the saved time was spent on domestic activities. The following table gives
the only data available on how time saved was used. This was obtained from the Uttaranchal survey:




                                                      - 26 -

             Alternative Use of Time Saved                    %
              Educating child                                 0.5
              Farm work                                      17.9
              Household work                                 39.5
              Leisure                                         8.7
              Livestock rearing                              11.9
              Village activities                              1.3
              Studies                                        17.3
              Self Help Groups                                4.3

21.      This would indicate that 30% of the time saved was used in some economic activity but it does not
give any indication of the extent to which this is incremental, or to its value. If, however, all of this time is
incremental and can be realistically valued at the unskilled labour rate, and is the same for all villages in the
project, the ERR for the project would be 8.4%.

22.      The table below shows these results:

                        Sensitivity to Adjustments in Opportunity Cost of Labour
      Economic Rate of Return Summary - Annualised Factor 54%                  NPV (@12%)     B/C Ratio  (@12%)
 Component B                                All costs      Hardware Only
 At Appraisal                                     26.1%              30.8%        1,278,122               2.01
 ICR                                              29.4%              42.1%        2,081,159               1.90

 Total Project                                                                        (Rs,000)
 At Appraisal                                     20.4%                              755,921              1.51
 ICR                                              19.9%                              630,417              1.47

      Economic Rate of Return Summary - Annualised Factor 30%                  NPV (@12%)     B/C Ratio (@12%)
 Component B                                All costs      Hardware Only
 At Appraisal                                     26.1%              30.8%        1,278,122               2.01
 ICR                                              13.0%              18.3%           (64,058)             1.05

 Total Project                                                                        (Rs,000)
 At Appraisal                                     20.4%                              755,921              1.51
 ICR                                                8.4%                            (256,654)             0.81

      Economic Rate of Return Summary - Annualised Factor 37%                  NPV (@12%)     B/C Ratio (@12%)
 Component B                                All costs      Hardware Only
 At Appraisal                                     26.1%              30.8%        1,278,122               2.01
 ICR                                              17.7%              24.6%           553,270              1.30

 Total Project                                                                        (Rs,000)
 At Appraisal                                     20.4%                              755,921              1.51
 ICR                                              12.0%                               (1,381)             1.00



23.      With the annualised factor adjusted to 37%, the project just satisfies the test of an ERR of 12% -
the base acceptable level. The question now is whether in excess of 37% of the time saved has been



                                                      - 27 -

realistically utilized in incremental economic activities with a value of the unskilled labor rate, or whether
all the time saved has been utilized in incremental economic activities with a value of 37% of the unskilled
labor rate, or some combination of these. If this is the case, then the project can be said to be justified. If
not, then the project cannot be economically justified using this measure alone.

Comments on the SAR/ICR ex-post Evaluation Method

24.       There are two limitations in using these results to determine the economic impact of the project.
The first concerns issues relating to the economic value of time saved, and the second is the non-inclusion
of the economic value of benefits of improved health and lifestyles.

Economic Value of Time Saved

25.       Using opportunity cost as a valid basis of standard economic valuation does not require that the
opportunities are actually taken advantage of. However, at the ex-post stage, it is important to be able to
determine to what extent incremental economic output was achieved, and what financial improvements were
made to household incomes, which justifies the investments made. This is crucial for Government to know
when making public investment decisions based on economic analysis and is also necessary in determining
to what extent poverty has been addressed in the project. Whilst better health and living conditions are part
of improving the poverty status of people, improvement in real household incomes and village economies
are always central objectives.

26.       As mentioned above, for the time saved in water collection to have a value, there must be either an
incremental economic output using this time, or there must be an opportunity cost ­ income lost in not
utilizing this labor for other activities that are available to produce incremental economic output. In
circumstances such as these, it is appropriate to use the concept of opportunity cost but to make the
valuation valid, a confirmation must be made that alternative economic opportunities exist, for how long
during the year they are available, and what value should be put on each unit (hour or day) of time.

27.       Using the unskilled labor rate as the basis for the economic valuation of time, the underlying
assumption in the analysis is that opportunities for incremental economic gain would be available using this
extra labor. This is an appropriate valuation if labor is a constraint to the fulfilment of economic
opportunities. The appraisal methodology correctly looked at the seasonal variations in opportunity costs,
and made adjustments to the standard unskilled wage rate. The assumption was that employment
opportunities were higher in the dry and mid season when harvest activities take place but when the greatest
time is spent collecting water away from the household, and conversely lower in the wet season. However,
the reality is that this is not necessarily the case in isolated agricultural communities where the agricultural
resources are already fully utilized. During harvest time when labor is required, this labor is not in effect an
incremental requirement producing an incremental economic output ­ the work is shared around members
of the village to do the same work on the same land.

28.       The isolated nature of some of the villages in the project also limits interaction with economy
outside the village and is a constraining factor for opportunities for incremental economic output to be sold
into markets outside the villages.

29.       There are also some practical considerations that prevent saved time from being converted into
economically productive time. For example, women from upper castes (with higher social status) do not go
for wage employment or labor as per socio-cultural norms. The time saved is spread over the whole day as
women collect water depending on the demands on their time for other household activities. Thus, women


                                                         - 28 -

find it difficult to take up jobs or other productive work since the time is disjointed during the day.

30.      Without further data on the opportunities for actual new economic activities undertaken during the
project or likely in the future, it is not possible to evaluate the real incremental economic benefits derived
from using time saved. However, the surveys and field observations indicate that the constraints to
incremental economic output (and household incomes) relate to more lack of physical resources (land), lack
of capital (investment and working) and restricted market opportunities, as opposed to lack of time or labor.
Therefore, it would be reasonable to conclude that, in most of the villages in the project, the opportunities
for incremental economic output (or costs saved) using the time saved are extremely limited in the presence
of these other constraints. (This, of course, has flow on financial impacts for household incomes out of
which additional O&M costs burdens have to be met.) Consequently the opportunity cost of labor (in
relation to time saved) is likely to be far less than that assumed in the analysis. The conclusion is that it is
likely that less than 37% of the value of saved time was, or could be in the future, applied to incremental
economic activities, the minimum level to achieve the required benchmark of 12 % ERR.

31.      Unemployed people will take longer to carry out work in the absence of other demands on their
time than those employed specifically to undertake that work. In addition, unemployed people will
undertake both market and non-market activities with much lower return than would otherwise be expected
to be feasible ­ other better return activities are not available. Using the unskilled wage rate in the absence
of real alternative employment opportunities to value time saved does not reflect the diminishing (or zero)
economic returns to household labor engaged in non-market activities, overstates its value, and portrays
households to be better off than they really are. Therefore, even if 37% of the time was or could be applied
to economic activities, its valuation at the unskilled labor rate may overstate the real economic impact, and
the analysis would then indicate that the project did not achieve a minimum ERR of 12%

32.      A far more accurate and realistic way to value time is through output-based valuations of the time
saved with reference to the limited real employment and market access opportunities of the beneficiaries. A
further alternative basis for valuing benefits could also be surveys of beneficiaries of their willingness to
pay for services using contingent valuation methods. This would then reveal values of benefits from these
types of projects (e.g. convenience, cleanliness) that are real outcomes, but often overlooked in the more
standard types of analysis. However, the perceptions of beneficiaries in this case would be clouded by the
significant subsidy element in the capital costs of the schemes, and it hence would be difficult to gauge the
real willingness of beneficiaries of this project to pay in the absence of the subsidy.

33.      Uncertainty concerning the validity of assumptions underlying the analysis undermines the
confidence of using the results of the "time saved at opportunity cost" method of economic evaluation
alone. For future water supply projects in rural economies similar to those of this project, this would also
be an invalid basis for justifying the investments and activities, as it is likely to overstate the benefits of the
project. Theoretical economic assumptions about opportunity costs at appraisal need to be realized during
project implementation for these types of projects to have a real impact on household incomes, and the
economies of the villages and states involved. This further emphasizes the link that must be made between
saved time, and the creation of opportunities for income generation using this saved time, in the design of
projects in isolated rural communities.

Health Benefits

34.      The appraisal recognized the health benefits that would result from the project but did not attempt
to put any value on this significant impact of the project. Therefore, at this stage, it is not possible to
determine the full economic impact of this project. It has been observed during the health surveys carried


                                                        - 29 -

during project implementation that some or all of the following benefits have resulted to some extent:
·        Improved quality of life
·        Improved life expectancy
·        Reduced medical costs
·        Reduced time spent in care
·        Reduced costs of travel in relation to medical care

35.      Better practices are evolving to address the difficult issues in valuing these benefits where
market-based valuations are not possible. Alternative measures of willingness to pay using contingent
valuation methods should be considered in the analysis of these types of projects.

Summary

36.      The ex-post evaluation of the project (using the value of time saved as the adjusted unskilled labor
rate and strictly on the appraisal basis) would indicate that the economic return from the use of time saved
is sufficient to justify the investment. This would be the case if labor was a constraint to incremental
income generating or cost saving activities that was removed as a result of time savings from water
collection. However, there is lack of clear evidence that time is indeed a constraint to incremental economic
activities in the rural villages involved in the project, and that opportunities for economic output to this
value have been realized, or will be in the future. Therefore this analysis overstates the economic impact.
On the other hand, there are many other benefits that have resulted and have a value, which are not included
in the analysis. In these areas, this analysis underestimates the economic impact. Overall, the outcome is
inconclusive, and the experience cannot provide Government with the full information it requires in
determining and prioritizing future expenditure patterns on water and health services in rural areas.

37.      An interesting aspect that evolves from the above considerations is under what circumstances can
rural water and sanitation projects realistically bring about improvements in incomes, and whether these
projects should be justified in terms of economic use of time saved. It can be argued that the benefits of
these projects in isolated, rural areas of high unemployment are more social and life quality-related, rather
than economic or financial. But where time is the main constraint on incremental economic activity, then the
objectives of increased incomes, and justification of projects based on the economic benefits that flow from
time savings, are most appropriate.




                                                       - 30 -

                                      SUPPORTING TABLES ­ COST/BENEFIT STREAMS

Basic Cost parameters                                                                        Basic population parameters
             Standard Conversion Factor                 0.9                                                Population Growth              2%
                                                                                                      Planning horizon (years)            20
          Ajdustment for constant prices              1996                5.9 %                               Household size             6.1 UA
                          (Indian Inflation)          1997                5.2 %                                                           5.5 UP
                                                      1998                6.9 %
                                                      1999                3.5 %
                                                      2000                6.2 %
                                                      2001                5.2 %
                                                      2002                2.4 %
                                                      2003                4.5 %

                           Recurrent O&M                5% of hardware costs in UP
                                                        2% of hardware costs in UA

                                                           At Appraisal (1996   At Appraisal                     At ICR -     At ICR - Uttar  ICR Weighted
Economic Costs per capita Present population                      Rs)            (2003 Rs)                     Uttaranchal       Pradesh        average
                                 Software                         322               474                            884             386            670
                                 Hardware                         1854              2733                           2582            927            1872
                                      Total                       2176              3207                           3465            1313           2542

Economic Costs per scheme
                                 Software                           223,492          329,343                         883,653         385,760
                                 Hardware                          1,288,828       1,899,246                       2,581,815         927,013
                                      Total                        1,512,320       2,228,589                       3,465,468      1,312,772

Annualised Factor to adjust opportunity cost of labour                                                                         At Appraisal
Season                                                                                                             Wet             Dry           Other
                                                                                                                                              Harvest/Non-
Activities                                                                                                     Non-harvest        Harvest       harvest
Opportunities for alternative income generating activities                                                         Low           Medium           High
Months                                                                                                               4               4             4
Proportion of daily water requirements to be obtained away from household                                          25%            100%            80%
Type of connection                                                                           House                 30%             30%            30%
                                                                                             Standpost/well        70%             70%            70%
Proportion of time previously spent obtaining water that can be saved through the project    House                 90%             90%            90%
                                                                                             Standpost/well        75%             75%            75%
Weighted average of time saved by type of connection                                         House                6.75%           27.00%        21.60%
                                                                                             Standpost/well      13.13%           52.50%        42.00%
Annualised factor to adjust market wage (opportunity cost of labour                          House                2.25%           9.00%          7.20%
                                                                                             Standpost/well       4.38%           17.50%        14.00%
Annualised Factor at Appraisal                                                                                                                  54.33%



                                                                                                                                  At ICR
Season                                                                                                             Wet             Dry           Other
                                                                                                                                              Harvest/Non-
Activities                                                                                                     Non-harvest        Harvest       harvest
Opportunities for alternative income generating activities                                                         Low           Medium           High
Months                                                                                                               4               4             4
Proportion of daily water requirements to be obtained away from household                                          25%            100%            80%
Type of connection                                                                           House                 15%             15%            15%
                                                                                             Standpost/well        85%             85%            85%
Proportion of time previously spent obtaining water that can be saved through the project    House                 58%             58%            58%
                                                                                             Standpost/well        58%             58%            58%
Weighted average of time saved by type of connection                                         House                2.18%           8.70%          6.96%
                                                                                             Standpost/well      12.33%           49.30%        39.44%
Annualised factor to adjust market wage (opportunity cost of labour                          House                0.73%           2.90%          2.32%
                                                                                             Standpost/well       4.11%           16.43%        13.15%
Annualised Factor at ICR                                                                                                                        39.63%




                                                                          - 31 -

Benefit Estimates                                                               At appraisal (1996 Rs)            At appraisal (2003 Rs)
   Opportunity cost of labour (financial)                                               35 Rs per day                      52 Rs per day
                     Annualized factor                                              54.3%                              54.3%
                   Value of time saved                                               2.38 Rs per hour                   3.50 Rs per hour

                                                                                 At ICR - Uttaranchal             At ICR - Uttar Pradesh
   Opportunity cost of labour (financial)                                               60 Rs per day                      49 Rs per day
                     Annualized factor                                              39.6%                              39.6%
                   Value of time saved                                                2.97 Rs per hour                   2.43 Rs per hour



                                                                                                      At appraisal
                                                                                    Benefits per hh                   Benefit per cap
                                                                            Hours per day   Financial Value  Financial Value Economic Value
                          Time Savings                                           3.6              8.4             513.0            461.7
              Incremental consupmtion                                            0.8              1.9             115.6            104.1



                                                                At ICR - Uttaranchal                                                 At ICR - Uttar Pradesh                      Weighted average
                                                 Benefits per hh                    Benefit per cap                   Benefits per hh                    Benefit per cap          Benefit per cap
                                         Hours per day   Financial Value   Financial Value Economic Value    Hours per day     Financial Value Financial Value   Economic Value  Economic Value
                          Time Savings      2.76              8.21               545              491                    1.43       3.46              207              186             360
              Incremental consupmtion       0.51              1.53               101              91                     0.29       0.69              41               37              68




                                                                Apprasial Benefit Streams - Component B - All Schemes (Rs '000)
        Year                 Hardware        Software               O&M        Total Costs         Value of         Value of             Total             Net          Hardware       Population
                                  Costs         Costs               Costs                     Time savings      Incremental          Benefits          Benefits             Only           Served
                                                                                                               consumption
            1                       558            -                                  558                                                                 (558)            (558)
            2                     6,047        13,754                 -            19,801                                                 -            (19,801)           (6,047)
            3                  113,161         48,251               3,007         164,419           14,978             2,995          17,973          (146,446)          (98,195)           56346
            4                  303,315         81,269             13,218          397,802           66,908            13,381          80,289          (317,513)         (236,244)          243198
            5                  450,332         94,481             29,842          574,655          160,783            32,156         192,939          (381,716)         (287,235)          512154
            6                  540,496         40,664             52,927          634,087          285,572            57,114         342,686          (291,401)         (250,737)          816904
            7                       -              -              52,927           52,927          357,381            71,476         428,857           375,930           375,930           833198
            8                                                     52,927           52,927          392,402            78,481         470,883           417,956           417,956           849847
            9                                                     52,927           52,927          400,286            79,757         480,043           427,116           427,116           866923
          10                                                      52,927           52,927          408,310            81,356         489,666           436,739           436,739           884300
          11                                                      52,927           52,927          416,448            82,977         499,425           446,498           446,498           901925
          12                                                      52,927           52,927          424,764            84,634         509,398           456,471           456,471           919936
          13                                                      52,927           52,927          433,267            86,328         519,595           466,668           466,668           938350
          14                                                      52,927           52,927          441,966            88,061         530,027           477,100           477,100           957190
          15                                                      52,927           52,927          450,788            89,819         540,607           487,680           487,680           976297
          16                                                      52,927           52,927          459,788            91,613         551,401           498,474           498,474           995789
          17                                                      52,927           52,927          468,981            93,444         562,425           509,498           509,498          1015699
          18                                                      52,927           52,927          478,350            95,311         573,661           520,734           520,734          1035989
          19                                                      52,927           52,927          487,891            97,212         585,104           532,177           532,177          1056654
          20                                                      52,927           52,927          497,632            99,153         596,785           543,858           543,858          1077749
          21                                                      52,927           52,927          507,574          101,134          608,708           555,781           555,781          1099282
          22                                                      52,927           52,927          517,773          103,166          620,939           568,012           568,012          1121370
          23                                                      52,927           52,927          527,475          105,099          632,574           579,647           579,647          1142383
          24                                                      52,927           52,927          534,850          106,569          641,418           588,491           588,491          1158354
NPV @ 12%                      807,989       171,169            278,526         1,227,843        2,337,647          466,347        2,503,567         1,007,484         1,178,654
                                                                                                 B/C Ratio=               2.0 ERR=                       26.4%             32.8%




                                                                                        - 32 -

                  Appraisal Benefits Streams - Total Project Rs ('000)
     Year    Project Overhead        Scheme         Total Costs         Scheme         Total
                       Costs           Costs                            Benefits     Benefits

        1             19,328             558            19,886              -        (19,886)
        2             72,341         19,801             92,142              -        (92,142)
        3             90,874        164,419            255,293           17,973     (237,320)
        4             83,326        397,802            481,128           80,289     (400,839)
        5             45,815        574,655            620,470          192,939     (427,531)
        6             40,596        634,087            674,683          342,686     (331,997)
        7             27,491         52,927             80,418          428,857      348,439
        8                            52,927             52,927          470,883      417,956
        9                            52,927             52,927          480,043      427,116
       10                            52,927             52,927          489,666      436,739
       11                            52,927             52,927          499,425      446,498
       12                            52,927             52,927          509,398      456,471
       13                            52,927             52,927          519,595      466,668
       14                            52,927             52,927          530,027      477,100
       15                            52,927             52,927          540,607      487,680
       16                            52,927             52,927          551,401      498,474
       17                            52,927             52,927          562,425      509,498
       18                            52,927             52,927          573,661      520,734
       19                            52,927             52,927          585,104      532,177
       20                            52,927             52,927          596,785      543,858
       21                            52,927             52,927          608,708      555,781
       22                            52,927             52,927          620,939      568,012
       23                            52,927             52,927          632,574      579,647
       24                            52,927             52,927          641,418      588,491
NPV @12%             251,564      1,227,843          1,479,407        2,235,327      755,921

     NPV=            755,921      B/C Ratio=              1.51            ERR=         20.4%

                     ICR Benefits Streams - Total Project Rs ('000)
     Year    Project Overhead        Scheme         Total Costs         Scheme         Total
                       Costs           Costs                            Benefits     Benefits

        1             57,217           1,153            58,369              -        (58,369)
        2             65,926         14,701             80,627              922      (79,705)
        3             68,620         92,357            160,977           13,241     (147,736)
        4             69,759        208,661            278,420           45,156     (233,264)
        5             55,564        385,756            441,321          108,742     (332,578)
        6             90,121        592,103            682,224          213,302     (468,922)
        7             76,845        362,394            439,238          285,807     (153,432)
        8                           107,801            107,801          307,531      199,731
        9                            37,095             37,095          313,682      276,587
       10                            37,095             37,095          319,956      282,861
       11                            37,095             37,095          326,355      289,260
       12                            37,095             37,095          332,882      295,787
       13                            37,095             37,095          339,539      302,445
       14                            37,095             37,095          346,330      309,236
       15                            37,095             37,095          353,257      316,162
       16                            37,095             37,095          360,322      323,227
       17                            37,095             37,095          367,528      330,434
       18                            37,095             37,095          374,879      337,784
       19                            37,095             37,095          382,377      345,282
       20                            37,095             37,095          390,024      352,929
       21                            37,095             37,095          397,825      360,730
       22                            37,095             37,095          405,781      368,686
       23                            37,095             37,095          413,897      376,802
       24                            37,095             37,095          422,175      385,080
NPV @12%             308,765      1,041,912          1,350,677        1,445,326       94,649

     NPV=             94,649      B/C Ratio=              1.07            ERR=         13.2%




                                            - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                     Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/09/1990                2    SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1), SR.
                                             SAN. ENGINEER (1)
              04/10/1991                3    SR. SAN. ENGINEER (10, SAN,
                                             ENGINEER (1), SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1)
              09/04/1991                4    SAN. ENGINEER (1), SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1)
              07/01/1992                2    SAN. ENGINEER (1), SR. SAN.
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              04/30/1993                3    SAN. ENGINEER (1),
                                             ECONOMIST (1), SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1)
              11/10/1993                3    SR. SAN. ENGINEER (1), SAN.
                                             ENGINEER (1), SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1)
              09/04/1994                8    SR. SAN. ENGINEER (1),
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTISTS (2), SAN.
                                             ENGINEER (1),
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALISTS (2), FMS (1),
                                             TRAINING SPLST (1)
              12/08/1994                3    SR. SAN. ENGINEER (1),
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1), SAN.
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              08/05/1995              10     SR. SAN. ENGINEER (1),
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1), SAN.
                                             ENGINEER (1), ECONOMIST
                                             (3), SR. IRRIGATION
                                             ENGINEER (1),
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPLST (1),
                                             PROCUREMENT SPLST (1),
                                             FMS (1)
              12/17/1995                9    SR. IRRIGATION ENGINEER
                                             (1), PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST
                                             (1), INST. DEV. SPLST (1), SR.
                                             SAN. ENGINEERS (2),
                                             ENGINEER (1), NGO SPLST
                                             (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/1/1996                 9    SANITARY ENGINEER
                                             (2), ECONOMIST (2),
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST (1),
                                             INST. DEV. SPLST (1),



                                              - 34 -

                            ENVIRONMENT SPLST
                            (1), ENGINEER (2)

Supervision

           02/15/1996     3 TEAM LEADER (1);             HS    HS
                            SOCIOLOGY (1); ENGINEER
                            (1)
           09/22/1997     4 TEAM LEADER (1);             HS    HS
                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                            SANITATION (1);
                            SOCIOLOGY (1)
           04/08/1998     6 TEAM LEADER (1);             HS    HS
                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                            ENGINEERING (1);
                            SOCIOLOGY (1);
                            INSTITUTIONAL (1); M&E,
                            TRAINING (1)
           09/29/1998     7 TEAM LEADER (1);             HS    HS
                            INSTITUTIONAL (1);
                            SOCIOLOGY (1); ECONOMIST
                            (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                            ENGINEERING (2)
           04/23/1999     7 TEAM LEADER (1); SECTOR      HS    HS
                            STUDY (1); SOCIOLOGY (1);
                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                            ENGINEERING (2);
                            FINANCIAL (1)
           MTR MISSION    6 SR. SAN. ENGINEER (1),        S    HS
           11/01/1999       ECONOMIST (1), SOCIAL
                            DEV. SPLST (1), INST. BLDG
                            SPLST (1), FMS (1),
                            ENGINEERING SPLST (1)
           05/19/2000     7 ECONOMIST (1), SOCIAL         S    S
                            DEV. SPLST (1), SR. WATER
                            SUPPLY SPLST (1), SR. SAN.
                            ENGINEER (1), SR. HEALTH
                            SPLST (1), FMS (1),
                            PROCUREMENT SPLST (1)
           12/23/2000     5 SR. ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL     S    S
                            SCIENTIST (1); SANITARY
                            ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
                            MANAGEMENT (1); WATER
                            RESOURCES ENGINE (1)
           06/08/2001     7 TASK                          S    S
                            MANAGER/ECONOMIST (1);
                            SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT SP.
                            (1); SANITARY ENGINEER
                            (1); FINANCIAL
                            MANAGEMENT (1);
                            PROCUREMENT SP. (1);
                            ENGINEERING
                            CONSULTANT (1);




                            - 35 -

                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                                            (1)
               11/09/2001              5    SR. ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL         S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1); IRRIGATION
                                            SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                            MGMT (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
               05/10/2002              5    SR. ECONOMIST/LEADER (1);         S    S
                                            SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT SP.
                                            (1); SANITARY ENGINEER
                                            (1); FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT (1); WATER
                                            RESOURCES ENGINE (1)
               11/01/2002              5    MISSION LDR/ECONOMIST             S    S
                                            (1); SOCIAL DEV. SPL (1);
                                            PROCURMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); ENGINEERING & O&M
                                            SPL. (1); SANITARY
                                            ENGINEER (1)

 ICR
               05/31/2003             6     ICR TEAM LEADER (1)               S    S
                                            ECONOMIST (2);
                                            FINANCIAL MGT SPLST
                                            (1); SOCIAL DEV SPLST
                                            (1); WATER SUPPLY
                                            ENGINEER (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            73.5                         180.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    38                          64.7
  Supervision                        229.17                         278.29
  ICR                                  37.56                           57.8
  Total                              378.23                         580.99




                                            - 36 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Annex 8. Studies funded under the Project

Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution

Annex 10. Sustainability Evaluation Exercise Analysis

Annex 11. Summary of Stakeholder Workshops held in Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal

Annex 12. SWAJALDHARA Programme - MOU

Annex 13. Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sanitation Mission (WSM) - MOU

Annex 14. Decisions of the GOUA for Initiating Process of Reform in the WATSAN Sector




                                                 - 39 -

         Additional Annex 8. Studies funded under the Project


S. Name of       Conducted by    Agree- Start Date Comple-   Main Findings                                 Uses made of the Study
No the Study                     ment              tion Date
   & Cost                        No.
   Institutional & Financial
1. Organizational Administrativ 427     25.02.1999 31.05.1999 1.Swajal's greatest strength lies in the     1. The emphasis on training
   Development     e Staff                                     public image it has created because of the specially for motivational and
   Exercise.       College of                                  way it has functioned.                      attitudinal changes of
   Rs. 13,62,500   India (ASCI),                               2. The image of the SWAJAL is one of        PMU/DPMUs staff were further
                   Hyderabad                                   incorruptibility and Transparency.          increased and courses like `Art
                                                               3. Community contribution & participation of living', `Blue Print of
                                                               facilitated by SWAJAL is one of its         Success' were conducted for the
                                                               greatest strengths.                         staff.
                                                               4. Financially, the project has been        2. The open door policy at all
                                                               handled with sufficient cost consciousness. level was adopted to ensure the
                                                               5. Even though the personnel of the project transparency.
                                                               came from different organizations there is 3. The emphasis was given to out
                                                               a great amount of interest in integrating   sourcing of the services rather
                                                               the functioning.                            than engaging manpower in
                                                               6. Swajal performance orientation without house. The PMU/DPMUs can be
                                                               compromising the basic philosophy of the    dissolved without any hustle.
                                                               mission is a refreshing change and will     However, the investment in
                                                               stand in good stead in the long run.        Capacity Building of staff would
                                                               7. Investment in Human Resource             be protected by utilizing their
                                                               Development, through training, innovation services in Swajaldhara project,
                                                               and flexibility in working, have led to a   Sector Reform Project, Total
                                                               bank of talent which may be unique in       Sanitation Campaign and Follow
                                                               India, & probably elsewhere in the world    on Project.
                                                               in the area of rural WATSAN which is not 4. The powers were delegated to
                                                               only demand driven but also requires the    the Additional Director and
                                                               commitment of the rural communities.        Finance Controller and Project
                                                               8. Selection of Women specialists in        Managers of DPMUs.
                                                               different disciplines has been given due    5. The system of portfolio
                                                               considerations.                             management was revamped by
                                                               9. Unlike other institutions in the country involving specialist of all the
                                                               SWAJAL society can be dissolved without discipline.
                                                               hurdles once it believes that its mission is
                                                               over.
                                                               10. The quantum and level of decision
                                                               making at DPMU is not high. There is a
                                                               tendency to look up to the PMU for all
                                                               kinds of decisions, especially by the SO.
2. Rural Water     M/s DHV       809    27.04.2000 31.03.2001 The objective of the study was to promote 1. Both the states have developed
   Supply &        Consultants                                 the long term sustainability of the RWSS    their long term Strategic Plan for
   Environmental BV, the                                       sector by providing assistance to State     Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
   Sanitation      Netherlands                                 Governments to identify and implement       Sector.
   Sector Study                                                an appropriate policy framework and         2. The study report was useful for
   Rs. 78,66,018                                               strategic plan. The recommendations of      developing project reports of
                                                               the sector study report are:                Follow on Projects for both the
                                                               1. Focus on improvement of piped water      States.
                                                               supply through individual private
                                                               connections.
                                                               2. Community management of RWSES.
                                                               3. Government role from sole provider to
                                                               facilitator & Co-financier
                                                               4. Involvement of PRIs



                                                             - 40 -

                                                                5. Bottom-up planning.
                                                                6. Integration of WS and ES.
                                                                7. Protection of water sources.
                                                                8. Rejuvenation/upgrading of existing
                                                                schemes with improved service level.
                                                                9. Institutional support structure
                                                                comprising small, independent
                                                                service-oriented agencies.
                                                                10. Gradually increase capital cost sharing
                                                                to 100%
                                                                11. Better flow of funds for the sector
                                                                through RWSS fund.
                                                                12. Cost recovery
                                                                13. Phased financing strategy for the
                                                                sector.
                                                                14. Encourage provision for institutional
                                                                and local loans and credits for users.
                                                                15. Merger of Jal Nigam and Jal Sansthan.
3. Assignment of M/s Avinash K. 370 (UA) 01-03-2003 15-05-2003 Community procurement has been made         The recommendations of the
   Study on      Rastogi &                                      at relatively reasonable prices as         consultant will be used while
   Efficacy of   Asstociates CA,                                compared to centralized procurement to     preparing the follows ­on
   Community     Lucknow                                        centralized procurement by Jal Nigam.      Project.
   Contracting in                                               Further it is the opinion of the
   Swajal Project                                               Consultants that for non local materials
   Rs. 4,75,000                                                 which cost more than 50% of the water
                                                                supply project cost there should be
                                                                continuous process of market survey
                                                                being conducted at DPMU level in order
                                                                to keep a rate bench mark at
                                                                DPMU/PMU levels and it should be
                                                                strictly monitored at PMUI level.
4  Impact        Dr. J. S. Yadav, 1678   30.10.2002 27.05.2003 The objective of the report was to assess   Media plan for the follow-on
   Evaluation of Uma Yadav                                      the Impact of media campaign and           Project will be based upon
   Mass Media    M/s CMF                                        subsequently to the action Plan for the    primary findings of the study.
   Campaign      D-7/7490,                                      fourth coming follow-on Project find the
                 Basant Kunj,                                   study of :
                 New Delhi.                                     - IEC activity were found to be planned
                 Ph.:                                           coordinated, monitored and well
                 011-26121035                                   engineered resulting in good social
                                                                mobilization.
                                                                - IEC tools like SARAR, HESA, NFE,
                                                                and facilitated involvement and
                                                                participation, dialog and decision-taking
                                                                in small group, but face to face inter
                                                                personal communication were far more
                                                                effective in motivating, organization and
                                                                enabling community members.
                                                                - Wall writing power found be major
                                                                source of Swajal show casing.
5  Assignment of M/s Avinash K. 1755     4/7/2003   31/5/2003   The analysis of data reveals that for each The recommendations of the
   Study on      Rastogi &        (UP)                          and every item, materials have been        consultant will be used while
   Efficacy of   Asstociates CA,                                purchased of the same quality as           preparing a follow up project.
   Community     Lucknow                                        prescribed in the DPRs. In case any item
   Contracting in                                               was found not up to the mark then it was
   Swajal Project                                               replaced by the suppliers with standard
   Rs. 3,85,000/-                                               quality materials as prescribed in the
                                                                DPRs. The Process of community
                                                                procurement as adopted in the Swajal
                                                                villages has been found to be quite



                                                              - 41 -

                                                              efficient and has resulted in purchase of
                                                              standard materials of good quality (ISI
                                                              marked).
   HRD/H&H
6  Baseline study Operation       422  01-10-1998 28-01-1999 NA
   of Knowledge Research Group,
   Attitude and   Lucknow
   Practices
   Rs. 4,96,285
7  State wide      M/s Thompson 161    26.02.1998             NA                                          NA
   media           Social, New
   campaign on     Delhi
   sanitation and
   gender issue
   (Assessment
   Phase)
   Rs.21,68,769
8  Folk Media      M/s Aarambh, 759    09-12-1999 08-06-2000 NA                                           NA
   Campaign        Lucknow
   Rs. 9,99,200
9  Baseline study  Department of 818   1/8/2002   11/15/2000 The baseline study established the           Findings shared with DPMU and
   for evaluation  Community                                  baseline status of certain health and       revised HESA strategy formulated
   of Health       Medicine(SPM                               hygiene indicators in 10 Swajal and 10      for implementation in the field
   Benefits in the )KGMC,                                     non-Swajal villages located in 2 districts
   Swajal Project  Lucknow                                    of Banda and Jhansi, before the water
                                                              supply and sanitation schemes were
                                                              established in the Swajal villages. The
                                                              base-line status established that though
                                                              the average no. of HPs per 100 hhs. did
                                                              not differ much between the Swajal and
                                                              non-S villages, the number of latrines
                                                              was significantly higher. Though the %
                                                              hand-washing practice after defecation
                                                              (S*-29.4, N.S*-24.9) and before meals
                                                              (S*-21.6, N.S*-11.6) was much higher in
                                                              Swajal villages, the incidence of diarrhea
                                                              was higher in Swajal than in non-Swajal
                                                              villages(S-13.6, N.S-9.8). This was due
                                                              to the fact that, though their health and
                                                              hygiene practices had improved due to
                                                              the health education and IEC inputs
                                                              received due to the Swajal project
                                                              strategy, because the drinking water
                                                              available was not safe for consumption,
                                                              the incidence of diarrhea was higher.
10 Repeat          Findings shared1499 8/30/2001 1/31/2002    The analyses of data collected in the First
   Comparison      with DPMU                                  Repeat Comparison Study which was
   study of Health and revised                                conducted in the same sample Swajal and
   Benefits in the HESA strategy                              non-Swajal villages, revealed that there
   Swajal Project  formulated for                             was reasonable increase in better health
                   implementation                             and hygiene practices, particularly in
                   in the field                               terms of use of safe drinking water (as
                                                              the water supply and sanitation facilities
                                                              were in place), hand washing practices
                                                              (after defecation: S-68.9, N.S.-36.4), use
                                                              of sanitary latrines etc. in the Swajal
                                                              villages as compared to Non-swajal
                                                              villages, in the repeat study when
                                                              compared with the baseline. It was also



                                                            - 42 -

                                                                observed that there was a decrease in the
                                                                incidence of diarrhea in the Swajal
                                                                villages when compared from baseline to
                                                                repeat study (S-7.2, N.S-9.2). This was
                                                                mainly due to the Community
                                                                Empowerment and HESA strategies
                                                                followed, the increased latrine coverage
                                                                per 100 hhs. (S-28.7, N.S-4.4) and IEC
                                                                inputs given by the project in the village
                                                                communities.
11 Contract for   M/s Thomson            13-03-2000 22-05-2000 NA                                           NA
   consultants    social enkay
   services for   center
   Mass Media
   Campaign
   (Campaign
   Phase)
   Rs. 2,39,60,049
12 Mass Media      Mr.J.K.       195(UA) 24-05-2002 23-11-2002 The Consultant has developed scripts and     1. The radio jingles have been
   Campaign        Dhaondiyal                                   CDs for Radio jingles, designs for posters, broadcasted from Feb to May
   during O&M      A-702, river                                 wall writing and hoardings on the O&M       2003 from Radio Nazibabad to
   Phase in        View                                         issues including role of Village            cover entire Uttaranchal
   Uttaranchal     Apartment                                    Maintenance Worker, regular chlorination 2. Tin & paper posters were
   Rs. 5,75,000    Mayur Vihar                                  regular collection of water changes,        distributed to Swajal villages for
                   Phas-1 Ext.                                  transparency, accounts keeping etc.         dissemination.
                   Delhi                                                                                    3. Wall painting as per design of
                                                                                                            consultants were painted in
                                                                                                            Swajal villages
                                                                                                            4. Hoardings were placed at Vikas
                                                                                                            Bhawan in every district.
13 2nd Repeat      Department of 200(UA) 13.08.2002 20.01.2003 1.There was a reasonable increase in the     The study has proved beyond
   Comparison      Community                                    health and hygiene practices such as use of doubt that the project was
   Study on        Medicine                                     safe drinking water, hand-washing           successful in attaining its main
   Health benefits KGMC,                                        practices used by Swajal villages as        objective of providing sustainable
   in Uttaranchal  Lucknow                                      compared to non-Swajal villages.            health and hygiene benefits to
   Rs. 9,65,635                                                 2. It was also observed a decrease in the   rural communities
                                                                indicidence of diarrhea
14 2nd Repeat      Department of 1660    22.10.2002 31.01.2003 The analyses of data collected in the
   Comparison      Community     (UP)                           Second Repeat Comparison Study which
   study of Health Medicine                                     was conducted in the same sample
   Benefits of     KGMC,                                        Swajal and non-swajal villages, revealed
   Bundelkhand     Lucknow.                                     that there was reasonable increase in
   Rs. 4,79,875                                                 better health and hygiene practices,
                                                                particularly in terms of use of safe
                                                                drinking water (as the water supply and
                                                                sanitation facilities were in place), hand
                                                                washing practices (after defecation:
                                                                S-97.7, N.S.-49.1), use of sanitary
                                                                latrines etc. in the Swajal villages as
                                                                compared to Non-swajal villages, in the
                                                                second repeat study when compared with
                                                                the first. There was also a significant
                                                                increase in the % of those disposing off
                                                                infant faeces properly in Swajal villages
                                                                (Baseline: 3.8, 2nd Repeat: 56.9)
                                                                hand-washing after cleaning infant faeces
                                                                in Swajal villages from the Baseline to
                                                                the second repeat study (Baseline: 36.8,
                                                                2nd Repeat: 96.3) It was also observed



                                                              - 43 -

                                                               that there was a considerable decrease in
                                                               the incidence of diarrhea in the Swajal
                                                               villages when compared from the first
                                                               and second repeat studies (S-5.4,
                                                               N.S-12.9). This was mainly due to the
                                                               Community Empowerment and HESA
                                                               strategies followed, the increased latrine
                                                               coverage per 100 hhs. (S-28.8, N.S-3.9)
                                                               and IEC inputs given by the project in the
                                                               village communities.
15 Assessment of    Professor J.V. 165  25.05.1998 24-06-1998 NA
    Community       Vaishampauan
    Development     Deptt. Of
    Trainings       Applied
    Conducted by    Economics,
    CDS, UPAA,      Lucknow
    Nainital for
    Batch 1 and
    Batch 2 SO's
    Rs. 75,000
    Assessment of   M/s Giri       1506 08.11.2001 28-03-2002 Study Canceled
16. Impact of       Institute of
    Community       Development
    Development     Studies
    Trainings
    Rs. 5,78,000
17 Assessment of    Department of 1503  07-11-2001 25-01-2002 1. The overall impact of the first three    The suggestions given by the
    impact of       Civil                                      training programmes i.e. "Survey Training, consultant on various training are
    technical       Engineering,                               Feasibility Design and Cost Estimation     being used for trainings for Sector
    trainings       IIT, Kanpur                                training and the TOT on Construction       Reform Project and will be used
    Rs10,51,859                                                Technology" was significantly positive.    for formulating "Follow on
                                                               2. The impact of the "construction         Project" & "Swajaldhara".
                                                               supervision" training was positive and the
                                                               impact of the TOT on "Operational and
                                                               Maintenance' was "marginally positive"
    Operations &
    M&E
18. Economic        M/s Giri       2    09.01.1996 31-08-1997 NA
    criterion study Institute
    to access
    whether
    significant
    numbers of
    schemes are
    likely to meet
    the initial
    viability
    criteria.
    Rs. 1,46,750
19. Process         Centre for     42   31-07-1997 01-09-1997 1. Active involvement of community          Trainings of CW, CF and CDS
    monitoring of   Development                                especially women                           was held together in future
    Planning Phase Studies UP                                  2. Meetings of VWSC regularly held with batches
    in Batch-1      Academy of                                 good attendance of SC/ST and women
    Villages        Administration,                            3. Plan for cash and labour and O&M
                    Nainital                                   contribution prepared by villagers
                                                               4. Community feels that Planning Phase is
                                                               too long
                                                               5. Though women and SC/ST members are
                                                               present for meetings but contribution



                                                             - 44 -

                                                                 towards planning and decision making is
                                                                 low
                                                                 6. WDI activities not taken off fully
                                                                 7. Awareness created using Wall paintings
                                                                 and posters
                                                                 8. CWs play a critical role in the Planning
                                                                 Phase
                                                                 9. Paper work of CF and CW should be
                                                                 reduced
                                                                 10. Training of CW, CF and CDS to be
                                                                 held together
                                                                 11. Women are keen for NFE
20. Process        Department of 424      01-04-1999 31-05-1999 Merits:                                     1.Planning and Implementation
    monitoring of  Anthropology                                  1. Communities full involvement            was encouraged to be done at
    Batch-2        University of                                 2. Full transparency                       Cluster level in future batches. 6
    Implementation Lucknow                                       3. Ownership on the community on the       months O&M Phase was
    Phase                                                        water supply schemes constructed           undertaken in all batches. The
    Rs. 4,11,000                                                 4. Execution of construction works with    posts of CDS and CF were
                                                                 highest quality of workmanship             merged to that of CO (Community
                                                                 5. Effective role of SO                    Organiser) and MPR formats were
                                                                 6. High commitment of PMU/DPMU staff revisited to reduce papaer work.
                                                                 7. Effective monitoring system
                                                                 Suggestions for further improvements:
                                                                 1. Habitation should be the unit for
                                                                 planning and implementation instead of
                                                                 revenue village
                                                                 2. 6 months O&M support should be given
                                                                 to VWSC
                                                                 3. The posts of CDS and CF should be
                                                                 merged
                                                                 4. Power tariff rates should be subsidized
                                                                 in case of PWS schemes
                                                                 5. VWSC meetings should be held in toks
                                                                 on rotation basis
                                                                 6. IEC through Beating of drums in
                                                                 villages be encouraged
                                                                 7. Paper work at SO and DPMU level be
                                                                 reduced
21. Concurrent    M/s            428 (UP) 03-03-1999 31-01-2001 Findings indicate a positive trend in field 1. The monitoring information
    monitoring of Environment                                    of trainings, Community Procurement,       was used and acted on: for
    Batch 3 along Resource                                       maintenance of records by VWSC, Healthy checking and control; for problem
    with Process  Management                                     Home Surveys, Clean up Campaigns and       solving and planning, as tool for
    Documentation India Pvt. Ltd,                                transparency in maintenance of records by management by staff.
    of PMU/DPMU New Delhi.                                       VWSC. The area of concerns were:           2. Monitoring information was
    Rs. 9,47,000                                                 1. Delay in implementation of scheme       used to improve current
                                                                 cycle by a few months.                     performance and results. The
                                                                 2. Discontinuity of NFE.                   Monitoring information was acted
                                                                 3. SO payments are linked only with        on at the lowest level
                                                                 quantum of work and not with processes     possible/referred to other levels as
                                                                 adopted by SO.                             needed to someone who was to
                                                                 4. Absence of Legal status of VWSC.        act.
                                                                 5. Emphasis on Simplification of
                                                                 monitoring system.
                                                                 6. The Consultant has produced a
                                                                 historical development of PMU & DPMUs
                                                                 and complied all the important documents
                                                                 produced during the process of
                                                                 development.
22. Concurrent of Department of 803 (UP) 23-03-2000 31-12-2000 Deficiencies:                                1. The monitoring information



                                                               - 45 -

    Monitoring of  Anthropology                               Scheme Cycle not followed, gap between     was used and acted on: for
    Batch 3x PP    University                                 PP and IP, HH coverage in Water Supply     checking and control; for problem
    Rs. 8,75,150                                              is as low as 1/3, VWSCs not actively       solving and planning, as tool for
                                                              involved in DPR preparation.               management by staff.
                                                              Strengths:                                 2. Monitoring information was
                                                              HESA, SHGs and Women empowerment           used to improve current
                                                              is substantial, good latrine coverage. The performance and results. The
                                                              grading between the various models tried   Monitoring information was acted
                                                              in 3X is NGO, Government Corporations, on at the lowest level
                                                              Private Firms.                             possible/referred to other levels as
                                                                                                         needed to someone who was to
                                                                                                         act.
23. Concurrent     Department of 1497  16.08.2001 15.05.2002 1. The community was satisfied fully to a   1. The monitoring information
    Monitoring of  Anthropology, (UP)                         great extent with the institutional        was used and acted on: for
    Implementation University of                              arrangements made in most of the villages. checking and control; for problem
    Phase of Batch Lucknow,                                   2. The position of the involvement of the  solving and planning, as tool for
    3X in          Lucknow                                    community in the process of decision       management by staff.
    Uttaranchal                                               making in various activity of the Swajal   2. Monitoring information was
    Rs. 9,98,000                                              project was not very good.                 used to improve current
                                                              3. The sustainability of the WSS in the    performance and results. The
                                                              long run was highly probable.              Monitoring information was acted
                                                              4. There has been an increase in the       on at the lowest level
                                                              income of the people and decline in the    possible/referred to other levels as
                                                              interest taken by the VWSC.                needed to someone who was to
                                                              5. The extent of awareness about IPTA,     act.
                                                              DPR was generally poor.
                                                              6. The level of momentum of the Swajal
                                                              Project was very good at the start of
                                                              Implementation Phase but it was not so at
                                                              the last stage of the Implementation Phase.

24. Process        M/s           1498  16.08.2001 15.05.2002 1. Except for a few cases the activity of   1. The monitoring information
    Documentation Department of (UP)                          Soak pit, Compost Pit and Garbage pits     was used and acted on: for
    of Planning    Aanthropology                              was not popular in villages.               checking and control; for problem
    Concurrent     University of                              2. Awareness in community about the        solving and planning, as tool for
    Monitoring of  Lucknow,                                   Swajal Project was very good. The people management by staff.
    Implementation Lucknow                                    were impressed with the approach of        2. Monitoring information was
    Phase of PRI                                              community involvement and transparency     used to improve current
    villages                                                  exhibited under the project.               performance and results. The
    Rs. 7,04,950                                              3. The level of involvement of women in    Monitoring information was acted
                                                              the decision making process was not very   on at the lowest level
                                                              good.                                      possible/referred to other levels as
                                                              4. The salient features of IPTA should be  needed to someone who was to
                                                              summarized in 2-3 pages and a copy of the act.
                                                              same should be supplied to all the
                                                              members of GPs in local language.
                                                              5. The members of GPs should have been
                                                              involved in the preparation of DPR and it
                                                              should be in Hindi Language.
                                                              6. It was noted that GP had not played the
                                                              role of an effective SO independently and
                                                              were largely dependent on DPMU.
                                                              7. The involvement of MPW in the
                                                              question of SWAJAL funds had not
                                                              worked well.
                                                              8. Pradhans of the GPs had misutilised the
                                                              funds and had lost the confidence of the
                                                              community.
                                                              9. Some of the GPs had appointed the staff




                                                            - 46 -

                                                                 on consideration other than the merit
                                                                 basis.
                                                                 10. The Community expressed that it will
                                                                 be difficult for the community to pay the
                                                                 O&M charges in case of lift.
25. Time Savings     M/s Uttar      434   02.06.1999 31.07.1999 1. In general, the methodology adopted for
    Study Batch 1, Pradesh          (UP)                         finding time saving is in order. Howerver,
    2 and 3 villages Development                                 proper documentation of observations and
    Rs. 5,04,350     Systems                                     calculation sheets has not been maintained
                     Co-orporation                               in the prefeasibility forms.
                     (UPDESCO),                                  2. The time taken, in most cases was
                     Luvknow                                     calculated based on simple averages
                                                                 instead of weighted averages.
                                                                 3. Assumption in the Time Saving
                                                                 Methodology that Time spent to collect
                                                                 water in post project scenario will be 1
                                                                 hour does not seem true and a database on
                                                                 this needs to be developed.
                                                                 4. The assumption of 25:100:80 ratio for
                                                                 water brought from outside in the
                                                                 Wet:Dry:Other seasons is not correct. The
                                                                 ration of 60:100:70 is more approximate.
                                                                 5. Benefits accruing due to health benefits
                                                                 need to be added as a third element of
                                                                 time saving in working out the ERR and
                                                                 BC ratios.
                                                                 6. BC ratios for smaller villages is low and
                                                                 have been selected not based on time
                                                                 saving criteria but on other criterions.
26. Time Saving      M/s Uttar      1500  03.09.2001 29.12.2001 1. The time required for collection of
    Study Batch 3X Pradesh          (UP)                         water before the project needs to be
    and 4 villages   Development                                 assumed as the overall assumption of 4
    Rs. 6,82,000     Systems                                     hours in Uttaranchal per household per day
                     Co-orporation                               is very close to the empirical values.
                     (UPDESCO),                                  2. Post project time of one hour needs to
                     Lucknow                                     be modified as the time taken increases as
                                                                 community hand-pumps area used instead
                                                                 of private water source.
                                                                 3. Appropriateness of 12% as social
                                                                 discount factor is not there so it has to be
                                                                 adjusted to sustainability lower figure.
                                                                 4. The observed wages rate is higher than
                                                                 the official wages rate. The crucial factor
                                                                 is the annualisation factor of 54.325%.
                                                                 5. The incremental consumption in Hill
                                                                 region is 25% as compared to 20%
                                                                 assumed in SAR. In BCR and ERR
                                                                 computation this empirical evidence may
                                                                 be incorporated in future Planning.
                                                                 6. Benefits accruing due to health benefits
                                                                 need to be added as third element of time
                                                                 saving in working out the ERR as an BC
                                                                 ratio.
27. Time Saving      M/s Dala Mott 367    31.01.2003 15.05.2003 1. The pre-project average time required      The study findings would be
    Study sample     MacDonald                                   per households per litre was 0.032 hours,    useful as an input into the ICR.
    cutting across   Pvt. Ltd, Noida                             which in the post-project scenario is 0.009 The findings would provide
    all Batch                                                    hours. The effectiveness average time        essential material for evaluating
    Rs. 9,00,000                                                 saved due to the project is 0.023 hours per achievement of development
                                                                 litre per household.                         objectives and re-estimating the



                                                               - 47 -

                                                                    2. The overall project EIRR is 25.47% and project rate of return.
                                                                    the BC ratio is 3.43 after exclusion on
                                                                    PMU/DPMUs operation cost alongwith
                                                                    studies cost.
                                                                    3. The overall project EIRR is 28.29% and
                                                                    BC ratio is 3.45 after exclusion of
                                                                    PMU/DPMUs operation cost alongwith
                                                                    studies cost.
                                                                    4. The sensitivity analysis of the project
                                                                    reveals that the timesavings component of
                                                                    the Swajal Project has provided the
                                                                    maximum benefits. The range of EIRR%
                                                                    under difference conditions lies
                                                                    5. The time saved by the women due to the
                                                                    Swajal Project is mainly utilized in
                                                                    household work (40% of saved time).
                                                                    6. 90% o the respondents opened that they
                                                                    were satisfied with the quality of Swajal
                                                                    water.
28. Time Saving     M/s Redecon     1753     24/3/2003 31.05.2003 Final Report to be submitted
    Study sample    India Pvt. Ltd. (UP)
    cutting across
    all Batch
    Rs. 5,80,754
29. Dropping of     M/s Knowledge198 (UA) 08.07.2002 9.10.2002      1. The percentage of dropping of villages     1. GPs have been taken as units in
    Villages        Links Private                                   is 15% as compared to 13% indicated in        future planning.
    Rs. 9,87,925    Ltd.                                            SAR.                                          2. GPs self-selection has been
                                                                    2. SO functionaries failed in dropped         proposed for future Water Supply
                                                                    villages to facilitate the process of         and sanitation Projects.
                                                                    community mobilization which led to the       3. The household survey will be
                                                                    lack of understanding of the project intent included in pre-feasibility. The
                                                                    and processes at the community level.         time for Prefeasibility will be
                                                                    3. Gaps in Prefeasibility study and site      increased to 7 days for better
                                                                    appraisal                                     assessment.
                                                                    4. Source Dispute.                            4. Sector Institutions will be
                                                                    5. Community Dispute.                         involved in the process of project
                                                                    6. Intervention by Jal-Nigam/Jal Sansthan planning.
                                                                    during Planning.
30. Comparative     Dr. M.S.        368 (UA) 01-02-2003 30-04-2003 1. In the matter of grass root linkages, the The findings of the study report
    Study on        Verma,                                          PRI model appears to be better.               would be given due consideration
    approaches      Lucknow                                         2. As regards the availability of field based while preparing the Project
    followed in                                                     development exercise, the NGO were in a Implementation Plan of Follow-on
    different                                                       better position.                              -Project.
    batches                                                         3. The NGO system proved to be better in
    Rs. 1,75,000                                                    the matter of accounts keeping.
                                                                    4. The weakness of the GP in the field of
                                                                    software activities should be overcome by
                                                                    providing adequate training to GP and its
                                                                    staff by the experienced NGOs.
                                                                    5. The role of the NGOs should be limited
                                                                    to providing training to GP and its staff in
                                                                    the PRI-NGO model.
                                                                    6. The NGOs having good past record
                                                                    under Swajal Project should also be given
                                                                    a chance to work as SO independently. In
                                                                    short, NGO model should be continued.
    Technical
31. Preparation for Dr. H.C.        3/(UP)   10-01-1996 10-02-1996 1. Prepared basic rates of material and        1. In Batch 1, based on market
    standards       Srivastava,                                     labour required for preparation of            rates the schedule of rates was



                                                                  - 48 -

    prices and rates Director, IERT,                                 estimates.                                   prepared for estimation of cost of
    schedule         Allahabad                                       2. Prepared schedule of rates for different  works by the SOs/DPMUs on the
    Rs. 99,000                                                       items of work on the basis of basic rates of basis of document prepared by
                                                                     material and Labour using standard           IERT.
                                                                     analysis of rates.                           2. In subsequent batches, the
                                                                                                                  district wise rates were finalized
                                                                                                                  accordingly for preparing DPRs.
32. Preparation of   Director, IERT, 34/(UP) 10-01-1996 30-06-1996 Prepared technical manual for water            The Manual was used as stepping
    Technical        Allahabad                                       supply, VEAP, Prefeasibility and             stone by NIDC to finalize the
    Manuals for                                                      feasibility manuals                          Technical Manual.
    use by support
    organizations
    Rs. 4,73,000
33. Preparation of   Director        6/      01-04-1996 30-09-1996 Prepared detailed technical manuals with       1. The Manual was extensively
    Technical        National        (UP)                            drawings and bill of quantities for various used as reference book for
    Manuals for      Industrial                                      works under water supply and                 engineering works in the project.
    UPRWSES          Development                                     environmental sanitation                     2. SOs used details in preparation
    Project          Corp. Ltd.,                                                                                  of Detailed Project Report as per
    Rs. 8,00,000     Delhi                                                                                        technology option chosen by the
                                                                                                                  community.
                                                                                                                  3. Various guidelines were issued
                                                                                                                  by technical unit using the system
                                                                                                                  proposed in the Manual & field
                                                                                                                  experience.
34. Development      M/s DHV         810/    27.04.2000 31.10.2001 1. Multi-village water schemes at present      1. Rejuvenation of existing
    plan for         Consultants BV(UP)                              are not providing services in all the        MVWS is taken on demand basis
    regional         The                                             villages covered under the scheme.           as per Swajal Principles.
    schemes          Netherlands in                                  2. Operation and maintenance of these        2. New MVWS is taken up on
    Rs. 1,27,25,923 association                                      schemes is in very poor state.               demand basis and community
                     with MDP                                        3. Cost recovery against O&M expenses is participation a per Swajal
                     Consultant (P)                                  hardly twenty percent of the total O&M       principles.
                     ltd.                                            cost.
                                                                     4. Based on experience with MVWS
                                                                     community wants single village piped
                                                                     water supply schemes.
                                                                     5. Community is eager to improve the
                                                                     existing O&M situation in these schemes.
                                                                     6. A few villages have agreed to take up
                                                                     MVWS with village OH Tanks on
                                                                     consideration of reduced capital and O&M
                                                                     cost.
35. Appropriatenes M/s               39 (UA) 11.01.2002 11.09.2002 1. The norms for annual maintenance cost 1. The study report will be used in
    s of Water       FEEBDBACK                                       of the rural water supply schemes are high finalizing the O&M tariff in
    Tariff during    HSS integrated                                  for many Swajal villages for the initial     community based water supply
    Operation and                                                    years.                                       system.
    maintenance                                                      2. In the handpump schemes no collections 2. The norms used by line
    phase of Swajal                                                  are being made.                              department for tariff fixation will
    Village                                                          3. The changes in tariff have largely been   have to be amended in
    Uttaranchal                                                      made to match expenditure levels and it is Community Managed Schemes as
    Rs. 6,66,550                                                     also influenced by the community             per the recommendations of the
                                                                     perception of maintenance needs.             study.
                                                                     4. Most of the expenditure in the Swajal
                                                                     Villages has been on maintenance and
                                                                     electricity.
36. Water Quality    M/s Tata        1630/UP 02-08-2002 In Progress 1. Detailed physical, chemical and            1. Community motivated for
    Monitoring in    Energy                                          bacteriological tests carried out for all    regular chlorination and check for
    Bundelkhand      Research                                        water sources in Swajal villages of          quality of water.
    region           Institute, New                                  Bundelkhand shows no serious water           2. More people trained on water
    Rs. 52,28,750    Delhi                                           quality problem as regards to physical,      quality monitoring.



                                                                   - 49 -

                                                                   chemical quality of water                  3. Increased awareness of the
                                                                   2. In few cases bacteriological            community on quality aspects of
                                                                   contamination in handpump water supply     water.
                                                                   was observed and through sanitary survey
                                                                   and disinfections remedial measure taken.
                                                                   3. Community concern on water quality is
                                                                   confined to taste only and awareness to
                                                                   taste only and awareness on other aspects
                                                                   have to be generated.
37. (ii)  Water     (iii)    BHEL, (iv)     (v)        (vi)        (vii) N/A                                  (viii) NA
    Quality         Haridwar         322               30.03.2003
    Monitoring &                   (UA)     30.09.2002
    surveillance in
    Kumaon
    region
    Rs 54,66,840
38. (ix)  Water     (x)      M's   (xi)     (xii)      (xiii)      (xiv) NA                                   (xv) NA
    Quality         Feedback, HSS    321    23. 9.2002 30.03.2003
    Monitoring &    integrated     (UA)
    surveillance in
    Garhwal
    region
    Rs 36,68,625
    (xvi)
    Environmental
    Expert
39. Strategy for    Sri A.K. Roy,  429/(UP) 04-03-1999 05-04-1999 1. Depending upon local site conditions of 1. The study was used initially for
    preparation of  Director,                                      the village proper village environment     preparing Catchment Protection
    village         Hazard's                                       plan to protect source and ensure          Works Plans.
    environmental   Center, New                                    sustainability of its discharge could be   2. After creation of Uttaranchal,
    management      Delhi                                          prepare.                                   the report was used for developing
    plan                                                           2. The plan should be village specific and CAP Strategy
    Rs. 1,21,800                                                   full use of community experience and       3. The study report will form the
                                                                   knowledge be taken while preparing it.     basis for developing plan for
                                                                   3. Community has to continuously remain Multi Village Schemes.
                                                                   vigilant as regards to village environment
                                                                   and should develop its own rules and
                                                                   regulations
                                                                   4. Micro shed development plan and
                                                                   community approach towards it.
40. Consulting      GB Pant        811 (UP) 09-05-2000 07-07-2000 1. Depending upon local site conditions of Training received by SOs and
    services        Institute of                                   the village proper village environment     PMU staff was used in preparing
    training of     Himalayan                                      plan to protect source and ensure          community environment plan.
    village         Environment                                    sustainability of its discharge could be
    environment     and                                            prepare.
    plan for Batch  Development                                    2. The plan should be village specific and
    3 & 4                                                          full use of community experience and
    Rs. 7,24,640                                                   knowledge be taken while preparing it.
                                                                   3. Community has to continuously remain
                                                                   vigilant as regards to village environment
                                                                   and should develop its own rules and
                                                                   regulations.




                                                                 - 50 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution


Introduction

1.1 The World Bank assisted Uttar Pradesh/Uttaranchal Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation
(The Swajal) Project, has been implemented in 1214 villages of Uttar Pradesh (357 village against the
target of 350) and Uttaranchal (857 villages against the target of 650) against the target of 1000 villages.
The Project covered 7 districts of Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh namely Hamirpur, Jalaun, Lalitpur,
Jhansi, Mahoba, Banda, Chitrakoot and 12 districts of Uttaranchal namely Almora, Bageshwar,
Pithoragarh, Nainital, Champawat, Udham Singh Nagar, Tehri, Chamoli, Rudraprayag, Srinagar,
Dehradun and Uttarkashi. The project involved rural communities in planning, implementation and
operation & maintenance of water supply & environmental sanitation structures constructed and augmented
pre- Swajal schemes under the project. Initially the project period was from July 1996 to May 2002, which
was extended upto May 2003 on the request of State Governments to combat the time loss due to
bifurcation of states, achieve more in Catchment Area Protection of water sources and monitor the critical
O&M activities. The project was implemented through a Project Management Unit, Lucknow registered
under Societies Registration Act, 1860 supported by 10 District Project Management units. A separate
Project Management Unit, Dehradun, was formed as society on 5th March 2001 (which started functioning
from 01.06.2001) after the bifurcation of the state on 9th November 2000.

1.2 The total project cost (Uttaranchal and Uttar Pradesh) was envisaged to be US$71.0 million, out of
which, the World Bank loan was US$ 59.60 million. The loan amount was revised to US $ 40.7 million
after two partial cancellations of US $ 7.2 million and US $ 11.7 million on 5th June 2000 and 3rd
December 2002 respectively. The Project cost as estimated at various stages is given below:

                                                                                          (In million US$)
S.No. Source                    SAR               Estimates after 1st      Estimates after 2nd cancellation
                               Estimates             cancellation                        (12/02)
                                                       (06/00)

                                               UP         UA       Total      UP          UA          Total
 1.       World Bank loan      59.60        22.80     29.60      52.40      25.90      14.80       40.70
2.        GOUP/GOUA            3.80         1.96      2.15       4.11       1.69       1.48        3.17
3.        Community            7.60         2.61      4.30       6.91       2.91       1.85        4.76
          Contribution
4.        Total Project Cost 71.00          27.37     36.05      63.42      30.50      18.13       48.63

1.3 Though the number of villages in Uttaranchal is more than that of U.P., the reason for lesser share after
second cancellation, is because the expenditure prior to 9/11/2000 (Out of a Total of US$ 21.53 million,
US$ 5.24 million in UP and US$ 15.29 million in UT) incurred by erstwhile Uttar Pradesh was reimbursed
to it as per MoU signed between the two states. The Component wise outlay at various stages is detailed
below:




                                                    - 51 -

                                                                                    (In million US$)
Part    Components                            Estimates       After 1st            After 2nd Cancellation
                                                             Cancellation
                                                                                 UP            UA          Total
A       Strengthening and operation of           8.32            8.25            6.70         2.79         9.49
        the PMU
B      Selection and construction of water      60.21           52.72            22.10        13.68     35.78
       supply       and      Environmental
       sanitation
C      Studies and sector development            2.47            2.45            1.70          1.66        3.36
                                                71.00           63.42            30.50        18.13        48.63

1.4 As against the SAR target of US $ 71.0 million (Rs. 3007.6 million), the likely project completion cost
is US$ 48.63 million. The cumulative expenditure (un audited) till 31st May 2003 is US$ 46.996 million
(US$ 29.426 in UP and US$17.57 in UA). Reimbursement claims for a cumulative amount of US$ 37.866
million (US$ 23.786 in UP and US$ 14.08 in UA) have been submitted to GOI /World Bank. An amount
of US$ 37.866 million (US$ 23.786 in UP and US$ 14.08 in UA) has been reimbursed so far.

2. Project Achievements

2.1 The project objectives are: (i) to deliver sustainable health & hygiene benefits to the rural population,
through improvement in water supply and environmental sanitation services, which will increase rural
incomes through time savings and income opportunities for women, test an alternative to the current supply
driven service delivery mechanism and promote sanitation and gender awareness; and (ii) to promote the
long term sustainability of the rural water supply and sanitation sector by providing assistance to State
Governments to identify and implement an appropriate policy framework and strategic plan.

2.2 The Project has not only achieved its overall development objectives but it has also registered
significant achievements in influencing National Policy on RWSES in the country. The project
achievements are described below with respect to the various (underlined) components of the objectives: -

A. Delivering sustainable health and hygiene benefits to the rural population

A.1      Till the advent of the Swajal, providing safe drinking water was considered as an end in itself .The
project made successful attempt to integrate construction of drinking water supply and environmental
sanitation services with health and hygiene awareness.

A.2      The project emphasized that availability of safe and adequate water may not be enough to provide
sustained health benefits, unless the users are educated to properly handle the potable water, its safe storage
and disposal of wastewater. Therefore the project also aimed at educating people about the importance of
personal and domestic hygiene for better environmental sanitation. The findings of the base line study and
two repeat Health Benefit Studies undertaken by KGMC revealed considerable improvement in Key
Development Objective indicators such as (i) washing hands before eating (from 59% to 85%), (ii) safe use
of water (from 43% to 90%), (iii) safe disposal of infant excreta (from 41% to 44%), (iv) use of latrines
(from 16% to 99%), in Uttaranchal and as (i) washing hands before eating (from 21.6% to 66.9%), (ii) safe
use of water (from NA to 91.8%), (iii) safe disposal of infant excreta (from 3.8% to 56.9%), (iv) use of
latrines (from 3.8% to 30.59%), in Uttar Pradesh.



                                                     - 52 -

A.3      This also resulted in reduction in incidence of diarrhea from 14% to 3.6% in Uttaranchal, 13% to
5.4% in Uttar Pradesh as per the findings of the report.

A.4      The project had been a pioneer in the development of a Community Self-Monitoring tool called
Healthy Home Survey. This tool was effectively used by the community especially women to regularly
monitor personal, domestic and environmental hygiene and to promote behavioral changes.

B.       Improvements in Water Supply Services

B.1      The number of villages to be covered under the project as per SAR was 650 for Uttaranchal and
350 for Uttar Pradesh. The project has covered 857 villages in Uttaranchal and 357 village in UP, which is
an achievement of 121.14% in terms of village coverage. In terms of population coverage, the achievements
were 12.97 lakhs (3.96 lacs in Uttaranchal and 9.01 lacs in Bundelkhand) against the targeted design
population of 7 lakh indicating 185.29% greater achievement than the target. The communities (the unit
being revenue village) were selected following transparent criterion based on their need, economic viability,
technical feasibility, sustainability and willingness to pay. Implementation of project in six overlapping
batches helped in applying the lessons and experiences of previous batches to the subsequent batches.

B.2      An innovative feature of the project worth replicating for RWSES sector is the Feasibility Process
culminating in "Agree to do" meetings. Depending upon the age and the condition of the pre Swajal water
supply system, the village communities were motivated to reorganize or augment the existing schemes in
100% villages, wherever feasible. The Feasibility Manual was developed and refined by the project for
finalizing a community decision on technology option for the schemes. An emotional Exit of SO and
DPMU takes place passing through the various processes of planning, designing and implementation, the
"Atmarpan" of scheme by the community to itself. An Exit policy was evolved with the interaction of all
the stakeholders.

B.3      Based on specific local conditions, the project has implemented diverse technical water supply
options in the project villages, which were technically feasible and economically acceptable to the
community. In Uttaranchal 1116 schemes and 357 schemes in Uttar Pradesh were constructed using both
the conventional options and the innovative options. The conventional options included gravity water
supply from springs and Gadhera (Rivulets) sources, deep bore India Mark II/III hand pumps schemes and
Tube wells with Overhead tank in foothills and Bundelkhand. The innovative options included Rooftop
Rainwater harvesting, Hydraulic Ram (Hydrams) scheme, Infiltration wells (IW schemes) and French wells
(Uttaranchal Well) scheme. The upgradation of traditional water sources such as Naulas in Uttaranchal and
dugwells as well as mini piped water supply in Uttar Pradesh were also attempted in some villages.

B.4      Water supply schemes have been constructed as per the Water Supply Manual published by the
GOI. The Project has also developed its Technical Manual and guidelines for designing, construction,
monitoring, and material testing etc. for ensuring quality of construction & material.

B.5      Rigorous quality control of construction materials viz. pipes cement; steel etc. has been adhered to.
The material testing was done at standard laboratories of the region namely IIT, Roorkee, G.B. Pant
University, Pant Nagar, HBTI, Kanpur and IIT-Kanpur. Besides the trainings to the engineers of Support
Organizations and to Community members, the construction supervision by service agencies had also been
done for ensuring quality of construction works and material.

B.6      While planning a water supply scheme, the water from the source was analyzed for its physical,


                                                      - 53 -

bacteriological and chemical parameters as per requirement to ensure that it is safe for drinking as per the
Indian Standards. Water Quality Monitoring and Surveillance by the community has been made an integral
part of Project Implementation. In post Implementation Phase, consultants were engaged to facilitate
regular chlorination, testing of residual chlorine in piped water supply systems and H2S strip testing for
hand pump systems to ensure bacteriologically safe water. In the process they had to train the community
on proper chlorination and H2S strip testing and establish regular Water Quality monitoring and
surveillance system in all the project villages.

C. Improvement in Environmental Sanitation Services

C.1     The environmental sanitation in the project has four components namely - Human Waste Disposal
(Household Sanitary Latrines), Solid Waste Management (compost pits and garbage pits), Waste Water
Management (Drains and Soak pits) and Catchment Area Protection of water sources tapped for water
supply. To motivate people in constructing individual works of environmental sanitation, subsidy
approximately 40% of indicative cost of item for APL families and 60% for BPL families has been given.
In practice, people contributed the balance amount between actual capital cost and the subsidy.

C.2     The unique achievement of the project was inculcating habit of using latrines (more than 99%) and
achieving more than the SAR target of 50% coverage for latrine construction. In Uttaranchal, around
31,549 twin- pit latrines were constructed raising the coverage from 10% to 61% and 31,957 latrines in
raising coverage from pre-project 3.8% to 29.37% in UP.

C.3     Drainage is not much of a problem in the Uttaranchal and in rocky areas of Bundelkhand. The
drainage systems have been built in around 99 villages mostly in foothills of Uttaranchal and in 87 villages
with clayey strata of Bundelkhand. Total 37,504 meters in Uttaranchal and 19,880 meters in Uttar Pradesh
drains have been constructed as means of mosquito and disease control measures. The construction of
drains was around 64 % of MTR target (49% Uttaranchal and 100% in Uttar Pradesh).

C.4     Where construction of long drains was uneconomical, 5330 soak pits in UP and 6647 in UT for
disposal of wastewater in household were constructed so that wastewater did not create environmental
nuisance. The total achievement is 123% of MTR target (105% in UT and 157% in UP).

C.5     In Uttaranchal, 7590 and in UP 4194 compost pits for safe disposal of organic solid wastes have
been constructed, which is around 110% of the MTR target (98% in UT and 131% in UP).

C.6     For non-organic solid waste disposal, 5823 garbage pits were constructed in Uttaranchal and 6194
in UP against the MTR target of 5689 & 3064 respectively. The overall achievement is 137%, 102% in UT
and 202% in UP.

C.7     In Uttaranchal, the full-scale CAP activities were taken during last two years of the project by
identifying vulnerable villages where source has depleted below 15 lpm or reduced by 50% of previous
measurements. The interventions under CAPW in 162 villages were of aforestation around Catchment of
source and site-specific interventions for preventing erosion and recharging for surface sources. In 67
villages Assisted Natural Regeneration activities were undertaken. In Bundelkhand, massive plantation
drive was taken up on the eve of birthday of Mahatma Gandhi in year 2002 (about 100,000 plants) in
villages and surrounding areas. Deepening of ponds were also taken up as water recharging system. In
Bundelkhand, an effort for locating water recharge structure through ground water modeling system
(GMS-a computer software) and with GIS is being made considering underground strata information
gathered from bore details of successful and failed handpumps bores.


                                                      - 54 -

D. Increase in Rural Incomes through time savings and income generation activities for women

D.1     The Project had conducted Time Saving Study prior to Appraisal Mission on the basis of which
economic analysis was undertaken in SAR. Subsequently the project has undertaken three Time Saving
Studies (First after Batch 1,2 and 3, second after Batch 3X and 4 and final round cutting across all
batches), to assess the sensitivity of Time Saving estimates of the SOs and to identify more scientific and
exact methods of assessing Time Saved. The final round of Time Saving Study cutting across all batches
has revealed that the benefit cost ratio was found to be greater than 1.5 in majority of the villages. The
study has also revealed that the time saved by communities (3.5 hrs in Uttranchal and 1.59 hrs in U.P.) is
much greater as compared to SAR estimates of 0.5 hrs for Hand Pump schemes and 2.5 hrs for Pipe Water
Supply schemes. As a result of improved water supply & sanitation service, women saved considerable
time in the project villages. Time thus saved is being utilized for supplementing the household income and
childcare.

D.2     The project has encouraged and facilitated formation of Women self-help Groups in Project
villages. Nearly 1045 women Self Help Groups have been formed in Uttaranchal and around 504 in UP. In
U.P., these groups have saved Rs.40 lakh in all and engaged Rs.20. lakh amount in interloaning to
encourage their members in income generation activities. An amount of Rs18.95 lakh was given to SHGs
under Private Rural Initiative Programme (PRIP) . Based on the needs emerging from the grass root level,
the women's skills resources and backward and forward linkages readily available in the concerned areas,
an Action Plan for the "Economic Empowerment of Women in Swajal Villages" was formulated. This Plan
was linked to the PRIP scheme and the Linkage of SHGs to local banks for availing the Cash Credit Limit
(CCL) facility for setting up micro-enterprises in rural areas having forward and backward linkages with
the private sector.

D.3     The construction work done by community in the project has generated employment at local level.
A rough estimate of skilled and unskilled labour (beside contribution) generated was around Rs 3 millions.
Moreover, the savings in medical expenses and reduction in loss of man hours due to improved health
cannot be quantified but has certainly improved the quality of life in Swajal Villages.

E. Test an Alternative to current supply driven service delivery mechanism

E.1    The innovative features and success of the project had attracted national and international attention.
Many teams and individuals, including research scholars have visited the project. After observing the
success of the Swajal Project, the GOI introduced a major policy change in the year 1999 in its Rural
Water Supply and Rural Sanitation Programme. Sector Reform Project is currently being implemented in
67 districts spread over 27 States across the country on the principles of the Swajal Project. The
Government of India has earmarked 20% of the funds under ARWSP for implementing projects in the
Swajal way Now the Government of India has launched SWAJALDHARA all over the country from 25th
December 2002. The testimony of performance of the borrower and implementing agencies can be gauged
from the extract given below of Rajiv Gandhi National Drinking Water Mission guidelines.

        "The rural water supply and environmental sanitation project of Uttar Pradesh (inclusive of
Uttaranchal) namely the Swajal Project, is pioneer in the field of community empowerment, involvement
of women in the process and community contracting. The present project (Sector Reform Project) owes a
lot from all these projects."

        Furthermore, the Planning Commission, Government of India in its recent publication titled
"Successful Governance Initiatives and Best Practices: Experiences from Indian States" has included a


                                                     - 55 -

comprehensive write-up on the Swajal Project. The Planning Commission has aptly remarked, " By
introducing several innovations in a hitherto stagnant situation, the project has proved to be not only
applicable but also replicable"

         The main strength of Swajal had been transparency right from the Pre-feasibility stage to O&M
stage transparency in dealings and dissemination of maximum information through all modes and mediums.


E.2.     The challenges before the project was to develop a system, which embodies the philosophy of
demand responsive approach, and provide an alternative to supply driven services delivery mechanism. The
challenges before the PMU were to act as a facilitator and co financer (to provide assistance at appropriate
time and ensure capital cost sharing by the community), as a monitor (the process and the progress) and as
an agency to ensure the standards of construction, accounts and community development activities. The
innovations and interventions at various levels are discussed in following paragraphs.

E.3      Interventions and Innovations at village level

E.3.1    Formation of Village Water and Sanitation Committees (VWSCs) as representative of users at the
lowest appropriate level institution for managing WATSAN schemes and its linkage with GP is the major
breakthrough in the project. Initially the "VWSC" was constituted as a sub-committee of GP under section
29(6) of United Provinces Panchayati Raj Act, 1947, which was repelled in the year 1999. In UP, the Jal
Prabandhan Samiti (JPS) a committee of GP was authorized to look after all water supply matters. The
VWSC members have been co-opted in JPS for effectively participating in all drinking water supply issues.
The Government of Uttaranchal has agreed in principle to accord the legal status to VWSC as
subcommittee of the Gram Panchayat in the forthcoming Panchayati Raj Act of Uttaranchal state.
Moreover, the VWSC adopted byelaws in all 357 villages of Uttar Pradesh.

E.3.2    The Swajal Project for the first time introduced a Community Contracting model, which enabled
the user communities to procure the construction material, services and works with the assistance of SO.

E.3.3    The management of investment funds by the community is a great leap towards the concept of
community management of RWSES schemes. Representative of VWSC & SO operates the Joint Account
for all the construction and community development activities during implementation phase. The VWSC
and community have independently operated O&M accounts from the very beginning of Implementation
Phase.

E.3.4    The capacity of VWSC & Community has increased in various dimensions such as account
keeping, dispute resolution, technical aspects, maintenance of records, working together etc. The most
important of all is that their knowledge is now a tool and they are not only users but also managers.

E.3.5    Mobilization of 84.93 million in Uttaranchal and Rs. 63.04 million in Uttar Pradesh as community
share towards partial capital cost of the project is an achievement directed towards development initiatives
of the user community. Users are paying towards water charges and VWSCs are maintaining O&M
account on their own. Even the users of public stand posts and handpumps in project villages are paying
towards water charges, which is a unique achievement, as so far payment of water charges by such section
of community was not forthcoming. It is worth mentioning that about 88% of the O&M charges have been
collected in UT and 83.13% in U.P. by the community and deposited in their bank accounts, which is also
57.4% higher in UT and 61.89% higher UP, than the actual expenditure on O&M.




                                                      - 56 -

E.3.6    For the first time, Swajal Project has facilitated insurance to cover damages to structures during
the post- implementation phase, as a sustainability initiative which would help the communities to protect
investments in the event of natural disasters, which are quite common in many parts of Uttaranchal.
Around 112 VWSCs have purchased insurance policies with the facilitation by PMU. The annual premium
is around 0.34 % of cost of Water Supply schemes. The insurance is initially for 3 years, for the total cost
of the completed water supply scheme. The 50% of premium was paid by the VWSC and 50%by the
project under state share. After 3 years, if the VWSC wants to extend the insurance of their scheme they
will have to pay 100% of the premium. In Bundelkhand and foothills the need for insurance was not felt, as
most structures are not susceptible to natural calamities

E.3.7    During sustainability monitoring, it was realized that sustainability of water source is of prime
concern. In Uttaranchal, 229 schemes were identified where source discharge has reduced from 15 lpm or
by 50% of the recorded discharges at various occasions. As such Catchment Area Protection Works as an
intervention in the shape of micro water shed development works were undertaken during the last one and a
half year of the project. Thus linking catchment area protection works with water supply is an important
lesson. The GOUA has taken policy decision in this respect.

E.3.8    "Water Metering System" in one of the villages of Bundelkhand region has been established with
all Stand posts and Private Connections having a water meter. Primary findings reveal that this has led to
minimization of wastage of water to a large extent.

E.3.9    Community Action Plan: During the planning phase, the community with the assistance of SO,
prepares three-action plan for the implementation phase namely: Technical Plan (for water supply, Latrines
and environmental sanitation facilities), Contribution and managements Plan (for cash and labor
contribution, monitoring and evaluation and operation & maintenance), community empowerment Plan
(including plans HESA, WDI, NFE).

E.3.10 The incentive for early completion of schemes was given to the community. Some communities
reflected high level of motivation and eagerness to execute the work before the scheme cycle without
flouting the process. In Batch 3X and 4 villages, out of 357 villages, 158 villages commissioned their
schemes on time where as 09 villages commissioned their schemes before the stipulated scheme cycle. For
these villages, an award of Rs 15000/- was announced.

E.4 Interventions and Innovation at SO/ Intermediary level

E.4.1    Beside NGOs, who were engaged as Support Organizations in 73.67% of villages in UP and
89.26% in UT. The Private sector firms, Government Organizations and Gram Panchayats have also acted
as SO in the experimental Batch 3x. The experiment with other SOs had been imperative because of lack of
eligible NGOs. GPs are owners of water supply assets under the 73rd Constitutional Amendments Act, and
are closer to communities compared to the NGOs. However, experience has shown that each type of
approach has its own merits and demerits such as GPs have fallen short in community development &
accounts keeping in comparison to NGOs. The comparative study of alternate SO models under the project
has helped us in identifying appropriate policy framework for upscaling reforms in the entire state.

E.4.2    The project has provided extensive software and hardware trainings to SO staff for their capacity
building. Due to this the fund handling capacity, engineering skills and community mobilization skills of
SOs have increased considerably. Furthermore, this increased capacity will have long run benefits for other
similar community based projects.




                                                      - 57 -

E.4.3    The project did not prescribe the practice of maintaining Measurement Book during construction.
Alternatively, the system of monitoring through milestones and ensuring concurrent supervision of
construction was introduced to avoid bureaucratization of procedures. The cost control was exercised
through standardization of unit design, bill of quantities and recording deviations, if any, as per local site
conditions, preparing work account, conducting joint inspection by VWSC, SO, & SA. However, in later
batches, some of the SOs have adopted the time tested measurement book system.

E.4.4    A very significant participatory tool was used by the SO to mobilize the community and get the
beneficiaries to start acting together in group activities, known as SARAR (Self Esteem, Associative
Strength, Resourcefulness, Action Planning and Responsibility) tool. Basic concept was to activate the
community to identify their problems, get necessary information, analyze them, find solutions, decide the
action plan and take responsibility to implement it.

E.4.5    Establishing O&M system during Implementation Phase by the SOs in the villages was
intervention tried in last two batches. Refresher O&M training, folk media and mass media campaign
further reinforced the process.

E.5 Interventions and Innovations at PMU/DPMU level

E.5.1    The six monthly Sustainability Monitoring during post Implementation Phase is a new concept
developed through phases, which has undergone three transformations. From "Sustainability Monitoring
Exercise (SME): through Village Immersion Programme (VIP) to Rapid Sustainability Appraisal (RSA) to
Sustainability Evaluation Exercise(SEE). The SEE/RSA was developed as a participatory tool for
assessing sustainability of completed schemes in terms of technical, financial and institutional aspects of
O&M. A comprehansive Sustainability Index (SI) was formulated, on a scale of 100.A process to rank the
villages as Highly sustainable (HSV), (SI >75%), Moderately sustainable (MSV), (SI between 50-75%)
and Least sustainable (LSV), (SI <50%), was done to identify low performing villages and taking
mid-coarse corrective actions. The analysis of this exercise revealed that a majority of the schemes (74% in
UT and 58% in UP) are HSV. 24%in UT and 39% in UP fall in the category of MSV and 20% in UT and
3% in UP are LSV.

E.5.2    A Management Information System (MIS) was introduced in the Project from the start of Batch 1.
This comprehensive MIS was unique for implementation of any rural development project. The
computerization helped a lot in timely generation of reports viz. activity wise summary, activity wise
detailed reports of each village, village wise report on all activities, status of SHGs, contract management,
accounting, training's and CAP activity etc. SO wise reports, reports for decision making at PMU/DPMU
level and report for World Bank/ State Government/ Dignitaries.,

E.5.3    A system of motivation of staff of PMU/DPMU was designed. Besides fringe benefits to the
deputationist, performance based annual salary increase for consultants and equivalent pay package for
hired staff was formulated. The skill mix of government sector with private and NGO sector and gender
balance in staffing along with motivational courses were the ingredients of the personnel management
system.

E.5.4    The IEC strategy has three distinct components viz. Inter personal communications, Folk media
campaign & mass media compaign.

E.5.5    The PMU had conducted Concurrent and Process Monitoring of Batch-2 Implementation Phase,
Concurrent Monitoring of Planning Phase and Implementation Phase of Batch-3, 3X, PRI and Batch-4.



                                                      - 58 -

The major objectives of these assignments were to monitor and also document the process in respect of
scheme cycle, so that the effectiveness, usefulness and momentum of the approaches advocated by the
project could be assessed and lessons could be drawn for further improvements. These studies helped a lot
in improving the approaches, procedures and project interventions from one batch to next. These
interventions ensured that the axiom of Mahatma Gandhi that "Purity of process is much more important
than the work itself" is fulfilled.

E.5.6    The PMUs have conducted various studies like Concurrent monitoring of Planning Phase and
Implementation Phase activities in villages of all Batches, impact on Health, impact of technical trainings
etc. and used their findings in future implementation.

E.5.7    The innovative features and success of the project had attracted national and international
attention. Many teams and individuals, including research scholars had visited the project. They had met
the village community, interacted with them and given their valuable comments, besides their increased
self-learning in the process.

E.5.8    The Swajal Project has provided technical assistance to various Government of India programs
such as Swajaldhara, Sector Reform Project (Jal Nidhi) and the Total Sanitation Campaign.

E.6 Interventions & Innovations cutting across all the levels

E.6.1    The Project has developed agreements for execution of Planning Phase which were signed between
SO and PMU and Implementation Phase, which were signed by SO, PMU and VWSC. Transparency had
been the main tool of Swajal approach. It was adhered to at every level. Swajal gave due importance to the
transparency in dealings and in dissemination of information through public meetings, interactive
discussions and wall writings. The spin-off effect was that the villagers insisted on transparency in other
developmental programmes too.

E.6.2    Capacity building at various levels was an important component of the project. It was designed to
improve the capacity and capabilities of village community staff of SO and personnel of PMU/DPMUs for
the efficient implementation of the project. In the initial four years, the capacity-building strategy included
the hiring of the Centre of Development Studies, Administrative Academy, Nainital, to undertake the
Community Development trainings, and, I.I.T. Roorkee for technical & engineering trainings. The actual
participant days in various trainings were two times greater as compared to the SAR target of participant
days.

E.6.3    International and national cross training visits by Project Staff helped a lot in internalizing the
demand responsive approach in Watsan Sector.

F. Promoting Sanitation

F.1 Open defecation in field is the common practice in villages. This results into unsanitary conditions in
the village. Though women and older disabled persons felt the need for household latrines, yet this required
a behavioral change as regards to the habit of open defecation. The intervention of cross-visits to other
villages and incentive to VWSCs for 100% latrine coverage were factors, which were instrumental in
enhancing the communities' demand for household latrines. An intensive drive through Inter Personal
Communication was carried out. The training of village masons preceded by successful IEC campaign has
been instrumental in wide acceptability of household latrine raising the latrines coverage from 10% to 61%
in Uttaranchal & 3.8 % to 30.58% in Bundelkhand.




                                                     - 59 -

F.2 The community-based tool of Healthy Home Survey, which monitored behavioural aspects like
washing hands after defecation (which rose from 29.4% to 97.7%), washing hands before eating (which
rose from 21.6% to 66.9%), safe use of water (which rose from NA to 91.8%), safe disposal of infant
excreta (which rose from 3.8% to 56.9%) and use of latrine (which rose from 3.8%. to 16.7%).

F.3 The incentives were also given as a part of the HESA(Hygiene and Environmental Sanitation
Awareness) strategy. The individual households were motivated to construct sanitary latrines. The incentive
amount was paid to the VWSC to achieve more than 60% latrine coverage. Maximum incentive for the
VWSC was Rs. 25000/-. Till date, 101 villages have received the incentive and have used the incentive
amount for O&M or development work.

G. Promoting Gender Awareness

G.1      The women being the main stakeholder of WATSAN sector, the project conceived the "Women
Development Initiatives" component which focused on strengthening the role of women at all stages of the
scheme cycle to increase their capacity and empower them to participate in an informed and decisive
manner in the project planning and implementation, for the project's long-term sustainability. The project
promoted the role of women in six important areas namely-(i) representation of women in VWSC, (ii)
Focus on women in HESA and NFE (Non-formal education), (iii) Skill and management training,(iv)
Access of SHGs to formal credit system, (v) Formation of tap stands groups, and (vi) Female village
maintenance worker. In addition to several trainings and workshops conducted under the WDI component
at the state, district and block-level; 'melas' and `cross visits' to women's empowerment projects in other
states, were organized for further exposure and experience-sharing. The above interventions have enhanced
the capacity of rural women who are now demanding to be included in all the decision-making relating to
the project.

G.2      Women's representation in VWSC (the major stakeholder of this project) has been outstanding.
There are a few VWSCs in which all members are women. The women representation in VWSC happens
to be around 40% against the provision of 30%. In majority of the villages, the `Treasurer' of the VWSC is
a woman. Enhanced women participation has improved the management of schemes.

G.3      The project has celebrated International Women's Day on 8th March every year by involving
women SHG members in cultural activities/ functions.

G.4      The involvement of women at every level i.e. Village, SO & PMU/DPMU level, has increased the
sustainability of the project. At the village level, women representation in VWSCs and activation of SHGs
have increased the income of women and made a dent in the power structure at local level. At SO level,
around 490 Woman month of employment was generated with an average monthly income of Rs. 4000/-.
At PMU/DPMU level, 1105 woman month of employment with an average of Rs. 12,000/- per month was
generated. To put it differently, the project has successfully played the role of a catalyst in empowering the
women in project villages.

H. Long term policy framework and strategic plan for the Sector

H.1      The study to prepare long-term policy framework and to develop a strategic plan for the sector was
assigned to M/s DHV Consultant, B.V. the Netherlands in April 2000. The Consultant has submitted the
final report for both the states in July 2001.

H.2      The GOUP/GOUA have formulated a Vision Document for the RWSES sector outlining the
policies to be followed in the sector. The policies enunciated in the Vision Document are largely influenced


                                                       - 60 -

by the outcomes of the experiments piloted in the project and recommendations of the Sector Study. The
salient features of the Vision Document are as under:

l Integration of water supply and environmental sanitation facilities
l Ensuring availability of potable water and bringing water to the doorsteps in all 97084 villages of the
    State
l Safe disposal of human excreta by raising the level of sanitation from 19% to 100% by providing
    Sanitary Latrines to individual households
l Cost sharing of schemes by the communities
l Government to solve Drinking Water Quality problem
l In order to protect the endangered and scarce water resources, the government to formulate an
    integrated ecological management perspective plan for implementation on cost sharing basis
l Handpump installation on initiative and cost of the community and Government to ensure their source
    sustainability
l Priority to be given to the under-served communities and rehabilitation and reorganization of existing
    schemes
l Scheme ownership with Panchayats while day to day management with Village Water Supply &
    Sanitation Committees (Water Management Committees of Gram Panchayats) for Single Village
    Schemes and Regional Water Supply & Sanitation Committees for Multi Village schemes
l State Water & Sanitation Mission (SWSM) to function as a Sector Advisory Body to the Government
l Selection of Water Supply and Sanitation Service Agencies by Panachayats in Open Competition
l Reorganized Jal Nigam and Jal Sansthans will aim at lower overhead, less bureaucracy, and faster and
    more efficient delivery and installation
l Subsides will be temporary and scheme-based
l Market development for sanitary goods and services- The government will in collaboration with
    manufacturers and suppliers, formulate and implement an action plan for market development for
    sanitary equipment and wares, to make it attractive for the private sector to make the related goods and
    services available in the rural areas
l Government to launch strong IEC Campaign to motivate and educate the rural communities and all
    other stakeholders
l Government to conduct capacity building program for the community and Panchayats at all levels
l The government will contribute to an enabling environment by introducing and/or strengthening
    relevant legislation

The total cost of Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation facilities for 21 years of the Action
Plan is Rs. 700.3210 billion in the state of UP. The share of the different funding agencies will be in the
following proportions:-
1. Community                                                        31.04%
2. Government Of India                                              22.24%
3. Government Of Uttar Pradesh                                      9.61%
4. World Bank                                                       10.12%
5. Other Donar Agencies like UNICEF, Danida etc.                    8.45%
6. Panchayati Raj Institutions                                      11.59%
7. Private Sector                                                   6.96%

l The mopping of the private sector will be the hallmark of this Action Plan, due to the provision of
    single village water scheme, which would be bankable Proposition.
l The private sector will be attracted to take up infrastructure development while financial institutions
    shall be geared to provide financial backup to the private sector


                                                    - 61 -

l Apart from community contribution towards the cost of infrastructure development, PRIs will also be
    required to contribute a portion of their income from other sources. Government will facilitate to bridge
    the gap of finances if any, by arranging loan from banks, financial institutions to PRIs.

H.3     Both the State Government has submitted the proposals for follow on project for scaling up the
Swajal philosophy. The proposals are under the consideration of the Bank.

H.4     The PMU has given the assignment of preparation of Development plan for regional scheme
(Regional Study) to M/s DHV Consultant, BV, the Netherlands for the Bundelkhand region. The technical
and financial aspects of Multi village scheme and most importantly the institutional arrangements for
ushering concepts of community participation and cost sharing were studied.

3. Project Constraints & Areas of Concern

1.      The creation of a separate state- Uttaranchal on 9.11.2000 and the subsequent bifurcation of the
project affected the speed of project implementation. Significant time and effort had been lost in bifurcating
project costs, establishing a Project Management Unit (PMU) in Uttaranchal, and setting up systems to
effectively transfer responsibilities from PMU, Lucknow to PMU, Dehradun reconciling & setting the
accounts between two units, signing amended legal documents with the World Bank.

2.      The project implementation structure was independent of Panchayat Raj Institution and line
departments, like Jal Nigam, various Jal Sansthan, Panchyati Raj Department. Operationally independent
project structure might have facilitated a better implementation, but it has not tested the replicability of the
model for scaling up by using existing sector institutions.

3.      Inspite of having demand and a felt need for water and willingness to pay, some villages could not
be taken up in Swajal owing to high per capita cost and benefit cost ratio less than 1.5. The selection
criterion for villages needs to be reviewed critically.

4.      The project had trained Village Maintenance workers for the operation and maintenance of
schemes. However, quite a large number of VMWs got employment elsewhere. This necessitated training
of new VMWs or preferably a group of people from each village.

5.      As per the loan agreement para 31 of schedule-1, since the development plan for regional multi
village schemes is not developed, the regional schemes could not be taken up under the project the plan in
form of findings of the study were made available for Implementation in late 2001. Based on the study, two
multi-village water supply schemes have been taken up in UP where work is in progress. In Uttaranchal,
few joint schemes covering two to four villages for water supply schemes have been taken.

6.      Natural disasters such as landslides, cloudburst, earthquake etc. are quite common in many parts
of Uttaranchal. Natural disasters caused damages to 30 water supply schemes, which were under O&M
phase. These schemes are spread over across the state. These schemes had to be rehabilitated under
mitigation plan with higher cost sharing (35%).

7.      Depletion of Ground Water table and Chemical Contamination problems are specific constraints in
the Bundelkhand region. The depletion of natural water sources in the hills is of prime concern. Out of the
857 villages taken up in Swajal Project, 79 villages have exhibited a discharge depletion of more than 50%.
Further in 189 villages the source discharge has decreased below 15 lpm. In these villages, the Catchment
Area Protection interventions were executed to sustain the water sources. Even in the Bundelkhand region



                                                      - 62 -

the Ground Water table is lowering.

8.       The contagious effect of non-payment of water tariff or payment at much lower rates in
non-project villages threatens the operational sustainability of the Swajal schemes in the future.

9.       An analysis of the SAR shows that ideally the ratio between software and hardware cost was
around 40:60. However, the actual figures are 31:69 in case of Uttaranchal and 49:51 in case of U.P.
Higher software cost is the foremost concern for replicability.

10.      The Swajal is a subset of "Gram Sawarajya ", a dream of Mahatma Gandhi. A lot is still to be
achieved, to realize this dream. However, the strength of project lies in converting concerns and constraints
into credentials

4. Lessons Learnt

1.       The effective and efficient functioning of PMU/ DPMUs has reinforced the hypothesis, that proper
orientation and training, a mix of skills, experience and gender can work in tandem to achieve positive
results.

2.       It has been proved that the partnership between village communities, NGOs and the government,
where the government takes the role of facilitation and co-financing, has worked successfully.

3.       The SOs and VWSCs were given unsecured advances. The PMUs, being a registered society, do
not have the legal protection under Land Revenue Act. Though the project has successfully recovered the
unspent/ overspent money from the defaulting SOs/ VWSCs.

4.       The project has demonstrated that the communities can efficiently and effectively handle dispute
resolutions, material procurement, financial transactions and record/ book keeping in a satisfactory manner,
when properly trained.

5.       Catchment Area Protection Works and water supply scheme construction works should be
implemented simultaneously so that the sustainability of the tapped water source could be monitored during
the project period itself.

6.       The project has largely demonstrated that as long demand responsive approach is adopted, the
communities are willing to contribute towards capital cost and plan implement, operate and maintain their
own schemes.

7.       The project has demonstrated that the alternative delivery system vis-à-vis the present top down
government-dominated system is not only desirable but also feasible in the sector.

8.       A 13% village drop out rate was envisaged in the SAR. However, the experience has shown a
higher drop rate of 15% (UP+UT) at end of the project. The reasons for village drop out are manifold and
range from genuine community level problems (such as source dispute, social dispute etc.)

9.       There is an enormous amount of capacity building in communities and the NGOs. The
methodology of the project can be successfully carried over to other development areas.

10.      A gender balance approach is important to ensure that both women and men have the same



                                                     - 63 -

opportunities to influence and control the new services and share its benefits.

11.      Observation Study Tour and Exposure visits have been found to be an effective tool in creating
necessary awareness and in changing mindset of policy makers.

12.      The possibility of misappropriating and misusing the funds is minimal if transparency at each stage
is adhered to and monitored.

13.      Convergence with other development programmes is desirable. For proper utilization of resources
and to avoid duplication of efforts, project components like WDI, NFE, HESA, VEAP, catchment
protection etc. should be done in collaboration with other government/non-government departments and
agencies.

14.      Irrespective of source of funding there should be uniform policy as regards to capital cost sharing
as well as operation and maintenance. Otherwise the current systems are unsustainable.

5. Bank's Performance

5.1 Bank performance in project identification, preparation assistance, appraisal and supervision has been
Highly Satisfactory. Visits of the Supervision Missions were of great help in expeditious implementation of
the project components. The field visits by the Mission Members provided objective and useful feedback
for remedial measures. On vital issues, concurrence of the Bank was received expeditiously.

5.2 The Task Managers never felt tired to impress upon the GOUP and GOUA in wrap up meetings and
meetings with the Chief Secretary/ Agriculture Production Commissioner and various Secretaries, Finance
Secretary/Principal Secretary to support the project philosophy. It was owing to the pragmatic approach of
the Bank that the Project was extended for a year more, so that the CAP works could be under taken and
six monthly monitoring O&M phase activities through RSA was possible.

6. Borrower's Performance

9.6.1 Performance of borrower and implementing agencies in preparing and implementing the project has
been Highly Satisfactory. Fund flow never remained a problem through out the project. Without any formal
power and authority, both the PMUs played a meaningful role in maintaining co-ordination with
line-departments.

7. Looking Forward

7.1 There is no subject more important than water (except air). Access to water distinguishes the poor from
the non-poor. If the water supply systems are not managed properly, it is the poor who would suffer the
most. Higher level of water supply with adequate reliability and equitability is no more a commodity for
charity. Proper management of water supply systems needs treating water as a common property and water
supply services as an economic activity meant for economic good rather than conventional thinking that
water is a natural gift and that water supply should be free of cost. The Government of Uttar Pradesh and
Uttaranchal are committed to the following VISION:

         "The States shall facilitate the increase in service level of potable drinking water by installation
of one tap in each household of each village, mainly through Single Village Pipe Water Supply schemes,
and simultaneously ensuring water quality and source - sustainability; and, increase in level of


                                                    - 64 -

household sanitation coverage to at least 100%, there by making villages free from open defecation,
along with bringing about behavioral change for improved hygiene habits, under demand- driven and
community managed schemes, for achieving sustainable health benefits, and reducing incidence of
Diarrhea to below 4%, amongst children below five years, by the year 2025, through Information,
Education, Communication, Capacity Building and Empowerment of communities and Involvement of
Panchayati Raj Institutions, NGOs, Private Sector, and the Financial Institutions.".

7.2 The Government of Uttaranchal is committed to the following vision:

         " The rural local government in partnership with rural communities; shall plan, design,
construct, operate and maintain their water supply and environmental sanitation services as per their
changing demands; for attaining sustainable health and hygiene benefits and ever increasing quality of
life; with the assistance of government through its self sustaining sector institution (s), which shall act as
facilitator and co-financer".




                                                  - 65 -

Additional Annex 10. Sustainability Evaluation Exercise Analysis

Sustainability Evaluation Excercises (SEE) is a methodology to assess the existing status of Project
villagees on certain pre-defined parameters where water supply and sanitation schemes have been
completed. The objectives of SEE are as under:

l To assess the status of schemes completed for six months or more
l To categorize the villages on a sustainability scale
l To make micro-level interventions in the villages falling in various scales of sustainability
l To make macro-level policy adjustments at DPMU/PMU levels on the basis on feedback
l
SEE Methodology

l Conduction of SEE by DPMU staff
l Formation of teams at the DPMU level
l Alloting villages to each team along with date of visits
l Advance intimation of VWSC regarding date of visit
l Data collection through observation, FGD and semi-structured SEE questionanaire
l Participatory evaluation through SEE index
l Data analysis
l Feedback to the VWSC on problems, issues and interventions planned at the village level


A Service is sustainable when:
l It functions and is being used
l It is able to deliver an appropriate level of benefits
l It remains operational beyond the life cycle of the initially installed equipment
l It has all its O&M cost recovered
l Its management is institutionalized
l It requires feasible external support only


These qualifications point to different aspects of sustainability under each of which number of issues need
to be addressed.

Longitudinal Analysis of SEE (Uttar Pradesh)
             Indicator                     SEE             SEE           SEE           SEE            SEE
                                             2              3              4             5              6
                                        April 2001      Oct 2001      April 2002     Oct 2002      March 2003
SEE villages (No.)                          53              68            229           243            357
Fully Functional Schemes                  86.8%          98.27%         98.11%        95.68%         97.19%
Partially Functional Scheme               13.2%            0%             0%          2.56%        1.43%
Non-functional Scheme                      NIL            1.73%           1.89        1.77%          1.38%
Chlorination practices                     40%            33.6%          10.5%        22.63%         63.87%
Coverage of HSL (No.)                      2190            3508          12205         14252         20631
Use of HSL                                 99%             99%           95.3%        91.85%         98.20%
O&M Collection after                       24.26          50.63          29.09         65.63          81.77
Commissioning against Target
O&M expenditure against collection
(cumulative)


                                                     - 66 -

             Indicator               SEE           SEE       SEE         SEE          SEE
                                       2            3          4           5            6
                                   April 2001   Oct 2001   April 2002   Oct 2002   March 2003
HP                                   4.9%        23.6%      5.58%       11.93%       13.90%
Tube well/ Pumping                               40.06%     23.74%      31.45%       36.70%
Mini Pipe Water Supply                           16.85%     5.11%        1.17%       15.62%
No. of SHGs                           32           59         83          177         280
% Highly sustainable village          NA         13.24%     5.68%       21.40%       58.19%
% Medium sustainable village          NA         54.41%     48.47%      47.74%     38.70%
% Least sustainable village           NA        32.35%      45.85%      30.86%       3.11%



Longitudinal Analysis of SEE (Uttaranchal)
              Indicator                SEE           SEE          SEE          SEE        SEE
                                         2            3             4            5          6
                                    April 2001     Oct 2001    April 2002    Oct 2002   April 2003
SEE villages (No.)                      113          258           304         474        648
Fully Functional Schemes                 85           96           83           87         92
Partially Functional Scheme              12           3            15           12          6
Non-functional Scheme                    3            1             2            1          2
Chlorination practices                   44           55           52           68         82
Coverage of HSL (No.)                  3659          8879         11068       16026    2285
                                                                                        1
Use of HSL                              NA           NA          54.88%       57.82%     60.39%
O&M Collection after Commissioning      NA           NA            NA         40.00      115.87
against Target
O&M expenditure against collection
(cumulative)
HP                                      3%           20%          10%          40%        15%
Rain water harvesting                    -            -             -            -        26%
Gravity                                20%           35%          29%          75%        27%
Mixed                                    -            -             -            -        33%
Pumping                                68%           44%          58%         114%        45%
No. of SHGs                              40          194           343         701        1046
% Highly sustainable village            NA           NA            27           31         29
% Medium sustainable village            NA           NA            46           58         64
% Least sustainable village             NA           NA            27           11          7




                                             - 67 -

Additional Annex 11. Summary of Stakeholder Workshops held in Uttaranchal and Uttar
Pradesh

Stakeholder workshops with Swajal stakeholders comprising representatives of Support Organizations,
Village Water and Sanitation Committees, Self Help Groups and District and State level Project
Management Units were organized on 22nd May 2003 (Kathgodam) and 24th May 2003 (Dehradun) in
Uttaranchal and on 30th May 2003 at Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh. to obtain feedback on the planning and
implementation process adopted in the project, essential lessons learnt, and suggestions for further
improvements that could be achieved to make the Swajal approach even more effective. Following is a
summary of the main conclusions and recommendations emanating from the discussions in each of the 3
stakeholder meetings, with focus on "suggestions for improvements":

Planning Phase Issues

Selection of Villages:
l Need to prioritize medium and small sized villages with acute problem of safe water and sanitation,
    high percentage of Schedule caste and backward population.
l Choosing a cluster of villages in one geographical area for better coordination and management of
    villages
l Need to give higher priority to community demand for inclusion in the project.
l Need to adhere to project guidelines on village selection like time saving, availability of water less than
    15 lpcd, willingness to pay and demand for water supply and sanitation.

Community Mobilization:
l Importance of ensuring equal accessibility to all caste groups and emphasis on overcoming political
    rivalries.
l Importance of promoting healthy and discouraging unhealthy practices through pictorials
l Meaningful representation of SC/ST not possible in few cases because of strong social hierarchy in
    some villages and inability to pay in many cases.
l Short scheme cycle -a constraint for SOs to devote adequate time towards ensuring effective
    participation of underprivileged such as SC/ST.
l Importance of exposure visits as an integral part of community mobilization.
l Importance of cluster meetings and regular village level meetings.
l Effective use of mapping to involve communities and through ASARDAR tools, folk media, drama,
    video shows and wall writings.
l Importance of HESA, WDI, NFI, functional literacy initiatives and involving children in clean village
    campaigns for effective community mobilization.
l Need to ensure greater involvement of children in project activities and continue NFE through out the
    scheme cycle
l Need to ensure greater involvement of DPMU in the program.


Performance of Community Worker (CW)/Community Technician (CT) in the project:
l CW/CT could devote more time and were accessible during and after project as they came from village
    itself.
l In villages with political rivalries and social complexities, it might be better to have CW/CT from
    outside to be able to take an objective stance without getting embroiled in the politics.
l VMW should necessarily be from the village.




                                                    - 68 -

Technology choice in villages:
l Various technologies discussed with communities in villages on parameters like appropriateness, ease
   in operation and maintenance, cost of operation and maintenance and capital contribution etc.
l Options on various models of sanitation also discussed with communities (e.g capsule model of HSL)
l Cluster approach discussed with communities which resulted in communities choosing Mini Pumping
   schemes
l Water recharge and Water Management Plan should be essential component of the program
l Rainwater harvesting and plantation should be promoted for source protection


Implementation Issues

Technology choice in villages:
l Quality testing of materials should be done prior to its delivery at villages.
l Communities should take time and discuss before finally selecting their option
l Problems of dry bore and decline in water table in certain areas
l Sites had to be changed on account of unavailability of good source which resulted in problems in
   implementation phase
l Communities lack of trust on certain technologies in spite of best information furnished by SOs
l Resistivity survey should be done in Planning phase itself.
l All members of VWSC should be involved and cluster groups should play more active role
l Maintenance of Hand pumps installed by external agencies is a problem.
l Water tariff should be based on no. of persons in a household in case of PWS schemes.
l Before technology choice communities should be taken on exposure visits


Financial Management:
l It should be ensured that learned/experienced people become part of the purchase committee
l Training module should be developed for imparting training to purchase committee
l Communities with learned/experienced members are procuring goods without the support of SOs but
   where members are not literate are still seeking support of SOs.
l Need for high priority to ensuring transparency in all dealings related to the project.
l Need for continued training on accounts bookkeeping and following it up.
l Book keeping training should be done on a regular basis.
l Training should be based on needs, and capacity of available of trainers. It should be followed up by
   refresher training and its impact should be evaluated.
l VWSC Accounts maintenance should not be joint as VWSCs get reluctant to take responsibilities and
   excessively dependent on SOs.

Hygiene and Environmental Sanitation Awareness (HESA):
l Priorities shifted across the scheme cycle
l Interventions should be based on capacities and choices of communities
l Village influencers like Tai (Community Health worker) etc should be involved in the project
l Continued interventions required for behavioral change
l WDI Plan should be implemented across each cluster
l One SHG per cluster should be formed and these groups should be strengthened
l Output of PRIP should be closely monitored.
l Healthy Home Survey should be supplemented with Health Camps and people observing sound
   practices should be recognized and awarded.
l The concept of Swajal Saheli Samooh could not find enough strength



                                                   - 69 -

l SHG has resulted in better coordination amongst women, increase in their self confidence and decision
    taking capacity
l SHG exposure visit should be arranged more often
l More number of trainings should be organized for capacity augmentation of SHGs
l SHG formation should not be done in a haste


Efficacy of incentive scheme (in UP):
l This resulted both as a motivator and a de-motivator
l Incentive should be based on targets given.
l Even communities should be involved in incentive scheme
l This has adversely affected the implementation process and affected the quality of the program and
    relationship amongst VWSC, SOs and DPMU.
l Incentive should be based on both timely completion and quantum of works done
l The geographical conditions should be kept in mind while deciding incentives
l Incentives resulted in motivation of VWSCs and some VWSCs got 100% sanitation coverage
l Incentives should be given in villages itself, which would mean recognition amongst own people.


Constraints felt by Support Organizations:
l Inordinate delays in final settlement of VWSC accounts (particularly in UP) on account of lack of
    PMU responsiveness.
l Responsivness of PMU and DPMU highly dependent on proactive and dynamic leader.
l Lot of time and energy spent responding to the requirements of PMU and DPMU.
l Suggestions and feedback given to PMU were not always taken into consideration
l Need for greater emphasis on gender sensitization and O&M plan
l Proactiveness of DPMUs not always matched by PMU.




                                                   - 70 -

Additional Annex 12. SWAJALDHARA Programme - MOU

The State Govt. has prepared a comprehensive Vision Statement, Action Plan, and agreed Time Frame for
initiating and scaling up reforms in the sector addressing institutional reforms, Integration of water
sanitation and hygiene, capital coast sharing principles, water tariff, Operation and Maintenance of the
system and institutional mechanism for implementation, role of Panchayat Raj Institution, NGO,s and
CDOs, water quality, water conservation measures including legislative action . The highlights of Vision
Document 2025 and Action Plan for 21 years have been given in para 8.02 of borrower's evaluation.

In order to avail funds under Swajaldhara I and II, the State Governments would enter into Memorandum
of Understanding (MOU) with the Department of Drinking Water Supply, Ministry of Rural Development,
and Govt. of India. There would be commitment of the State Govt. to the reform principles in the Water
and Sanitation Sector, to be promoted through out the State.

The said the draft MOU takes into account the state specific factors and incorporates milestones which are
in consonance with the reforms principles laid down in Vision Document 2025 and 21 years Action Plan.
MOU lays stress on adherence to the reform principles by all the stakeholders and incorporates action
points, which address the issues of quantity, quality conservation and sustainability of drinking water
sources and improved sanitation and hygiene in the community. Action points for all stakeholders and
implementation time frame has been laid down in MOU, which shall be put up to the State Cabinet for
clearance before the same is entered into, with the Govt of India. Copy of the Draft MOU is as follows:

 Draft for Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to be signed between GOUP and Government of
                                                   India for
                             Implementation of SWAJALDHARA Programme

                                      Memorandum of Understanding

         This MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MOU) is made on the --- day of July 2003
BETWEEN the Governor of Uttar Pradesh through Dr. Rita Sharma, Principal Secretary, Rural
Development, GOUP (hereinafter called GOUP which expression shall where the context so admits or
implies be deemed to include his successors in office) of one part and the President of India through Mr.
Palat Mohan Das, Secretary, Department of Drinking Water Supply, Ministry of Rural Development, GOI
(hereinafter Called " Government of India" which expression shall where the context so admits or implies
be deemed to include his successors in office) of the other part.

         WHEREAS, GOUP in pursuance of para 4.2 and 4.3 of guidelines of GOI Department of
Drinking Water on Swajaldhara envisages that the State Government may avail funds under Swajaldhara I
and II, after entering into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Department of Drinking
Water Supply, Ministry of Rural Development, Government of India and that there would be commitment
of the GOUP to the reform principles in the Water and Sanitation sector and shall promote through out the
State the Swajaldhara principles.

         AND WHEREAS, GOUP has made a vision statement to the effect to facilitate the increase in
service level of potable drinking water by installation of one tap in each household of all village of Uttar
Pradesh, mainly through Single Village Pipe Water Supply schemes, and simultaneously ensuring water
quality and source - sustainability; and, increase in level of household sanitation coverage to at least 90%,
there by making villages free from open defecation, along with bringing about behavioral change for



                                                     - 71 -

improved hygiene habits, under demand- driven and community managed schemes, for achieving
sustainable health benefits, and reducing incidence of Diarrhea to below 4%, amongst children below five
years, by the year 2018, through Information, Education, Communication, Capacity Building and
Empowerment of communities and Involvement of Panchayati Raj Institutions, NGOs and the Private
Sector.

         AND WHEREAS, GOUP Keeping in view the exigencies of ensuring sustainability for the sector,
a vision has been outlined for 2018 in a comprehensive Vision Document (Annexure-1) indicating State
vision, identified road map and milestones, action plan and agreed time frame for initiating and scaling up
reforms, institutional reforms, integration of Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene, Capital Cost Sharing
principles, Water Tariff, Operation and Maintenance of systems, role of Panchayati Raj Institutions,
NGOs, CBOs, Water Quality, Water Conservation and Recharge Measures, including Legislative Action,
Performance Indicators.

         GOUP's Vision Document incorporates action points, which address the issues of quantity, quality,
conservation and sustainability of drinking water sources and improved sanitation and hygiene in the
community. For achieving these, the vision document envisages action points for all stake holders, strategy
and implementation time-frame.

NOW, therefore, parties to this MOU agree as follows:

A. The GOUP

1.   That the GOUP shall implement State's Vision for 2018 in which every household has its own source
of drinking water supply. Due to financial and technical constraints in the short and medium term, this is
translated into a goal to "bring drinking water to the doorstep". This involves supporting the communities
in obtaining public piped water supply systems with capacity for 100% household connections. The
decision to install individual connections will be up to the individual households concerned. This policy
will apply to all development, whether for rejuvenation, rehabilitation, reorganization, or construction of
new schemes.

2.    That the State Water and Sanitation Mission here by shall be called SWSM as an advisory body to
GOUP shall coordinate and monitor activities under rural water supply and sanitation sector and will give
necessary feed back with regards to rural water Supply and sanitation Programmes implementation in the
State Also at District level District water Supply and sanitation Mission hereby shall be called DWSM will
function as an advisory body to Zilla Panchayats.

3.     That under the Gram Panchayats, responsibility for day-to-day management of the schemes at
village level is entrusted to Jal Prabhan Samities of Gram Panchyats. The prime function of Jal Prabhan
Samities of Gram Panchyats is to ensure, through participatory decision making, that the user communities
feel that they share the ownership of the system and as such accept the responsibility to sustain it through
payment of agreed tariff. The Jal Prabhan Samities of Gram Panchyats may outsource the physical
operation and maintenance of the schemes to private individuals, community groups, or the organized
business sector. This may involve all or part of the tasks involved in production, treatment, and major
maintenance of drinking Water Supply and Sanitation works. In the case of multi-village pipe water supply
schemes the technical O&M function at scheme level is always contracted out to a competent technical
organization.

4.    That the GOUP shall promote safe water supply and environmental sanitation in the interest of private


                                                     - 72 -

and public health. However, in principle these services are geared to private needs and benefits. Therefore,
the Government will gradually withdraw from financing the sector. Effective demand of the user
community will be the guiding principle, the GOUP will only support schemes if the community is willing
to share the cost. This will initially involve at least 10% of capital cost by communities where minimum
needs not met and least of 20% of capital cost by communities where minimum needs have been met in
addition to 100% of O&M cost by communities. Ultimately, the capital cost share of the community shall
be increased to 50%. The GOUP will formulate guidelines for the application of the norms where technical
requirements result in investment and operating cost significantly than the average for the region and also
with regard to users ability to pay.

5.   That the ownership of the public schemes shall be with the Panchayats, as shall be the
financial-economic responsibility for their operation. The focus of ownership at local level is crucial as it
sensitizes the communities to the need for adequate O&M funded by adequate resources generated through
user charges. The formulation of workable tariff structures and effective collection and sanction
mechanisms is part of the decision-making process in which the community and the Panchayats elect the
desired type and level of service. Consequently, any operational deficits must be made up through increase
in user charges and/or contributions from the Panchayat funds.

6.   That for multi-village schemes, Regional Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSC) committee decides on
investments and policies. The RWSC will contract competent technical organization that will act as
"operator" of the scheme. The "operator" will be responsible for day-to-day operation at scheme level and
for delivery of agreed quantity of water to the participating villages at bulk rates. Jal Prabhan Samities of
Gram Panchyats will be responsible for local distribution, maintenance, retail billing, and collection in the
villages.

7.   That comprehensive Water Quality Survey for 100% habitation of state Shall be done for
Identification of those habitations where ground water quality is not satisfactory due to chemical
contamination on account of Iron, Fluoride, Nitrate and total Dissolved Solids being more than the
permissible limits . GOUP shall promote low cost treatment technologies and/or alternate safe sources of
Drinking Water shall be identified.

8.   That GOUP shall protect the endangered and scarce water resources, the GOUP shall formulate an
integrated ecological management perspective plan. The enforcement of the UP State Water Policy would
be under the State Water Board which would have a State Water Resources Agency, a Water Resources
Data Center and an MIS system for water resources planning, monitoring, and management.

9.   That to date the GOUP has concentrated on meeting the basic need of water supply to the population
by installing handpumps wherever feasible. Thus basic need is now essentially met. The ownership of
handpumps has been transferred to the Panchayats, along with the responsibility for O&M. The GOUP
shall further strive to have the Operation and Management of handpumps transferred to community/user
groups, while ownership of all handpumps shall remain with the gram panchayats. This is in line with the
policy to henceforth leave all further investment in handpumps to the private initiative of user groups or
individuals and local suppliers/drillers. The GOUP will stimulate local availability of the relevant parts
and services.

10.    That the adoption of more private handpumps would demonstrate an effective demand for having an
individual source of water supply. As this demand grows, and private pumps need to be replaced, piped
systems with individual household connections become financially viable. The information shall stress the
need to boil and/or filter water from shallow handpumps, or alternatively use public India Mark-II


                                                       - 73 -

handpumps for drinking purposes.

11.    That the GOUP shall strive to inculcate an appreciation and understanding of the need for safe water
and sanitary disposal of human excreta liquid and solid wastes disposal among users in support of public
and individual health. In this connection, Govt. will conduct awareness and information campaigns, make
arrangements and create facilities to test drinking water at both the scheme and user levels, and carry out
demonstration projects.

12.    To ensure sustainability of sources the GOUP shall promote low-cost recharge interventions through
checkdams, excavation of ponds and tanks fallen into disuse, and research and development for and
introduction of low-cost filtration/treatment facilities wherever feasible. This will also involve promotion of
awareness campaigns, logistical support, and facilitation. In areas where water level depletion beyond
handpump depth is more than the potential increase in water level due to recharge, the GOUP further
assigns priority to support financially, the recharge intervensions. Similarly, the GOUP shall further assign
priority financial support for research and development into installation of low-cost filtration / treatment
facilities. The financial support of recharge or installation of filtration/treatment facilities shall be on the
basis of cost sharing norms.

13.    That though the basic need is essentially met, there are still some under-served habitations. Priority
will be given to fulfill the basic need program in such habitations. For habitations villages with a
demonstrated inability to pay the GOUP shall select to subsidize both capital and O&M cost the system.

14. That because piped schemes have generally been constructed only where Hnadpmps are not feasible,
the need in areas already served with Pipe Water Supply is greatest where existing schemes have gone
defunct. To meet this need, the government shall place priority on rehabilitating defunct or under
performing existing schemes. Wherever possible, this will involve reorganization of the schemes into
single-village schemes.

15.    That the basic financial viability of schemes in large part depends on reliability of performance.
This is most seriously affected by irregular power supply. Therefore, rehabilitation incorporates diesel
generators or other alternative source of energy where power supply is irregular. No new pumping
schemes are being developed without a dependable source of power.

16. That for outsourcing of scheme operations Jal Prabhan Samities of Gram Panchyats and Regional
Water Supply and Sanitation committees need access to a support infrastructure that is responsive to local
decision-making and expressions of demand. The Water supply support orginasitations shall be selected by
GPs /RWSCs by open competition. The State owned agencies like Jal Nigam , UP AGRO etc may also
participate in the open competition along side the private sector.

17. That GOUP shall reorganize Jal Nigam and Jal Sansthans, aiming at lower overhead, less
bureaucracy, and faster and more efficient delivery, installation and more responsive to community.

18.     Water Supply and Sanitation Support Organizations created out of Jal Nigam and Jal Sansthans at
district level shall be self-supporting in accordance with the Water Supply and Sewerage Act of 1975.
Only where the cost of service provision demonstrably exceeds the ability of the user community to pay
may the GOUP decide to provide financial relief. This relief will be temporary and will not take the form of
subsidizing the Water Supply and Sanitation Support Organization, but will involve scheme-based
subsidies only, combined with a specific subsidy reduction path for each scheme. The GOUP will review
the Act and bring it up to date with the needs of its drinking water policy.


                                                      - 74 -

19.   That GOUP shall involve integrated planning of water supply and environmental sanitation aspects in
all rehabilitation of all existing defunct schemes and development of new schemes. This planning will, in
physical and financial terms, at least involve drainage and pavement of lanes and by lanes. Whereas
drainage related to water supply and sanitation is to be funded from the schemes themselves, pavement of
lanes and by-lanes and construction of other drains is funded under existing village local area development
programs. In this case the main effort is in dovetailing of investments under different programs. Beyond
this, plans for development and rehabilitation of schemes are only eligible for approval if they include
adequate provisions for other sanitation aspects, such as sanitary latrines, compost pits, and solid waste
management. Communities are expected to tap local and other resources to finance and develop the related
small and medium-scale investments.

20.    That GOUP shall] for sanitation interventions of individual nature, the implementation of relevant
activities leave to private initiative. Nevertheless, improvement of this aspect of sanitation contributes to
public health and is therefore of concern to the GOUP. Hence, the government vigorously supports
community initiatives through information and awareness campaigns on sanitation and its integration with
water supply, technical guidance, and help in arranging finances. The GOUP will also, in collaboration
with manufacturers and suppliers, formulate and implement an action plan for market development for
sanitary equipment and wares, so as to make it attractive for the private sector, to make the related goods
and services available in the rural areas. The government will monitor the development of environmental
sanitation and from time to time evaluate both its own efforts and the involvement of the private sector.
The GOUP will contribute to an enabling environment by introducing and/or strengthening relevant
legislation.

B. The GOI

1.       That GOI is in agreement with GOUP state vision for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation outlined
for 2018, which conforms to Sector Reform principles laid down by GOI for ensuring sustainability for
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation.

2.       That GOI shall provide funds to the tune of Rs. 10,495.79 crores as GOI share for implementation
of Water Supply and Sanitation schemes against its total requirement of Rs. 35,338.86 crores.

3.       That GOI shall assist GOUP in securing financial assistance from World Bank and other donor
agencies for achieving the targets stipulated in the action plan.

4.       That GOI shall give adequate financial assistance to GOUP under various programme current and
future related to Water Supply and Sanitation sector.

5.       That GOI shall provide financial incentives or otherwise stipulated in pera 4.3 of Swajaldhara
Guideline of GOI.

6.       That GOI shall extend financial assistance for GOUPs endeavor to remove water quality problem
within next two years.

7.       That GOI shall facilitate GOUP in providing fiscal incentives under Union list for creating
enabling environment for attracting Private Sector investments in Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Sector.




                                                       - 75 -

8.       That GOI shall initiate measures for extending priority lendings from nationalized banks to
entrepreneurs/PRI institutions for their bankable projects on Water Supply and Sanitation.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have set and subscribed their respective initial on the day
and the year first herein before written.

(Dr. Rita Sharma)                                          (Palat Mohan Das)
Principal Secretary                                        Secretary
Rural Development                                          Department of Drinking Water Supply
GOUP                                                       Ministry of Rural Development
                                                           Government of India
------------------------------------
For and on behalf of the                          -----------------------------------
Governor of Uttar Pradesh                                  For and on behalf of the
                                                           President of India


Witnesses:                                                Witnesses:

         1.                                                           1.

         2.                                                          2.

(Signature, Name and address)                              (Signature, Name and address)




                                                    - 76 -

Additional Annex 13. Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sanitation Mission (WSM) - MOU


                                         Memorandum of Understading
1.       Name of the Society: The name of this society shall be Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sanitation
Mission (hereinafter referred as WSM)
2.       Location: The WSM shall have its head office in Lucknow with implementing units at district
level.
3.       Address of the society:
         Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sanitation Mission,
         3, Fawn Brake Avenue Sarojini Naidu Marg, Lucknow- 226001.
4.       Area of operation: Uttar Pradesh

5.       Objectives: The WSM shall be an independent and autonomous body and it shall act as an advisor,
supervisor and facilitator for implementing community based rural water supply and total sanitation
campaign in the selected districts of U.P . The following are the main objectives of the mission.
a. To bring about an improvement in the general quality of life in rural area with the help of Community
     Based Rural Water Supply & Total Sanitation Campaign.
b. To create awareness for sanitation and safe drinking water.
c. To facilitate the conditions to provide safe drinking water in rural areas.
d. To create demand for sanitation hardware.
e. Accelerating coverage of rural population.
f. Covering schools in rural areas with safe drinking water and sanitation facilities.
g. Encouraging suitable cost effecting and appropriate technologies.
h. Consequently bringing about a reduction in the incidence of water and sanitation related diseases (as
     evinced by fall in the infant/child morality rates and incidence of diarrheal diseases.)
 i. To provide sustainable safe drinking water schemes and to provide sustainable environment sanitation
     facilities (like sullage drains, private latrines etc.) for all project villages through Community Based
     Rural Water Supply & Total Sanitation Campaign ( CBRWSTSC)
 j. Strengthening water quality monitoring systems and leakage control measures:
k. To promote hygiene and environmental sanitation awareness to village communities;
 l. Institutional strengthening including greater community participation at the grassroots level;
m. To promote a participative process by which eligible village communities; as defined can make all key
     decision concerning their schemes.

6.       Functions: To achieve the above objective the mission shall carry out following activities.

   I. To identity and select Districts for the Community Based Rural Water Supply & Total Sanitation
       Campaign ( CBRWSTSC)
  II. Ensure establishment of Distt level water and sanitation mission.
 III. To ensure execution of Community Based Rural Water Supply & Total Sanitation Campaign (
       CBRWSTSC) in a time bound manner.
 IV. Greater house-hold involvement ( Demand Driven Approach )
  V. Technology improvisations according to customer preferences and location specific.
 VI. Stress on software : intensive IEC campaign closer liaison with Prasar Bharti and other media.
VII. Emphasis on school sanitation and safe drinking water.
VIII. Seek international finances for latrine unit production centers and rural sanitary marts.
 IX. Involve cooperatives, women groups, self-help groups NGOs etc.



                                                         - 77 -

    X. Development of backup services centres sanitary ware production centers PCs at Dist/Block level
         rural sanitary marts (RSMS) as retail outlets, Trained masons.
   XI. Act as motivator advisor and facilitator for Community Based Rural Water Supply & Total
         Sanitation Campaign ( CBRWSTSC) and RWS.
   XII. To undertake all activities that may be necessary for the implementation of the project and in
         particular for the achievement of the objectives referred to in article 5 above.
  XIII. Coordination and monitoring of the activities for implementation of the project;
  XIV. To coordinate and monitor setting up water quality laboratories and including procurement of lab
         equipment and instruments.
   XV. To obtain assistance of private consultants.
  XVI. Review of water supply scheme design.
  XVII. Environmental sanitation design.
 XVIII. Water quality monitoring system.
  XIX. Community participation and health education activities.
   XX. Construction supervision, monitoring leak detection survey and supervision;
  XXI. Coordination and management of training program's for personnel of WSM, District Water &
         Sanitation Mission(DWSM) and others e.g. village water and sanitation committees, village
         facilitators, NGO's and village communities including Gram Pradhans and primary school teachers;
  XXII. To secure active involvement and participation of NGO's committee to the cause of rural water
         supply and environmental sanitation;
 XXIII. To organise conferences, symposia, workshops etc. on matters related to the project;
 XXIV. To make rules and regulations for the conduct of the affairs of the WSM and add or amend, vary or
         rescind them from time to time.
  XXV. To establish its own salary structure and benefit structure and to employ, retain or dismiss personnel
         as required in WSM.
 XXVI. To accept, make, enclose or otherwise execute cheques, drafts, receipts, bills of exchange of other
         instruments and securities as are required for the conduct of the WSM or DWSM.
 XXVII. To undertake any legal action that may be necessary to ensure the fulfillment of contract's mode
         between the WSM's business.
XXVIII. To enter into contracts without a requirement for government approval, other than by government
         representative on the WSM and others.
 XXIX. To accept or to provide any grant of money, loan, securities or property of any kind and to,
         undertake and accept the management of any endowment trust, fund or donation not inconsistent with
         the objectives of the WSM.
  XXX. To incur expenditure after drawing up a budget and due regard for economy and propriety.
 XXXI. To prepare annual report and account of the WSM.
 XXXII. To purchase, hire, take on lease, exchange or otherwise aquire property, movable and construct, after
         and maintain any building or building or building as may be necessary for carrying out the objectives
         of the WSM.
XXXIII. To take all such action and to enter all such actions as may appear necessary or incidental for the
         achievement of the objects of the WSM.
XXXIV. Implement GOI's Sector Reform (Jalnidhi) Project, Swajaldhara Programme and Total Sanitation
         Campaign.
 XXXV. Prepare a comprehensive vision statement, action plan and agreed time frame for initiating and
         scaling up reforms in the sector.
XXXVI. Provide policy guidance to Swajaldhara and Total Sanitation Campaign Projects.
XXXVII. Integration of water conservation and rainwater-harvesting schemes with the drinking water supply
         schemes.
XXXVIII. Integrate & implementation of rural drinking water, Health, and Hygiene programes in the State.


                                                       - 78 -

XXXIX. Preparation of State Project plan for community Based Rural Water Supply, Water conservation
        measures through rain water harvesting and ground recharge system & Environmental Sanitation. To
        seek funds from GOI, State Govt., National/International organizations, philanthropic organizations,
        financial institutions, NRIs and Industrial Houses.
  XL. Implement GOI's Sector Reform principles in the water supply and sanitation sector and promote
        through out the state the Swajaldhara principles.                    Implement all schemes
        pertaining to rural water supply and sanitation sector programmes funded wholly or partially by the
        Government of India or the External Funding Agencies (including ARWSP, Sub-Mission, TSC)
  XLI. To ensure convergence of water supply and sanitation activities including Special Projects.
 XLII. Coordinate with various State Government Departments and other partners in relevant activities.
 XLIII. Monitoring and evaluation of physical and financial performance and management of the rural water
        supply and sanitation projects in the State..
 XLIV. Ensure supervision of quality of construction of all programmes such as Sector reform project,
        Swajaldhara programme and Total Sanitation Campaign.
 XLV. Integration and operations of communications and capacity development programmes for both water
        supply and sanitation in the State.
 XLVI. To create investor friendly climate in the State for Rural Drinking Water Supply & Sanitation Sector
        to attract Private Investments.
XLVII. Development of innovative low cost community acceptable technology and techniques.

  7.      The first members of Executive Committee
  The names, addresses, occupations and designation of the first members of the executive committee of the
  WSM to whom by the rules and               regulations of the WSM the management of its affairs is entrusted as
  required under section 2 of society registration Act. 1860(No. XXI of       1860) are as follows:

  Three members as specialist in Information Communication and Education(IEC), Monitoring and
  Information System(MIS) & Non-Governmental Organizations(NGOs) shall be nominated by the
  Executive Committee. A copy of the rules of the WSM certified to be correct copy by three members of the
  executive committee is filed along with this memorandum of association.

  8.      We, the several persons whose names and addresses are given below having associated ourselves
  for the purpose described in this memorandum of association do hereby subscribe name to this
  memorandum of association and set our several and respective hands here unto and form ourselves into a
  society under the societies registration act, 1860(no. xxi of 1860). This 16th August 1999 at LUCKNOW:

           Sl.      Names                         Occupation & Address              Designation of
           No.                                                                      members
            1.       Secretary                     Rural Development                 Chairman
            2.       Director                      Panchayati Raj                    Member
            3.       Director                      Social Welfare                    Member
            4.       Director General              Medical & Health                  Member
            5.       Director                      Basic Education                   Member
            6.       Director                      Information                       Member
            7.       Director                      Swajal                            Member
            8.       Director                      HRD Cell, Jal Nigam               Member
            9.       M.D.                          Jal Nigam                         Member
            10.      Commissioner                  Rural Development                 Secretary/Executive
                                                                                     Director



                                                       - 79 -

        Three members as specialist in Information Communication and Education(IEC), Monitoring and
Information System(MIS) & Non-Governmental Organizations(NGOs) shall be nominated by the
Executive Committee. A copy of the rules of the WSM certified to be correct copy by three members of the
executive committee is filed along with this memorandum of association.

 9.     We, the several persons whose names and addresses are given below having associated ourselves
for the purpose described in this memorandum of association do hereby subscribe name to this
memorandum of association and set our several and respective hands here unto and form ourselves into a
society under the societies registration act, 1860(no. xxi of 1860). This 16th August 1999 at LUCKNOW

 Sl.      Names                            Occupation, Address of Members             Designation    Signature
 No.
 1.        Sri Rajendra Bhonwal            Secretary, Rural Development                Chairman
 2.        Sri Shyam lal Kasarwani         Director, Panchayati Raj                    Member
 3.        Sri Kapil deo                   Director, , Social Welfare                  Member
 4.        Dr. H.C.Vaishya                 Director General, Medical & Health          Member
 5.        Dr. M.C.Pant                    Director, Basic Education                   Member
 6.        Sri Sanjay B.Reddy              Director, Information                       Member
 7.        Sri S.Raju                      Director, Swajal Project                    Member
 8.        Sri Majhar Alikhan              Director, HRD Cell, Jal Nigam              Member
 9.        Sri V.K.Gupta                   M.D., Jal Nigam, UP                         Member
 10.       Dr. Naseem Zaidi                Commissioner, Rural Development             Secretary/
                                                                                       ED




                                                     - 80 -

Additional Annex 14. Decisions of the GOUA for Initiating Process of Reform in the
WATSAN Sector

A meeting under the Chairmanship of the Chief Secretary was held on 24 January 2003. The agenda of the
meeting was to discuss the policy and strategies for ushering sector reform process in the state as well as
develop broad guidelines for the implementation of the Swajaldhara Project. The decisions taken in the
meeting were later approved by the Minister, Rural Development and Drinking Water and the Chief
Minister of the state. The policy decisions of the Government are as under:

1. Status of Rural Water Supply Schemes

    1.1   There are around 6975 Gram Panchayats, 15651 revenue Villages and 31008 habitations in the
          state. Out of total water supply schemes constructed in the state, 2969 single village have been
          transferred to the Gram Panchayats for operation and maintenance and the remaining 6395
          schemes (out of these 2500 are single village schemes) are maintained by Jal Nigam and Jal
          Sansthan. Out of total schemes constructed, 3500 schemes require immediate reorganization
          since they have crossed the design period. 2969 schemes. 1482 single village schemes out of
          2969 schemes that have been transferred to Gram Sabha have become partially or
          non-functional. The GOI has allocated Rs 30.80 crore under ARWSP for construction and
          augmentation/rejuvenation of water supply schemes. GOI has allocated 20% of ARWSP budget
          allocation for Swajaldhara Project. The total allocation under the ARWSP is Rs 2235 crore
          which also includes some other projects. As a result, the total budget available under
          Swajaldhara Project is Rs 400 crores (maximum limit) out of which the State share would
          maximum be around Rs 10 crore. Subsequent to the Sector Reform policy of the GOI, the
          ARWSP would be extendable after 2003-2004, in order to scale up demand driven approach in
          the sector.

    1.2   Status of NC/PC habitations in the state

          In the State, there are 1015 NC/PC habitations in the state. For providing drinking water to these
          habitations, around 117 crore would be required and the schemes could be commissioned by
          2005. In the current year, 375 such habitations have been proposed to be covered with water
          supply scheme. Under ARWSP, the GOI has allocated Rs 30.80 crore. Since the state has been
          newly carved out and the per capita construction cost is higher in the hilly areas due to
          inaccessible terrain, the GOUA has requested the GOI to enhance the budgetary provision under
          the ARWSP. Similarly, the allocation of development fund for the state based on per capita cost
          should be reconsidered since the density of population is very low in the state. In this context, the
          Hon'ble Prime Minister during his visit to Nainital had announced that norms/standards would
          be relaxed considering the geographical condition of the hilly states such as Uttaranchal.

    1.3   Under the Swajal Project, 857 villages have been covered out of which majority of them are
          single village schemes. In the Follow-on of Swajal Project, 2500 additional villages have been
          proposed to be covered with the financial assistance from the World Bank. The 12th World Bank
          Supervisory Mission had indicated that the support for the Follow-on Project would largely
          depend upon the commitment of the GOUA for adopting sector reform approach in the state. It
          as apparent that the GOI funded Swajaldhara Project is based on the same principles and the
          state has to adopt sector reform approach in order to avail funding under Swajaldhara Project.




                                                    - 81 -

2. Reassessment of Water Supply & Sanitation Component

   2.1   In a meeting chaired by the Chief Minister, it was decided to reassess the status of NC/PC/FC
         habitations in the state. The RGNDWM, Government of India, has issued fresh guidelines to
         assess the status of rural water supply and environmental sanitation in the state. The Department
         of Drinking Water will conduct survey on prescribed format provided by the GOI to assess the
         status of rural water supply and also obtain additional information about the status of sanitation
         in order to integrate both these components. This will help in formulating strategy for targeted
         investment in the rural water supply and sanitation sector.

3. Prospective Plan for Water Supply Sector in the State

   3.1   In the above context, it is clear that not only remaining NC/PC habitations are to be covered by
         the support from the RGNDWM but also heavy investment is required for covering partially
         functional and non-functional schemes as well as for schemes where there is decline in source
         discharge. Approximately, Rs 700-800 crore would be required for covering NC/PC habitations
         as well as reorganization of partially and non-functional schemes, excluding the administrative
         and miscellaneous expenditures. The future funding in the sector will largely depend upon the
         adoption of Sector Reform principles, as reflected in the Swajaldhara Project launched by the
         Hon'ble Prime Minister. It is apparent that funding from GOI would be inadequate and the state
         has to seek external financial support to meet the demand in the rural sector. The World Bank in
         its meeting with the Chief Secretary during World Bank Mission had shown interest for widening
         the prospect of Swajal Project II, i.e. Rs 500 crore, for covering 2500 villages, if the GOUA
         agrees in principle to adopt sector reform approach. The tenets of the Sector Reform Approach
         are demand based selection of village, community participation in planning & implementation,
         community contribution towards capital cost of water supply, ownership, operation and
         maintenance of the scheme by the community and in this context, required changes in the role of
         Jal Nigam and Jal Sansthan. The State has to adopt the broad Sector Reform Principles as
         mentioned above.

   3.2   The GOUA has also submitted a proposal for Watershed Development Project to the World
         Bank. The cost of the project is Rs 450 crore. There are indications that the World Bank may not
         support two large projects in the State. In this context that, the Chief Minister has already sent a
         letter to Union Finance Minister regarding the need for both the projects in view of geographical
         and economic condition of the state.


4. Guidelines for Implementation of Swajaldhara Project

   4.1   In Swajaldhara Project and the Swajal Project, the unit of planning is to be defined. In the
         current project, revenue village was considered as the unit of planning by forming User Water &
         Sanitation Committee (UWSC), which operated their own Bank accounts. In the context of 73rd
         CAA, the GP has to take up the role of UWSC. Under the UP Panchayati Raj Act, the Jal
         Prabhadhan Samiti (JPS) has been constituted for management of drinking water, watershed,
         irrigation and environmental sanitation activities. At the GP level, JPS will be responsible for
         management of water supply and other related activities.

   4.2   In a GP, there could be more than one habitation. Therefore, apart from JPS, it is also necessary
         to institutionalize User Groups as sub-committee of the Gram Panchayat. The UWSC will
         represent the actual users and the number of UWSC will depend upon the number of schemes in
         the GP. The roles and responsibilities of UWSC will be as follows:



                                                    - 82 -

      (i) Planning and construction of scheme at cluster level
      (ii) Collection of community contribution for water supply and related works
      (iii) Fixation of tariff duly approved by the GP and operation and maintenance of scheme
      (iv) Collection of tariff from users and proper maintenance of accounts
      (v) Operation of Bank account and presentation of accounts to GP as per norms
      (vi) For the functioning of UWSC, model bye-laws will be prepared and duly adopted by the
               GP

4.3 Institutional Arrangement for Multi-village Scheme

    Since the rural community is better able to maintain single village scheme, priority should be
    given to such community-friendly schemes instead of multi-village schemes.. However, in case,
    the multi-village scheme is inevitable, it is necessary to study institutional arrangement for
    operation and maintenance of these schemes. The Jal Nigam and Jal Sansthan would identify one
    multi­village scheme from each block and study the institutional and financial viability and
    explore the mechanism for reorganizing these schemes in smaller units for replicability in other
    multi-village schemes.

4.4 In the rural sector, pumping schemes should be avoided as far as possible since in the community
    based schemes, the cost, type and quality will vary remarkably with respect to scheme planned
    by the government departments. In this context, large pumping schemes will be required mainly
    in urban areas, which need to be looked separately.

4.5 The UWSC will fix and collect user charges, deposit in the Bank account operated by them and
    will be responsible for operation and maintenance of scheme from the user charges collected.
    However, it is possible that in case of major repairs the users may not be able to bear the cost.
    As per the recommendations of 11th Finance Commission, the state has to apportion certain
    percentage of the fund to the Gram Panchayat for local development activities. Approximately,
    Rs 27-28 crore will be devolved to the Gram Panchayats every year and the Gram Panchayats
    will have to contribute 25% of the matching grant. However, the majority of the Gram
    Panchayats may not be able to provide the matching grant. The state shall provide 25% of the
    contribution to the Gram Panchayat and there will be no need for providing separate fund for
    Panchayat Ghar, drains and Kharandja. The fund made available to the Gram Panchayat by the
    state Government can be earmarked for the identified activities. In case of major repairs, a
    portion of the fund made available to the GP will be earmarked for major repairs of water supply
    scheme.

5.  Nomination of District Implementing Agency for Implementation of Swajaldhara Project.

5.1 As per the guidelines of the RGNDWM, GOI, the Sector Institutions in the State shall function
    as District Implementing Agencies (DIA) for the implementation of Swajaldhara Project. In
    future, Swajaldhara Project will replace ARWSP. Presently, the Jal Nigam is implementing the
    ARWSP project. It has been decided that Jal Nigam shall delegate its twelve divisions as DIAs
    for the implementation of Swajaldhara Project. The Jal Nigam will adopt Sector Reform
    principles for implementing water supply works under the project. Details of activities to be
    performed by the Jal Nigam are as under:

   l Pre-feasibility study
   l Community mobilisation for collection of upfront 10% capital cost
   l Preparation of preliminary estimate of water supply for funding from the RGNDWM
   l Facilitate in the formation of UWSC




                                              - 83 -

    l Facilitate in the preparation of Community Action Plans
    l Management of joint Bank account with UWSC in the Implementation Phase
    l Ensure community contracting at the GP level
    l Build the capacity of UWSC and the GP
    l Conduct hygiene and environmental sanitation awareness programme
    l Transfer of existing water supply scheme to the GP
    l Facilitate the GP/UWSC in the construction of water supply and sanitation schemes
    l Transfer technical skills to the GP/UWSC for operation and maintenance of water supply
         scheme
    l Train the GP/UWSC members for proper up-keep of documents and records

5.2  The Uttaranchal Peyjal Nigam and Uttaranchal Jal Sansthan shall be re-grouped according to
     rural and urban sectors since the needs, socio-economic and geographical conditions of the
     Urban and Rural Sectors are different and diverse. The reorganization of Uttaranchal Peyjal
     Nigam and Uttaranchal Jal Sansthan shall also avoid confusion due to multiplicity of
     organizations working in the same sector. The issue of reorganizing erstwhile Jal Nigam and Jal
     Sansthan was strongly advocated in the Sector Study Report. A detailed proposal would be
     prepared for reorganizing Jal Nigam and Jal Sansthan for urban and rural areas.

6.   Role of PMU in the context of Swajaldhara Project.

6.1  The Project Management Unit (PMU) under the Swajal Project is functioning as State Water &
     Sanitation Mission for the implementation of Sector Reform Project in the district Haridwar. The
     PMU and its 8 DPMUs will provide technical, monitoring and evaluation support for the
     implementation of Swajaldhara Project. The DPMUs will provide community development
     support to the DIAs. The channelisation of the Swajaldhara fund shall be routed through PMU
     (SWSM)/DPMU to DIAs, GP and UWSC. PMU and DPMUs will also work on the preparation
     for the follow-on project

7.  Contractual Engagement of staff from the NGOs for Community Development Activities.

     The Jal Nigam may have to engage professionals for providing training to the staff working in
     the DIAs as well as for community development activities. The DIAs may engage professionals
     for which contractual agreement could be made with the NGOs. This will not create any
     long-term financial burden on the State Government. The NGOs can be entrusted with activities
     like training, process monitoring, etc. The surplus staff could also be trained for undertaking
     community development activities.

8.   GP Selection Criterion under the Swajaldhara Project.

8.1 The following self selection process would be adopted by the GPs for its inclusion in Project:

   (a)     Need: Any habitation in the GP receiving water less than 40 lpcd
           or
           the water is polluted
           or
           the community demands for higher level of service and willing to contribute higher capital
           cost sharing.

   (b)     Necessary Condition: If a GP fulfills any one of the above needs, its selection shall depend
           upon the fulfillment of the following necessary conditions:
           willing to contribute at least 10% of capital cost for minimum level of service and higher



                                              - 84 -

cost
                 sharing for higher level of service; and,
                 own up the scheme for 100% operation and maintenance.

       (c)       Prioritization: Priority shall be given to those GPs who show commitment for:

                  (i) Taking over existing schemes
                 (ii) Constructing 100% latrines by the households
                (iii) Willing to augment/rejuvenate existing schemes instead of constructing new scheme
               (iv) Apportioning identified proportion of the fund received from the State as corpus for
                      WATSAN Sector

    9.    Integration of water supply, sanitation, source protection, health and hygiene awareness
          programmes

    9.1   Based on the experience of the Swajal Project, integrated implementation of water supply,
          sanitation, source protection, health and hygiene awareness programmes is beneficial. Therefore,
          dovetailing of TSC, IEC, HRD with Swajaldhara Project would be ensured and proposal for
          funding under these projects shall be submitted to RGNDWM for approval. Once these projects
          are sanctioned, the PMU will develop guidelines and plan of action for integrated implementation
          of all these projects at the village level.

    9.2   Apart from this, water conservation and water harvesting works implemented by Rural
          Development and Forest will also be dovetailed with the related village level programmes. A
          detailed plan of action will have to be formulated. It is well known that the women are the main
          stakeholders and their participation will be ensured at every level.

    10.   Arrangements of revenue deficit between cost of water supply and tariff collected from Users.

    10.1 In the majority of the rural schemes, the cost per liter of water supply is more than tariff charged
          from the user. Therefore, the government has to make regular budget provision to meet the
          revenue deficit. Jal Sansthan has been asked to prepare detailed proposal for further action.

    11.   Establishment Cost in Jal Nigam

    11.1 Presently the Jal Nigam gets 12.5% as centage for meeting administrative expenditures where as
          the actual expenditure is around 30%. As a result, certain portion of the fund received for water
          supply scheme gets spent in for administrative purpose. The surplus staff of the Jal Nigam needs
          to be identified through a detailed study so that they can be placed in surplus pool.

The meeting ended with a vote of thanks to the chair.

        Signed


       (P.K.Mohanty)
       Secretary, Drinking Water
       Government of Uttaranchal




                                                      - 85 -

- 86 -

