Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3030 
Operation Name 
Second Rural and Social Policy Reform Grant (RSRC 2)
 1
 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General government administration (25%); Other social services 
(25%); General agriculture (25%); General education sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P098963 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
]
C
[
]
F1 U[x] 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S1 [ ] S2 [ ] S3 [ ] SF [x] TBD 
Date PID Prepared 
March 25, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 27, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 19, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Niger has undergone a fundamental political transition during the last six years. Since 2004, the 
government has recognized its leading role in addressing the development challenges of Niger. It is 
expected that the successful consolidation of democracy will have longstanding and deep positive 
implications for governance, commitment to reforms, poverty reduction and economic prospects. 
Although Niger remains a very poor country (poverty incidence estimated at 63% in 2005) with a 
limited natural and human resource base, there are improvements in economic and social performance. 
Several social indicators have improved over the past six years, in particular for education and health. 
Yet because these efforts start from a low base, progress to date in various social indicators suggests 
Niger remains behind on most of the MDGs and on current trends it will not reach most of the MDG 
targets by 2015.
 Moreover, despite recent favorable growth performance, Niger뭩 economy remains 
vulnerable to external shocks and highly correlated with agriculture performance. 
In this context, as set during the preparation of its predecessor (RSRC 1 in 2006), the RSRC series seeks 
to provide budget support to help the Government overcome bottlenecks identified as constraints to 
policy and institutional reforms in Public Expenditure Management, Agriculture and Rural 
Development, Health, Education, and Demographic growth and gender issues. The proposed RSRC 2, 
and the subsequent RSRC 3, within a medium-term framework, will continue focusing on the same 
priority sectors listed above, while gradually introducing others, as appropriate, based on the results of 
ongoing and upcoming analytical work (e.g., private sector development, infrastructure). As discussed 
during the preparation of the first RSRC, the possibility of gradually expanding the coverage and 
phasing out the rural and human development sectors was left open, depending on the progress 
achieved.   
2. Proposed objectives 
As its predecessor (RSRC 1), the strategic medium-term approach under the proposed operation (RSRC 
2) supports the shared growth agenda by addressing key policy and institutional constraints in HD and 
ESSD, while pursuing reforms in public expenditure management (PEM).  More specifically, it will 
continue focusing on selected policy and institutional measures, closely aligned with the Government뭩 
1
For the sake of continuity and simplicity the acronym RSRC will be maintained, although it is understood that the 
RSRC 2 is a grant and not a credit.  
Page  2
medium term reform program, and will aim at: (i) improving management of public resources; (ii) 
establishing an environment more conducive to economic growth through the development of both 
agriculture and the private sector; and improving coverage and quality of basic social services 
(education and health), while tackling the challenge of rapid population growth and improving women's 
rights. The series of DPLs has been built around a medium term results framework which has identified 
the proposed reforms in the rural and HD areas as being the appropriate next steps to support the growth 
agenda. This is aligned with the Government뭩 strategy, reflected in the PRSP, which identifies 
agriculture as the engine of growth, in the short and medium term. To further strengthen reforms in 
support of shared growth, the subsequent DPL will begin also addressing policy bottlenecks in 
private/financial sector development and infrastructure, while completing the ongoing reforms in rural 
and HD. Key issues in these two sectors will continue to be addressed through the Bank뭩 enhanced 
investment portfolio, thus maintaining the complementarity between the DPL series and 
ongoing/upcoming investment operations (Education, Health Swap, PRODEM, Irrigation, Local Rural 
Development, etc.). 
 
The medium-term approach of these series of operation offers several advantages to Niger: (i) it allows 
anchoring the measures to be implemented in support of the reforms in a results framework with defined 
medium-term indicators; these results are expected to contribute to the strategic objectives defined by 
the Government in the PRSP, PEMFAR, and sectoral strategies; (ii) it provides continuity in policy 
dialogue and predictability in budget support operations; and (iii) by focusing on priority sectors, it 
allows donors to provide technical assistance and institutional capacity building to the Government. 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The Second Rural and Social Policy Grant (RSRC 2), which is part of a series of Development Policy 
Lending operations (DPL), will continue to support the Government of Niger in improving service 
delivery to the poor while continuing reforms in public sector management to secure adequate financing 
in critical sectors of the economy.  Within a medium-term framework, and building on the previous 
budget support operation (RSRC 1) as well as ongoing sectoral investment operations, this two tranche 
operation will continue focusing on overcoming policy constraints and institutional bottlenecks to:  

To deepen the reforms in public sector management through:  (i) focusing on implementation of 
outstanding public finance policy measures identified and launched in previous Bank budget 
support (i.e., strengthening participation of the line ministries in budget preparation and 
execution, modernizing the treasury, improving the structure and functioning of the MEF, and 
strengthening budget controls); and (ii) enhancing the national statistical information system 
(i.e., ensuring the preparation of national surveys on a regular basis). 

To promote rural growth through: (i) improving the performance of agriculture and rural 
development through facilitation of the rural development strategy; (ii) enhancing 
decentralization of land administration; (iii) increasing the contribution of irrigation to 
agriculture GDP; and (iv) improving the efficiency of existing food security policies. 

Focus on reforms related to the improvement of efficiency and effectiveness in service delivery 
in the education and health sectors, while tackling the challenge of rapid population growth and 
improving women's rights. 

Launch policy dialogue and begin policy reforms to promote private/financial sector 
development through (i) improved business environment; (ii) better access to finance; and (iii) 
improved infrastructures. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
Similar to it predecessor (RSRC 1), the prior actions and triggers proposed under this operation (or the 
expected impact of their implementation) in public expenditure management and the social sectors are 
Page  3
not likely to have any adverse impact on the environment.  The same applies to measures proposed in 
agriculture and rural development. The reforms supported in the irrigation subsector require special 
attention -- the strategic objective, to which this RSRC 2 will contribute, implies a productivity gain 
which is likely to be achieved through an increase in agricultural production output. Hence, the strategic 
environmental assessment which needs to be carried out to analyze Niger뭩 institutional capacity to 
address potential environmental impacts of RSRC-supported reforms in the irrigation sector will be 
covered in the irrigation sector review the Bank has launched in February 2007. 
5. Tentative financing 
The Second Rural and Social Policy Reform Grant (RSRC 2) is envisaged for about US$50 million on 
grant terms and in two tranches. The scaling up of the amount of the operation from $30 million to $50 
million was decided by the management after the concept review meeting. As a result and based on the 
recommendation of the CN review meeting, it was also decided that the operation (RSRC 2) will be in 
two tranches (instead of one tranche as discussed at the concept stage). Since the scope and coverage of 
the operation is similar to its predecessor, the ROC meeting agreed that the operation will be submitted 
for Board approval following streamline procedures. 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Setareh Razmara and Patrick Verissimo 
Title: Lead Social Protection Specialist and Sr. Sector Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2352 and 458-0783 
Fax: (202) 473-8216 
Email: 
Srazmara@worldbank.org
and 
Pverissimo@worldbank.org
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 473-8216 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
