Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2900 
Operation Name 
Second Rural and Social Policy Reform Grant (RSRC 2) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General government administration (25%); Other social services 
(25%); General agriculture (25%); General education sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P098963 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
]
C
[
]
F1 U[x] 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S1 [ ] S2 [ ] S3 [ ] SF [x] TBD 
Date PID Prepared 
February 21, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 23, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 19, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Niger has undergone a fundamental political transition during the last six years. Since 2004, the 
government has recognized its leading role in addressing the development challenges of Niger. It is 
expected that the successful consolidation of democracy will have longstanding and deep positive 
implications for governance, commitment to reforms, poverty reduction and economic prospects. 
Although Niger remains a very poor country (poverty incidence estimated at 63% in 2005) with a 
limited natural and human resource base, there are improvements in economic and social performance. 
Several social indicators have improved over the past six years, in particular for education and health. 
Yet because these efforts start from a low base, progress to date in various social indicators suggests 
Niger remains behind on most of the MDGs and on current trends it will not reach most of the MDG 
targets by 2015.
 Moreover, despite recent favorable growth performance, Niger’s economy remains 
vulnerable to external shocks and highly correlated with agriculture performance. 
In this context, as set during the preparation of its predecessor (RSRC 1 in 2006), the RSRC series seeks 
to provide budget support to help the Government overcome bottlenecks identified as constraints to 
policy and institutional reforms in Public Expenditure Management, Agriculture and Rural 
Development, Health, Education, and Demographic growth and gender issues. The proposed RSRC 2, 
and the subsequent RSRC 3, within a medium-term framework, will continue focusing on the same 
priority sectors listed above, while gradually introducing others, as appropriate, based on the results of 
ongoing and upcoming analytical work (e.g., private sector development, infrastructure). As discussed 
during the preparation of the first RSRC, the possibility of gradually expanding the coverage and 
phasing out the rural and human development sectors was left open, depending on the progress 
achieved.   
2. Proposed objectives 
Given the satisfactory progress in implementing the RSRC 1, the proposed RSRC 2 will continue 
focusing on selected policy and institutional measures, closely aligned with the Government’s medium 
term reform program, and will aim at: (i) improving management of public resources; (ii) establishing an 
environment more conducive to economic growth through the development of both agriculture and the 
private sector; and improving coverage and quality of basic social services (education and health), while 
tackling the challenge of rapid population growth and improving women's rights.  
Page  2
The medium-term approach of these series of operation offers several advantages to Niger: (i) allows 
anchoring the measures to be implemented in support of the reforms in a results framework with defined 
medium-term indicators; these results are expected to contribute to the strategic objectives defined by 
the Government in the PRSP, PEMFAR, and sectoral strategies; (ii) provides continuity in policy 
dialogue and predictability in budget support operations; and (iii) by focusing on the same priority 
sectors, allows donors to provide technical assistance and institutional capacity building to the 
Government. 
3. Preliminary 
description 
As mentioned above, the Second Rural and Social Policy Grant (RSRC 2), which is part of a series of 
Development Policy Lending operations (DPL), will continue to support the Government of Niger in 
improving service delivery to the poor while continuing reforms in public sector management to secure 
adequate financing in critical sectors of the economy.  Within a medium-term framework, and building 
on the previous budget support operation (RSRC 1) as well as ongoing sectoral investment operations, 
this one tranche operation will continue focusing on overcoming policy constraints and institutional 
bottlenecks to:  
 
·
deepen the reforms in public sector management particularly through implementing 
outstanding public finance policy measures;  
·
promote rural growth through improving the performance of agriculture and rural 
development;  
·
improve efficiency and effectiveness in service delivery in the education and health 
sectors,  
4. Environment Aspects 
Similar to it predecessor (RSRC 1), the prior actions and triggers proposed under this operation (or the 
expected impact of their implementation) in public expenditure management and the social sectors are 
not likely to have any adverse impact on the environment.  The same applies to measures proposed in 
agriculture and rural development. The reforms supported in the irrigation subsector require special 
attention -- the strategic objective, to which this RSRC 2 will contribute, implies a productivity gain 
which is likely to be achieved through an increase in agricultural production output. Hence, the strategic 
environmental assessment which needs to be carried out to analyze Niger’s institutional capacity to 
address potential environmental impacts of RSRC-supported reforms in the irrigation sector will be 
covered in the irrigation sector review the Bank is launching in February 2007. 
5. Tentative financing 
The proposed budget support operation, which is a grant, is envisaged for about US$30 million and 
disbursement is proposed in one tranche.   
6. Contact point 
Contact: Setareh Razmara and Patrick Verissimo 
Title: Lead Social Protection Specialist and Sr. Sector Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2352 and 458-0783 
Fax: (202) 473-8216 
Email: 
Srazmara@worldbank.org
and 
Pverissimo@worldbank.org
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Page  3
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 473-8216 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
