Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H308-NIR 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Rural and Social Reform Operation) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 29, 2007 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H308-NIR 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 29, 2007, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) 
the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I (A) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to thirty three million 
one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 33,100,000
)
(“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 1
st
 and December 1
st
 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and 
the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
A situation having arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out is an Additional Event of Suspension. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for 
finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
B.P. 389 
Niamey 
Republic of Niger 
 
Facsimile:  
(227) 20 73 59 34 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Niamey, Niger, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
By /s/ Ali M. Lamine Zeine 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Ousmane Diagana 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under the 
Program include the following:
 
Public Sector Management 
Management of Public Expenditures: 
(i) 
The Recipient has updated and officially adopted a coding for pro-poor 
expenditures, in agreement with its technical and financial partners, and based on 
a
revised unified list; 
(ii) 
The Recipient has begun the implementation of the action plan for the 
modernization of the Treasury, including through the adoption of a new 
organization chart; 
Procurement: 
(iii) 
The Recipient has made its national agency for the regulation of public markets 
(
Agence de R
égulation des Marchés Publics
)
operational through the adoption of 
regulatory texts for : (A) the appointment of the Director of Information and 
Monitoring and Evaluation, Director of Legal Affairs and Director of Technical 
Support; (B) the designation of the members of the National Regulatory Board 
(
Conseil National de Régulation
); and (C) the establishment of the Dispute 
Resolution Committee (
Comité de Règlement des Différends
); 
Agriculture and Rural Development
 
(iv) 
The Recipient has designated the entities responsible (supervision and 
implementation 
–
maîtrise d’ouvrage et maîtrise d’œuvre
)
for the execution of 
the various programs of the 
action plan of the Recipient’s Rural Development 
Strategy; 
Page  7
6
Social Sectors 
Basic Education: 
(v) 
The Recipient has submitted to the Association a progress report with 
recommendations on the implementation of the action plan for the management 
and allocation of teachers (including tangible results on contractual teachers
’
management, complete contractual teachers census, and effective involvement of 
the 
C
omités de Gestion des Etablissements Scolaires
 in the payment of the 
contractual teachers’ salaries); and 
Health: 
(vi) 
The Recipient has revised the internal budget distribution of the Recipient’s 
ministry in charge of health to increase the share allocated to basic health 
services in the regions and districts (
départements
). 
B. 
Actions to be Taken Under the Program
.
The actions to be taken by the Recipient 
under the Program include the following: 
Public Sector Management 
Management of Public Expenditures: 
(i) 
The Recipient shall appoint, by Presidential decree approved by the Council of 
Ministers and duly published in the Official Gazette, the following persons in 
charge of the new structures created at the Treasury: (A) the General Director 
(
Directeur Général), 
(B) the
 
General Accountant
 (Agent Comptable Central du 
Trésor
), (C)
 
the General Payer (
Payeur Général du Trésor
), and (D) the
 
General 
Collector
 (Receveur Général du Trésor)
;
(ii) 
The Recipient shall: (A) adopt guidelines and audit techniques to be applied by 
its Chamber of Account (
Chambre des Comptes
), satisfactory to the Association, 
by decision (
Note de Service
)
of the President of the Chamber of Accounts of the 
Recipient; and (B) begin to implement them; 
Procurement: 
(iii) 
The Recipient shall: (A) adopt by Presidential decree approved by the Council of 
Ministers and duly published in the Official Gazette the regulatory texts for the 
o
rganization and operation of the Recipient’s Direction of Control of Public 
Procurement (
Direction Générale du Contrôle des Marchés Publics
), in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; and (B) appoint the two central 
directors (Director of Information and Director of Statistics) for said Direction by 
Page  8
7
Presidential decree approved by the Council of Ministers and duly published in 
the Official Gazette, so that said Direction becomes effectively operational; 
National Statistical Data and Information System: 
(iv) 
The Recipient shall adopt by Presidential decree approved by the Council of 
Ministers and duly published in the Official Gazette a multi-annual plan for the 
development of statistics (2008-2012), in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; 
Agriculture Sector and Rural Development
 
(v) 
The Recipient shall: (A) adopt the revised National Emergency Plan for the 
management of food crises by Presidential decree approved by the Council of 
Ministers and duly published in the Official Gazette; and (B) begin its 
implementation; 
(vi) 
The Recipient shall: (A) adopt, by 
arrêté
 from the Recipient’s relevant Minister 
duly published in the Official Gazette, an action plan, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, for the improvement of irrigation on the 
perimeters of ONAHA (
Office National d
es Aménagements Hydro-Agricoles
), 
and (B) shall begin its implementation on the basis of the recommendations of 
the report on the assessment of the improvement of irrigation on the perimeters 
of ONAHA currently being carried out at the request of the Recipient’s Ministry 
in charge of agricultural development; 
Social Sectors 
Basic Education: 
(vii) 
The Recipient shall finalize and adopt by Presidential decree approved by the 
Council of Ministers and duly published in the Official Gazette a strategic 
framework for the expansion and the sustainable development of post primary 
education, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(viii) 
The Recipient shall: (A) implement effectively, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, the program of transfer of resources  and grants in favor of selected 
schools; and (B) provide to the Association the evidence of the payment of the 
corresponding funds to the schools, and the report of a field visit, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; 
Health: 
(ix) 
The Recipient shall start the preparation of a national health map, through the 
completion of the following tasks, each in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Page  9
8
Association: (i) a map of hospitals and health centers by district (
départements
)
and region, (ii) an organization chart of the Recipient’s ministry in charge of 
health, and (iii) a computerized human resource management system; 
(x) 
Based on the results of the study on usage of health services costs, the Recipient, 
taking into account budgetary constraints, shall include in the draft Budget law 
for 2008 the costs of services and products fully subsidized (contraceptives, 
delivery by Caesarean section, pre-natal consultations, health care for children 
under five), in an amount satisfactory to the Association; and 
Population Growth: 
(xi) 
The Recipient shall organize and hold a national forum to build consensus on 
demographic growth, gender issues and African Charter on women’s rights, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in two tranches.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
First Tranche 
16,550,000 
Second Tranche 
16,550,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
33,100,000 
C. Tranche 
Release 
Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Second Tranche 
unless the Association is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in  
Sections 3.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association: 
1. 
with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program;  
2.  
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is appropriate; and  
Page  10
9
3.  
that the actions described in Part B of Section I of this Schedule have been taken.  
 
If, after this exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, it may give notice to 
the Recipient to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after the notice, the Recipient 
has not taken steps satisfactory to the Association with respect to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 
above, then the Association may, by notice to the Recipient, cancel all or any part of the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance. 
D. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2008. 
Page  11
10
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
Page  12
11
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
Gold, 
non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through  
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
3. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated May 10, 2007 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the Recipient’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
4. 
“Second Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Second Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  13
12
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
Page  14
13
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
