rCEz.,.-TO I
l   nte o.s .F- w                         RESTR ICTED
l C                   tCIRCULATING CPY                    Repor.' No.  PU-67b
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
This report is for offIkal uns only by the Bank Group and spciically authorized apnizations
or penona. It may not be pubihed, quoted or cited without Bank Group authornation. The
Bank Group does not accept empojibjfty for the accuracy or compieteness of the rteport.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCnlON AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
BOTSWANA
June 11, 1971
Public Utilities Projects Department



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit   = Sou'th African Rand       Canadian $1  = US$0.99
US$1            = Rand 0.71                 US$1         =  Canadian $1.02
One Rand        = US$1.40                   DM 1         = Rand 0.19
Rand 1,000,000  = US$.,400,000              One Rand     = DM 5.16
Canadian $1     = Rand 0.70                 DM 1         = US$0.27
One Rand        = Canadian $1.41            US$1         = DM 3.68
There is no fixed parity for the Canadian dollar and the rate quoted
approximates that ruling for the last several months to June 1, 1971.
The rate quoted for the 1nM approximates that prevailing when the parties
initially reached agreement on German financing for the mining project,
prior to the recent decision to allow the DM to float.
Abbreviations and Acronyms
kV              = Kilovolt
kW              =  Kilowatt
klWh            = Kilowatt hour
MW              = Megawatt
Ig              =  Imperial gallon
IMgd            = Millions of Imperial gallons per day
USg             = US gallon
mg/m3           = Milligrams per cubic meter
302             = Sulphur Dioxide
AMAX            = American Metal Climax, Inc.
HCL             =  Bamangwato Concessions Limited
BPC             =  Botswana Power Corporation
ERST            =  Botswana RST Limited
CIDA            = Canadian International Development Age,z-y
Corporations    =  Botswana ?ower Corporation
Water Utilities Corporation
Gibb            =  Sir Alexander rGibb & Partners
Government      =  Government of Botswana
GXNP            =  Gross National Product
GDP             =  Gross Domestic Product
IDC             = Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa, Limited
KfW             = Kreditanstalt fur Tlederaufbau
MG              = Metallgesellschaft A.G.
RST             = Roan Selection Trust Limited
UK              = United Kingdom of Great Britan and Northern Ireland
UNDP            = United Nations Development orogramme
USA             = United States of America
USAID           = United States Agency for International Development
W1HO            = World Health Organization
WUC             =  Water Utilitie3s Corporation
Conversion Table
1 IMg           = 4,543 cub meters
1 fl4gd         =  4,543 cub meters per day
1 cub yard      =  0.76 cub meters
1 mile          =  1.61 kilometers
1 foot          = 0.31 meters
lb/in2          =   .07 deca newton per square centimeter
11 R/l,OOO Ig      1.16 USO/l,OO US gals = .22 R0/m3 = .31 US¢/m3
Botswana Financial Year Ends on March 31



BOTSWANA
APPRAISAL OF INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMAKY AND CONCLUSIONS                                                   i
1.   INTRODUCTION ....................................                   1
The Economy .......... .........................                    1
Existing Transport, Water and Power
Facilities      .....................1............... 
Genesis of the Project ........................                     2
2.   THE BORROWER ....................................                    4
Organization and Management .....           ................        4
.   THE MINING DEVEIOPMENT ..........................                   7
Project Costs and Financing ..... ............                      9
Sales Market and Prices ..... ..............                        9
Financial Projections ..............      .. ...........           10
Sensltivity Analysis   ,               ...                         12
Conclusions ..................... ................                 13
4.   TIE PROJECT ........          .............................         13
Power     ...........................................              14
Water and Water Rights .............      .. ...........           14
Transport       .......................................            14
Medical Facilities ...............     .. .............            15
Estimated Cost .................     .. ...............            15
Engineering       ..................... ................           17
Schedule of Construction .......................                   17
Procurement      .....................................             18
Disbursement ....................................                  19
Ecology ......                                                     20
5.   JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT .....           ...............        21
Need for Infrastructure ............. ............                 21
Benefits to Botswana of the Mining
Development      ...................................             21
Choice of Power Source ............. .............                 22
Internal Financial Rates of Return .............                   23
This Report has been prepared by Messrs. A. E. Bailey, T. B. Russell,
A. A. Raizen and R. C. Prevost of the Public Utilities Projects De-
partment.   Messrs. A. Ljungh and P. C. Glenshaw of the Industrial
Projects Department have evaluated the mining development.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                              Page No.
6.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT   .....                 24
introduction          ....................................         24
The Financing Plan ....... .......................                 25
The Power and Water Corporations .............       ...           27
a.  Power and Water Agreements with BCL .......                  28
b.  Use of Sinking Fund Depreciation           ..........        29
c.  Power Tariffs and Rate of Return           ..........       29
d.  Water Tariffs and Rate of Return           ..........        30
e.  Post Project Expansion .......... ..........                 32
f.  Capital Structure .............     ............            32
Township and Temporary Water Facilities           .........        33
Transport         .......................................          36
Overall Financial Position of Infrastructure
Project       .......................................            36
Audit      ............................................            37
Debt and Capital Expenditure Limitation           .........        37
Security Arrangements .... .                                       37
a.  Guarantee Agreement ............ ...........                37
b.  The Trust Arrangement            .....................       38
c.  Mortgages ......        ...........................          38
d.  Rescheduling of Repayment of Bank Loan   ....                38
7.   AGREENENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS            ..........        39



LIST OF ANNEES
Annex 1 Description of Mining Project
Annex 2 Corporate Structure of the Mining Company
Annex 3 Marketing prospects for Copper and Nickel
Annex 4 Description of Infrastructure Project
Anmex 5 Infrastructure Project - Summary of Costs
Annex 6 Construction schedule for Infrastructure and Mining Projects
Annex 7 Mtimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 8  Ecological Aspects of the Infrastructure and Mining Projects
Annex 9 Economic Comparison Between Schemes Based on Local Generation and
Imported Power
Annex 10 Infrastructure Project - Estimated Annual ELectric Power Demand
Annex 11 Economic Comparison of Alternative Power Station Sites
Annex 12 Rate of Return on Mining Project and Infrastructure
Annex 13 Infrastructure Project - Eatimated Sourcea and Applicatiom4 of
Funds for the Study, Engineering and Conatruction Phases of the Project
Annex 14 Proposed Ebtswana Power Corporation - Pikwe Divisioin Financial
Projections 1974-1982
(a) Estimated Sales and Revenues
(b) Estimated Income Statements
(c) Estimated Sources and Applications of Funds
(d) Estimated Balance Sheets
(e) Explanation of Bases for Financial Projections
Annex 15 Proposed Water Utilities Corporation - Shashe and Morupule
Divisions Financial Projections 1974-1982
(a) Estimated Sales and Revenues
(b) Estimated Income Statements
(c) Estimated Sources and Applications of Funds
(d) Estimated Balance Sheets
(e) Explanation of Bases for Financial Projections
Annex 16 Pikwe Township - Estimated Revenues & Expenditures 1970/71-
1980/81
Annex 17 Estimated Government Receipts and Expenditures Related to
BCL Mining Project and Associated Infrastructure Project
For Representative Years During Operational Phase
Map



BOTSWANA
APPRAISAL OF INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
S IMfIARY ANLD CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of an Infrastructure Project
(thie Project) whicih would be required to support a copper/nickel mining
development located at Selchi/Pikwe in northeast Botswana.
ii.       The ProJect wouldi comprise power, water and transportation facil-
ities aintd a townshIip.  In thte absence of adequate reserve-s in Botswana, vir-
tually the wlhole of the foreign and local costs of the Project estimated to
total US$58.9 million would have to be externally financed. The Canadian
Initernational Uevelopment Agency would finance the power facilities (US$23.4
millioni), and the United States Agency for International Development would
finance part of tthe water facilities (US$7.6 million).  Grants and loans
from) the United Kingdom of Great britain and Northern Ireland (UK), the
United Nations Development Programme Special Fund and Canada (totalling
US$1.4 million) anid Government budgetary funds (US$0.1 million) would fi-
nance temporary facilities to supply water during construction, training
an(i early hliring of power staff, and the cost of secondedl administrative
staff durinig construction. A Bank loan of US$32 million is proposed for
the balanice of the water facilities, thc transportation facilities (road
aind rail access), the township, engilneering, administration, and interest
during construction amounting to US$5.6 million.  The Bank Loan would fi-
n,vuce 100% of the cost of those aspects of the infrastructure to which it
is to be applied, and togetiher with the IDA credit referred to in paragraph
vi, all of the engiineerinEg costs exclusive of feasibility studies.
iii.      The mine is being developed and will be operated by Bamangwato
Concess ions Ltd. (BCL), a subsidiary of Botswana RST Limited which in turn
is col)trolled by American Metal Climax, Inc. (AMAX).  Capital investment
fti this veniture woultd be about US$121 million, including US$18 million
spent' up to the end of 1970 on exploration and preliminary works. The
rMninor Lompany expects to finance the balance partly through a long term
loan of US$60.0 nmillion fronm a consortium of German banks and a supplier
credit. of US$19.0 million frotn the Industrial Development Corporation of
Soutlh Africa and partly by means of new equity. In addition to underground
mining facilities, the mining project includes equipment for crushing and
concentratLng the ore and a smelter which will produce a copper nickel matte.
This will be refinsed in the United States of America by AKAX under a refin-
ing contract with BCL.  The copper and nickel will be sold principally in
Germany under a long-term sales contract with Metallgesellschaft A.G.
iv.        Botswana is a poor country and is presently dependent upon extern-
al aid, which has been provided mainly by the UK, for its development budget
and for about 50% of its recurrent budget.  The development of the mining
project would ielp to reduce this heavy dependence on external budgetary
support as well as significantly increasing employment and stimulating
further economic growth in the country.



- ii -
v.        The Bank's appratsal of tlle minlng; development estimates that Lthe
internal financial ratv of retturn on the mniilg project basedl oni the copier
and nickel prices assumied by BCL of L'S'1.50 and US$1.36 per lb. respectively,
would be about 15.8%, but takint more conbervative prices for copper anlid
nickel which have been assumed by thc Bank it would be 11.2%. Even on tlhe
conservative basis it would still be a profitable venture.
vi.       Because of the tight construction program an IDA Credit (No. 172-
BT) of 11S$2.5 million was made in January 1970 for engineering design and
preliminary works so thiat contracts could be placed as soon as finance was
available.  Of this aniount US$0.91 million has been included in the Bank
Loan to refinance the design costs of those facilities which are being
financed by the Loan.  Some major contracts for the power facillties and
the dam contract have been placed in April and May, 1971, with a view to
bringing the power and water facilities into service by August/September
1973 which is when thte mine is schteduled to go into production.
vii.      The Government lhas establishxed a management unit to administer
tlhe Project during the construction stage. Statutory authorities lhave
been established to operate the power and water facilities after the Proj-
ect is completed.  The township will be handed over to the TownEship Authority
and the other aspects of the infrastructure will be handed over to the relc--
vant Government departments for operation on completion of the Project.
viii.     The internal financial rate of return on the combined investmenit
in the Project plus the mining development, including capital expenditure
to March 31, 1971, is at least 10%. This is acceptable since it uwiderstates
thse real return to the economy. The internal financial return 'to tLle Gov-
ernment on the Project alone, based on the resulting direct governmuent rev-
enues, is estimated to be 12% which is satisfactory; again, thie economic
return is likely to be above this figure.
ix.       Commercial principles would be followed In fixing thie charges to
thie mining company and othiers who would bc served by the revenuie earniing
aspects of the Infrastructure Project. The financial return on the invest-
ment in power and water facilities would be 8%; thie return on railway fa-
cilities and thie portion of the costs of the township chargeable to thc
nmining company would be 10%; and the return on housing other than Govern-
ment housing would be about 8%.
x.        Agreement has been reached on the security arrangements for tlhe
proposed Bank Loan, and completion of all conditions to the effectiveness
of documents relative to security togetlher withi other legal documetits
listed in paragraph 7.02 will be a conidition of effectiveness for tbe
proposed Bank Loan.
xi.       In view of the satisfactory agreement reached on the matters
summarized in Chapter 7, the Project is recommended for a Bank Loan of
US$32 million for a period of 29 years including a grace period of 4 years.



BOTSWANA
APPRAISAL OF INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
The Economy
1.01      Botswana is an arid landlocked country in southern Africa with
an area of some 220,000 square miles and a population of about 650,000.
The Kalahari Desert, consisting of rolling sandy country with some semi-
desert and grassy area, covers much of the south and west. The eastern
region has the best agricultural land and the most favorable rainfall.
1.02      The economy is based on cattle-raising and subsistence agricul-
ture. The principal exports are cattle and cattle products. The GDP was
estimated at US$59 million and per capita income at US$98 in 1967/68.
1.03      Industry is virtually non-existent apart from an abattoir and a
meat canning factory owned by the Botswana Meat Commission at Lobatse in
the south. hlowever, mineral prospecting in the north has led to the dis-
covery of a diamond prospect by De Beers of South Africa at Orapa, 150
miles due west of Francistown, and substantial copper/nickel deposits have
been proven by Bamangwato Concessions Limited (BCL) (see paragraphs 1.17 and
3.03) at Selebi/Pikwe. BCL expects to start production at Selebi/Pikwe by
August/September 1973 and is continuing exploratory work in its concession
area which it hopes will lead to additional mining activity further east
within the next 10-I2 years. Extensive coal deposits have also been dis-
covered in the Morupule area, about 90 miles south of Pikwe, by a company
controlled by Anglo American Corporation of South Africa, limited.
1.04      Other mineral prospects including copper and nickel are known to
exist, probably in substantial quantities.  Companies assoc:iated with the
Anglo American Corporation of South Africa have recently obtained prospect-
ing rights at Selkirk about 25-30 miles south/east of Franc:istown. If these
deposits prove to be substantial, another copper/nickel mine could start
operations in that area within the next 5 to 10 years.
1.05      Other industries which seem likely to become established within
the next 5 years are a soda ash refinery and a gypsum manuiacturing plant,
both at Shashe Siding, near Francistown. These, together with the mining
activity, should lead to rapid expansion of Francistown andl the need for
continuing development of the infrastructure of northeast EBotswana over
the next 10 years.
Exist_ing__ran_rt_ Water and Power Facilities
1.06      Existing roads and railways in Botswana consist of a main railway
line which runs from Mafeking in South Africa via Gaborone, Seruli and Francis-
town in Botswana to Bulawayo in Rhodesia, and a main road which follows
roughly the same route. The latter is an earth road of substandard con-
struction which is in need of improvement.  The site of BCL's mining project



-2-
at Selebi/Pikwe is some 40 miles east of Seruli (see map) and a branch
railway and a road will be required to connect it witlh the existing trans-
port network.
1.07      There are now three established water supply systeims in Botswana,
serving respectively the capital, Gaborone (15-20,000 inhabitants), Lobatse
(10,000 inhabitants), and Francistown (10.000 inhabitants). The Gaborone
and Lobatse water systems together withi the power supplies in the two towns
were operated until recently by a joint water and power unit under the
Ministry of Public Works. The water systems were taken over with effect
from January 1, 1971 by the Water Utilities Corporation (WUC) (paragraph 2.06).
The Francistown water system is operated by the municipality. Water sources
in Lobatse are likely to be exhausted by early 1972 and an IDA Credit No.
233-BT for US$3.0 million was granted in January 1971 to help finance a
project for relieving the situation with the construction of a 32 mile pipe
line from Gaborone to Lobatse and for the necessary extension of treatment,
pumping, storage and distribution facilities at both Gaborone and Lobatse.
Elsewhere in Botswana water is obtained from wells and boreholes. Sources
of water for future development are limited, except in the extreme north
where the Okavango River, which rises in Angola, spreads over a large area
and evaporates in numerous lakes and pans.
1.08      There are two public electricity supply authorities operating
in Botswana. One was previously part of the Government joint water and
power unit which is now disssolved. The power division which was taken
aver by the Botswana Power Corporation (BPC) with effect from January 1,
1971 has a power station at Gaborone with a total installed capacity of
5.3 MW, comprising 3.3 MW of steam turbine units and associated boilers
which burn coal imported from South Africa, and two 1 MW diesel generating
units.  The second is the Francistown municipal electricity authority, which
has a small diesel power station of 0.8 MW installed capacity. The electrical
load of both utilities is principally residential. Besides these two sources
of electricity supply, small diesel generating plants have been installed
at various centers by the Government, which also purchases electricity in
bulk from railway diesel installations for local distribution.
1.09      While the infrastructure has proved adequate in the past to meet:
the needs of the agricultural based economy, it is totally inadequate to meet
the requirements of a major mining complex of the kind now proposed by BCL
at Selebi/Pikwe. New road, rail, water, health and electricity facilities
would have to be provided to serve the large new urban mining complex before
mining operations could begin.
Genesis of the Project
1.10      BCL commenced exploration in the Selebi/Pikwe and Matsitama areas
around 1960.  Copper/nickel deposits of about 28 million tons were subse-
quently proven in the Selebi/Pikwe area with a probable furtlher reserve of
about 12 million tons. Reserves of about 8 million tons were proven in
the Matsitama area.



-3-
1.11      To prepare for the development of these deposits, BCL assembled
a study team in Johannesburg in 1966 to consider and cost the various pos-
sible methods of mriinlg, mineral dressing, smelting and refining the copper
and nickel, and the Government sought the assistance of the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and the Ministry of Overseas Development, of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (UK), for advice
on infrastructure and taxation.
1.12      In 1967 the UNDP granted the Botswana Government US$357,000 (later
increased to US$361,800) to carry out a feasibility study of the required
power, water and transport facilities. The Bank agreed to act as Executing
Agent and engaged Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners (Gibb) of the UK as con-
sultant on December 5, 1967.
1.13      The consultant's report was distributed in January 1969 and a sup-
plementary report, taking into consideration a later decision by BCL to re-
fine outside Botswana and to defer development of the Matsitama deposits,
was distributed in July 1969. The town planning report for Pikwe township,
which was financed by the UK Ministry of Overseas Development, and was also
prepared by Gibb, was distributed in January 1969. A report on the health
aspects of the project was prepared by the World Health Organization (WHO)
and sent to the Bank in August 1969.
1.14      B(VL's dletailed report on the mining development, which was re-
ceived in tihe Bank In September 1969, envisaged bringing the mine into
operation by Novenmber 1972.  In view of the implied tight construction pro-
gram for the infrastructure development, it was necessary to commence engi-
neering design and construction of essential preliminary works without delay.
The Government accordingly applied for and was granted an IDA Credit (No.
172-BT) in January 1970 for US$2.5 million, to cover 100% of the cost of
these services and works so that contracts could be placed by mid-1970. For
various reasons the mining development program has slipped, and the revised
target date for bringing the mine into operation is now August/September
1973, building up to full operation by August 1974. This has in turn en-
tailed a slippage in the infrastructure development, and major contracts are
now scheduled to be placed by mid 1971. Planning and design of the infra-
structure development is being carried out by Gibb.
1.15      The Government of Botswana has asked the Bank to assist in financ-
ingo the Infrastructure Project (hereinafter referred to as the Project) which
is required to support the copper/nickel mining developments at Selebi/Pikwe.
These developments would reduce Botswana's dependence on external budgetary
support (see paragraph 5.03). The estimated cost of the Project is US$58.9
million of which the foreign currency component would be US$45.8 million.
The mining development it would support is estimated to cost about US$121
million (including working capital). Since the Government is dependent on
external aid to finance the whole of its development budget and the deficit
on current account, both the local ann foreign currency requirements of the
Project would have to be externally financed. It is proposed to finance
the Project througlh a US$32 million loan from the Bank, which would include
interest during construction estimated at US$5.6 million, and loans or



-4-
grants totalling about US$32.5 million from the Governments of Canada, the
United States of America (USA), and the UK (see paragraph 4.13).
1.16      This is a complex operation because of the interdependence of the
mining and infrastructure developments with the consequent need to integrate
the public and private components of the combined project, and because of
the financial arrangements for the mine (paragraph 3.07) and in.frastructure
(paragraphs 6.02 and 6.03) wlichl require integrated security and payment
arrangements. The special arrangements to secure the proposed Bank Loan
and to coordinate the payment and security arrangements with the other com-
mercial creditors (paragraphs 6.33 throught 6.37) involve about forty prin-
cipal agreements between and among the various parties concerned. Mianty of
these agreements are schedules of a master agreement between the Governtnent
and BCL which sets forth the basic rights and obligations of eachi with re-
spect to the mining development and the Project.
1.17      In this report BCL has been treated as the mining company.  BCL
is a subsidiary of Botswana RST Limited (BRST) and is at present an explora-
tion company. BRST is owned by American Metal Climax, Inc. (AMAX) (43%),
and small shareholders (57%), mainly in the US.  The Government and BCL have
agreed that BCL slhould become a mining company and receive a lease to develop
the copper/nickel deposits. When this lease is issued, the Government will
receive a 15% equity participation in BCL without tash payment.. The Govern-
ment will also receive royalty payments under the mining lease and income
tax payments under a tax agreement (see paragraph 3.04).
1.18      This appraisal is based on the Feasibility Study and tihe Pikwe
Township Study undertaken by Gibb in 1968/69; the report of the World
Health Organization on the health aspects of the mining development; the
appraisal report on the township and medical facilities submitted, on
behalf of the Bank, by Ove Arup and Partners of London and Johannesburg;
information supplied to the Bank by the Government and BCL; the findings
of Bank missions which visited Botswana in November/December 1969 and
April 1970; and upon information obtained at subsequent meetings with the
Consultants, BCL, Government and other organizations associated with the
Infrastructure and mining projects.
2. THE BORROWER
2.01      The Borrower would be the Government of Botswana which would be
responsible for the construction of the Project. The Government would re-
lend part of the funds to BPC and WUC (see paragraph 6.19). 'hese Corpora-
tions would own, and, on completion of construction, operate the power and
water facilities.
Organization and Management
2.02      The Government has established a management unit in the Ministry
of Finance and Development Planning to administer the construction of the



-5-
Project.  The unit is under the direction of a Chief Executive Engineer and
will maintain contact with the Government through a Project Co-ordinator.
2.03      Steps are now being taken to recruit suitable staff for the manage-
ment unit with the assistance of a UK management selection agency, and the
bank is being consulted with regard to the appointment of the senior staff
for this unit. The Chief Executive Engineer has already been appointed, and
the Project Engineers are expected to be appointed shortly. The Project Co-
ordinating Officer, an ex-Government official who, until his retirement at
the end of 1969, was engaged in preparation and co-ordination of the Project
for the Government, has been retained by the Bank on contract and seconded
to the Government. Authority has been obtained from the UNDP for payment of
his salary and expenses from the balance of the funds provided for the feas-
ibility study. Accounting and junior staff will be providedl by the Govern-
ment. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Bank will be
consulted before changes are made in the appointments of the Chief Execu-
tive Engineer and the Project Engineers.
2.04      The Government proposes to establish technical and construction
co-ordination committees (under the chairmanship of the Chief Executive
Engineer) the principal functions of which will be to ensure co-ordination
of thie overall construction programmes of the Project and the mining de-
velopment, and to deal with technical problems. The Government will be
kept advised of progress of work on the mining and infrastructure develop-
menit througlh the minutes of these conmiittees.  As and when completed the
road and rail facilities would be handed over respectively to the appro-
priate Ylin1stry of Government and Rhodesia Railways for operation and
maintenance, the townslhip would be taken over by the Township Authority,
except for Central Government facilities which will be taken over by the
relevant Government Ministries, and the power and water facilities would
be handed over respectively to BPC and WUC. On completion of the Project,
which is anticipated by early 1974, the management unit would be dissolved.
2.05      Selebi/Pikwe Township Authority has been establishked to administer
the town during the construction stage and to plan present and future devel-
opment in the private sector. The Autlhority's establishment will be built
up in accordance with requirements as construction progresses and during
this period the central Government will build up a cadre of trained per-
sonnel to operate thie services to be provided by the Government.  On com-
pletion of construction a mayor and councillors will be elected by the re-
sidents, andI the Chairman of the Authority will be replaced by, or will
assume thc responsibilities of the Town Clerk.
2.06      BPC and WUC were established in May 1970 primarily because of the
urgent: need for reorganiizinig the existing power and water facilities at
Caborone and Lobatse In Southern Botswana (see paragraphs 1.07 & 1.08).
These facilities were taken over by the respective corporations on January
1, 1971.
2.07      The two Corporations will lhave problems with staffing, particular-
ly BPC, by the time the Project becomes operational because of the serious
shortage of skilled manpower in Botswana. Establishing the financial and



-6-
administrative organizations of the two Corporations on sound coimmercial
principles will also present problens and provision has been includedl In
the loan for the engagement of consultants to assist them in tLlese matters.
2.08      At present WUC is operating thiroiugh contractual arrangements with
the Department of Water Affairs where adequate technical expertise already
exists, and its accounting, meter reading, and billing is being carried out
under a contractual arrangement with BPC. Facilities exist for on the job
training for WUC teclhnical personnel and it is anticipated that most of its
staffing problems will be solved by 1972/73. It is intended that WUC should
be fully staffed by 1973/74 when its Shashe Division becomes operational and
the only common service thereafter would be meter reading, billing and col-
lection.
2.09      BPC has taken over the staff of the power division of the former
Government-owned joint water and power unit and the Caborone/Lobatse opera-
tions of BPC are essentially being run by the same people as formerly. The
Government has asked the Canadian Government for technical assisLtance in
staffing the Project power facilities. Following preliminary discussions
with an expert from Canada who visited Botswana to examine the position,
the Government hopes that Canada will provide management expertise and
senior technical experts for BPC including power station operating staff,
and also Introduce a program of training for the junior power station op-
erating staff.  The estimated cost of these services is about US$310,000
and in the unlikely event that Canadian technical assistance caninot be made
available, these can be financed from the bank Loan.
2.10      The selection of potential power station operating staff for
training and arranging suitable on-the-job training prior to coTmmissioning
may present problems.  Candidates for training must have minimum educational
standards and there may be a shortage of suitable applicants in Botswana.
Because of this it may be necessary, initially, to recruit a larger number
of operating staff from outside Botswana than would normally be required.
The training program would then include on-the-job training for suitable
Botswana applicants as soon as these becanme available which would entail
duplicating many of the middle-level operational appointments with result-
ing high costs of operational wages during the early years of oaperation.
2.11      These and other matters relating to the organization and staffing
of the Power and Water Corporations were discussed during negotiations.
Assurances were obtained that the Corporations will exchange views with
the Bank during the construction of the Project on their program for the
recruitment and training of staff, and that the Bank will be consulted with
regard to the appointments of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Accountant
of each Corporation. On the question of management the Government stated
that both Corporations had already made some progress in setting up their
organizations with the assistance of ani outside firm of accountants. In
addition through the early engagement of senior management staff, and
Canadian technical assistance in the case of BPC, the Government believes
that the Corporations should have no difficulty in setting up their tech-
nical, financial and administrative organizations. The Government agreed



-7-
tl.at if further assistance were required for this purpose it would cause
each of the Corporations to employ consultants or to make other arrange-
ments acceptable to the Bank.
3. TiE MINING DEVELOPMENT
3.01      This chapter deals with the mining development for which the In-
frastructure Project (see Chapter 4) is required. The mining development
was separately appraised by the Industrial Projects Department and their
appraisal report is attached as Annex 1. The appraisal is based on a proj-
ect report by the mining company and the findings of a Bank mission which
visited Botswana, England, Zambia and South Africa during the period
November 1969-January 1971.
3.02      The proposed mining development would produce an average of 35,000
metric tons per year of an impure mixture, or matte, of nickel and copper,
and 103,000 metric tons per year of pure sulphur, over its expected 25-year
life. 1/ The matte will be shipped to the USA to be refined to pure nickel
and copper and subsequently sold principally in Germany. The sulphur will
b)e sold in Southi Africa.
3.0-3     The mine is being developed and will be operated by BCL, a company
with internationally distributed shareholding (see Annex 2). BCL was estab-
lilshed as an exploration company by Roan Selection Trust Limited (RST) of
Zambia in 1959. The Zambian facilities of RST were nationalized in 1970.
The main project sponsor is AMAX, previously majority shareholder in RST
and now the largest shareholder in BRST which in turn owns a majority of
the slhares in BCL.
3.04      Thie concession, leasing and tax arrangements for the mining devel-
opmcnt provide for payments to the Government in three forms:
(a)  Under the terms of the mineral concession giving BCL its
exploration righits, the Government is to receive a 15%
equity shareliolding in BCL without cash payment when BCL
becomes a mining company and receives the mining lease.
The issuance of the lease will be a condition of effective-
ness of the lBank Loan.
(b)  The mining lease provides that BCL shall make royalty pay-
ments to the Government of 7.5% of net income from the sale
of minerals and metals before income tax and before the
1/   The financial projections cover 26 years, including the start-up year
1973.



- 8 -
capital expenditure allowance deductible for income tax
purposes (see (c) below). There is also a requirement
that advance royalty payments of R 750,000 per year shall
be made for a 25 year period from the start of commercial
production. If an advance payment exceeds the amount due
for the year, the excess may be set off against royalties
due in subsequent years to the extent that they exceed the
minimum advance payment.
(c)  A tax agreement between the Government and BCL provides for
BCL to pay income taxes at the rate of 40% of net income
after royalty payments and after an allowance for capital
expenditure limited to 75X of taxable income until the total
amount of capital expenditure has been deducted. This results
in an effective tax rate of 10% of taxable income during this
period. Without this limit, the fast write offs of capital
assets permissible under Botswana tax law would re,sult in no
income taxes payable in the early years of BCL's olperations.
On the basis of the Bank's financial projections (,see Exhibit
5 to Annex 1), the effective tax rate would increase to 40%
.in 1985. The tax agreement would have to be signed and in
force as a condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loan.
3.05      The project is based on underground mining of two ore bodies some
nine miles apart. Proven mining methods which have been developed in the
Zambian operations of RST over the past 40 years will be used. The ore will
be crushed and concentrated before being reduced to a copper/nickel matte in
a flash smelter of Finnish design. The ore treatment facilities to be built
at the mine site are based on well-proven techniques.  On the other hand, the
production of sulphur from the smelter gases has not been undertaken on a
commercial scale before and, whilst this involves some technical risk, it is
considered worthwhile bearing in mind the probable benefits including the re-
duction of atmospheric pollution.
3.06      After the extraction of sulphur from the smelter gases, they will
still contain about 2% of sulphur dioxide (SO2) when discharged to the at-
mosphere. Since the township will be less than two miles from the smelter,
gas emissions may still constitute a health hazard particularly in calm con-
ditions (19% of the time) and when there is a northeast wind (11% of the
time). Because of this danger, the Government is drafting legislation to
control pollution (see paragraph 4.21) and BCL hias made modifications to
the plant design, principally including the installation of one smelter
stack 160 meters in height, in place of the original proposal to install
two shorter stacks.
3.07      The copper/nickel matte will be transported by rail to Beira, or
some other port in southern Africa, and then by ship to the USA. The matte
will be refined to pure metal at an existing refinery near New Orleans re-
cently acquired by AMAX which will enter into a 15-year refining contract
with JCL based on a fixed fee subject to escalation (see Annex 1, paragraphs
22-27). The contract contains a clause which requires AMAX to deliver metals



-9-
in proportion to the matte received by thie refinery. Completion of all con-
ditions of the effectiveness of this contract would be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the Bank Loan.
Project Costs and Financing
3.08      The mining project is estimated to cost R 86.5 million (US$121
million), includilng R 8.7 million (US$12.2 million) of initial working
capital, and will be financed 35% by BCL shareholders and 65% through loans.
A loan of R 43.0 million will be obtained from a consortium of German banks,
headed by the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW). The loan will run for
15 years, including 5 years of grace, carrying an average interest rate of
about 9% and a guarantee fee of 3/4%. A supplier credit of R 13.5 million,
ranking equally with the KfW loan, has been arranged with the Industrial
Development Corporation of South Africa, Limited (IDC). The goods and
services to be obtained under the IDC loan will be procured under a con-
tract with UAL Export Finance Company Pty., a South African Company. The
IDC loan, which will be made through its wholly owned subsidiary Tusitala
(Pty) Limited, will be disbursed upon completion of this contract and repaid
over 10 years with 8.9% interest. Arrangements have also been made for an
Increase in BCL's equity so that the total issued share capital would in-
clude R 30 million of shares subscribed in cash plus the 15% shareholding
to be received by the Government without cash payment. The completion of
the KfW and IDC loans and the necessary increase in BCL's equity would be
conditions of effectiveness of the Bank Loan.
3.09      The necessary delay between matte production and the first receipt
of sales revenue results in an inventory of matte and metals, which BCL in-
tends to finance partly through short-term borrowing during the startup pe-
riod, placing the inventory and accounts receivable as security. This bor-
rowing will be limited to a maximum amount of R 8 million. Completion of
all conditions to the effectiveness of the agreement providing for this
borrowing would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
3.1(      Although BCl,'s cost estimate was carefully established, cost over-
runs cotuldi occur, especially if the infrastructure is delayed. Overrun com-
mitmenit agreements are to be given to KfW and IDC and included in the Bank
guarantee agreement.  These will obligate the shareholders to advance funds
for capital expenditure and working capital until the project is completed
and operating substantially at full capacity. Completion of all conditions
to the effectiveness of the overrun commitment agreements would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
Sales Market and Prices
3.11      BCI. will sell at least two-thirds of its nickel and all of its
copper under a 15-year contract to Metallgesellschaft A.G. (MG) of Germany
at prices charged by major copper and nickel producers in Germany at the
time of eaclh delivery. The remaining nickel will be offered to MG or sold
by BCL itself. Completioni of all conditions to the effectiveness of this
contract would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loan.



- 10 -
3.12      The Bank's projections of metal prices are based on the market
studies in Annex 3. Nickel will be the major source of BCL's sales revenue.
It has important uses in most modern technology and the world's consumption
of nickel is expected to rise steadily in the foreseeable future. The price
of nickel will probably decline from its present level of US$1.33 per pound
initially but in the long run the price is expected to increase slowly.
The price used in the bank's projections is US$1.20 per pound in 1970 terms
while BCL has projected a price of US$1.36. In the case of copper the price
used in the bank's projections is US$0.43 per pound in 1970 terms, while BCL
has projected a price of US$U.50.
3.13      The cobalt and sulphur prices used by BCL, whiich are UiS$2.38 per
pound and R 23.4 (US$32.8) per short toIl, respectively, are considered rea-
sonable.  The former price is guaranteed by  UAAX in the refining contract,
and the latter price will be payable by Triomf Fertilizer (Pty.) Limited
of South Africa under a 10-year sulfur sales contract. Completion of all
conditions of effectiveness of this contract would be a conditioni of effec-
tiveness of the Bank Loatn.
Financial Projections
3.14      Annual operating costs at full production are expected to be
R 16.3 million (US$22.8 million) at the mine site witht an additional R 2.9
million (US$4.1 million) for transportation and R 6.5 million (US$9.1 mil-
lion) for refining charges, making a total of R 25.7 million (USt$36.0 mil-
lion) per annum.   These estimates are based on BCL's detailed assessment
of costs for each element of the operation, except for power, water, and
township costs for which the Bank's projections have been used.
3.15      On the basis of these operating costs and sales revenue calculated
from the price assumptions contained in paragraphs 3.12 aud 3.13, detailed
projections have been made of the company's annual income statements, sources
and applications of funds and year-end balance sheets for each year of pro-
duction over the life of the mine. The Bank projections are set out in
detail in Exhibits 4, 5, 6, and 7 in Annex 1. The sunmmary table below
compares the Bank and BCL projections for the first years of opetations.



- 11 -
SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
(millions of 1970 Rand)
Bank Projection              BCL Projection
INCOME STATEMENTS          1973  1974  1975  1976        1973  1974  1975  1976
Net Revenue                  -   23.4  41.3  41.3          -   26.6  47.1  47.1
Operating Cost &
Replacements                -   20.7  26.2  26.2          -   18.2  25.7  25.7
Operating Income              -     2.7  1S.1  15.1        -    8.4  21.4  21.4
Interest                     -    5.7   5.3   5.0          -    5.5   5.1   4.7
Debt Repayment               -    1.4   1.4   3.5          -    1.4   1.4   3.5
Royalty to Government        -      -    0.5   0.8         -    0.2   1.2   1.2
Income Tax                          -    0.6   0.9         -   -0.2   1.6   1.6
Net Available Income         -   (4.4)  7.3   4.9          -    1.1  12.1  10.4
IBALANCE SHEETS (as of December 31)
Current Assets             10.2  13.9  17.8  18.0        10.2  16.3  28.8  25.9
Current Liabilitles /1    2.8  10.5   9.2  10.7           2.8   8.7  10.4  11.7
Workinj Capital             7.4   3.4   8.6   7.3         7.4   7.6  18.4  14.2
Net Fixed Assets           77.8  76.5  75.1  71.6        77.8  76.5  75.1  71.6
Llon; Term Debt            56.5  55.2  53.8  50.3        56.5  55.2  53.8  50.3
E.Luity /2                 30.0  25.6  33.0  33.8        30.01 31.1  43.3  40.4
Current Ratio              3.6   1.3   1.9   1.7         3.6   1.9   2.8   2.2
Debt/Equity Ratio        65/35 68/32 62/38 60/40    65/35 64/36 55/45 55/45
Debt Service Coverage       -    0.4   2.1   1.6          -    1.2   2.9   2.2
Dividend Paidl
(R million) /3            -     -      -    4.0        -      -      -   13.3
/1   Current liabilities include the following year's amortization of long
term debt.
/_2   Equity after dividend payment.
/3   Dividend is calculated on the basis of the previous year's balance sheet.
3.16      Mine production is expected to build up over 11 months from August
1973, whiile revenues, delayed by six months by transportation and refining,
will start accruing in 1974. Full operating costs are incurred from the
start of operations, and no profits are projected for 1973 and 1974. Maxi-
mum output and revenue will be maintained from 1975 to 1983. Beginning in
1984, mine output and therefore revenue will decrease by about 20% as deeper
mining and thinner ore seams are exploited, but there will be only a slight
dlecline in operating costs. The overrun commitment clause and covenants



- 12 -
limiting short term borrowing and dividends would provide protectlon against
the high debt/equity ratio and consequential low debt service coverage dur-
ing the initial years of operation.
3.17      On the basis of the projections summarized above and including
investments made through 1970 as well as those still to be made, the in-
ternal financial return on the mining project is 11.2%. This return, which
is calculated before interest, debt repayment, royalties and income taxes,
measures the earning-power of the total capital invested in the mining
project regardless of to whom it accrues. If one looks only at the return
that accrues to the equity-holders from the payment of dividends, after al-
lowing for the 15% equity interest given to Government in return for the
mining concession, the return is 7.7%. If the "sunk costs" through 1970
are disregarded and one compares the returns only with equity inwsstments
still to be made, the return rises to 12.8%. As noted, these estimates
reflect the Bank's independent estimates of costs and revenues. BCL has
arrived at higher return figures, using more optimistic price projections
and somewhat lower cost estimates than the Bank. The BCL figures yield
an overall return of 15.8%, a return on total equity of 13.3%, and a return
of 21.4% on equity invested after 1970. From the point of view of judging
the sponsor's incentive to proceed with the project, the latter figure is
probably the most relevant one.
Sensitivity Analysis
3.18      A sensitivity analysis has been carried out to compare rates of
return on the mining development for different combinations of capital
cost, operating cost and sales revenue. The results are summarized below.
Rate of Return (Z)
Main Bank Projection                                       11.2
Variations:
Capital Cost 90-110% of estimate                 12.4 - 10.2
Operating Cost 90-110% of estimate               13.6 -  8.5
Sales Revenue 90-110% of estimate                 7.2 - 14.6
BCL Projection                                             15.8
Sunk Costs
Return on Equity                                 Included    Excluded
Bank Projection                                7.7          12.8
BCL Projection                                13.3          21.4



- 13 -
Conclusions
3.19      The mining project is expected to be viable although it contains
risks to its sponsors because of its high operating costs and uncertain
metal prices. The risks to Botswana are minimized by the agreement between
the Bank on one side and BCL with its major shareholders and M on the other
side, which guarantees the Bank Loan (see paragraph 6.34). In the extreme
case of collapse of the mining venture Botswana will have to bear the oper-
ating costs of the infrastructure facilities until alternative uses can
be developed and also future debt service on the Canadian, USA and UK loans
which are not covered by the agreement which guarantees the Bank Loan.  How-
ever, the sponsors have extensive experience in the preparation, construction
and operation of projects of this type. In view of the expected benefits to
Botswana, the risks are acceptable and the mining development provides jus-
tification for the associated infrastructure.
4. THE PROJECT
4.01      The Project would provide power, water, transport, township and
medical facilities principally to support the BCL copper/nickel mining
development at Selebi/Pikwe and would comprise:
(a) Power: A 60 MW conventional steam power statiLon using
locally mined coal but also designed to utilize waste
heat steam from the mining company's smelter, a trans-
mission line connecting Selebi/Pikwe with Shashe and
Francistown, and a distribution system in Selebi/Pikwe;
(b) Water: A dam on the Shashe River; a pipeline, treatment
plant and distribution system to serve the mining complex,
power station, and Selebi/Pikwe township; and a separate
water supply (expected to be from wells) to serve the
coal mine at Morupule;
(c)  Transport:  An access road from Seruli to Selebi/Pikwe
together with upgrading the Seruli/Francistown section
of the nortlh/south road; branch railway lines from Seruli
to Selebi/Pikwe (a distance of about 40 miles) and from
Palapye to the proposed Morupule coal mine (a distance
of about 10 miles); and
(d) a township at Selebi/Pikwe, including a 48-bed health center.
4.02      The Project is described in detail in Annex 4, but specific aspects
on whichi actions are required or in respect of which assurances were obtained
during negotiations are described below.



- 14 -
Power
4.03      The power station which would be equipped with four 15 HW units and
would be located at Pikwe adjoining the mine smelter, would operate on coal
mined at Morupule 1/ some 70 miles from Pikwe. Morupule Colliery (Pty)
Limited, a subsidiary of Anglo American Corporation of South Africa, has
agreed to install the necessary coal mining facilities at its owni expense
and recover the cost through the price of coal. The signing of a coal agree-
ment satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the
Bank Loan. With regard to the transmission line connecting Pikwe with Sliashe
and Francistown, agreement was reached during negotiations that, before the
contract to build the Shashe-Francistown section of this liue is placed,
satisfactory assurances would be obtained from the Francistown municipality
that it would purchase its total power requirements from BPC as soon as a
bulk supply is made available.
Water and Water Rights
4.04      A dam would be constructed on the Shashe River to impound water
for the supply (via a 50 mile pipeline) to the mine, power station and
Selebi/Pikwe township. The Shashe River is a tributary river lying entirely-
within Botswana, up to the point where, well downstream of the dam site, it
forms the border between Botswana and Rhodesia, and, after its confluence
with the Limpopo, between Rhodesia and South Africa. In its lasit course,
the Limpopo crosses Mozambique. According to the Agreement with its neigh-
boring countries, Botswana has the right to proceed unhindered with water
utilization and development schemes provided information is givein to the
neighboring countries which might be affected. Notice has been given to
Rhodesia (through UK), South Africa and Portugal.
4.05      The source of water for the colliery at Morupule is exlpected to
be from wells. The consultant's report dated December 1970 detailing
recommendations on this basis has recently been received and controversial
issues arising from this report were discussed during negotiations. The
estimated cost of water at Morupule on the basis recommended in this report
is high (see paragraph 6.16) and an assurance was obtained during negotia-
tions that this would be reinvestigated and the most suitable means of
supplying water to Morupule Colliery would be determined by December 31,
1971. It was further agreed at negotiations that contracts for the con-
struction of the Morupule water supply would not be awarded without the
prior consent of the Bank.
Transport
4.06      The railway branch lines would comprise a 40 mile spur from the
main line at Seruli to Pikwe, and a 10 mile spur from the main line at
1/   Alternative proposals for the provision of the power facilities were
examined and are discussed in Chapter 5, paragraphs 5.06 and 5.07.



- 15 -
Palapye to the colliery at Morupule. The Project would include the irre-
coverable costs of the rail spurs. Rhodesia Railways Corporation, to which
the existing rail system in Botswana belongs, would supply railway track and
other recoverable material on loan to Botswana, charging interest on the
cost of such material at 7-1/4% per annum, and would maintain the track.
The General Manager of Rhodesia Railways Corporation would enter into an
agreement witlh the Government which would require the Corploration to pro-
vide rail services on the spur and on the main line. The signing of an
agreement with the General Manager of the Rhodesia Railways Corporation
satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank
Loan.
Medical Facilities
4.07      The principal medical facility included in the Project comprises
a 48-bed township hcalth center at Selebi/Pikwe.  Additional medical facil-
ities which would be necessary to meet the recommendations contained in the
WHO report iiclude a new 350-bed regional hospital which was to have been
included in the Project and financed by Denmark. It was dropped at a late
stage because of the difficulty in meeting the condition of 75% procure-
ment in Denmark. The existing hospital at Francistown together with the
proposed new health center at Selebi/Pikwe should be adequate for a few
years. As soon as financing can be obtained the Government will construct
the new hospital, the design of which is in progress.
Estimated Cost
4.08      The following table shows the total estimated cost of the Project
and its principal features. It is based on estimates prepared by the con-
sultants (Cibb) for the various aspects of the infrastructure as shown in
their suppleenelitary report dated June 1969 and their addendum town planning
report dated July 1970 as updated November 30, 1970. In the case of the
power station, it is based on bids received for items (other than civil
engineering costs) accounting for about 55% of the total estimated cost,
and In the case of the water supply facilities on bids received for the
constrtuction of the dam which accounts for about 35% of the estimated
cost. The cost of the water pipe line which is being financed by USAID
has been adjusted to reflect the estimated cost of procurement in the
U.S.A. A more detailed breakdow  of cost is given in Annex 5.



- 16 -
Estimated Cost of Project
Rand (million)            US$ (million)
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Power Station E
Transmission             1.68   13.32   15.00    2.35   18.65   21.00
Water Supply               2.42    7.25    9.67    3.38   10.15   13.53
Transportation             0.75    1.86    2.61    1.05    2.61    3.66
Township                    1.88    Z.73    4.61    2.62    3.83    6.45
Temporary Water
Supply                   0.12    0.58    0.70    0.17    0.81    0.98
Contingencies
Physical               0.99    2.91    3.90    1.39    4.07    5.46
Price                  0.69    1.74    2.43    0.97    2.43    3.40
Sub-Total            8.53   30.39   38.92   11.93   42.55   54.48
Administration &
Training                 0.50    0.20    0.70    0.70    0.28    0.98
Engineering (includ-
ing US$0.9 million
refinanced from
Credit 172-BT)           0.35    2.10    2.45    0.49    2.94    3.43
Total Construction Costs  9.38   32.69   42.07   13.12   45.77   58.89
Interest during Con-
struction on Bank
Loan                      -      4.01    4.01              5.61    5.61
Grand Total          9.38   36.70   46.08   13.12   51.38   64.50
Expenditure shown under "Foreign" includes shipping, inland freight and
procurement in South Africa.
4,09      The estimate includes provision for the cost of salaries, wages,
and administration of the Project during construction, for the operation of
the Selebi/Pikwe township services during construction (excluding power),
and for early staffing of the power and water facilities for the 6-month
period immediately preceding commissioning during which the Corporations
would be building up their establishments. Provision for price escalation
of about 5% per annum has been included in all costs other than township



- 17 -
housing which has a built-in escalation factor of about 7-1/2% per annum
included in the base estimates, and the offshore costs of power and water
plant which will be fixed price contracts. These together with the amount
for physical contingencies (10% of power costs excluding plant, 5% of power
plant costs, 20% of engineering costs and 15% of other costs) should be suf-
ficient to cover other extras, underestimates and increases which may arise
due to construction difficulties. The high contingency allowance for engi-
neering would provide for a delay in the construction program which would
entail an extension of engineering services (see paragraph 4.12). The cost
estimates are considered reasonable. As noted in paragraph 3.10 the major
shareholder sponsors of BCL will enter into overrun financing commitments
for the mining project. In connection with the Guarantee Agreement for the
Bank Loan (see paragraph 6.34), it has been agreed that the guarantee would
apply to any additional loans, up to 20% of the original loan amount, which
the Bank might grant for completion of the infrastructure project.
Engineering
4.10      Gibb were appointed by the Government with the approval of the IDA
to carry out the engineering design for the Project, and the cost of this
aspect of their services is covered by IDA Credit No. 172-BT made in January
1970 in the amount of US$2.5 million (see paragraph 1.14). The portion re-
lating to those facilities which are to be financed from the Bank Loan (town-
ship, roads, railways and part of the water facilities) is estimated at
US$0.91 million and provision has been made for this amolunt to be refinanced
in the proposed Bank Loan. The Government proposes to retain the services
of Gibb for the further associated engineering work and supervision of con-
struction of the Project. Gibb has engaged Merz & McLellan of the U.K. and
Shawinigan Engineering Company of Canada as sub-consultants for the design
and supervision of erection of the power facilities. These consultants are
acceptable to the Bank and assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Government would enter into a contract with Gibb for the construction of
the Project on terms satisfactory to the Bank setting forth the schedule of
fees, reimbursable costs and conditions under which the work will be carried
out.
Schedule of Construction
4.11      UICL's revised schedule of construction (paragraph 1.14) assumes
thkat preliminary supplies of power and water will be available for the mine
to be brought into operation by August/September 1973, and that full scale
supplies will be available for mining operations by January 1, 1974. To
provide the necessary power, water, transport and township facilities to
meet the mine's requirements by the dates specified, a tight schedule of
construction will have to be maintained. Annex 6 shows the schedule of
construction for the mining development and for the Project.



- as -
4.12      One of the most critical items is the Shashe Dam which must be
ready by October 1972 to conserve the 1972/73 run-off. Failure to accomplish
this could delay the start of mining by one year. The program whilchi would
permit impounding to begin by October 1972 required the plactng of the
contract for construction of the dam before the end of May 1971. This
contract was awarded May 18, 1971 to A.G. Burton Construction Limited of the
UK. This award was made on the basis of an agreement by BCL to underwrite
the costs incurred on this contract, including cancellation costs, and to
advance funds required up to November 1, 1971, if the proposed Bank Loan
were not approved and effective by that date, and by the Government to
reimburse BCL from the proceeds of the Bank Loan, if and when it becomes
effective, for all disbursements so made. The program for the power station
is also critical. Major contracts were finally placed mid-April 1971 after
BCL had made a similar agreement to underwrite the costs which would be
involved in the event the Canadian Credit did not become effective by
November 1, 1971 as anticipated. The construction period of 2-1/2 years if
power is to be available by September 1, 1973 is tight. It incltudes no
provision for unforeseeable delays and because of this it is likely that
completion of the Project could be delayed beyond January 1, 1974. It is
for this reason a grace period of four years has been recommended.
Procurement
4.13      Some parts of the Project are being financed by other lenders.
The amount involved is about US$32.5 million, mainly with procurement tied
to the country which is providing the finance. Power generation and trans-
mission facilities are being financed by the Canadian International Develop-
ment Agency (CIDA) with 75% procurement in Canada. A training program for
power station staff and the provision of some specified senior operating
staff are being financed by Canadian Technical Assistance. Pipes for tlhe
water trunk main are being financed by USAID with procurement in the USA
and certain selected countries including "low income" countries. Preliminary
works for township water supplies are being financed by the Government through
UK grants and interest free loans. The Government is also financing the cost
of Government administrative staff seconded to the management umit. The
amount of Bank financing required for the remaining aspects of the Project
will be US$32 million (see paragraphs 6.02 and 6.03 for details of the
financing plan).  The proposed Bank Loan would cover the following:
(i) township (excluding BCL and private housing) and health
center, including Government and Corporation houses,
buildings, roads, water and power distribution and other
services;
(ii) road and rail facilities;
(iii) water supply (excluding the pipes for the trunk main);
(iv) engineering and administration; and
(v) interest during construction on the Bank loan.



- 19 -
4.14      To the extent that all or part of any contract is to be financed
by the liank, bidding will be international and the procurement will be in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
4.15      Bids for the major items of power plant (confined to Canadian
manufacturers) were invited during the latter part of 1970. Bids received
for the boilers were in line with the consultant's estimate but the lowest
conforming bid for the generators was nearly 100% above thbe consultant's
estimate. Principally because of this, and the need to include provision
for escalation in the estimate of costs of the Project, the estimated cost
of the power facilities (R 16.74 million) (Canadian $23.7 million) is
Canadian $3.7 million in excess of the CIDA loan of Canadian $20.0 million,
the amount of which was established prior to the receipt of the bids.
4.16      A similar problem arises in the case of the water trunk main
pipeline for which bids are due to be received in May 1971 and an estimated
cost of US$7.6 million has been allowed in the Project cost estimates. The
amount of the USAID loan based on an earlier estimate is US$6.5 million.
These matters have been discussed with CIDA and USAID. The latter has
said that favorable consideration will be given to the provision of addi-
tional finance if and when this becomes necessary. In the case of the power
facilities CIDA intends, when remaining bids for major contracts have been
received, to review the Consultants estimate and make its own estimate of
the total costs which are likely to be incurred. It thenl intends to ask the
Canadian Government for authority to meet the additional costs in the amount
so estimated.
Disbursement
4.17      The proposed Bank Loan would finance the total costs (both foreign
and local) of those aspects of the infrastructure to which it is to be ap-
plied (see paragraph 4.13) and 100% disbursements would be made against pre-
sentation of documents confirming expenditure of foreign and local exchange
for equipment, material and services.
4.18      As explained in paragraph 4.12, the dam contract, estimated to cost
about US$4.75 million, which is to be financed from the proposed Bank Loan,
and major power station contracts to be financed from the Canadian loan have
been awardled before presentation to the Executive Directors. Also since the
design Credit 172-BT was fully committed by April 1, 1971 about US$0.12
million will be committed on engineering costs prior to presentation to
the Executive Directors. These commitments would be eligible for disburse-
ment from the proposecl Bank Loan.
4.19      Any balance of the Loan not used on completion of the Project
should be cancelled. A disbursement schedule is given in Annex 7.



- 20 _
Ecology
4.20      The dam which is to be constructed at Shashe near the road and the
railway will create a lake the effect of whiicht on the surrounding area will.
be minimal. The WHIO report on the healtlh aspects of the Project mentions
no malaria problem in the lmmediate project area but bilharziasis will be
a hazard and the Government intends to take appropriate steps to deal witl
this hazard.
4.21      The principal danger to the ecology of the Selebi/Pikwe area and
to man will be atmospheric pollution from the smelter and power station
stacks when the two developments become operational.  The Government has
recognized this problem and obtained the services of Dr. P. Leeson of the
UK Central Electricity Generating Board to examine the problem of pollution
from the mining development and the power station and report on the meas-
ures which should be taken to keep this to a minimum.  The Bank engaged
Dr. M. Katz of York University, Toronto, Canada, an international expert
on air pollution, to comment on Dr. Leeson's report and on the Government's
proposed legislation to limit pollution from the mining development and the
power station. Following discussion during negotiations of the recoimwenda-
tions made by the various pollution consultants, Government agreed that the
ground concentration of S02 must be kept within acceptable limits and to
ensure this the minimum smelter and power station stack heights should be
525 ft (160 meters) and 250 ft (77 meters) respectively. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that Government would:
(a)  take all necessary action including enactment of leglslation
and regulations for the purpose of ensuring that the opera-
tions and emissions of the Mining Project and of the Project
shall be conducted with due regard to public health and the
preservation of the environment;
(b)  cause BCL to comply with such pollution legislation and regu-
lations as there are from time to time in force in Botswana;
(c)  consult with the Bank from time to time with respect to the
effectiveness of such pollution legislation and regulations
and obtain the views of the Bank prior to any change In such
legislation and regulations.
4.22      The ecological aspects of the Project and mining development are
dealt with more fully in Annex B.



- 21 -
5. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
Need for Infrastructure
5.01      The power, water, transportation and township facilities are es-
sential if the mining development which they will serve is to go ahead.
There is no mining industry at present, nor any form of industrial activity
in the area now to be developed, and no existing infrastructure. The jus-
tification of the Project, therefore, is inextricably linked to the mining
project and the benefits it is expected to bring to the Botswana economy.
Benefits to Botswana of the Mining Development
5.02      The best measure of the economic impact of the mnining development
on Botswana would be its total contribution to the GNP but it is not possi-
ble to estimate this owing to lack of the necessary econoi dc data. The broad
significance of the mining development for Botswana may be indicated, how-
ever, by a few key figures, using the projections of costs and revenues
shown in Annex 1. It involves an eetimated investment over the next three
years equivalent to US$78 million 21, which compares with new capital invest-
ment in Botswana over the three-year period 1965-67 (the latest period for
which figures are available) of about US$35 million. Annual value added as
a result of the mining coapany's operations is estimated to range from US$18
million to US$28 million, averaging US$21 million over the life of the mine,
against a GDP of US$59 million in 1967/68 (the latest year for which an esti-
mate has been made). Net foreign exchange earnings retained in Botswana
from the sale of the mine's output, all of which will be exported, are ex-
pected to average about US$21 million a year, after allowing for the for-
eign exchange expenses of production, including interest and dividend pay-
ments outside Botswana. This compares with total exports of US$18 million
in 1969, when there was a trade deficit of US$25 million.
5.03      The mining company's annual net revenue before tax, after deduct-
ing expenses and debt repayment, is estimated to average US$10.5 million
a year. The Government's direct share of this, in the form of royalties,
company taxation and dividends, should average about US$5 million a year.
This compares with the Government's ordinary revenue of about US$15 million
in 1969/70, against recurrent and development expenditures totalling US$26
million. The difference of US$11 million was made up very largely of
grants and loans from the U.K., on which Botswana depends to balance its
budget. The copper/nickel mine, in conjunction with the diamond mining
development by De Beers, should progressively reduce the need for external
budgetary support.
1/  In comparison with the capital cost estimate of US$121 million for the
mining project mentioned in paragraph 3.08 and detailed in Table 3 of
Annex 1, this excludes about US$24 million expenditure to March 31, 1971,
US$10 million for interest during construction, and $9 million of the
initial working capital which would be on hand to cover operating
expenses after start-up.



- 22 -
5.04      The mine will provi(de direct employment for about 1,80(1 lotawanu
citizens, and this; figure is likely to rise as Botswana citizens become cap-
able of taking over jobs for whicht expatriates will be required initially.
In addition, the coal mine at tMorupule, which will be developed to supply
the power station and copper/nickel mine, will provide direct employment for
about 300 more Botswana citizens.  To these figures should be added the em-
ployment attributable to the infrastructure and the accompanying; expansion
of government services, as well as the indirect employment which will arise.
According to a government estimate, which seems reasonable, thle total number
of jobs for Botswana citizens resulting from the mining venture plus infrit-
structure will amount to about 3,600 in 1974, rising to 5,400 by 1980. Tihese
figures compare with a total labor force in paid employment within IBotswana
of 28,000 in 1968.
5.05      The successful establishment of the mining venture would lay the
foundation for further development in northeast Botswana.  Promising new
mineral prospects have already been located in thie area and the possibility
that one or more new mines will be opened in the 1970's will be greatly
enhanced once the Selebi/Pikwe operation and associated infrastructure are
established. The creation of an integrated public power system and water
supply, the improvement of transportation and the availability of coal from
Morupule may be expected to encourage additional industrial development in
the area, leading to accelerated economic growth and further diversification
of the economy.
Cloice of Power Source
5.06      The main questions concerning the infrastructure faciLlities relate
to the power supply. Alternatives to the proposed steam station at Pikwe
considered were local generation by diesel engines; import of power from
South Africa; use of cheaper coal imported from Rhodesia for the proposed
steam station instead of local coal; and siting of the proposed steam sta-
tion at Shashe or Morupule instead of at Pikwe. The demands toD be met are
the same, irrespective of the alternative chosen. There are no system ef-
fects to complicate matters, since there is no interconnected network at
present. The method adopted, therefore, was to compare the discounted costs
associated with each alternative over a 20-year period.
5.07      The results of the comparison may be summarized as follows (de-
tails are given in Annex 9):
(a) Despite its low capital cost, the diesel alternative is
ruled out because of the high cost of imported oil. The
resulting savings in running costs for the steam station
using local coal represent a financial return on the addi-
tional investment of about 13%.



- 23 -
(b) Imported power fromn South Africa would have financial ad-
vantages, since the financial return on the extra capital
required for local generation is only 1.4%. Notwithstanding,
the Government has chosen the local scheme on the grounds
that security considerations and the longer term economic
advantages of local generation and the creation of a coal
mining industr3 outweigh the financial attractions of im-
ported power. Moreover, although it cannot be calculated
for lack of data, the economic return is likely to be
appreciably above the financial return if inputs (e.g. of
imports and unskilled labor) are valued at their social
opportunity costs and allowance is made for the multiplier
effects of the extra local expenditure with the local scheme.
(c)  Importing coal from Rhodesia instead of using local coal
would result in an annual saving of about 100,000 Rand
(US$140,000); but the Government has chosen the use of
local coal for similar reasons to those referred to in
(b) above, and also because of current U.N. sanctions
against Rhodesia.
(d) The consultant's recommendation of Pikwe for the power
station site, whlch took account only of known loads (see
Annex 10), was clhecked on various assumptions about new
loads at discount rates up to 12%.  As shown in Annex 11,
the small differences in total discounted costs are
withtout significance in view of all the uncertainties
and give no ground for differing from the consultant's
conclusion.
Internal Financial Rates of Return
5.08      As already indicated (paragraph 5.02), it is not possible on the
information available to calculate the return on the min:Lng development and
infrastructure in terms of the consequential total increase in GNP. The
internal financial rate of return to BCL and the Government on the total
investment in the mine plus infrastructure can be estimated, using the
projected mine costs and revenues shown in Annex 1. The resulting rate
of return is about 10% (see Annex 12). If the BCL projection of mine re-
venues is used, this becomes about 14%. The first figure rises to about
13%, which is acceptable, and the second to 18% if capital expenditure to
March 31, 1971 is disregarded.



- 24 -
5.09      A separate calculation was made of thte internal financial return
to the Government oi1 tIle Infrastructure Project alone, as described in Atnex
12.  Using the Bank's projection of mine revenues (Annex 1) this resulted
in a return of 12%, which is satisfactory.  The return rises to 16% using
BCL's projection of revenues.  If indirect revenues to Government in tile form
of personal income tax and customs revenue are taken into account, these
figures become 16% and 19%.  Tlhe effect of treating expenditure Ito March 31,
1971 as sunk costs is to raise each of the figures quoted by about one per-
centage point.
5.10      To convert these financial rates of return to economic rates of
return it would be necessary to use shadow prices for the main inputs (such
as foreign exchange and unskilled labor) but there is no reliablle basis for
doing this. Hlowever, the direction of adjustment would be towafds raising
the rates of return quoted, which may reasonably be regarded therefore as
representing minimum values for the corresponding economic rates of return.
6. FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF THE PROJECT
Introduction
6.01      The financing for the Project includes some grants and substan-
tial amounts of credits on concessionary terms, as well as the proposed
Bank Loan. The benefits of the soft terms obtained by the Government would
not be passed on to the mining company and others to be served by the rev-
enue earning phases of the Project. As explained in the discussion which
follows, the Gowernment's relending to the Botswana Power and Water Util-
ities Corporations would be made on terms similar to those charged by the
Bank. Commercial principles would be followed in setting tariffs for these
Corporations' services and for the special railway tariff which would recover
the Government's investment in the branch lines to Pikwe and Morupule.
Except for the amount allocable to the Central Government, the costs of
the township would be recovered through local taxes, special annuity pay-
ments by BCL, rents, power and water charges, and proceeds from the sale
or leasing of land. BCL, the principal user of the facilities provided
by the Project, would enter into long-term contracts to use and pay for
them. Pursuant to these contracts and the proposed Loan arrangements, a
minimum financial return of 8% would be earned on power and water, and 10%
on township and railway, facilities. Taking into account the higher cost
of the power and water facilities to be financed through the Canadian and
U.S.A. loans, the 8% return on actual costs is considered approximately



- 25 -
equal to a 10% return on the lower costs which would havt been incurred
if international competitive procurement had been followed. 17 The costs
to BCL on this basis are considered to be approximately what they would
be if BCL itself had built and financed the infrastructure facilities
(compare paragraph 3.07). It is estimated that the net receipts to the
Government from the Project would substantially exceed the debt service
obligations incurred to finance the Project and, after payment of debt
service, would range from about R 2.7 million to R 6.2 million per year.
The Financing Plan
6.02      Attached as Annex 13 is a statement showing thle estimated sources
and applications of funds annually during the study, engineering and con-
struction phases of the Project, covering the period 1968/69 - 1975/76.
The financing plan is as follows:
1/ The procurement of the power station and transmission line, which is to
be financed by Canada, is limited to Canadian suppliers, and the esti-
mated cost of Canadian procurement is about 25% higher than the consult-
ant's estimate of costs based on international bidding. The procurement
of the pipe and valves for the water pipeline, which is to be financed
by the U.S.A., is limited to U.S.A. suppliers, and on this basis the
estimated cost of the pipe is about two-thirds higher, and of the entire
water facilities about 20% higher, than it would be with international
bidding. These price differentials would be more than offset by the
favorable financial terms of the loans to Government.



- 26 -
Expressed in millions of
Rand         US$
Requirements
Engineering studies and
preliminary works                            1.78        2.49           4
Construction phase of project  /a
as detailed in paragraph 4.08--            46.33        64.865        96
Total Requirements                   48.11        67.3'5       100
Sources of Financing
Government of Botswana
Counterpart expenditures on
feasibility studies                         .44         .62           1
Expenditures for interest on USAID
Loan and project management                 .32         .45           1
UNDP Grant for feasibility studies
and project management                        .21         .29           -
UK Grants and Credits for feasibility
studies and temporary water service           .75        1.05           2
IDA Design Credit (172-BT)                     1.14        1.59           2
Canadian International Development
Agency Loan                                 16.74       23.44          35
Canadian Technical Assistance Grant             .22         .31           -
USAID Loan                                     5.43        7.60          11
Proposed Bank Loan                            22.86       32.00          48
Total Sources                        48.11        67.35        100
/a   In addition to the estimated cost of the Project as shown in paragraph
4.08, the above table includes the estimated interest payments of
R 0.25 million (US$0.35 million) on the USAID Loan during construc-
tlon of the water facilities.
6.03      The Canadian Loan (US$23.4 million equivalent), which would fi-
nance the power generating and transmission facilities, would be made at
no interest, and after a ten-year grace period will be repayable over 40
years. The USAID Loan (US$7.6 million) to finance the water pipeline
will have a ten-year grace period during which 2% interest per annum would-



- 27 -
be charged, and will be repayable over the next thirty years with 3% interest
per annum. It is expected that these loans would be signed and effective
either prior to or simultaneously with the signing and effectiveness of the
proposed Bank Loan of US$32 million, which would finance the balance of
the requirements (see paragraph 4.13). It is assumed that the Bank Loan
would have a term of 29 years, including a 4-year grace period during the
period of construction, and would carry interest of 7-1/4% per annum. In
addition to the foregoing loans, about US$0.48 million of the UK financing
for thIe temporary water supply facilities will be an Interest free loan
with a grace period of seven years and repayable thereafter over 18 years.
The remaining finance for the Project, and the engineering studies and
preliminary works which preceded it, includes US$1.07 million from Govern-
ment budgetary sources, US$1.59 million from IDA Credit 172-BT, and US$.4.
million from IJNDP, UK and Canadian grants.. The amounts shown in the fore-
going table for the Canhdian International Development Agency and USAID Loans
are equal to the estimated cost of the facilities to be financed by these
loans and exceed the amounts which these lending agencies have agreed so far
to provide, bv the equivalent of about US$3.6 million and US$1.1 million,
respectively. The provision of the required additional ifinance is under
consideration by the lending agencies (see paragraph 4.115).
The Power and Water Corporations
[,.04     The power and water facilities constructed under the Project would
be turned over for operation to BPC and WUC which the Government recently
established as national power and water authorities and which began opera-
tions on January 1, 1971, in Gaborone and Lobatse (see paragraph 2.06).
The appraisal report (PU-54a) for the recent IDA credit (233-BT) of US$3.0
million for a project to provide more water to these towns describes the
financial situation and prospects of WUC with respect to the operations of
its Gahorone/Lobatse Division. The arrangements and terms for transferring
tl,e power assets in Gaborone and Lobatse to BPC have not yet been completed,
and only preliminary data are available with respect to the financial situa-
tion anvd prospects of the Gaborone-Lobatse Division of BPC. Accordingly,
the financial appraisal has been limited to a study of the operation of the
facillties constructed under the Project. In terms of esize of assets and
revenues, the Project facilities would be very much larger than the other
assets which the Corporations may take over. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations thiat the Corporations would keep dilvisional accounts
for thie Project power and water facilities separate from those for their
activities in other areas. 1/  This is consistent with the arrangements made
witlh WUC under IDA Credit 233-BT which provide for the maintenance of
separate accounts for its Gaborone/Lobatse Division and a minimum rate of
return covenant for that Division. In connection with this Credit, WUC also
agreed to the usual management and operational covenants expected of a bene-
ficiary of a Bank loan, and it has been agreed during the negotiations that
1!   While for accounting purposes, the Corporations would keep separate
divisional accounts for the project facilities, their operating
divisions may have a wider scope.



- 28 -
these would be extended to the operations of the Project facilities. Sim-
ilar covenants will be made by BPC with respect to its operation of the
Project facilities and Its operations In other areas.
6.05      Financial projections for the period 1973/74-1981/82 for the
Pikwe Division of BPC and for the Shashe and Morupule Divisions of WUC are
attached as Annexes 14 and 15, respectively. These include details of the
sales and revenue forecasts; estimated income statements; balance sheets;
sources and applications of funds statements; and an explanation of the
bases for the projections.
a.   Power and Water Agreements with BCL
6.06      The principal customer for both power and water would be the
mining company, which has agreed to enter into long-term contracts with
BPC and WUC which would become part of the security arrangements for the
Bank Loan (see paragraph 6.36) and would be incorporated as schedules to
the master agreement (see paragraph 1.16). A satisfactory agreement has
been reached on the terms of the power and water contracts and tthe master
agreement, and signature and completion of all conditions to the effective-
ness of these agreements would be a condition of effectiveness for the Bank
Loan.
6.07      Under the power and water contracts, BPC and WUC will agree to
supply BCL with stated quantities of power and water for a period of 25
years which is the approximate life of the mine based on proven and probable
reserves (see paragraph 3.02). BCL will agree that, whether or not it takes
this supply, it will pay a minimum monthly charge equal to one sixth of the
semi-annual debt service owed to the Government by BPC and WUC for the power
and water facilities (see paragraph 6.19) plus one twelfth of the annual
fixed operating costs of the facilities. In the case of WUC, although not
BPC, this minimum or basic charge would normally exceed the prices payable
on the basis of actual consumption, and BCL would be entitled to a refund
of the excess to the extent that the revenues from BCL based on its water
use plus those from other consumers are sufficient to cover WUC's operating
expenses and rate of return requirements as is expected would be the case.
The prices to be charged in accordance with consumption would be subject to
annual review and adjustment and would be determined on the basis of the
actual construction costs incurred in building the power and water facilities
and actual operating costs. Capital charges and operating costs would be al-
located to BCL on the basis of its proportionate demand or use of facilities.
The capital charges would include provision for a return of 8% per annum on
the investment amortized on a sinking fund basis over the expected useful
life of the facilities, revalued as necessary to reflect changes in valua-
tions of the foreign currencies spent in building the facilities. Included
in the investment base for calculating the 8% return would be a provision
for working capital equal to 1% of the gross fixed assets in service for
the Power Corporation and 1/2% of the gross fixed assets in service for the
Water Corporation.



- 29 -
b.   Use of Sinking Fund Depreciation
6.08      As indicated in paragraph 6.07, sinking fund rather than the
customary straight-line depreciation is to be used.  This is justified
for a project suchl as this wnichi is built primarily to serve a specific
mine with a limited life, and which has relatively small cash requirements
for expansion. If straight-line depreciation were used, the tariffs would
be highier thani under the sinking fund method in the early years of opera-
tion because of the hiigher charges for depreciation, but the tariffs would
gradually decltne and become lower in later years because the rate of
return would be measured on a declining amount of net fixed assets in
service. Witli sinking fund depreciation, however, the return is measured
on gross fixed assets in service, which in this case are expected to remain
fairly constant. Thus, the sinking fund method under these circumstances
has a leveling influence on tariffs throughout the life of the plant.
c.   Power Tariffs and Rate of Return
6.09      The income forecasts for the power facilities (Annex 14(a) and
(b)) assume that the power tariffs would be designed to provide an annual
return of 8l. on the investment in fixed assets amortized over 25 years.
This would apply to sales to BCL, to residents and other users in Pikwe
Township, and to the WUC for pumping water from Shashe 1)am to Pikwe. These
are thie main consumers to he supplied by Pikwe power station, with BCL
alone estimatedi to account for 91% of the total demand and 95% of the
energy supplied in 1973/74, declining to 76% and 87%, respectively, in
1981/82. A relatively small amount of power, increasing from 1.0 MW (3%
of thc total) in 1973/74 to 3.5 MW (8%Xof the total) in 1981/82, would be
supplied to Francistown. As explained in Annex 14(e), it is not until
about 1979 that the load supplied to Francistown would be large enough to
permit charges which would provide an 8% return on Francistown's share of
the fixed generating costs as well as on tihe cost of the transmission line.
6.10      Thie net charge to BCL for electricity, after allowance for the
credit for waste heat to he supplied to the power station by BCL, is
estimated to be R 2,825,000 in 1974/75, the first full year of operations
for BCL. This would he equivalent to a cost per kWh of R4 1.33 (USe 1.86).
13y 1981/12, it is estimated that there would be a reduction in this charge
to about R 2,600,000 per annum as a result of the relatively greater in-
crease in the demands of other users and the consequent drop in the pro-
portion of total generating fixed charges payable by BCL.  This would be
equiivalent to a cost per kwh of Ri 1.17 (USd1.64). Over the same period,
the average charge per kWh to Pikwe Township consumers Is estimated to be
about Ri 5.7 (USd3.0) initially, and to decline with increased use of
facilities to about R4 3.9 (USd5.5). lihile these prices seem high in
comparison to prices in more developed countries, thev are not unreason-
able under Botswana conditions. The estimated average domestic price is
higher than that now chlarged in Gaborone but lower than that in Francistown.
6.11      The rate of return on the electricity gross fixed assets in
service, including a 1% provision for working capital, is estimated to be



- 30 -
7.8% in the initial full year of operations (1974/75) and to increase to KIZ
by 1978/79. This is a satisfactory performance. [uring negotiatlions. it
was agreed that UPC would take all necessarv action so that the lFinancial
rate of return of its Division accounting for the power facilities built
under the Project would be at least 7.5%- per annum in the years 1974/75
through 1977/78 and 8Z per annum thereafter, on the recorded cosit of the
assets as revalued from time to time to reflect changes in currency valua-
tions plus the -provision for working capital (see paragraph 6.07).
d.   Water Tariffs and Rate of Return
6.12      A method similar to that followed for power has been used in
estimating water revenues. As shown in Annex 15(a) capital chlarges and
operating costs for bulk supply (dam, pipeline and related works) have
been allocated to BCL, the power station and to Pikwe Township on the b;siss
of annual consumption. All distribution costs from the exit point of tEle
bulk service reservoir to the Township customers were charged as Township
supplv costs. The capital charges include an 8% return on the estimated
cost of the water facilities. The life of the dam was taken as 50 years.
Altlhough this exceeds the estimated life of the mine, it is reasonable to
assume that, in view of the scarcity of water in Botswana, there would be
other uses for the water supply from the dam even when the mine had ceased
operating.  All other civil works were amortized are 25 years and the plant
over 12 years.
6.13      If the full cost of water which results from this method were
charged to Township consumers, it would be about R 2.6U/1,000 Ig (US$3.00/
1,000 USg) initially and R 1.75/1,000 Ig (US$2.03/1,000 USg) by about 1982.
It is not feasible to charge such tariffs to Township consumers. 1/ As
recently instituted for the Gaborone-Lobatse Divsion of WLC (see paragraph
6.08 of Appraisal Report PlV-54a), it is expected that a block tariff would
be employed under which a relatively low unit price would be charged for a
minimum quantity of water, and the charge for additional quantities of water
would be progessively increased. It is intended that this would allow low
income people to satisfy their basic water needs at a price they can afford
and serve as a disincentive to luxury water use. It is the general consensus
tthat presently the maximum charges which could reasonably be charged domestic
consumers would produce average revenues of RF 80/1,000 Ig (USe93/1,000 USg).
This estimate of average revenue from Township consumers has been used for
the first 3 full years of operation, and beginning in 1977/78 it has been
assumed it would increase to R4 85/1,000 Ig (USe98/1,000 USg). On this
basis, and disregarding tlhe share of the bulk supply costs allocable to
the Township consumers, the estimated return achieved on the cost of thie
Township supply facilities would be less than the desired 8%, amounting
to about 2% in 1975/76 and about 5% by 1981/82.
1/   Domestic charges for water in African countries generally range from
the equivalent of RF 30 to Ri 80 per 1,000 Ig. The only African
country with a higher charge is Mauritania, where water costs
R 1.40/1,000 Ig.



- 31 -
6.14      Since the Township is new, there is uncertainty about the esti-
mated number of its Inhabitants and the rate of growth of its population.
The effect of hirh wster prices on demand is also uncertain.  Accordingly,
it is not known whether the sales and revenue forecasts for Township
supply will be realize<1. Also, as explained in the prececling paragraph,
it is unlikely that the revenues from Township consumers would cover both
the costs of distribution and the allocable bulk supply costs. It has been
agreed, therefore, thiat the water contract with BCL, and t:he comparable con-
tract with BPC, shou1ld provide that in addition to its al:Locable share of
bulk suipplv costs, BC!. should pay a Dlomestic Water Contribution, which would
he divided proportionately with BPC on the basis of relative bulk supply
sales. The Domestic Water Contribution would be equal to the difference be-
tween the total revenues from Township consumers and the total costs of water
sold in the Township.  For this purpose, bulk supply costs of such water
would be based on capital charges with an 8% return, and the distribution
costs would be based on capital charges which would cover only the deprecia-
tlon provision initially, and would provide a return of 3.5% in 1975/76, 5%
in 197f/77, 7.5% in 1977/78, and 8% thereafter.
6.15      Including, the Domnestic Water Contribution, it is estimated that
the rates charged to BCL and BPC for water for the mine and power station
wouldl rnnge from Ri 88/1,000 Ig (US$1.02/1,000 USg) in 1974/75 to Ri 78/
1.000 Ig (IiS$O.90/1,000 USg) in 1981/82.  Taking into account the estimated
Increase in annual water consumption for BCL, its total yearly payments for
water are estimate(i to range from R 1,200,000 to R 1,300,000.
6.1f      The estimates of capital and operating costs fcor the Morupule
water supply are preliminary (see paragraph 4.05). All of the Morupule
water would be used by the coal mine. It has been assumed that the price
of the water would be sufficient to cover operating costs; and provide an
annual financial return of 8% on the capital invested amortized on a sinking
fuTnd basis over 25 years. The resulting price of about R 8.50/1,000 Ig com-
pares to Ri 30/1,000 Ig allowed by the company in estimating its selling
price for coal. The difference would increase fuel costs by about 10%,
and this has been taken into account in estimating power costs.
6.17      On the pricing bases explained in paragraphs 6.12 - 6.16, the
estimated rate of return on the water facilities included in the Project,
including a 1/2% provision for working capital, would be 7.1% in 1974/75,
7.5% in the following year, and 8% by 1978/79.  This is satisfactory. It
was agreed during negotiations that WUC would take all necessary action
so that the annual financial rate of return earned by its Shashe and Morupule
Divisions accounting for the water facilities included in the Project would
he maintained at not less than 7% in 1974/75, 7.5% in 1975/76 through 1977/78,
and 8% thereafter, on the recorded cost of gross fixed assets in service
as revalued from time to time plus the provision for working capital (see
paragraph 6.07).



- 32 -
e.   Post Project Expansion
6.18      As presently anticipated, BPC would not have any major construc-
tion expenditure requirements for the area served by the Pikwe Power Station
until 1980, vhen it would probably have to incur preliminary expenses for
an additional generating unit to be put into service by 1982/83. The esti-
mate of sources and applications of funds (Annex 14(c)) indicates that vir-
tually all of the cost of this expansion, now estimated at R 1,940,000,
could be met by internally generated funds. Although there are at this time
no expansion requirements foreseen for the water facilities included in the
Project, WUC is expected to accumulate a reserve for expansion of R 920,000
by 1981182 which would be available to finance any expansion at a later date.
The expansion requirements of the Power and Water Corporations as presently
estimated do not include any funds for possible new mining or other develop-
ments in northeast Botswana (see paragraphs 1.03 - 1.05). Any sutrplus funds
of the Pikwe Division of BPC and of the Shashe and Morupule Divisions of WUC
would be available for the costs of such developments if they materialize
and for expansion requirements of their Gaborone/Lobatse Division. Interest
income of 6% per annum on the surplus funds has been assumed.
f.   Capital Structure
6.19      Almost all of the Government's investment in the Power and Water
Corporations for the facilities included in the Project would be in the
form of loans repayable over 25 years after full scale operations begin
and bearing the same interest (assumed to be 7-1/4% per annum) as the Bank
Loan. These loans would represent principally the relending of finance
provided by the Canadian, U.S.A. and Bank Loans to the Government for con-
struction of these facilities. The arrangements for the relending would
be set forth in subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and the
Corporations. The terms of these agreements were agreed during negotia-
tions, and among other things they would set forth the obligations of the
Corporations with respect to such matters as management, accounting, and
rates of return (see paragraphs 2.11, 6.04, 6.11 and 6.17). Signature and
completion of all conditions to the effectiveness of the subsidiary loan
agreements would be conditions of effectiveness of the Bank loan. A small
amount of the Government's investment would be made as unredeemable loan
capital 1/, which may be considered as in effect an equity interest, and
which would represent the costs already incurred for the feasibility studies
1/   The unredeemable loan capital would bear interest at a rate! varying from
zero to a maximum of 10% per annum, depending on the financial position
and future cash requirements of the Corporations. The actual interest
rate, if any, will be fixed annually by the Government in contsultation
with the Corporations and taking into account their financial position
and requirements. It has been assumed for purposes of the financial
forecasts, covering the period 1973/74-1981/82, that the interest on
the unredeemable loan capital would be waived for the Power Corporation
and would be paid at the rate of 7-1/4% per annum by the Water Corpor-
ation beginning in 1974/75.



-33 -
financed by UNDP and the Government, and the costs of a training program
and early hiring of staff for the power station financed by the Canadian
Technical Grant. The initial balance sheets as of April 1, 1973 would show
a debt/equity ratio for Power of 99/1 and for Water of 98/2. With the re-
tention of earnings, there will be a gradual increase in the equity and by
1981/82, the debt/equity ratio would be 89/11 for Power and 90/10 for Water
(see Annexes 14(d) and 15(d)). These are very high debt/equity ratios and
the debt service coverage is poor, ranging from about 1 to 1.2 times over
the forecast period (see Annexes 14(c) and 15(c)). The capital structure
may be accepted, however, since the minimum payments by 13CL under the 25
year power and water supply contracts with BPC and WUC will be sufficient
to cover the debt service, and the funds available for expansion after pro-
viding for debt service appear to be ample to meet presently foreseen con-
struction requirements. Moreover, it is in the Government's interest to
maximize the funds paid to it from the water and power facilities included
in the Project so long as this is consistent with the financial needs of the
Corporations. The Government has informed the Bank that in the event that
the expansion requirements prove to be greater than now foreseen, or the
Corporations sustain unanticipated financial reverses, it would consider
making suitable adjustments in the capital structure, such as deferring in-
terest or amortization payments or converting some of the debt into un-
redeemable loan capital.
Township and Temporary Water Facilities
6.20      The Government and BCL have agreed that 75% of the cost of "common
services" of Selebi/Pikwe Township would be charged to BCL, and that BCL
would repay these costs to the Government in equal semi-annual installments,
including interest of 10% per annum on the unpaid balance, over a 25 year
period beginning in November 1975. 1/ The "common services" are the township
facilities which are the responsibility of the local government, including
such items as roads, sewage disposal, drainage, schools, housing for
teachers, administration, fire station and recreation. The allocation
of 75% to BCL was based on the estimated proportion of ithe total township
population which BCL employees would constitute in 1973,/74. On the basis
of present cost estimates, including provisions for contingencies, engi-
neering, administration and interest during construction, the semi-annual
payments to be made to the Government by BCL under this agreement would
total about R 240,000 per year. The agreement also provides that the
payment to be made by BCL would be adjusted to reflect changes in the
values of the currencies spent in constructing the "common services" in
relation to Botswana currency. Signature and completion of all conditions
to the effectiveness of this agreement would be conditions of effectiveness
of the Bank Loan.
I/ The semi-annual payments for Township "common services" are tantamout
to ground rent payable by BCL for a leasehold interest in the Town-
ship land on which it will build housing for the mine employees.



- 34 -
6.21      The remaining costs of the Township "common services" are allocable
to the Central Government, the Township Government, the Power antd Water
Corporations and the persons who will be attracted to the town for private
business and employment. The Government has informed the Bank that its
policy is to sell or lease land in the Township for private use on a basis
which would recover the costs attributable to the land set aside for the
private sector.
6.22      The Power and Water Corporations would be charged for that
part of the "common services" of the Township attributable to thlem, as well
as the cost of power and water distribution facilities and administration
buildings included in the Township part of the Project. These costs
would be included in the Corporations' fixed assets in service, and the
Corporations' tariffs would be sufficient to recover them with a reson-
able return.
6.23      The full costs of temporary water facilities (see paragraph 9
of Annex 4) would be quite high. The Government and BCL have agreed to
enter into a contract under which the Government would charge tariffs
sufficient to cover the costs of operation, maintenance, and administra-
tion of the temporary water supply, and BCL would agree, at the end of
the temporary water supply, to pay its allocable share of the capital
costs, less the value of assets transferred to the permanent water supply
and recovered for reuse or resale, and plus capital charges of 8% per annum
during the period of the temporary water supply. BCL's allocable share
would be determined by comparing the total quantity of water consumed by
BCL and all other persons supplied, and BCL would have the option of paying
its share of the capital costs in full or by equal annual installments over
a period of 25 years including interest of 10% per annum on the outstanding
balance. Assuming that BCL's share of the temporary water consumption is
75%, the estimated capital costs chargeable to it would be R 680,000, on
which the annual annuity payment would be R 75,000. This payment would
be subject to adjustment for changes in currency values as in the case of
the Township payments (see paragraph 6.20). Signature and completion of
all conditions to the effectiveness of the temporary water supply agree-
ment would be conditions of effectiveness for the loan.
6.24      The remainder of the costs of temporary water supplies not
chargeable to BCL would be recovered from other users. Most likely, these
costs would be allocated to the other users on the basis of the direct
costs of construction and, as far as the Township and Power and Water
Corporations are concerned, would be included in tt.e amount of the Gov-
ernment's loans to them. In accordance with the Government's policy (see
paragraph 6.21), any costs attributable to the private sector would be
recovered in the prices charged for sale or lease of land.
6.25      In addition to the "common services" and the power and water
distribution facilities already mentioned, the Township part of the
Project includes the facilities chargeable to functions which are the
responsibility of the Central Government (the health center, police,



- 35 -
prison, post office and telecommunications). These have an estimated
cost, including interest during construction, of about R 800,000. Except
for the postal and telecommunication facilities with an estimated cost
of R 200,000, the Central Government services would not have a substan-
tial revenue earning capacity, and their operating costs will be paid
out of the Central Government budget (see paragraph 6.30).
6.26      The Township part of the Project also includes housing with
estimated costs, including interest during construction, as follows:
Estimated Cost
Housing for Employees of                 (R Thousands)
Central Government                              720
Local Government                               265
BPC                                          1,100
WUC                                             325
Railway                                         350
Teachers (Chargeable as Common Costs)           100
Total       2,860
While rents would be collected on the housing, the Government's policy
is to limit such rents to 15%-20% of an employee's salary or wages.
This would generally not be sufficient to cover a full "ecomomic" rent,
which the Government has estimated at 12% of the estimated cost of the
housing, including a financial return of 8% per annum, amortization of
the cost over 25 years, maintenance and rates (real property taxes).
The difference in the case of employees of BPC, WUC and the Railways
would be included as an operating expense chargeable to consumers.
6.27      Annex 16 contains the estimated revenues and expenditures for
Selebi/Plkwe Township for 1971/72-1981/82. Except for the three-year con-
struction period when there is an estimated total deficiency of about
R 26,000, revenues are expected to be sufficient to cover expenses.
Revenues would be collected through the medium of the Local Government
wage tax, property taxes, school fees, beer and trade licenses, other
service charges, and rentals from employee housing. Expenses would
include the cost of schools, maintenance of public works, refuse and
sewerage services, and public administration. The expenses also include
an annual payment of R 35,000 to the Central Government representing the
amount required to repay over 25 years the capital costs of the Township
common services and of the temporary water supply allocable to the Local
Government at 10% interest and the costs of housing for Local Government






- 36 -
employees at 8% interest. The Government has advised the Bank that it is
its policy that, after the Mining Development becomes operational, the
Selebi/Pikwe Township Authority should raise sufficient revenues to cover
its recurrent expenses, including the aforementioned annual payment to the
Government.
Transport
6.28      The tariffs for traffic over the railway branch lines from
Seruli to Pikwe and from Morupule to Palapye would include a special
surcharge collected on behalf of the Government. This surcharge would
be fixed at an amount estimated to recover (a) the cost to the Govern-
ment of constructing the spur*, amortized over 25 years, plus a return
of 10% per annum, (b) all payments owed by the Government to the Railway,
including interest for the hire of recoverable items and charges for main-
tenance (see paragraph 4.06), and (c) the net rentals owed on the housing
leased by the Government to Railway employees, including a 10% return on the
cost of such housing (see paragraph 6.26). If during any year the amounts
collected as surcharges were insufficient to meet this objective, the defi-
ciency would be paid to the Government by BCL; contrarywise, any surpluses
would be paid to BCL by the Government. BCL's agreement to this arrangement,
which will be included in the master agreement, would be a condition of ef-
fectiveness of the Bank Loan.
6.29      The costs of maintaining the roads built under the Project
would exceed the estimated additional revenues to be received from fuel
and vehicle taxes and duties at existing rates, and any difference would
be met from general taxation.
Overall Financial Position of Infra"tructure Prolect
6.30      As will be seen from Annex 17, estimated Government receipts
from the Project would far exceed the additional recurrent costs to the
Government resulting from the Project, and the net receipts would be at
least 2.1 times through 1987 and thereafter 3.3 times the amount of the
debt service the Government would owe on the various credits including the
Bank Loan required to finance the Project 1/. The net receipts to the Gov-
ernment after payment of debt service would range from about R 2.7 million
to R 6.2 million per year.
1/   Government receipts taken into account include royalty, income tax,
Township and dividend payments expected from BCL; debt service payments
on the amounts relent to BPC and WUC; railway surcharges; housing rents;
individual income taxes payable by the mine employees' and other resi-
dents of Pikwe Township; and fuel, vehicle and road license taxes. Ad-
ditional customs receipts resulting from the Project have! not been con-
sidered. Government income from BCL is based on the more conservative
assumptions made by the Bank in its appraisal of the mining project ra-
ther than the more optimistic projections of BCL.



- 37 -
Audit
6.31      Agreement was reached during negotiations that the annual accounts
of the BPC and WUC would be audited by an independent auditor satisfactory
to the Bank, and that copies of the certified financial statements and of
the auditor's reports would be submitted to the Bank within five months
after the close of each financial year. A similar agreement was also ob-
tained for the audit of the Government's accounts for the construction of
the Project and of the accounts of the Selebi/Pikwe Township Authority,
except that the period within which the Bank would be furnished copies of
the audited statements would be seven months.
Debt and Capital Expenditure Limitation
6.32      In connection with Credit 233-BT, it was agreed that, because
of the possible adverse impact of further large debts on WUC's financial
position, WUC would not in any financial year incur debts having a matur-
ity of more than one year totalling in excess of US$75,000 equivalent,
without IDA's prior agreement. During the negotiations, a similar agree-
ment was reached with respect to the debts which WUC might incur without
the Bank's agreement, except that the limitation was expressed as R 55,000,
and it was agreed that BPC would not incur debts in any financial year
which would total more than R 250,000, without the Bank's agreement.
Security Arrangements
6.33      Agreement concerning the security arrangements for the proposed
Bank Loan has been reached with BCL, MG, major shareholders of BCL, the
Government and other lenders to BCL (KfW and IDC). The proposed security
arrangements include: (a) an undertaking from BCL, certain major share-
holders of BCL, and MG to guarantee the payment obligations of Botswana
under the Loan Agreement; (b) a trust arrangement under which all revenues
of BCL from sales of metal and sulphur will be channeled through a trustee
who will pay BCL's creditors and the Bank before transmitting any balances
to BCL; (c) a mortgage on BCL's title, rights and interests in the Mining
Lease and in the immovable properties of BCL located in the Selebi-Pikwe
Township to secure BCL's guarantee obligation to the Bank; and (d) provi-
sioyi for rescheduling repayment of the Bank Loan so that the life of the
Loan would not be greater than the mine life as estimated annually. Com-
pletion of the security arrangements would be a condition of effectiveness
of the Bank Loan.
(a) Guarantee Agreement
6.34      A Guarantee Agreement would be entered into between the Bank on
the one side and BCL, certain major shareholders of BCL, and MG on the other
side. Under the arrangement, BCL would guarantee the payment obligation of
Botswana under the Loan Agreement. In addition, MG, the purchaser of BCL's
metal production, would guarantee 40% of Botswana's payment obligations up
to $12 million, for a period of about 18 years or 15 years from the first
shipment of metal from the refinery, whichever is the longer. The major
shareholders of BCL would cover the remaining percentage not covered by MG,



- 38 -
which would become 100% whenever HG is released either because MG has paid
$12 million or the term of MG's obligation has expired. This guarantee would
also apply to any additional loans, up to 20Z of the original amount, which
the Bank night grant for completion of the infrastructure project (see para-
graph 4.09).
6.35      The guarantee obligations of MG and the major shareholders of BCL
would be on a several basis and such guarantee obligations are subject to
certain political force majeure events.
(b) The Trut Arrangement
6.36      A Trust Deed would be entered into among the Bank, Botswana, BCL, BPC,
WUC, MG, KfW, IDC/Tusitala (Pty) Limited, and Barclay's D.C.O. (the Trustee).
Under the Trust Deed, BCL would assign the proceeds under its sales contracts
to the Trustee. The Trustee would then transfer the proceeds to the specific
accounts from which BCL's obligations to KfW, IDC/Tusitala (Pty) Limited,
Botswana (for royalty and township contribution payments), BPC and WUC would
be paid. The payments to BPC and WUC would cover the amounts due from BCL
under the power and water contracts and would In turn be assigned to Botswana
for the payment of the debt service owed to the Government by BPC and WUC un-
der the power and water subsidiary loan agreements (see paragraph 6.19).
Since the Bank is not a direct creditor of BCL, the Bank would be paid by the
Trustee from the funds accumulated in the several Government accounts under
the inastruction of Botswana.
(c) Moitia
6.37      KfW and IDC have required BCL to create a first mortgage on BCL's
title, rights and interests in the Mining Lease and in its ijmovable properties
in the Selebi-Pikwe Township in favor of KfW and IDC to secure their loans
to BCL. Since BCL would be a guarantor of the Bank loan to Botswana, and
In order that the Bank could claim against BCL on a pari passu basis vis-
a-via KfW and IDC, the Bank would participate in the mortgage arrangements
with KfW and IDC.
(d) Rescheduling of Repayment of Bank Loan
6.38      The Bank Loan and Guarantee Agreemmts would contain provision for
BCL to furnish a certificate, with supporting evidence, each year beginning
1975, stating the amount of its proven and probable reserves, its estimated
annual schedule of depletion of such reserves, its plans for further mining
development, and the exhaustion date when it expects the mining project to
cease to be commercially justifiable. If this date, as so stated or as de-
termined by arbitration, is earlier than Hay 15, 2000, the amortization
schedule of the Bank Loan would be rescheduled to coincide with the exhaustion
date.



- 39 -
7. AGREEM ENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
7.01      During loan negotiations agreement vas reached on tbie following
points:
(a) the Government will consult with the Bank before making any
appointments to the posts of Chief Executive Engineer and
Project Engineers in the management unit (para. 2.03);
(b) the Government will cause the Power and Water Corporations
to consult with the Bank before making any appointments to
the poets of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Accountant
(para. 2.11);
(c) before placing the contract to build the Shashe-Francistown
transmission line a satisfactory comditment will be obtained
from the Francistown municipality to purchase its total power
requirements from BPC (para. 4.03);
(d)  the problem of the water supply to Morupule Colliery will
be re-investigated. The most suitable means of supplying
water to the Colliery will be determined by December 31,
1971 and contracts for the Morupule water supply will not
be awarded without the prior consent of the Bank (pars. 4.05);
(e) the Government will take all action including the enactment
of legislation and regulations for the purpose of ensuring
that the operation of the mining project and the Project
shall be conducted with due regard to public health and the
preservation of the environment. The Government will cause
BCL to comply with such legislation and regulations and will
consult with the Bank before making any changes in such legis-
lation and regulations (para. 4.21);
(f) the Power and Water Corporatlons will maintain divisional
accounts for the Project facilities separate from those for
their activities in other areas (para. 6.04);
(g) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, (i) the Power Cor-
poration will earn an annual rate of return of not less than
7.5% for the financial years 1975 through 1978 and 8% there-
after, and (ii) the Water Corporation will earn an annual rate
of return of not less than 7% for the financial year 1975,
7-1/2% for the financial years 1976 through 1978 and 8% there-
after, this requirement applying in each case to the Divisions
of the Corporations accounting for the facilities Included in
the Project and to be measured on the recorded cost of gross
fixed assets in service as revalued from time to time (pares.
6.11 and 6.17);



- 40 -
(h) the terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan agreements
between the Government and the Power and Water Corporations
(para. 6.19);
(i) the Government shall furnish certified copies of its audited
financial statements in respect of the construction of the
Project and of the Selebi-Pikwe Township Authority not later
than seven months after the end of each financial year (para.
6.31);
(j) the Corporations will have their accounts audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and submit audited
financial statements to the Bank within five months of the end
of each financial year (para. 6.31);
(k) except with the Bank's consent the Water and Power Corporations
will not incur debts in any financial year totalling more than
R 55,000 and R 250,000 respectively (para. 6.32).
7.02      As conditions of effectiveness of the loan, the following specified
documents, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been
duly executed and authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and
corporate action and all conditions to the effectiveness of such documents
shall have been fulfilled:
(a) the mining lease and tax agreement (para. 3.04);
(b) the refining contract between BCL and AMAX (para. 3.07);
(c) the KfW and IDC Loan Agreements (para. 3.08);
(d) the agreement for short-term financing during the startup
period of the mining project (para. 3.09);
(e) the shareholder commitments to finance cost overruns of
the mining project (para. 3.10);
(f) the sales contract between BCL and MG (para. 3.11);
(g) the sulphur sales contract between BCL and Triomf Fertil-
izer Limited of South Africa (para. 3.13);
(h) The coal contract between BPC and Morupule Colliery Limited
(para. 4.03);
(i) the railway agreement between the Government and the Gener-
al Manager of Rhodesia Railways (para. 4.06);
(j) the CIDA and USAID loan agreements (para. 6.03);



- 41 -
(k) the power and water contracts between the Corporations and
BCL (paras. 6.06, 6.07, 6.08, 6.12 and 6.14);
(1) the master agreement between the Government and DCL to cover
the basic rights and obligations of both parties (para. 6.06);
(n)  the subsidiary loan agreements between the Corporations and
the Government (para. 6.19);
(n)  the agreement between the Government and BCL concerning BCL's
payment of the capital costs of "comon aervices" of the town-
ship and temporary water aupply (pares. 6.20 and 6.23);
(o) the agreement between the Government and DCL which vould
guarantee reimbursement of the coasts of the railway spur
lines (para. 6.28);
(p) the security arrangements - the Guarantee Agreement, Trust
Deed and mortgages (paras. 6.33-6.37).
7.03      The increase in BCL's equity referred to in paragraph 3.08 will
also have to be accomplished before the Dank Loan becomes effective.
7.04      The Project will be suitable for a Bank loan of US$32 million for
29 years including a grace period of 4 years.
June 11, 1971



-Al I1
IWln'RNATIONIAL BANK FOR RCONSTtUCTION AND DEMEOfiNT
INTE3RNTIONAL DEZVRLOWKNT ASSOCIATEON
BOTSWANA
APPRAISAL OF IN1RASRIUCTURE PROJECT
ANNEX 1 - TIS HNG PRWOJECT
Industrial Projects Department
June 11, 1971



ANNEX 1
THE MINING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaMe No.
1.     INTRODUCTION  *...........****      .*e**********                            1
2.    MINING  PROPERTY   ORE  RESERVES AND  CONCESSION                              2
3.    THE PROJECT  ................................                                  3
Mining  .....................................                                 3
Miningatmnt...... ....... . ..... ......3
Ore  Treatment  .... ................... ..........****                      4
Smelting  ...................................                                4
Shipment           ....................................                      4
Waste  Gas  Disposal  ..              ............... * ...                  -5
Relationship  with  Infrastructure                                           5
Refining .......               .                                             5
Production and Sales...                                                      6
4.    PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ......................                                7
Construction  Management  7- -...........see.                                7
Project  Execution  Schedule  .................                              7
5.    MANAGEMENT  ................    o t.... ...... s.                              8
6'.    PROJECT COST  ........... .   ...................... .....                    8
7.    FINANCING  ................................es ......... .                    10
Equity .... 0.                                        .........             11
Long-Term   Loans  ..........   .............. ... .                        12
Construction  Financing  ......................                             12
Working  Capital  and  Contingent  Financing  ....                          12
Evaluation  of  the Financing  Plan                 ............            13
8.     MARKETS,  PRICES AND  REVENUE  ...                  ..............           13
Copper         ................... ..................                       13
Nickel  ....               .........................                        15
Sulfur  ......* .......................                                     16
Other Metals    ..........                                                  17
The Metal  Sales Contract                 ....................              17
Price  Assumptions  for  Financial  Projections  .                          18
Sales  Revenue  ...............................                             18
9.     OPERATING  COSTS  .......            .....................                   18



LABLE PT            CcTET   (Co tuud)                           as.
10.  PEO4EBTED FINNCIAL RESULTS .................           19
Isagcia} statemants .........................         20
vg4wci41 Cgvenaats .... 3...*.e..   *e**    ****      21
WIL PvoJections ....,....................             22
R4tes of  Qeturn ................,,t. 22
11.                        .......I  T .....I ,..           22
12 . Qm                                 ......              2*ss*t****@@*-4-t
1.   Selbi/PiWo, Map of General Arke
2.   Min' *Ad Plant Layout
3.   Conceqtratpr *nd S*pwjt  C4rc$4a
4,   Eqtiuetod Pha4ing of Cap$t*4  E#p*F4p#rtq #d its Fioanciqg
5.   Hst*Wa$e4  c;Wm  S;tu t4p,a   197"1Rs*
6.     tivtf   SO        #d Applt;ck t *            1W3-1B8
7.   Kattlsed R*n1p Ip*Vs as pf Dp           r a         1973-1I9S
8,   Aasu"ptionu for ?1pc1aj p1oj4c;4PAq



ANNEX 1
THE MINING PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.        The project is expected to produce an average of some 35,000 tons
per year - of copper/nickel matte, and some 103,000 tons of pure sulfur.
It is based on mining two underground deposits of copper/nickel ore, located
at Selebi and Pikwe in Botswana, (Map, Exhibit 1). The matte will be re-
fined in the USA to pure copper and nickel metals (some 14,000 and 12,000
tons per year, respectively) to be sold principally in Germany under long-term
contract. The sulfur will be sold in South Africa.
2.        The project ls the result of a minerals exploration program car-
ried out over the past 15 years by Bamangwato Concessions Limited (BCL)
whose major shareholder is American Metal Climax (AMAX) of New York. BCL
was originally a subRidiary of the former Roan Selection Trust Limited
(RST) of Zambia which was nationalized in mid-1970. Following the nation-
alization, RST's remaining assets were taken over as a subsidiary of AMAX.
A detailed description of BCL's shareholders is given in Annex 2.
3.        Tle two ore bodies were discovered in 1966.  Detailed design work
is now practically complete, financial arrangements are being finalized,
construction work has started and, as a result, BCL plans to commence produc-
tion in August 1973.
4.        The mining project is expected to cost R 86.5 million (US$121 mil-
lion), including R 8.7 million ($12.2 million) of initial working capital.
It is to he financed by BCL's shareholders, a loan from Germany and a sup-
plier credit from South Africa. No IBRD financing is involved in the mining
project.
5.        BCL has based its loan applications on a-detailed project study
carried out by experienced former RST officials now employed by BCL. The
project study was amplified by the IBRD mission, which appraised the in-
frastructure and mining pnrts of the project in November/December 1969,
led by Mr. A. E. Bailey of the Public Utilities Projects Department. Mr.
P. A. Glenshaw of the Industrial Projects Department evaluated the mining
project, and he and Mr. A. Ljungh prepared this annex.
I/ All tona are metric tons unless otherwise noted.



AMNNRI
rage 2
2. MINING PROPERTY, ORE RESERVES,
AND CONCESSION
6.        The SIlebi/Pikwe are  which is completely devoid of development is
som 35 milee from the main north/south rail and road lion in Botswana.  The
area io gen*rally flat except for some granlte outcrops, which ahow the geo-
logical activity that probably formed the ore bodies, which are layers of
mineralired rocks containing Bulfides of nickel, copper and iron.
7.        BCL discovered the two ore bodies at Selebi/Pikwe in the course
of a systeatic prospecting search and, to determine the limits of the de-
posits, drilled 186 closely spaced holes. Pros the dtilling results the
economically workable ore reserves were calculated as 43.7 million tons
with average grades of 1.23% copper and 1.18% nickel. The deposits are
expected to be carrying only mall amounts of water. The breakdwmn of
the reserves ia given below:
TABLE 1
Estimated Ore Reserves
Quantitv                Otalde            AveraLe  Thicknesa
(million tons)       X Mi        X Cu           of Ore Body
(ft)
Selebi
Proven              10.0            0.70        1.56               14.4
Probable             2.6            0.88        1.28                7.6
Ptkwe
Proven              22.1             1.45       1.14               14.0
Probable             9.0             1.13       1.09               11.7
Total                 43.7      Ave.: 1.18 Ave.: 1.23
The reserves estimates are based on realistic projections of the drill re-
*ult8. Specialists of Lurgi, a German engineering company engaged by KFW,
share this opinion, as do Behre Dolbear Company, independent geological
and mining consultants of New York.  The reserve calculations meet the re-
quirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and will be cited
in a prospectus accompanying a new *hare issue for the project. The reserves
compare favorably in quantity to other copper and nickel projects financed by
the Bank. However, they are unique in containing nearly equal portions of cop-
per and nickel, whose grades would likely be too low to be mi4ed individually.
It is the combined grade that *^kes the ore economically attractive.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
8.        an the basis of the entimatedl ore reserves, BCI. selected a rining
scheme thAt promises to give a mine life of about 25 years.  Tlus, ample ore
reserves can be countvd on when starting mining operations, which will allow
8CL to develop other nearby ore bodies which could permit an expansion of
the mining rate if they proved economical to exploit.
9.        BCL holds a mineral concession granted initially by the Bsaungwato
Tribal Authoritv and later confirmed by the Botswana Government. It grants
BCL the exclusive riglht to explore for copper and nickel in a portion of the
Bamangwato Tribal Area, and to nine such dinerals. BCLts exploration rights
under the concession will progressively diminish until November 1974, when
they will cease completely.
10.       The Government has agreed to grant BCL a wining lease for its
mining operations at Selebi/Pikwe, and the Government and BCL have agreed
on the terms of a tax agreement covering BCL's mining operations under the
mining lease and its exploration activities in Botswana. The various agree-
ments provide for payments to be made to the Government in three forms:
(1) a 7-1/2% royalty on net income with a minimum annual payment of R 750,000,
under the mining lease; (2) income tax at a nominal rate of 40% of net income
after royalty and after an allowance for capital expenditure in the form of
a 75% deduction from taxable income until the total amount of capital expend-
iture has been deducted, under the tax agreement; and (3) dividends from the
Covernment's I5% shareholding in BCL, which it will receive without cash
paysent pursuant to the mineral concession, when BCL becomes a mining
company. There Is provision for additional corporate tax if the profits
exceed certain amounts.
3. THE PROJECT
Mining
11.       RCL wlll use underground methods similar to those used by RST in
its 40 years of operation In Zambia. The relatively thin (5 to 50 feet)
mineralized seams will be removed from the surrounding barren country rock
via three vertical shafts (two at Pikwe and one at Selebi) wzith a maximum
depth of 1.200) feet (see Exhibit 2).  Mning rates and cost  sassume that
only 85% of the ore will be extracted (with the remaining 15% being left
for support purposes). The ore removed will be diluted 10-30% with country
rock. These are realistic assumptions for this type of mining.
12.       The mining rate will be 2.0 million tons per year, of ore and
country rock, decreasing to 1.6 million tons annually after the first 11
years, as mining depth advances and the thickness of the ore body decreases.
At these rates, a mine life of about 25 years can be assumed.
13.       hlard-rock mining, although mechanized, also requires considerable
manual labor and 65^ of the labor employed in the project will be working
uinderground.



AIIN1 I
P`age 4
Ore Treatment
14.       The ore will be treated in a conventional crushing and concentrat-
ing process. The process flow (the diagram for which is showm in Exhibit 3)
has been tested in a pilot plant operation using bulk samples of Pikve and
Selebi ores. No problems are expected in producing a copper/'nickel concen-
trate, as the copper, nickel, and iron sulfides are readily steparated from
the host rock. However, to maximize concentrator recovery pasrticularly
conscientious mining will be required to obtain an ore mix wiLth relatively
even couposition.
15.       According to design, the tailings from the concentrator, which
will contain some nickel, will be discarded to a dump; part of the nickel
could be recovered by the installation of additional flotation equipment.
As nickel prices change, the company will keep under review tLhe economics
of recovering the nickel content of the tailings.
Smelting
16.       BCL has selected the "flash" smelting process - de veloped and
proven in Finland over the last 15 years by Outokumpu Oy - as it shows
somewhat lower capital and operating costs than other methods. It is also
able to produce a pure sulfur byproduct from the smelter gase by reduction
of the sulfur dioxide in them.
17.       BCL proposes to introduce an innovation into the process by using
coal 1/ instead of naphtha for the reduction, which has been proven feasible
in pilot plant teats. However, some risk still remains, as coal has not been
used in full scale operations, and prolonged teething troubles could occur.
Care will be taken in equipment design and in adequate stocking of spare
parts, to minimize the possibility of breakdowns or prolonged interruptions.
On balance, the decision to adopt the flash smelter to use coal as a reduc-
tant is considered justified and the risks associated with it acceptable.
Shipment
18.       The matte product from the smelter will be railed as general cargo
to a Southern African port for shipment to the USA. Beira in Mozambique has
the shortest rail connection to the mine - some 800 miles.
19.       BCL could also use Lourenco Marques, Durban, East London, Port
Elizabeth, and Cape Town, as all are connected by rail to Blotswana, and
they and the rail systems linking them have sufficient capacity. Matte
will be shipped from the port in lots of 500-2,500 tons.
1/   Coal will be imported initially as locally mined coal lErom Korupule
has yet to be proven suitable for this purpose.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Waste Gas Disposal
20.       The usually serious ecological problems associated with the smelt-
ing of sulfide ores will be lessened to a large extent by ithe reduction of
most of the sulfur dioxide in the smelter gases and the disposal of the re-
sidual gas to the atmosphere via a tall (525 ft) stack. Rowever, difficul-
ties with the SO2 reduction process could cause considerable temporary in-
creases in air pollution, and the smelter operation might have to be cut
back at such times to lessen possible health risks. Even during smooth
operation of the reduction process, the smelter gas released to the atmos-
phere will contain some SO2 and particles, and the degree of air pollution
in the township (the nearest houses of which will be less than two miles
from the smelter) will have to be carefully monitored.
Relationship with Infrastructure
21.       Supporting the operations will be the facilitieg of the Infra-
structure Project described in the main report. Apart from ancillary plant
of an infrastructure type such as:
-    the ore railroad between Pikwe and Selebi,
-    electricity and water transmission between the two mines,
-    railroad loading and unloading facilities,
-    workshops and other service facilities,
BCL's participation in the direct financing of the infrastructure will be
confined to building houses for its close to 2,000 employees on serviced
lots provided in the township by the Government. The company will also
amortize about R 240,000 per year on the township's capital costs.
Refining
22.       The matte will be refined in an existing plant owned by AMAX,
at Port Nickel some 22 miles south of New Orleans. The refinery was
built in 1959 to process a Cuban nickel ore containing very little cop-
per as opposed to the Botswana matte with its 42% copper. The refinery
operated for only six months, as Cuba embargoed ore exports to the US
after the revolution of 1960. It has been standing idle since then, but
is in fair mechanical condition, and can be rehabilitated. AMAX has had
two engineering studies made of the rehabilitation and both confirmed its
own conclusions as to the cost and time required. The process scheme
will be altered to use Outokumpu technology, so that the plant can accept
a wide variety of nickel and copper bearing materials for refining. AMAX
has spent about $1 million in engineering and pilot plant studies and is
confident that the plant can be suitably modified in time to receive the
Botswana matte.
23.       IBRD staff have visited Outokumpu and Port Nickel and are
satisfied that the AMAX rehabilitation scheme is reasonatble and can be



ANNEX I
Page 6
completed in time to enable the refinery to receive the first shipment
of BCL matte in October of 1973. This conclusion was confirmDd by two
Lurgi consultants.
24.       AMAX and BCL have agreed on a 15 year toll refining contract,
based on fixed fees per lb of nickel and per lb of copper refined (sub-
ject to escalation on a U.S. labor wage index). The contract provides
for 98% recowery of the nickel and copper contained in the matte and 70%
recovery of the cobalt contained in the matte.
25.       The contract contains sufficient provisions to ensure an arm's-
length relationship between BCL and AMAX.  AMAX will guarantee to deliver
metals in proportion to the matte received. This is important as no other
refinery is expected to be able to take on this special type of copper/
nickel matte without modifications that would take time and require in-
vestments. The signing and effectiveness of the refining contract would be
a condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loan.
26.       BCL decided to use the AMAX facility after comparing bids it
received from AMAX and Falconbridge Nickel Inc. The Falconbridge bid,
which was for refining in its plant in Norwayj, was higher than that of
AMAX.  AMAX will absorb any additional transportation and similar costs
that BCL would incur by using the Port Nickel refinery as compared to a
refinery in Norway. Indications from industry sources are that the AMAX
bid is reasonable for the type of material to be treated.
27.       BCL also evaluated the possibility of building a refinery in
Botswana, thus exporting a higher value product and saving transportation
costs. This was found unattractive as additional $15-20 million of capital
would be needed, and the additional expatriate staff would be substantial
in number and difficult to find.
Production and Sales
28.       Mining and matte production are expected to start in August 1973
and to build up to full capacity over a period of 11 months. Rail shipment
of matte from the mine to seaport, sea shipment from Africa to the US, re-
fining, and sea shipment of metals from the US to Germany will take 150
days. Revenue from the sale of nickel will be delayed further due to sale
on 45 days' credit.
29.       At the projected mining rates, matte production and metal sales
will develop as shown in Table 2.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
TABLE 2
Projected Mining Rate, Matte Production and Sales
(Thousand tons per year)
1973    1974    1975-78    1979-83       1984-98
Ore mined           250   2,000      2,000       2,000       1,600
Matte produced      4.5    35.6       40.7       42.2         32.8
Nickel sold          -      8.4       14.8        14.0        11.6
Copper sold          -      9.6       16.6        18.5        13.7
Sulfur sold          -    105.7      105.7      106.5        111.4
Cobalt sold          -      0.1        0.1        0.1          0.1
30.       The 5% increase in the production of natte, vhich occurs in 1979
is due to the mining of ore which contains more copper but slightly less
nickel than in earlier years. The fall in output In 1984 ILs due to deeper
mining and thinner ore seams.
4. PROJECT IMPLEHENTATION
Construction Management
31.       In building the mining facilities, BCL will use resources from
Its associated companies as well as those of contractors. The London
Engineering Division of Selection Trust Limited, has assisted in preparing
the project cost estimates and is providing the detailed plant design. BCL
has selected Brown and Root Inc. of Houston, Texas as managing contractor
after evaluating the bids submitted by five large construction companies.
32.       Brown and Root vill produce construction dramings, will procure
all equipment and will supervise construction on a cost-plue-fixed-fee
basis. By using AMAX's proven cost control system, DCL hcopes to reduce
overruns inherent in this type of contract.
33.       Regular coordination meetings are planned with lthe management
team for the infrastructure project to ensure simultaneous and timely com-
pletion of both projects. This is of utmost importance, as the standing
charges for BCL would be about R 1.3 million per wmnth (see paragraph 44).
Project Execution Schedule
34.       Matte production is scheduled to start in August 1973.  The
infrastructure and mining projects, as well as the wsdification of the
AKAX refinery, are geared to meet this schedule.  3CL's main initial ef-
fort will be to develop the mine workings, while Brown and Root will con-
centrate on purchasing the ore treatment equipment and preparing the
plant site for construction. By opening up the mine while the plant con-



ANNsEX 1
Page 8
struction proceeds, BCL will be able to start ore extraction as soon as
the treatment plant is complete. Construction work has started. Shaft
sinking is in progress, site preparation has started and the first houses
are being erected. The temporary power plant and water supply facilities
are complete as is the power line between Pikwe and Selebi. The construct-
ion schedule is shown in Annex 6.
5. MANAGEMENT
35.       All senior staff have been recruited.  Most of the senior techni-
cal staff have been working on the project for over 2 years having been
recruited from RST. AMAX is providing BCL with technical and imanagement
backup. The smelter staff will be trained in flash smelting for several
months In Finland. In this way BCL will be assured of management of ade-
quate caliber.
36.       It is expected that BCL will need a managerial and technical
staff of 270 as well as 1,800 workers. Initially, managerial staff will
be recruited from outside Botswana; and the workers from among the 30,000
Batawana who work in South African mines. BCL has set out a comprehensive
training program aimed at systematically reducing the expatriate require-
ment. Its aim is that by 1980 localization will be up to the shift boss
level; in the mid-80's local staff will be in mine captain and plant fore-
man positions; and by the mid-90's they will have moved up to mine and
plant superintendent level.
37.       Expattiates will be hired initially for fixed-term contracts of
1-3 years, as is currently the practice in Zambia for newly hired expatri-
ates. As the experience in Zambia has shown, BCL may have dif'ficulty in
hiring and holding capable staff on this basis. BCL is therefore planning
to pay salaries which they expect will attract and keep the expatriates
needed and create stability and continuity in top and middle tmanagement.
6. PROJECT COST
38.       The estimated capital cost of the mining project is summarized in
Table 3.



MN   1
Page 9
TABLE 3
Capital Cost Estimate for the HininR Prolect
Total Expenditure      Foreign
Rand          US$    Expenditure /1
- --mZllion--              x
Mine equipment and development               10.8      15.1        86
Other plant and equipment                   26.3       36.8        82
Housing                                       3.7       5.2        40
Preproduction expenses /2                   -21.9      30.6        51
Provision for escalation and
contingencies                              7.9       11.1
TOTAL                        70.6      98.8
Interest during construction                 7.2       10.1       100
TOTAL CAPITAL COST           77.8     108.9         72
Working capital                               8.7      12.1        100
TOTAL FINANCING NEED         86.5     121.0         75
/'1  Since foreign expenditure is a rough estimate, it is sihown as a per-
centage only.
/2   Includes R 13.2 million (US$ 18.5 million) of expenses incurred up
to the end of 1970.
39.       This estimate was prepared by BCL in Septenber 1970 and is general-
ly comprehensive and accurate. Of the total capital cost of R 70.6 million,
R 10.0 million had already been incurred for exploration and engineering
design. Another R 14.8 million were determined through firm price contracts
for housing, temporary power, mining, and processing plant and firm quota-
tions for R 8.1 million had been obtained for plant equipment. Of the
remainding R 37.7 million, R 7.9 are provisions for price escalation and
physical contingencies and of the remaining R 29.8 million, R 15.1 million
is based on price information obtained from suppliers. This leaves R 14.7
million which is estimated on the basis of statistical data and RST's mining
experience.
40.       Although BCL is firmly convinced that its capital cost estimate is
compelte and conservative, an increase in the estimate could be justified,



ANNEX 1
Page 10
as discussed in the following paragraphs. Therefore, strict overrun commit-
ment clauses will obligate the shareholders to provide any additional funds
needed to complete and start up the project. The effect of a capital cost
overrun will be shown in the sensitivity analysis (Chapter 11).
41.       Although a firm price contract has been obtained for the con-
struction of housing, the standard of housing Is lower than that provided
in most other mining towns in Africa. Furthermore, the contract sum appears
low even for the type of housing planned. There is conaqequently a risk that
BCL may have to improve the housing or pay higher salaries to attract
personnel, or both.
42.       Host of the statistically estimated costs are preproduction ex-
penses for administration and plant commissioning. Past experience from
similar projects indicates that these costs have a tendency to exceed es-
tlmates.
43.       The provision for price escalation is based an an anntual rate of
inflation of 5% on the capital cost estimate over the 3 year construction
period. This was based on experience of South African inflation which
ranged between 3% and 7% in the last 10 years. Currently inflation is
about 6X per year and it is not certain that this will be reduced during
the construction period. However, as part of the inflation will be ab-
sorb-d by fixed price contracts, the 5% allowance should prove sufficient.
44.       If there is a delay in project implemntation, additional costs
will arise mainly from wages, salaries, interest and extension of the
management contract.  These costs would amount to about R 1.3 million per
month of delay.
45.       It is estimated that foreign exchange costs -  mainly for imported
equipment - will amount to about 72% of total capital cost or R 57 million,
of which at least R 24 million will be spent in South Afriea. Expenditures
in Botswana are expected to total R 21 million and cover exploration costs,
the costs of local construction labor and supplies, local expenditures of
foreign construction labor, and local tramsport.
46.       Of the working capital of 8.7 million, 2.0 million will be used
during construction to build up a stock of spare parts and materials (see
Exhibit 4).  The remaining R 6.7 million will be used for initial cash
operating expenses of R 3.8 million until January 1974, when revenue from
the sale of metals will start to accumulate. This leaves cash reserves of
R 2.9 million at the end of 1973. (See Balance Shoet for 1973, Exhibit 6.)
7. PINANCING
47.       BCL has arranged long-term financing of R 86.5 million for the
project on the basis of 35% equity and 65% debt. The funds willl be pro-



AV   1
Page 11
vided by the shareholders, the German Kreditanstalt fur WLederaufbau (KFW)
and the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) of South Africa as shown
in Table 4.
TABLE 4
Financin&  f  h  Minin  Pro ect.
Amount of           Part of       Part of
Equity                            Financing          Financing   shareholding
Rand         US$
million     million        (Z)           (X)
Botswana RST                  18.28        25.59      21.2          51.8
Foseco Minsep Ltd.             6.92         9.68        8.0          19.6
Kalahari Investments Ltd.    4.76           6.67        5.5          13.5
Others                         0.04         0.06        0.04         0.1
Republic of Botswana            _  --                                15.0
TOTAL EQUITY         30.0         42.0        34.7         100.0
Long Term Loans
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(DM 222 million)           43.0         60.2        49.7
Industrial Development
Corporation of South
Africa                      13.5         18.9        15.6
(supplier credit)
TOTAL LONG TERM LOANS 56.5          79.1        65.3
TOTAL FINANCING        86.5        121.1       100.0
Egul tZ
48.       At the end of 1970, R 3 million of equity had been authorized
of wtiich R 2.8 million had been paid. Shareholder loans amiounting to
about R 10 million at the end of 1970, will be converted into equity dur-
ing 1971. The remaining share capital will be provided by present BCL
shareholders in connection with a public issue of rights to BRST share-
holders in the United States in mid-1971. AMAX will underwrite the BRST
issue.
49.       BRST will be the majority shareholder in BCL.  BtST is in turn
controlled by AMAX which will hold 43%, while 57% are spread among small
shareholders, mostly in the United States. Poseco Minsep Ltd. is incor-
porated in the United Kingdom. Kalahari Investments Ltd. (Kalahari) is a
member of the group of companies led by Anglo American Corporation of South
Africa, Limited. A detailed description of BCL's shareholdters is given in
Annex 2.



ANNEX 1
Eage 12
50.       The Government of Botswana will receive a 15Z shareholding in
BCL, credited to it as fully paid, when BCL becomes a mining coupany (see
paragraph 10).
Long-Term Loans
51.       A long-term loan has been arranged by a consortium headed by
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW). The loan will be guaranteed 90% by
the Geran Government and 10% by the shareholders of BCL. The loan will
have a 15-year term with a grace period of 5 years. The effective in-
terest rate is 9.1%, and there wlll be a guarantee fee of 3/4% and a coulit-
went fee of 3/8%. Procurement under the loan will not be tied to Germany.
52.       The Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) of South Africa
will provide a supplier credit, guaranteed by the Credit Guarantee Insur-
ance Corporation of South Africa. The credit will be repaid bover 10 years,
starting half a year after the project is completed with an effective in-
terest rate of 8.9%. The supplier credit will rank equally with the KPW
loan. The 1(1W and IDC loan agreements will be signed before the Bank Loan
becomes effective.
Construction Financin
53.       Because the IDC credit will be disbursed only after the completion
of construction, there will be a need for a short-term construction loan dur-
ing 1973 (see Exhibit 4). BCL is arranging for a loan from South African
banks, an interest rate of about 10%.
Working Ca itl and Contingent Financing
54.       The working capital of R 8.7 million provided throtugh long-term
financing will have been reduced to its lowest level of R 3.4 million by the
end of 1974. (See Balance Sheets, Exhibit 6W) There is a time lag of about
6 months between matte production ancrual of sales revenue, which
creates a large inventory or pipeline of matte and metals in transit. This
will require additional financing duriag the buildup period, which BCL
intends to obtain through borrowing against the pioeline to a maximum level
of R 5 million in 1974. In addition, BCL intends to discouit the invoices
for nickel which will yield an additional R 3 million during 1974.  Both
these sources of finance are available only If production anld sales build
up as projected.
55.       In order to protect the lonuterm lenders, short-term borrowing
beyond the limits, mentioned in paragraph 93, initially agreed upon will be
subject to the approval of KFW. IDC and the Bank.
56.       Overrun commitments to be given to KFW and IDC and included in the
IBRD Guarantee Agreement obligate the shareholders to advance funds on terms
satisfactory to the lenders. The obligation remains until the mining and
processing facilities have been tested, and operated at 80% of full
capacity for 6 months. Working capital wmst be provided so that the ratio



ANNEX 1
lage 13
between current assets and current liabilities is 1.5 or higher. Such
additional funds shall be provided by means of cash purchases of additional
shares of BCL capital stock or subordinated loans repayable over at least 3
years out of funds otherwise available for dividends, and wilth reapect to
the equivalent of the first US$10 million of these additionll funds, not
less than 40% shall be provided through purchases of equity.
Evaluation of the Financing Plan
57.       Bearing in mind the obligation on the shareholders to provide
funds for project completion and working capital, the financing plan is
satisfactory. The terms of loans suit the needs of the project. The
debt/equity (DIE) ratio of 65/35 at the end of construction is high, and
it is expected to rise to 68/32 due to projected losses during the first
full year of operation. However, the obligations on the shareholders en-
sure that cost overruns do not halt the project or create liquidity pro-
blems before substantially full production is reached. Later, the debt/equity
ratio decreases steadily.
8. MARKETS, PRICES AND REVENUE
58.       The future revenue earned by BCL will depend directly on the
world market prices for copper and nickel and on the termu of the con-
tracts which BCL has entered into for the sale of these metatls.  The
prices of sulfur and cobalt are less important since they wiLll only in-
fluence a small part of BCL's revenue. A more detailed analysis of the
market outlook for copper and nickel is made in Annex 3.
Copper
59.       The world's mine production of copper was about 5.9 million
metric tons ln 1969, of which 4.8 million tons were produced outside the
cenitrally planned economies (CPE's) but including Yugoslavia. Of the
latter amount, 40 percent was produced in CIPEC member countries (Chile,
Congo (K), Peru and Zambia) whille another 8 percent was produced by other
developing countrics. Total consumption in 1969 of refined copper includ-
ing secondary copper refined from scrap, was 5.7 million tons outside the
CPE's.  Of this consumption, the developing countries accounted for only
about 5 percent.
60.       The total known reserves 1J contain about 280 million metric tons
of copper.  At projected levels of production this corresponds to a resctv.^t!
1/ These are reserves which can he economically mined at a copper price of
56 US cents/;lb in 1968 price level, as estimated by the US Bureau of
Mines. This corresponds to a price of about 63 cents/lb in 1970 terms.
At the present price of abont 50 cents, the reserves will be smaller.



Pag  14
life of roughly 20 years. At the end of 1969, the annual mine capacity out-
side the CPE's was 5.27 million tons. If present development plas are
carried out, the capacity will have risen to 7.45 million tons by the end
of 1974, an average annual growth rate of 7.2 percent. This places an
upper limit on the supply of primary refined copper in the phort run. The
actual growth of mining capacity will be determined by production costs
and price expectations.
61.       Consumption of refined copper outside the CPE's has grown at
4.3 percent annually since 1950. Primary copper constitutes about 80
percent of all refined copper consumed. The principal uses of copper are
in electrical equipment and supplies, construction, industrial, machinery,
transportation, military equipment, coins and jewelry. If the relative
price of copper Increases, the main substitutes will be alinum  and
plastics.
62.       The average price of copper on the London Metal Extchaage in
1965-69 was about 60 US cents per pound in current prices. 1/ This ex-
eteded prior projections, partly due to high demand for expanding in-
dustrial production, military needs and larger than expected imports by Main-
land China, and partly due to delayed production expansion plans, labor
strikes on the supply side, political disturbances and technical breakdowns.
During the latter half of 1970, prices fell d4u to reduced military consump-
tion and stockpiling, and the slowdown of the world econooy.
63.       Mine output of copper has been constrained by breakdlown. and pol-
itical conflicts. Nevertheless, the copper price declined steadily in 1970,
and the London Metal Exchange price and the U.S. producer's price reached
lows of 46 and 50 cents per pound respectively, in February 1971. Since then,
the price on the London Metal Exchange has fluctuated between 46 and 58 cents
per poutd.
64.       Bank staff expects that during the decade 1970-80 the copper
price will fluctuate around the "equilibrium" of 43 U.S. cents per pound
in constant 1970 teram, which is used for purposes of this report. Such
price contrasts with the projections of DCL which forecasts an average
price of 50 U.S. cents.
65.       In the longer run, the short reserve life, increasing cost of
refining lower-grade ores and projected rapid growth of present and new
copper-using industries are expected to result in rising copper prices, 1/
despite the effects of new technology in mining and refining and of substi-
tution for other materials. Since copper mining and refining requires
large investments in sophisticated plant, there is a 3 to 5 year time lag
1/ See Chart II to the copper chapter of Annex 3.
2/   Projection by U.S. Bureau of Mines.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
between the decision to mine and copper production. Considering addition-
al uncertainties of political and economic nature, copper prices are ex-
pected to continue to fluctuate.
Nickel
66.       The world's mine production of nickel was 479,400 metric tons
in 1969, of which 367,900 tons were produced outside the CPE's. Of the
latter, 20 percent was produced in New Caledonia and 11 percent by other
developing countries. Total nickel consumption was 482,600 tons in 1969,
of which 357,600 tons outside the CPE's.  Practically all nickel is con-
sumed in the developed countries.
67.       The present known reserves contain about 68 million metric tons
of nickel. 1/ This gives a reserve life of about 65 years at projected
levels of production. At present, the total annual mine capacity outside
the CPE's is about 400,000 metric tons. Substantial expansion is planned
in Guatemala, Dominican Republic, Botswana, Indonesia, New Caledonia and
the Philipplnes. If all these plans were carried out, the capacity would
have more than doubled by 1975. However, considering that most of the
presently known nickel reserves are made up of relatively low grade later-
ite ores which can only be developed at higher cost and require large
scale facilities which must be run at near capacity production, it can be
expected that in the longer run the response of supply to increasing de-
mand will be slow. It is also expected that it would require a price of
over US$1.50 per pound in 1970 terms to bring out large quantities of
nickel and that there would be a long-term ceiling to the price of nickel
somewhere between US$1.50 and 2.00 per pound, especially since no major
technical breakthrough is expected in ore processing.
68.       Consumption of nickel outside the CPE's grew at an average
annual rate of 7.5 percent between 1959 and 1969. Secondary nickel
will become increasingly important since advanced technology uses of
nickel alloys produce up to 60 percent scrap. In addition, the U.S.
domestic resources of nickel ore are expected to be depleted by 1985.
69.       The most valuable characteristics of nickel is its toughness,
hardness and workability, resistance to corrosion and ability to induce
strength, temperature indifference and varying degrees of magnetism when
alloyed with other metals. It is also used in electric batteries, as a
catalyst, in pigments and insecticides. As a result, nickel is used in
the chemical and petroleum industries. Host stainless steel as well as
superalloys for use in gas turbines and jet and rocket engines contain
1/   These are reserves which can be economically mined alt a nickel price
of 0.96 US$/lb (1968 dollars), as estimated by the U.S. Bureau of
Mines. This corresponds to a price of about $1.08 in 1970 terms.
At the present price of $1.33, the reserves are largier.



ANNEX 1
P alge 16
nickel. Electrolytic plating with nickel for decorative purposes is com-
mon on automobiles and home appliances.
70.       There are inferior substitutes for nickel in almost every use.
Chromium, molybdenum, cobalt, manganese, copper and platinum can replace
nickel in alloys but usually with a loss of performance characteristics.
For anti-corrosive purposes, copper, plastics, paint, enamel aLnd aluminum
can be used. Recent shortages have resulted in some substitution which
cannot be reversed, but the use of nickel in advanced technology is ex-
pected to increase steadily.
71.       An estimated 60 to 65 percent of all nickel consumed outside
the CPE's is sold at producers' prices, the main suppliers being INCO,
Falconbridge, LeNickel and Sherrit Gordon. Between 1960 and 11966 the
annual average producer price in New York rose from 74 to 79 IJ.S. cents
per pound. Since then it has increased to the present price of 133 cents.
72.       The free market price, at which 35 to 40 percent of all nickel
is sold outside the CPE's,, has been subject to sharp fluctuat:Lons, since
it must absorb the market forces not reflected in the more rigid producer
price. In times of shortage in 1967, 1968 and early 1969 the free market
prices reached levels of twice the producer price.  In late 1'969, the price
was 5 to 6 times the producer price, while at present it ls in the neighbor-
hood of the producer price.
73.       Shortage of nickel in the 1960's and particularly in the past
few years together with rising prices have attracted the development of new
mining capacity which is expected to bring capacity more in line with demand.
While a certain backlog of demand is likely to remain during the next few
years and the present price of US$1.33 per pound to be maintained, a price
decline may occur when the new capacity becomes operative in the mid-seven-
ties. lUowever, in view of the high Cost of bringing new capacity into
being it is not likely that depressed prices would remain for long. Never-
theless, particularly in view of the fact that the oversupply situation may
occur just during the first few critical years of BCL's operations, Bank
staff has assumed a price of US$1.20 per pound of nickel for purposes of
financial projections. The Company has more optimistic price expectations
and has used US$1.36 for its projections. Metallgesellschaft appears even
more optimistic and does not count on a price decline during the mid-
seventies but rather a gradual further increase.
Sulfur
74.       BCL had initially projected a sulfur price of R24.6 per short ton
(equivalent to $34.5) cif Johannesburg on the basis of discussions with South
African users. A 10-year contract for the sale of most of BCtL's sulfur pro-
duction has recently been agreed upon at a price of R 23 per short ton in
1970 terms which is used in this report. Sulfur sales will account for only
about 5 percent of BCL's total revenue. The sulfur sales contract would be
signed and effective before the Loan becomes effective.



ANNEX 1
Page 17
Otlher metals
75.       Cobalt will provide only one percent of B3CL's revenue. The
projectionis assume a price of R 1.7 per pound ($2.38) for cobalt, which
is the present U.S. market price.  BCL has obtained a guarantee from
AlttX that if the price falls below this level, ANUAX will credit the BCL
refining charge with the difference in the value of the cobalt production
at the two prices.
76.       The matte will contain small quantities of precious metals,
suchi as silver. If these metals can be economically recovered they may
yield a small amount of additional revenue, but this has not: been assumed
in the financial projections. The iron content of the matte has no com-
mercial value aid will be discarded at the refinery.
The Mletal Sales Contract
77.       Under a 15-year contract, BCL will sell all of its copper and at
least 2/3 of its nickel production to Metallgesellschaft A.G. (MG) in Germany.
The price for copper will be the price in Germany of major producers, which
will be close to the London Metal Exchange price. The price for nickel
will be the producer price of Inco in Germany. The remaining one-third of
the nickel would be sold by BCL in Germany or outside, depending on where
the price is more favorable. All cobalt and any other metals produced are
to be sold to MG, provided agreement is reached on price.
78.       The commission to MG will be 2 percent of the sales value of
the copper and 3 percent of the sales value of thie 2/3 of the nickel pro-
duction sold to MG. Also, MG will receive 2 percent of the sales value of
the remaining 1/3 of the nickel, whether it is sold to MG or not.  This
corunission will increase to 2.50 percent if the nickel price exceeds $1.50
per pound and to 2.75 percent for a price over $1.80.  In addition, MG will
receLve 8 percent of that part of the nickel sales revenue which is ob-
tained from prices in excess of $1.50 per pound.
79.       The signing and effectiveness of the MG-BCL sales contract would
be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loan.
80.       Germany presently uses some 600,000 tons of copper and 35,000
tons of nickel per year, as well as considerable quantities of ores, con-
centrates, matte, scrap, and alloys. The contribution to its supplies from
BCI of 16,000 tons of copper is therefore rathter small a proportion of her
needs in contrast to the 9,000 to 13,000 tons of nickel which will be sig-
nificant.



ANNEX 1
Palge I18
Price AOusptilos  for financial projections
81.       On the basis of the preceding, the table below summsrizes the
price assumptions made in the financial projections for the teo major
metals: copper and nickel. DCL has made price projections for its own
use. Since those projections do not coincide with the Bank's, they are
shown as a separate case in the sensitivity analysis In Chapter 11.
BCL's and the Bank's price projections for sulfur (R 23 per short ton)
and for cobalt ($2.38 per pound) are assumed to be constant - like the
other prices - over the forecast period.
Table S
PrIces Assumed in Financial ProJqctio"4
(1970 US$ per pound)
Curreut Price    Bank ProJection   BCL Projection
Nickel                          1.33              1.20               1.36
Copper                          0.50              0.43               0.50
It is highly unlikely that both the coppr and the nickel prices will simul-
taneously be at the conservative levels aesumd l the Bank projections.
Sales ReVeM
82.       The production of metals and sulfur shown in Table 2, sold at the
Bank's projected prices given in Table 5 above, under the conditions of
the sales contracts, will yield the revenue iki Table 6 in the following
Chapter.
9.    x         "
83.       A breakdown of the estimated anaual o*erating costs, after full
operation has be-n attained, is shown in Table 6.



ANNEX 1
Page 19
Table 6
Projected Annual Operating Costs
1975-78       1979-83       1984-98
Annual production of matte               40.7           42.2          32.8
(Thousand tons)                          (millions of 1970 Rand)
Net Sales Revenue                        41.3           41.1          33.5
Operating Costs
Mining                                 16.3           16.2          15.3
Freight                                 2.9            2.9           2.6
Refining                                6.5            6.5           5.2
TOTAL ANNUAL OPERATING COST         25.7           25.6          23.1
84.       As in the case of capital cost estimates, the operating costs are
based on BCL's detailed assessment for each element of the olperation and
are generally considered accurate and reliable. For water, power and town-
ship costs, the Bank's estimate is used.
85.       In addition to the costs shown in Table 6, income statements show
as current costs expenditure on replacements of RO.4-0.5 million per year
and interest paid and earned. The special form of depreciation used is de-
scribed in paragraph 89.
10. PROJECTED FINANCIAL RESULTS
346.      This report's projections of BCL's future financesi are based on
BCI.'s own projections which have been reviewed, discussed and revised in
collaboration with BCL. The main difference between BCL's projections and
the Bank's stems from the lower prices for copper and nickeL assumed by
Bank staff. These and other variations In the assumptions are treated in
a sensitivity analysis in Chapter 11. The phasing of capital expenditure
and its financing during 1970-73, and the projections of income statements,
year-end balance sheets and sources and uses of funds for each year of oper-
ation (1973-98) are shown in Exhibits 4 to 7 and are summarized for the in-
itial years in Table 7 below. For comparison, BCL's projections have also
been included in the table. Detailed assumptions for the financial projec-
tions are stated in Exhibit 8.



MAt4EX 1
Page 20
TABLE 7 SUMlRY OF FINANCIAL PROJECTLONS
(millions of 1970 Rand)
Bank  Prolection            BCL Proiection
INCOME STATEMEP TS              197   194  1975  1976   1973  1974  1975  1976
Net Revenue                       -   23.4  41.3  41.3       -   26.6  47.1  47.1
Operating Cost & Replacements   -   20,   26.2  26.2         -   18.2  25.7  25.7
Operating Iacom                   -    2.7  15.1  15.1    --   8.4  21.4  21.4
_~~ -    -    
Interest                          -    5.7   5.3   5.0       -    5.5   5.1   4.7
Debt Repayment                    -    1.4   1.4   3.5       -    1.4   1.4   3.5
Royalty to Government             -      -    0.5   0.8      -    0.2   1.2   1.2
Income Tax                        -      -    0.6   0.9      -    0.2   1.6   1.6
Net Available Income                   (4.4)  7.3   4.9      -    1.1  12.1  10.4
BALANCE SHEETS (as of December 31)
Current Assets                10.2  13.9  17.8  18.0   10.2  16.3  28.8  25.9
Current Liabilities Li         2.8  10.5   9.2  10.7    2.8   8.7  10.4  11.7
Working Caital                   7.4   3.4   8.6   7.3    7.4   7.6  18.4  14.2
Net Fixed Assets                77.8  76.5  75.1  71.6   77.8  76.5  75.1  71.6
Long Term Debt                  56.5  55.2  53.8  50.3   56.5  55.2  53.8  50.3
Equity Q2                       30.0  25.6  33.0  33.8   30.0  31.1  43.3  40.4
Current Ratio                  3.6   1.3   1.9   1.7    3.6   1.9   2.8   2.2
Debt/Equity Ratio             65/35 68/32 62/38 60/40  65/35 64136 55/45 55/45
Debt Service Coverage           -    0.4   2.1   1.6       -    1.2   2.9   2.2
Dividend Paid (R million /3   -        -     -    4.0      -      -     -   13.3
/1  Current liabilities include the followlng year's aamortization of long
term debt.
2  Equity after dividend payment.
/3 Dividend is calculated on the basis of the previous year's balance sheet.
Financial StategMts
87.       In the Bank projections, mine production has been assumed to build
up to full capacity from August 1973 to mid-1974, while salesi revenue, delayed
six months by transportation and refining, will build up during 1974.
Full operating costs are incurred from the start of operatiotn and there
will be net losses in 1973 and 1974. Due to these projected losses, working
capital will be reduced to a low of R 3.4 million and cquity to R 25.6 million
at the end of 1974 after which both are expected to increase rapidly.  No
tax or royalty Is due during the initial year, except for the minimum royalty
paywent of R 750,000.



ANNEX 1
Page 21
88.       1saximim output and revenue are maintained from 1975 through 1983,
resulting in an operating income of about R 15 million annually.  Starting
In 1984, mine output and revenue are expected to decline by about 20%. As
a result, operating income is reduced to about R 10 million.
89.       As is not unusual in African mining practice, no depreciation is
chiarged. Instead, each repayment of principal on long-term loan is deducted
from the initial cost of fixed assets from 1974 through 1986, leaving net
fixed assets constant at R 21.3 million from 1987 on. In addition, taxable
income will be reduced by a capital expenditure allowance through 1984, re-
ducing the effective tax rate from 40 to 102 during that period.
90.       The current ratio declines to 1.3 by the end of 11974 due to losses
in the two initial years of operation, after which it improves steadily.
The debt/equity ratio will deteriorate initially for the same reason, then
it also improves quickly. When payments begin on the KFW loan in 1976, debt
service coverage is reduced to 1. 3, (see Exhibit 5) but then gradually im-
proves as interest payments decrease. KFW is counting on prices more in
line with BCL's assumptions than with the Bank's, and is satisfied about the
adequacy of the debt service coverage also in the initial yrears of repayment
of its loan.
Financial Covenants
91.       Tle K'14 and IDC loan agreements, the KPW, IDC and Bank guarantee
agreements and the trust deed contain provisions insuring that sufficient
funds are provided to I3CL for completion and start of operation of the
project and that funds are maintained at a level which pernits the company
to operate efficiently and meet all its obligations.
92.       No long term loans will be disbursed to BCL until all of BCL's
equity has been paid in. Short term borrowing is limited and subject to
approval of KFW, IDC and the Bank, as is nortgaging.
93.       As discussed in paragraph 54, BCL intends initially to borrow
short term, placing as security the pipeline of matte and metals and the
invoices for nickel. This borrowing will be allowed up to R 8 million
during the KFW loan grace period, and R 3 million thereafter, providing
that an amount equal to the next semi annual debt service on the KFW, IDC
and Bank loans is left upledged.
94.       Dividend payments before the first principal payment on the KFW
loan may be made only after consultation with KFW. This provision is in-
tended to preserve cash in BCL through the first three years of operations.
Also thereafter, dividends would be limited s0 as to maintain after their
payment a ratio of at least 1.5 between current assets and current liabil-
ities. Since long-term debt due within one year is inclucled in current
liabilities, this covenant compensates to some extent for the low debt
service coverage. This limitation of dividends also ensures that sufficient
working capital is left in the company.



95.       To lItit exchange risks and to ensure priority of BCL's
payments to the Government and the long-term lenders, all sales revenue
will be paid through a trustee in England. Part of the cash ancl Bank
balances shown on the balance sheets will be held by the trustee. The
trust provisions are described in detail in the main report.
BCL Projections
96.       The company's projections included for comparison in 'table 7, show
higher not income due to higher metal prices snd sales revenue, which in turn
results in lower needs for short-term borrowing, and larger wprking capital.
The current ratio would have a lowest level of 1.9 at the end of 1974. The
debt/equity ratio would not deteriorate as in the Bank's more conservative pro-
jections, but reaain constant and then decrease. Debt service coverage is
also higher for this case. BCL is convinced that its projections are real-
istic.
Rates of Return
97.       On the basis of the Bank's projections discussed above, the inter-
nal financial rate of return for the mining project is 11.2X. This return
is calculated without financing and before royalties and taxes, and measures
the earning power of the total capital invested in the project, regardless
of to whom the costs and benefits accrue. The rate of return concepts used
are deflned in Exhibit 8.
98.       The rate of return on the shareholders' equity investment will be
7.7X. If the equity invested through 1970 is excluded, the rate of return
on the remaining equity investment will be 12.8X. BCL is proje!cting higher
returns due to higher metals prices, and views these returns asi satisfactory.
The rate of return to Botiwana will be infinite, since it makes no cash in-
vestment.
99.       The economic return and the benefits received by Botawana from the
project, including infrastructure, are discussed in the main report.
11.  SKNSITIVT.T  AULYSIS
100.      Uncertainties, inherent particularly in aining projects, arise in
the estimates of capital cost, operating east and sales revenue.
101.      Table 8 shows the results of the sensitivity analysis where the
financial rate of return on the mining project as a whole has been computed
for different combinations of capital cost, operating cost and sales revenue.
The values of these three variables are expressed in percentages of the ex-
pected values used in the financial projections. Also, the table shows the
Bank's and BCL's projections of the rate of return to the foreign shareholders.



ANNEX 1
Page 23
Table 8
Sensitivity Analysis
Return on Total Investment
Bank Projections
Capital       Operating         Sales         Rate  of
Case                Cost            Cost           Revenue        Return
-Z of expected value ------- 
1.  (main case)          100             100             100            11.2
2.                       115             100             100             7.7 /1
3.                       110             100             100            10.2
4.                       __7             100             100            12.4
5.                       100             125             100             3.6
6.                       100             110             100,            8.5
7.                       100              90             100C           13.6
8.                       100             100             125            19.0
9.                       100             100                            14.6
10.                       100             100                             7.2
11.                       110             110             110            11.2
12.                       110-            110             517.6
13.                      1TT              TMT              90             3.1
BCL Projection (dated February 1971)                                     15.8
Equity invested through 1970:
Return on Equity Investment                      Included             Excluded
Bank Projection                                     7.7                 12.8
BCL Projection                                     13.3                 21.4
/1   In Case 2. the construction period is extended by one year and the con-
struction cost increase of 15% is lAcurred that year. Revenues are al-
so delayed one year.
102.      If the capital cost increases by 15% and the construction period
is extended one year (Case 2), then the rate of return will be reduced from
the expected 11.2% to 7.7Z. The rate of return is more sensitive to a giv-
en percentage change in the operating cost than in the capital cost, and
most sensitive to changes in sales revenue. Within a range of variations
of 10% in capital cost, operating cost and sales revenue, the rate of re-
turn would vary in the range 7-15%, except in the unlikely case 13. A
breakeven position where only operating costs, debt service and minimum
royalty payments are covered would correspond to a rate of return of 4.6%,
which is an unlikely situation.



p     g
103.      BCL feels justified in projecting a total rate of returi on the
project of 15.82. Similarly, BCL's projection of the rate of rAtln on
equity investment (13.32) is higher than the Bank's (7.72). On the in-
vestment remaining after 1970, BCL expects a return of 21.42 which makes
the continued implementation of the project attractive to the sponsors.
12. CONCLUSIONS
104.      The mining project -- which will be the principal user of the in-
frastructure project to which the Bank proposes to iend - is viable, al-
though it contains considerable risks. Rlbks are inherent in minitgi jroj-
ects, but there are additional risks in this project, since in edmAitason
with the Bank Group's other copper and nickel mining ventures, it is ex-
pected to be the producer with the highest operating cost, aklkng It more
sensitive than the other projects to declines in metal prie" *nd other ad-
verse events,
105.      The Bank's appraisal ha  therefore focused on whether,the project
could also be expected to be viable under rather adverse circumstances:
lower than current metal prices; somewhat higher operating costs and such
other risks as sepatate project managements for the mining and the infra-
structure projects; teething troubles that might be encountered in the
smelting and refining processes; and the complexitLes of coordinating the
whole interlinked process of project execution and operation.
106.      However, the Botswana Government and the bpotlsors atC  svare of
these risks. The sponsoring companies have extensive past expetiCnce of
similar mining projects in Zambia, and BCL possesses much experience in
the technical preparation of projects of this tpe including the determi-
nation of ore reserves, the estimation of capital and operattag costa And
in project execution and operation. Furthermore, it is unlikely that
prices of both copper and nickel will simultaneously decline to the con-
servative levels assumed in the Bank's projections. Bank staff thetefore
agrees with KFW' evaluation that the risks of this mining project are ac-
ceptable compared to the project's expected benefits to Botsvana.. The com-
bination of Germany as the principal lender to the mining project and re-
cipient of most of its output gives additional incentive for it t:o see the
project through its possibly difficult initial years of operatio.
Industrial Projects Department
June 11, 1971



EXHIBIT 1
NGOLk... 1FHDkiXAI
tn  ~  ~    Ara of
temap
% of itime wind blows from
I  direction indicated
a '   REPUBLIC OF                                              40
*SOUTH ARICA"
ARPLAt AEA
Calm 19%     /          Concentrator
hafts
/IKWE
<   ( T        /                 / 7.   j  2~~~~/    MINING    
N:   'AREA
i     °  \*                 ~~~~TO  JHP  /AREA            4       
o' //
BOtSWANA                       >
SELEBI PIKWE(GENERAL AREA) tl4 'irp
(   ~,                            N
______  R___ds_,
SE ISELEBI000   10000   15000  20000
*  |".  |"Railroads /Sat~
~~Rivers (normally dry)                   10                  1        2        3
C3D    Line of granite hills                                 Miles,
FEBRUARY 1971                                                                  IBRD 297IR



MINE AND PLANT LAYOUT
BOTSWANA: COPPER/ NICKEL MINING PROJECT
HEADGEAR
ORE STOCKPILE                                                     SMELTER
CRUSHER
CONCENTRATOR                               MATTE SHI PMENT
MINED 0~~~~~~~~~IR 42
i~~~~~~~~~UN                                                                    SEg'\T$O iN
V:X:Du 11 SHAF;  T;



CONCENTRATOR AND SMELTER CIRCUITS
BSTSWANA: COPPER  IICKEL 11IRIN  PROJECT
RUN OFMINE ORtE_ 
FLOTATION               TO TAILINGS DAM
mAGNETic
0     SEPARATOS l
FLOTATiONTATe              ' 
COAL
SUUR)R
CONDENSER
I                 ~~~~~REDJatON___
WASTE GAS STACK                                                    SECTIN_
CATALYZER|
STEAM TO
-SULFUR PRODUCT                  I                          LCR-TTCFAhSETR~TTE
ELECTRO-STATIC                         FLASHLSCERIC
|FURNACE 
COPVERIOPITATOR
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MATTE PRODUCT
IBED - 4924(2R)



Eiit h4: ;   TSWAEA BO   AsKLAT  CONCM89AIU  LIMITED RETAED   AI1t  OF CAPITAL  MEXDITURE AND rTS FNANCINC
nThowands of 1970 Rand)
Year:    -- efore 1971                 1 l971                    _      I 1972  I         I        1          1973           IV
Qurter:                    I        II      III       IV       I        II       III     IV        I                IJI      IV       Total
C&DWoRm IXediturc
plrotion                                        13,1:40                                                                                                             13,140
Mine Plant, etc.                                           3,500   5,500    5,500     5,500    6,100   6,100    6,1.00   6,400    5,430    5,430     -        .580
Interest, etc. on Loans                                                                                                                                                  -
1rW Interest                                                                         293               901             1,576             1,935            1,935    6,61.0
ItW Ouarent.e Fees                                                 272                                  75               132               161              162       826
KW Cmltmmnt Pees                            -      44               13                63                43                15                                          183
Construction loan    --                                                                                                                     55      175     300       530
Interest Eaned (Net)                                                                   (165)    (75)   (180)    (75)   (235)    (100)    (50)    (50)                   (930)
Dqloration after 1969                                316      80       80      80        80       85       85       85       95       90       90      90       86    1,342
Capital Issue Cost                                                             150                                                   100                                 250
77,8141
WSorlk C  italr
"Stere  nd Sp r, c175                                              175      175      175      275      275      275      275      100      100    _                  2,000
Cash Bal n c                                                                                                                                                 6,659L1   2'659
TOTAL CAPITAL (cumulative)                          _3,500            29    29,200   35.17   141560  45    5,44  63.802                 422   77.143           86,500        0
_inancing
Equity'                                           13,500   4,500   5,500    6,500                                                                                      30,000
UV Loan                                                                              13,000            14,000            16,000                                       43, oo
IDC Supplier Credit                                                                                                                                          13,500    13,500
Construction Loan                                                                                                                           4,500   9,000  (13,500)     -
TOTAL IINANCING (cumulative)                         13,00  18,000  23.500         30,O0            OOO43000   57OO O       73C   300   700  i,00  86,500   86,500
/1 Operating costs Mt capitalized and not shown in this table will reduce the cash balance to h2.9 million by the end of 1973.
Industrial Projects
April 27, 1971



l*4bit 5: ffTS1A   - ATNAUWO  CtOlunls LIDTlD
RSTouAzn r3cug SLTaUts   , 1913-1996
1973     194       1975      1976      1977     1918      1979      1980      1981      1982     1983      l984      1985    1916       19"7-
rodu otton
Ore Mined (million tons)                                      2         2        2         2         2         2        2         2         2         2         1.6       1.6       1.6      1.6
Mtte Produced (tons)                            4,o00    35,600    40,700    40,700    40,700   40,700   42,200   42,200   42,200   42,200   142,20   32,8           32,80     32.800    32,800
ales (tons)
ck*l-                                                     8,1445    14,800   14,oo   14,800   148oo   14,o00    14,0000          1i,000   114,000   14000   11,600    11,600    11,600   11600
Copper                                           -        9,565    16,600    16,6cO   16,600   16,600    18,500    18,500    18,500   18,500    18,500.  13,700    13,700   13,700   13,700
Sulfur                                           -       46,1400      70105     t 105, Nc)  105,7Wo  105 ic,    106,500  lo6,500  lc6,500   106,500   106,500   111400  111,400  111,400  111,400
Cobalt                                                       80       127       127      127       127       128       128      128       128       128        72        72        72       72
(Thom-nda of 1970 Rand)
Revenue ftro Sales
WIkel at $1.20 per lb.  (_  1,890 p.r ton)       -       15,958    27,967   27,967    27,967    27,967    26,455    26,455   26,455   26,455    26,455    21,920   21,920   21,920   21,920
Copper    $0.43 per lb.   ( P 677 p r ton)                6,477   11,240    1,2140   11,240   11,240   12,527    12,527   12,527    12,527    12,527                  9,277    9,277     9,277
Sulfur    23                     25. per ton)             1,229     2,685     2,685      6 2,685  2,685    2,705     r,1      2,7C5     2,705    27          ,830     2830    2,830    2,830
Cobalt    $2.38 per lb   (. R3,747 Per ton)      -                    476      476       476       476       480       480      480       480       480       269      '269       269      26
Total Revenue                                       -       23,964    42 368   42 368        42 368    42 368   42 1   42 167       42 167   42,167     42 167   34,296    34,296    34,296    34,296
Less 2% of cu and 3% of Ni Sales Cission to M3                 606     1,064     1,o64    1,064    1,o64    1,044   1i01414    1, o44    1,044    1,044          843       843       843      843
Not PCV,u                                           -       23,356    41,,304    41,304   41,304   41,3o4   41,123    41,123    41,123    41,123    41,123    33,453   33,453   33,453   33,453
Costs
ai6rating costs                                    4,500    25,700    25,700    25,700   25,700    25,700   25,700   25,700   25,600   25,600    25,600   23,100    23,100    23,100   23,100
fleplaoe..nt.                                    -          50        500       500      500       50        500       500       500      5         50        1400      1400      kw0      1400
Interest on Kxw Lon                             Li        1 4,193    4,193    4,150o    3,842°    3,423    3.01     2,581    2,3.9°    1,739     1,320       897      1479       80        4
IDo Spplier Credit                            1160      1,012       892       7713     650       530       410       290       170        50              -         _         _
Aseeptances and Discounting           -         520       400      -         -         -        -         -         -         .         -        .        -         -         -
Tntereat arned3                                 21         (200)    (300)    -          _         _                   _        _         .         _         _                            _
Inventory Adjustment                          5.5l0)   (55    _                         -         -         -                                                     -   _
TotL Costs                                          -       26,373    31,505   31,242   30,813    30,273   29,731    29,191    28,54       2e,0o9    27,470   25,397    23,979   23,52    23,500
!e9t n      soeet to Royalty                        -       (3,017)    9,799   1O,062    10,491    11,031    11,392    .1,932    12,574    13,114    13,853    8,056    9,474    9,871       9,953
URjiIItM                                         -         _          509/2    755       787       827       85        89        943      964    1,024        604       711       740       716
Income TLx                                      -_                    603Z2    931       974    1,028    1,064       1,llB     1,182     1,236     1,290      731    3,490      3,648    3,6B1
Net IluCg  Aftr Rolty and Ta                        -       (3,017)   8,687      8,376    8,730     9,176     9,474    9,919    10,449   10,894    11,339      6,721    5,273    5,W43       5,526
To ~It7W!L~.      e -,350_                                                    2,150    4,300   14,300    4,300       4,300    14,300     4,3c00    4,3o00    4,3300    4,300    2,150
TDC                                           _        1,3;0     1,;;      1,037     1,350 =   li3No    1:350     1.350     1,350     1,350     1,30      _
st Available rcm.                                          (4,367)    7,337    4,876      3,080    3,526     3,824     4,269     4,799     5,244    5,689     2,421       973    3,333      5,526
Debt Rerric Coverage                                _            0.35      2.12      1.57     1.30      1,36      1.42      1.49      1.59     1.69      1.81      1.47      1.20      2.49   00
1 Capitalieed.
Ac2 uculmted loms taken into account vwhn calculating royalty and tax
3  Interest earned is lpored after 1975.
Industrial Projects Department
A2pril 27, 1971



Chblt 5-  ~SWI  - IMBA70 CrCSIONSf LIMr7ED
i 5   BIANC7 S8TS AS 0F DECWlU 31, 1973.1998
(TmIDJi of 1970 Rand)
1973    1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979     1980      1981      1962      1983      19        198 1985 1966       1987     1988    1989998
Current As.eta                                      lo 10.154   13 89  17,832    1        19211464 1666        0       20,5h      1 6      26           222    i5.8z   16.829    16 16.93    1639
C^"h n ih Rclnoes           )-  j'2,90h.                    272       521       703               6,1.4     2,919     3,h58    S           188     5960      192992122 2948.    1,60 30      1,I8
Aooounts Recetveble                 6-T7          -         120     3,570     3,570     3,570     3,570     3,570     3,570    3,570     3,570     3,570    2,830    2,830       2,830    2,830    2,830    2,830
Rcyeaty Frepayeots                        t     '  7r50   1,500     1,741     1,736     i,699    1,642      1,538     1,393    1,200       966       692       838       877       887       891      89        899
Inventory                                      i 4,500   10i,o     10,000   10,00    10,000    10,000   10,00o   10,000    0o,o0    10,000    10,ODD    9,000    9 oab          9,000     9,000    9,000    9 OC
Stor., edm Spare Parts              la AP        2,000   2,00       2,000    2,000    2,000       2,000    2, 000    2,000    2,000      2,000     2,000    2,0        2,000    2,OOD    2.00       2,000     2,0OO
oss nxpo Assets                         77s4 i   77,841  77,841   77,841    77,841    77,841    77,841    77,841   77,84'   77,841    77,841    77,841    77,841    77,841    77,841   77,1841  77,841    77T,841
Less Pepeyyeent of Debt to KlFl                   _                           2,150     6,4150    10 750    15,350   19,350    23,650    27,950    32,250    36,550    40,870    43,000    43,000  43,000   43,000
TOO                    -       1,350    2,700     4,050     51540G    6,750     3,100     9,450    10,800    12,150    13,500    13,500    13,500   13,5C0   13,500   13,500   13.500
Fet Fixed Asset,                                    77.841   76.492   75.141    71,641    65991    6.341 5714,691    _9,041    4339        37,741    32,091    27.791    a,        21,34,1   211j_   21.341    21.341
TaOAL ASSN"                                        87.M   9      .8 22,973   89.650    85,135    80.007 71718    62A2    64.56             29 i437   25.31 .688    gL!2                     3.22    E.934       gm,-.,
LIAILITIrS9
Aoepgtarlce on Pipeline                            - 2    5,3       3,000 1              -                              50-  -   -          W         3        --3000
Ion-? r Debt D,e Itithio 1 Yar                  ( 1,350'8  1,350    3,500D    5,650     5,650     5,6802    5.6604    5,650    5,6150    5,6506     4,30°0    4,7300   2,1590     -;i       3;          -;t   3
Anorued Inome TAX                                           .         603       931       974.    1,oe8    i,o64      1,1.8     1,182    1,236      1,290       731    3,1.90     3,6.8     3,661    3,681     3,681
nicn for  Iaelcnts                                   -         2E        5Q0        Io                 5C 500I'm                                        50D        400      :      o       410    0      km0       _
M-hf              Loea (loss 1 Year
% sD                                                      _                              6?w  1.40  6  2 16                                           - 1070  6 4
ILC 9utp1ier Crcdit                     6-5a 12,150  10,800    9,450    8,100    6,750            5,400     4 050    2,700      1,350
Zauity                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30,00    25,633    32 97_0   3389 3491 3i79    3704,   4t,.67  I%   3r2m         3763      3.0       053        10+      30J4l1     "IS     3.4
30 000                               00.93'                                                               00 n
Aga.Ccapital                               l3,oOo 3 30,000  30,C,0003
Adcatd lIet Ine,.                                 -       (4,367)   2,970    7,846    6,899       8,437     9,203     9,973    10,966    11,96B    12, 890    10094     3,380     3,913     6,620    5,663     5,671
Less Dividends Paid                                _                          4,027 e   1,988     3,058     3,"       3,8       4,242     4,767     5,217     7,687     2,800     2,819     6,479   5,510    5,522
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                                               _=8  g 92.93   28.6    6=.135    80. s                     =4                      as6  .56  3 3 .3  .33  213.684    372 g379 2aI
00rrent Ratio                                         3.57    1.33      1.94      1.69      1.79      1.82       .        1.4 i.    1 gL      I.97      2.29      1.82      1.80      2.38      2.25     2.25      2.25
Debt/Iquty Ratio                                   65/35    68/32     62/38    60/40      56/44    52/48      48/52     43/57     38/62     31/69     22/78     17/83     7/93      0/100     0/100    0/100    0/100
Industrial Projects Departmt
April 27, 1971



Ehibit 7:  BOTSWAZA - MMA]ATO CONCESSIOX   LDaT1'D
ED sOUC  AND t'SES OF F InM, 1973-199e
Thou,ands O 1970 PRand
1973    1974      1975      1976      1977      1978     1979      1980      19.81     1962      1983      1984      1985      1946      1987     1988    1989-.9
Sources
nIno   ater P,a1ty and Tax                          -      (3,017)   8,667    8,376      8,730    9,176     9,474     9,919    10,449    10,894    11,339    6,7a1      5,273     5,483     5,526    %522      5,518
Provision for Replac0mets                          -        500       5ac       500       500       5° °O 50                     500       500       50C       400       400       400       400      400       400
Increse (Decrease) in Ancruals
fr Tamas                                         -       -          603       328        43        54        36       54        64        54        54      (559,   2,159        158        33    -         -
Iacrea" (Decrease) in Accounts
Payable                                      r 1,495    2,605     -         _         -         -         -         -         -        -         -          (400)    -          -         _       _         _
Acceptances                                        -      5,000   (4,000)  (1,000)   -            -         -         _         -        _         _          _         _         _         _          _
TOTAL SOURCES                                     _              5.9       8.29                         10.010   10.473   11.013    11.e3    11.893       6.162     8.432     6,041     .959   2aS         5
3 npepat of wanel to  WW                          _        _         _         2,150    4,30D    4,300    4s,300    4,300    4,3            30 4,300    4,300    4,30D    4,30D    2,150
to IDC                                  1,350    1,350     1,350     1,350    1,350      1,350     1,350     1,350    1,350      1,350     _        _          _          _      _         _
peoditure an  placet                                      _           500       500       5G0       50        500       500      500       500       5°        5CO      4k0        4o        400      k0w 
lUcrese (D s )""  in Plymty
FDopaymtg                                   4 750        750       241       '(5)     (37)      (57)    (104)    (145)    (193)    (234)          (27")     14S        39       10          4        14        4
Incresam  (Decree) in Inventories              y 4,500    5,500      .         -        -         -         -         -         -        -         -        (1 000)
Incr.a  (Decrease) ia Receivables                           1 120    3,450                                                                                     I _  _  _  _  .71.,                      o
Dividd P                                           -                 -        4C7       1,988     3,058    3,499    3,806    4,242       4,767    5,217      T,6Th)   2,800    i        819    6,479 50 51    5,522
Incrse (Decrease) ln C"h                      ,  (3,755)  (2,632)     249       182     1,172       579       465       66S2     814       765      800      (4,731)     893       662      (924)       8       (8)
TOTAL53                                       1.2    5.s         5.9      8.204     9,273    2         10,010 a  1L4       11.013    11.445              6162      8,432     6.041    5ZM       IS.       5.8
Indstris. Projects D     bpaftint
Abrl 27, 1971



EXHIBIT 8
Page 1 of 4 pages
ASSUMPTIONS AND C"MENTS TO THE FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
All financial projections are based on BCL's projections which
have been reviewed, discussed and revised in collaboration with BCL.
Capital Expenditure and its Financing (Exhibit 4)
1.   Expenditure on mine plant is phased in accordance with BCL's construc-
tion schedule.
2. BCL's costs for exploration of the Selebi-Pibve ore body before 1971
have been capitalized and further costs of this kind will be capital-
ized through 1973. The exploration concession expires in 1974.
3.   The capital cost is presently being financed by loans from the share-
holders, which will later be converted into equity. At the and of
1970, these loans and equity already paid up amounted to R 13.8 .il-
lion.
4.   In the third quarter of 1971, BCL will increase its equity to R 30
million. The cost of this Issue, and BERST's corresponding rights
issue, is shown6 as a capital cost.
5. The loan from Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFM) vill be made to
finance construction after the full amount of equity has been dis-
bursed. There are no requirements as to national source cof procure-
ment,attached to this loan. (For terms of loan, see Chapter 7.)
6. The supplier credit from the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC)
of South Africa will be disbursed upon the oompletion of construction.
(For terms of credit, see Chapter 7.)
7.   A short-term construction loan will be obtained in South Africa for
use in the latter part of the construction period and will be repaid
when the IDC credit is disbursed. The construction loan La assued
to carry an interest rate of 10%.
8.   Interest earned is calculated as 52 net after tax annually on the dif-
ference between financing obtained and capital expenditure at each
point in time.
9.   The cash balance at the end of 1973 is shown to be R 6.7 million in
Exhibit 4. However, operating costs will consume R 3.8 million dur-
ing the latter half of 1973, leaving a cash balance of R 2.9 million
at the end of 1973. (See the balance sheet).



EXHIBIT 8
Page 2 of 4 pages
Income Statement (Exhibit 5)
1. The production of ore and matte will start in 1973. From 1974 to 1983
ore production will be maintained at its maximum rate of 2 million tons
annually, whereupon it will decline to 1.6 million tons due to deeper
mining and thinner ore seams.
2. Variations in the amount of matte produced from each ton of ore are due
to different composition of the ore in different parts of the ore body.
(See Table 1).
3.  Revenue starts flowing from sales only in 1974 although production will
commence in 1973. The time delay between mining and meta'L sales is
about 6 months.
4. Metal prices are those projected in Chapter 8.
5. Operating costs are discussed in Chapter 9.
6. Interest on Acceptances and Discounting refers to short-term credits
obtained by pledging the pipeline of matte and metals and the unpaid
invoices for nickel, respectively (See assumptions for the Balance
Sbhets).
7. Interest earned is calculated as 5 percent annually on the average
cash balances during the years 1974 and 1975. In later years inter-
est earned is ignored.
8. Inventory adjustments are shown in 1973 and 1974 which retduce costs
during those years. This corresponds to the build-up of the pipeline
of matte and metals. Wbeu the rate of production decreases in 1984,
the inventory is also decreased, resulting in an additionL to cost.
9.  Royalty is calculated as 7.5% of net income before tax, subject to a
mii"m-m annual royalty payment of R 750,000.  When the minimum payment
exceeds royalty due for the year this is accumulated (see Royalty Pre-
Payments in the Balance Sheets and Sources and Uses of Fimds State-
ments) and credited to later payments in years vhen royalty due is in
excess of the minium payment.
10. Income tax is paid at a rate of 402 of net income after royalty with
a capital expenditure allowance of 75% deducted from taxable income
until the total initial capital expenditure has been deducted. This
deduction takes place from 1975 to 1984, when a total of R 76 million
has been deducted.
11. Debt service coverage is calculated for each year as net income after
royalty and tax but before interest on long-term loans in relation to
the total service (principal, interest and other fees) on long-term
loans. Here, the RGFW loan and the IDC supplier credit are considered
as long-term loans.



EXHIBIT 8
Page 3 of 4 pages
Balance Sheets (Exhibit 6)
1.  Accounts receivable consist of the unpaid invoices for nickel and sul-
fur. In 1974, the nickel invoices are pledged as security for short-
term borrowing and the amount shown is for sulfur only.
2. Royalty prepayment is the cumulative sum of payments of minimum royal-
ty in excess of royalty due. (See assumptions for Incorne Statements.)
3. Inventory is the pipeline of matte and metals valued at cost. When the
production rate decreases in 1984, the value of the inventory decreases
by R 1 million.
4. Fixed assets are shown at cost. No depreciation is charged, but the
value of fixed assets is reduced by the repayment of principal on long-
term loans. Net fixed assets therefore stabilize at R 21.3 million af-
ter the KFW and IDC loans totalling R 56.6 million have been repaid.
As mentioned in the assumptions for the Income Statements, a capital
expenditure allowance takes the place of depreciation in the calcula-
tion of income tax. A dividend limitation clause insures that suffi-
cient funds are left in the company, although net fixed assets remain
constant from 1986 on.
5. Accounts payable consist of one month's operating cost, including freight
and refining charges.
6.  Acceptances constitute short-term horrowing, pledging as security the
pipeline of matte on its way to the refinery and metals ,Dn their way
between the refinery and Germany. This opportunity to borrow is used
only in 1974, 1975 and 1976, reaching a maximum of R 5 million in 1974.
7.  Minimum royalty (R 750,000) is paid in August of the year for which it
is due, and an adjustment is made when financial statements for that
year become available. Royalty is treated as being owed at the end of
the year for which it is due.  For the years 1973-1974 no royalty is
owed since income subject to royalty is negative. Accumulated losses
are taken into account when calculating royalty owed in 1975.
8. Tax is shown as owed at the end of the year for which it is accrued and
is paid during the succeeding year.
9. Provision for replacement is made at the end of each year. Expenditure
occurs in the succeeding year (See Sources and Uses of Funds). The cost
is shown as incurred in the year when the provision is made (See Income
Statements).
10. Dividends may be paid out only to the extent that the ratio of current
assets to current liabilities is at least 1.5 after the dividend pay-
ment. In the projections, the dividend calcualted for each year on
this basis is shown as pai. in the succeeding year, which is conserv-
ative.



EXtIIBIT 8
Page 4 of 4 pages
11. In the Long-Term Loans/Equity ratio, the numerator includes loan
payments due within one year.
Sources and Uses of Funds (Exhibit 7)
These statements are entirely linked to the Income Statemients anid
Balance Sheets and are largely self-explanatory. The change in cash posi-
tion is obtained as a residual to make the sources and uses of funds balance.
Rate of Return Concepts
1.        The rate of return on total investment is computed witlhout taking
into account the terms of financing, taxes or royalties, i.e. as the retuirn
which would accrue to Botswana if it made the whole mining investment  fromil
its own funds and were able to recuprerate each year the net: sales revenue,
less the cost of operation, maintenance and replacemenits.
2.        The rate of return on equity is calculated on the basis of equity
invested and dividends received, including the effects of loan financing.
Since Botswana makes no equity investment in financial terms, its return is
infinite, although the total income from the project is of course limited.
This explains why the rate of return on the other shareholders' equity in-
vestment is projected to be lower than the rate of return on the total in-
vestment, despite the fact that the average interest rate on loan financing
is also lower than the projected total rate of return.



ANNEX 2
Page I of 4 pages
BOTSWANA
Corporate Structure of the Mining Company
1.        Bamangwato Concessions Limited (BCL) is presently an exploration
company holding prospecting rights in certain areas of Botswana. The Gov-
ernment and BCL have agreed that BCL should become a mining company and
receive a lease to develop the Selebi and Pikwe ore bodies in return for
which it will give 15% of its shares to the Republic of Botswana without
other charge. The respective shareholdings of BCL will then be as indi-
cated in the Appendix to this Annex.
2.        A description of each of the shareholders follows, in order of
their holdings:
1.   Botswana RST Limited (BRST)
51.8% holding in BCL
Head Office: Gaborone
This is a holding company for RST interests in BCL and
other Botswana ventures. Its main shareholders are:
a.   American Metal Climax Inc. (AMAX)
30.3% of BRST (43.3% including subsidiaries)
Head Office: New York
AMAX is an integrated producer of aluminum, copper
and other base metals, molybdenum and other exotic
metals. Together with its wholly owned subsidiary
RST International, it has controlling interest (43%)
in BRST and lesser interests in other African copper
mining ventures and in iron ore in Australia.
b.   Small Shareholders
56.7% of BRST
Many of these are in the USA.
2.   Foseco Minsep Limited (MINSEP)
19.6% holding of BCL
Head Office: London



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4 pages
A corporation resulting from the recent merger of Foseco
Limited an international trading company in the metal-
lurgical field, and Mineral Separation Limited - an in-
vestment company with diverse interests of which a large
part was the holding in BCL.
3.   The Republic of Botswana
15% holding in BCL
Capital: Gaborone
4.   Kalahari Investments Limited
13.5% holding in BCL
Head Office: Johannesburg
A holding company for some Botswana assets of the Anglo
American Corporation (AMC) of Johannesburg. This is a
holding and management company with widespread interests
in gold, diamond, coal and base metal mining, processing,
and sales, also in varied industrial, property, and finance
ventures, most activities in South Africa.
5.  Johannesburg Consolidated Investment
0.05% holding in BCL
Head Office: Johannesburg
This is a holding and management company with its main
interests in South African mining, industrial, and
financial ventures.
6.   Rothschild Nominees Limited
0.05Z holding in BCL
Head Office: London
A nominee company of the N.M. Rothschild Group.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4 pages
DATA OF BCL & BRST SILAREHOLDERS
US$ millions
Company         Year        Sales        Earnings        Assets        Capital
1. AMAX         1968          571            67             782          455
2. Minsep       1968           70           4.2               31           23
3. AAC          1968        1,700            46             620           338
Sales            -  including subsidiaries more than 50% owned.  For
AAC the figure is an approximation of the sales of
the companies in which it holds majority inivestments.
Net earnings    -  After taxes, interest, and minority interests.
Total Assets    -  employed in the business at the company's year end,
less depreciation.
Equity Capital  -  sum of capital stock, surplus and retained earnings.
February 1971



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4 pages
APPENDIX TO ANNEX 2
SHAREHOLDINGS IN BAMANWWATO CONCESSIONS IIMITED
American Metal                                            _ _
Climax Inc. and                                                Public
RST international
43.29                                       56.71
Botswana RST Ltd.                        51.80
Foseco Minsep Ltd.                       19.60
Government of the                        15.00
Republic of Botswania                                          Bamangwato
Concessions
Limited
Kalahari Investments Ltd.
(Subs. Anglo American                    13.5o
Corporation)
Johannesburg Consolidated                 0.05
Investments
Rothschilds                          -    O05
Nominees Ltd. 



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 13 pages
BOTSWANA
MARKETING PROSPECTS FOR NICKEL AND COPPER
From time to time assessments of market prospects for nickel and
copper have been made in some detail by the Economics Departiment of the
Bank. A further study was made by the Economics Department, taking account
of the most recent developments and data additional to the earlier assess-
ments, as a basis for projecting the prices of nickel and colpper and hence
BCL's revenue over the first fifteen years of operation of the mine. This
annex consists of a summarized version of that study
NICKEL
1.        Nickel is one of the principal metals used in making alloy steels;
41% of the consumption of nickel in 1970 was for one use alone, namely mak-
ing stainless steel. Nickel has other uses apart from steel-making, in the
chemical and petroleum industries for example, and it is virtually irre-
placeable for certain high-duty applications of modern technology. Although
these applications are important, the quantity of nickel consumed for them
is relatively small.
2.        About three-quarters of the world's known reserves of nickel are
oxide ores but many of them (specifically laterites) are difficult to treat
and about 70% of the world's output of nickel is won from its sulphide ores,
of which the remainil? 25% of reserves consist.
3.        The countries with centrally-planned economies produce about 21-
22 percent of the world's output of nickel (28-29 percent if Cuba is includ-
ed) and, as a group, they are generally self-sufficient in n:Lckel. They are
therefore excluded from this review and the term 'world' refers to market
economies only.
4.        About two-thirds of the world's supply of nickel comes from Canada,
and 22-23 percent from New Caledonia.  The U.S., Australia and South Africa
are minor producers.  Table 1 gives further details.  Smelting is less con-
centrated than mining:  Canada 45%, Western Europe 25%, Japan 15% and U.S.
10%. Consumption is 95% in industrialized countries: U.S. 40% followed
in order, by Japan, the Federal Republic of Germany, U.K., France, Italy
and Sweden. Because of the strong links between the U.S. and Canada and
France's territorial rights over New Caledonia, the U.S. and France have
advantages in obtaining nickel. Other countries are sensitive to short-
term changes in world supply. The U.S. government, by stockpiling, is at
times an important force in the markets.
5.        A few large producers of nickel largely control output, invest-
ment and specialized exDeriencc. Over 50 percent of output is from a single
company, International ?J -el Company of Canada, Ltd. (INCO); 10 percent is



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 13 pages
from Falconbridge Nickel Mines, Ltd., the second largest Canadian producer;
most of the balance of Canadian production is from the Sherritt Gordon Com-
pany. Virtually all New Caledonian production is fronm Societe Le Nickel.
All U.S. nickel is produced by a single company, the llanna Mlining Co., a
major iron ore producer. Smelting is largely controlled by the major nickel
mining companies. The large smelters in the United Kingdom an(d Norway, for
example, are owned by INCO and Falconbridge, respectively. INCO produces
more smelter nickel in the United States than the Hanna Mining Co. Moreover,
the two large Canadian companies and Societe Le Nickel are involved in most
of the mining projects under way or planned in New Caledonia, the Caribbean
and Southeast Asia, while Sherritt Gordon, a small company with expertise
in extractive metallurgy, has been responsible for developing the most pronm-
ising techniques for treating iron laterite ores and has been licensing its
techniques and providing technical assistance to producers or prospective
producers in New Caledonia, the Philippines, etc.
6.        Primary nickel is sold by producers or their agents at prices
established by the producers and changed infrequently. The posted prices
(also known as producer prices) of pivotal grades maintained by the major
companies are comparable in the principal markets. There is, in addition,
a smaller, open market for the sale of secondary nickel (i.e. nickel re-
covered from scrap) as well as primary nickel. The latter :Ls fed partly
by the Soviet Union and other centrally-planned countries, partly by inde-
pendent producers in the West, and partly by merchants or consumers who
re-sell the metal they receive from the major companies at a profit. In
the past few years, particularly in late 1969 and early 1970, when primary
nickel supply has been extremely tight, the demand for open-market nickel
and for pure nickel scrap has been very strong and prices halve invariably
commanded a large premium over the producers' price for primary metal.
Major producers, in recent years, have chosen to keep prices reasonable and
to ration their supplies in order to meet the needs of established customers.
Recent market trends
7.        With the exception of a few isolated years and a longer period in
1958-63, nickel has been in moderately short supply in the post-war period.
The long-term average rate of growth in world consumption (i.e. 1947-1969)
has been 6.2 percent, but in 1959-66, when adequate supply and strong de-
mand coincided, the corresponding rate was 8.8 percent. The price was
steady at 35 US cents per pound from 1929 to mid-1948, but has since risen
to 133 cents per pound 1/ today, an increase of 163 percent in 23 years
(Table 2). The biggest single increase in price was in 1969 after the long
strike in Canada. Rising mining costs, leaner ores won at greater depths,
and increasing wages have been principal reasons in Canada for rising prices.
Conservatism in investment, under-estimation of potential demaand, and the
1/   All prices referred to in this annex are for Canadian electrolytic
cathodes, f.o.b. shipping point, U.S. duty included unt:Ll 1965
when duty was suspended. All real prices have been arrived at by
using the U.S. wholesale price index (1970-100) as the deflator.



ANNEX 3
Page :3 of 13 page*
higlher Investment costs required to enter the market, are reasons which are
also given for the slow growth of world capacity to produce rtickel. After
the 1969 strike, it was considered that supply and demand would not be in
balance again until 1972, but progress towards a balance has been much more
rapid than was expected because of recession in the U.S. and what appears
to be a temporary world-wide weakness in the market for stainless steel.
Long-Term Prospects
8.        Looking at the next 5-10 years, three developments appear fairly
certain:  (i) demand for nickel will continue to grow rapidly; (ii) if all
known projects for nickel production materialize, supply is likely to out-
strip demand; (iii) average costs of production will continue to rise.
Quantifying these judgments is difficult, however. In addition to the usual
problems of projection, the policies of major producers, which are difficult
to ascertain and predict, are of fundamental relevance. Therefore, various
possible rates of growth are presented with particular focus on avoiding
over-estimation of the market potential and future prices.
Demand
9.        Estimates of world consumption of nickel based on exploration of
various historical trends and on the historical relationship between
(a) nickel consumption and the index of industrial production and
(b) nickel consumption and crude steel production
yield the following results for 1975 and 1980:
Projected
Growth     Elasticity    Consumption
Basis for Projection                 Rate       Coefficient   1975   1980
x                         (thousand
per annum)                    metric tons)
Extrapolation of Trend
1947-1969                     6. i                      539      732
1959-1969                     7. 5-                     612      878
1959-1966                     8.8 -                      715   1,088
Relationship between nickel
consumption and
Industrial production (1955-70) 8.6(8.3)/2        1.29         612      900
Steel production (1955-69)        8.5(8.0) L2     1.28         585i    837
/1   Slope of the trend line for period shown.
/2   Growth rates between terminal points, 1969-75 and 1969-80, respectively
(latter shown in parenthesis).



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 13 pages
10.       The projections based ont the 23-year hist.ortcal trencl yield tlh.
lowest estimates and can be considered rather conservative, for nickel was
in short supply through a large part of this period. The choice among the
others depends, aside from methodological considerations, on judgments on
four principal questions: (i) future trends in new uses; (ii) future tech-
nical trends in substituting other materials for nickel; (iii) the impact
of current high prices on demand and substitution; and (iv) the role of the
Vietnam War, past and future. It is quite possible that gains from new uses
will outweigh losses to substitutes in the long run. If so, growth in con-
sumption in the seventies will increase above the historical trend of 6.2
percent per annum, although it could be risky to count on a rate higher than
7 percent. While accepting that the war has raised U.S. defense needs for
nickel, producers seem to feel that part of it has occurred at the expense
of commercial consumption; moreover, they do not expect suclh requirements
to be reduced significantly in the foreseeable future.
11.       The major nickel-producing companies expect world nickel consump-
tion to grow at steady rates of 6.5 to 8 percent per annum in the long run,
some recent projections indicating rates as high as 9 percent. Actual de-
mands projected by the companies for about 1975 however, run above those im-
plied by the long-term growth rates they specify. The reason for this, as
far as it could be determined, appears to be that most companies (and many
analysts) expect annual growth rates of 10-13 percent in the next 2-3 years
before a long-term trend rising at a rate of 6.5-8 percent per annum sets
in. That is, the projections seem to assume that production has a great
deal of catching up to do.
12.       Giving some weight to the above judgments, world consumption can
be projected 10-15 percent higher than the lowest of the three historical
rates of growth (1947-69).  Projected consumption then becomes 575-625
thousand tons around 1975, and 800-850 thousand tons around 1980 (compared
with an estimated 420 thousand in 1970 1/). These projectiorns are very
close to those based on the historical relationship between nickel consump-
tion and steel production.
13.       Extrapolating the more-steeply rising 1959-66 trend noted earlier
(or the 1961-67 trend used for projection by some analysts) gives, for 1975
and 1980, estimates 20-30 percent higher than those adopted above. Growth
of this order cannot be ruled out, nor can it be counted on with confidence,
for two principal reasons. First, the role of the Vietnam War is not en-
tirely clear. Second, prices are now roughly 60 percent higher (in real
terms) than average prices in 1959-66, and may have an impact on demand.
/   The industry's own estimate for 1970 is 433 thousand tons, which may
be on the high side.



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 13 pages
Supply and Prices
14.        The world nickel industry is in the midst of massive investment
programs and there is unprecedented interest in nickel exploration and
exploitation, both within and outside traditional producing countries.
Canada's output is not likely to growr by more than 30-35 percent by the end
of the decade. Given the far better prospects for other producers, Canada's
share of world output is likely to decline progressively, but INCO has plans
in other countries, which could result in 70 thousand tons of annual capacity
and Falconbridge has been seeking overseas concessions.  By far the largest
part of the world's new nickel supplies in the 1970s are expected to come
from New Caledonia which, according to some estimates, has up to one-third
of the world's known reserves. Capacity, estimated at about 40 thousand
tons in 1970, may treble or quadruple in 10 years if all projects under
consideration materialize, but there are great uncertainties due to tech-
nical problems and the high cost of raising the huge investment funds re-
quired.  Althlough large reserves were discovered recently in Australia, the
exploitability of some of them seems to have been over-estimated. Australia
will nevertlieless become a significant producer in the 1970s. Indonesia and
the Philippines, are likely to produce large quantities in the future. In
thie case of Indonesia, however, plans are only on the drawing board at pre-
sent. Smaller, additional supplies are likely to come from Latin America,
Botswana, Greece and Rhodesia. U.S. output is expected to remain unchanged.
15.        Quantitative estimates of these general prospects are too broad
and impractical. Clearly, plans vary in firmness and feasibiliLty and ought
not to be lumped together.  It seems more appropriate to group the estimates
into tlhree categories: (i) "certain" capacity - including mining projects
under construction or ready to be launched; (ii) "likely" capacity - prom-
ising projects in advanced stages of preparation; (iii) "possible" capacity
- plans, or roughi estimates of the annual rate of exploitation of reportedly
Toeconomic" ores, where the year in which mining may begin is ncit certain.
Making thiese distinctions is, of course, not easy in every case, and the
estimates below are not perfect:
1970      1972      1975      1980
(thousand metric tons)
World consumption                   420/-Z
Low                                                    575        800
high                                                    625       850
W4orld production capacity          450
certain                                      560       650        750
likely                                        40        50        100
possible                                      10        100       200
Total                                610       800    1,050
/1   Preliminary rough estimates.



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 13 pages
There may be no excess until 1974 or 1975.  Under these conditions, cur-
tailed utilization and inventory adjustments may go a long way toward re-
lieving the need to review plans for expansion. If, however, consumption
advances toward the 1975 estimates at an even rate, potential overcapacity
may become a threat as early as 1972 or 1973.
17.       The future will depend largely, particularly in the medium term,
on how the major companies which dominate the market, rather than indepen-
dent observers, see the future and assess their own interests. Domination
by a few powerful producers may not change significantly. All three major
companies are reported to be projecting a possible overcapacity in the mid
or late seventies, but they do not seem to consider it too serious at the
moment.
18.       The principal companies and many stock-market and nickel-trade
analysts expect prices to continue to increase in the foreseeable future,
because of rising costs and inflation.  Some expect prices in the neiglibor-
hood of $1.50-$1.60 per pound, in current dollars, In 1975 or before, com-
pared with the current price of $1.33. Barring the discovery of new large,
sulphide ore reserves, the average cost of nickel will keep rising for
some time, wages aside, for two principal reasons: first, oxide laterite
ores (now yielding about 30 percent of output and about 50 percent in the
seventies) are significantly costlier to refine than sulphide ores; second,
the quality of sulphide ores in Canada will continue to deteriorate. The
amount of increase is not certain, however.
19.       Cancellation of some plans for expansion, and postponement of
others will be inevitable. However, attempting to correct the potential
imbalance in this way, while maintaining high prices and therefore high
profits, will, in the long run, threaten the major companies' dominant
position in the market. Furthermore, it will increase the burden on them
to adjust supply and demand in the medium term when plans for expansion
tend to be less flexible. Unless growth in demand exceeds expectation,
price too may play a role in slowing down expansion. Costs may continue to
rise for some time but they cannot climb indefinitely. While major compa-
nies have continuously raised prices in recent years in order to generate
investment funds in face of high interest rates, this need may be less
intensive in a period when capacity is threatening to outrun demand.
Based on this reasoning, a long-term equilibrium price, from about 1975
onwards, of $1.15-$1.25 in 1970 dollars is projected. This is lower than
the current price of $1.33, but higher than the 1969 pre-strike level of
$1.03. On the basis of the available fragmentary informatiorn on costs,
prices are very unlikely to decline or remain for long periods below the
lower limit of that range.



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 13 pages
COPPER
1.        Consumption of refined copper is closely linked wiLth industrial
production, and about half of world consumption is for electrical applica-
tions. Mine production has roughly doubled in the past twenty years and
in 1969 was 4.8 million tons, a record figure. World consumption of refined
copper was about 5.7 million tons in the same year. The latter figure in-
cludes copper refined from scrap (secondary copper) as well as mine produc-
tion (primary copper), but it does not include scrap used directly without
refining, of which there was probably 2 million tons in 1969. Primary cop-
per is tlherefore about 60% of the total quantity of the metal used by manu-
facturers each year. Chart 1 shows world consumption of refined copper.
2.        The developed countries accounted for about 95 percent of world
consumption of refined copper in 1969. Major consumers were the U.S.,
E.E.C., Japan and the U.K. (respectively 34, 24, 14 and 10 percent). The
developed countries however, accounted for only just over half of world
primary production. The U.S. is the largest producer amongst the developed
countries (1.4 million tons in 1969) but is a net importer. Canada exported
about 400,000 tons in 1968 (1969 was affected by strikes).
3.        Zambia, Chile, Congo (K) and Peru (respectively 719I, 687, 364 and
199 thousand tons in 1969) together accounted for about 40% of world primary
production in 1969 and more than 90% of exports from the developing coun-
tries.
4.        There are basically two important prices in the copper market, the
U.S. producers' price and the London Metal Exchange (LME) price. The former
applies to copper which is mined and sold in the United States (about 30
percent of world primary production), and moves in the classic manner of a
"managed price", i.e., it is posted and changed only from time to time.
Outside the United States most copper is sold on the basis of the LME price,
which is essentially a daily auction price highly responsive to world, as
well as U.K., conditions. The two markets normally adjust to each other
through arbitrage except in extraordinary situations.
5.        Demand for copper was unexpectedly strong in the late 1960s, sus-
tained by a prolonged industrial boom throughout the world, large imports
by Mainland China and expanding military needs; and on the supply side, by
delays in carrying out schemes of expansion and considerable losses of pro-
duction due to strikes and technical breakdowns. Consequently, copper prices
on the London Metal Exchange (LIfE) remained abnormally high, averaging around
60 U.S. cents per pound during 1965-1969 (see Chart 2). During the past
year, the demand for copper has been only sluggish, however, mainly because
of the recession in the U.S., slow economic growth in some other OECD coun-
tries, and significant reductions both in Mainland China's net imports of
copper and in military needs. The recent strike in the U.S. at General
Motors, September-December 1970, also contributed; well over 100,000 tons



ANN EX 3
Page 8 of 13 pages
of refined copper is normally consumed by this firm annually.  On the sup-
Ply side, there have been substantial addltions to capacity. It is esti-
mated that world mine capacity increased by 14 percent in the last two years,
from 4.98 million tons (annual rate) at the beginning of 1969 to 5.68 mil-
lion tons by the end of 1970. The LNLE price dropped from around 80 U.S.
cents per pound in March-April 1970 to around 48 U.S. cents in November-
December 1970.  The average LIE price during 1970 was 64.1 cents per pound,
and the average for the first two months of 1971 is estimated to be 47.0
cents per pound.
6.        A statistical correlation deduced between the OECD index of indus-
trial production and consumption of refined copper has been used to forecast
consumption in the developed countries, assuming an average growth of 6.0
percent per annum in industrial production between 1968 and 1980.  Tue fig-
ures obtained were 7.15 million tons in 1975 and 9.1 million tons in 1980.
Using a different method, consumption in the developing countries was fore-
cast at 332,000 tons in 1975 and 416,000 tons in 1980 (i.e. an average rate
of growth of 4.7 percent per annum), compared with an estimated figure of
252,000 tons per annum in 1968-70. Addition of these two totals gave one
tentative projected world consumption, noted as alternative A in Table 3.
7.        A somewhat more conservative projection was made by extrapolating
past trends, which is shown as alternative B in Table 3. This alternative
assumes a slower-than-expected industrial growth or a deterioration in the
"demand elasticity" with respect to industrial output in the developed
countries in relation to alternative A.
8.        The likely substitution of copper by other materials, notably
aluminum, has already been taken into account, in these projections because
the historical data used include years of extraordinaarily higih prices.
9.        Net exports of copper from the 'world' to tihe centrally-planned
economies (CPEs) are estimated to have been around 125,000 tons per annum
in the early 1960s, but to have declined to about 35,000 tons per annum in
the mid-1960s when prices were very high.  In 1969, net exports to the CPL's
apparently increased again, to close to 100,000 tons in 1969. It is assumed,
for the purpose of this report, that net exports of copper from the "market
economies" to the CPEs during 1970-1980 will be close to the average that
prevailed in the early part of the 1960s - say 100,000 tons per year.
10.       The share of secondary copper in world consumption of refined cop-
per varies from year to year, but systematic cyclical changes have not been
observed and the elasticity of the price of secondary copper is low at least
in the medium and long term. Projected demand for primary copper has there-
fore been assumed to be 83 percent of the projected demand for refined copper.
Applying this ratio to the projected consumption of refined copper yields two
alternative projections for primary copper, i.e., A and B, as shown in columns
(8) and (9) in Table 3. The implied rates of growth in the projected demand
for primary copper are:



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 13 pages
4.3 - 4.8 percent in the 1969-1975 period, and
4.2 - 4.9 percent in the 1975-1980 period.
Supply Prospects 1970-1975
11.       According to a recent survey, world mine capacity is scheduled to
increase from an estimated annual capacity of 5.27 million t:ons at the end
of 1968 to 7.45 million tons at the end of 1974, i.e., at an average rate
of 7.2 percent per annum. Alternative projections of mine production have
been made for the 1970-1975 period and are shown in columns (3) and (4) in
Table 3. Alternative I refers to the production that will be realized if
there are no delays and only a minimum of production losses. Alternative II
assumes that actual production will be only 93 percent of capacity available
at the beginning of the year in question. Alternative II implies an average
growth rate of 6.0 percent in 1969-1975, compared with the projected growth
in demand of 4.3 - 4.S percent per annum in the same period.
Price Outlook
12.       The analysis just given implies an annual potential surplus of
0.6 - 1.1 million tons, or 9 - 16 percent by 1974-75. However, such sur-
plus production is not likely to materialize. As a potential surplus
were approached, some projects would be delayed, and the industry might be
willing to maintain a greater degree of reserve capacity.
13.       The balance is however changing from one of relative shortage to
one of potential surplus. The result should be a falling trend in prices
gravitating toward a long-run equilibrium level. Because of the lack of
adequate data on costs of production in the industry, an estimate of the
long-run equilibrium price must be based on historical relationships be-
tween the world supply-demand balance and world prices. The postwar price
record provides only a minimum of clues to the equilibrium price of the
world copper industry. It is clear that the prices of recent years have
been well above costs and therefore cannot be relied upon as Long-term
equilibrium prices in an economic sense. The admittedly meagre evidence
of the record suggests that such a price may lie somewhere within the 1959-
63 price range (in 1970 dollars). That is to say, under condiitions of
average losses of production due to strikes and other interruptions, the
equilibrium price should lie in the range of 36-42 cents per pound in 1970
constant dollar terms. The range is primarily based on price behaviour in
the period from 1960 to mid-1964 during which imbalances between supply and
demand were less pronounced than in other periods. Assuming that some in-
creases have taken place in costs since the early 1960s, it is believed that
in the mid-1970s the long-run equilibrium price will lie slightly above the
1959-1963 price range in 1970 costant dollar terms. The LME price averaged
64.1 cents per pound during 1970 and about 46 cents per pound in the first
two months of 1971. How rapidly the price will "settle" around the project-
ed level will depend on a number of short-term factors.



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 13 pages
14.       In 1967, the four leading exporters of copper, i.e., Chile,
Zambia, the Congo (K.D.R.) and Peru, formed the Intergovernmental Council
of Copper Exporting Countries (CIPEC). CIPEC has been studying measures to
stabilize prices in the copper trade, but so far has not achieved agreement
on what action to take. The position of CIPEC in the world copper market,
is quite different from that of the International Tin Agreement. It is as-
sumed for purposes of this report that in the medium and lornger term, the
policies of CIPEC will be consistent with maintaining stable price in the
neighborhood of the projected long-run equilibrium level.
15.       The U.S. strategic stockpile (at present 230,000 tons) is almost
half a million tons short of the present official target. Here lies a pos-
sible element of support for an extremely depressed market, but there is no
assurance that the target will not be reduced in the future.
16.       For the period after 1975, an independent projection of supply
based on company plans is not available. Factors that would tend to keep
prices above the estimated equilibrium level appear at present to be the
more enduring ones.  Accordingly, the assumption that price will tend to
settle at the estimated equilibrium level should be considered as conserva-
tive.



ANNFx 3
Page 11 of 13 pages
Table I:  MINE PRDDUCTION OF NICKEL BY OOUNTRY, 1960 AND 1965-69
(thousand metric tons)
1960      1965       1966      1967       1968      1969
Canada                           194.6      235.1     202.9      225.6     239.8      192.7
Cuba                              14.5       29.1      27.9       3h.9      37.3       37.0*
United States                     11.4       12.3       12.0      13.3       13.7      13.7
Other AmericV/                     0.1        1.1        1.1       1.1        1.1       1.5
Finland                            2.1        3.0       2.9        3.4        3.2       3.6
Greece                             -          -         0.1        2.5        4.7       5.6
New Caledonia                     53.5       57.6       62.8      67.8       88.1      81.0
Australia                          -          -          -         2.1        4.9      10.8
Republic of South Africa           2.9*       5.2        5.4       5.7        7.5*      9.0*
Other Africa                       0.3        1.1       1.1        1.2*       1.5*      4.0
Asia_/                              0.5       3.6        4.0       5.2        8.0       9.0*
World (ex. C.P.C.)               279.9      348.1     320.2      362.      W409.8     367.9
Centrally Planned Countries       61.8       84.6      o0.5      100.5     109.5      111.5
Total World                      341.7      432.7     410.7      463.3     519.3      479.4
* Indicates estimates.
1/ Recovered nickel content.
2/ Exc'luding Centrally-Planned Countries.
Source: Metallgesellschaft AG, Metal Statistics, 1969.



ANNEX 3
Piage= of 13 pages
Table Ilt  PRODUCER PRICE OF CANADIAN NICKELt/ ELECTROLYTIC
CATHODES, 19147-1970
(U.S. cents per pound)
Current          Real
Price           Price 2/
19147             35.0             50.5
1948              36.5             48.7
1949              140.0            56.1
1950              44.8             60.14
1951              514.0            65.14
1952              56.5             70. -4
1953              59.9             75.6
1954              60.14            76.2
1955              60.5             76.1
1956              65.2             79.14
1957              714.0            87.6
1958              714.0            86.3
1959              714.0            86.1
1960              714.0            86.1
1961              77.6             90.6
1962              79.9             93.1
1963              79.0             92.3
19614             79.0             92.1
1965              78.6             89.8
1966              78.9             87.3
1967              87.8             96.9
1968              94.0            10183
1969             105.4            109.2
1970             128.9            128.9
1/  F.O.B. shipping point, U.S. duty of 1¼ cents per
lb. included until 1965 when duty was auspended.
2/  Deflated using U.S. Wbolesale Price Index,1970-100.
Source: Metallgesellschaft AG, Metal Statistics.



Table 3 s PROJECTED ',RLIr DEMAND AND S1?P4X OF C0PPER: 1970-1975 AJND 1980
(Medium metric tons)
P r oj ectted          D em a nd
Estinated Capacity2 t      Planned Capacity            Estimated                                                  Estimated  et Eports
beginning of year-         increases 2/           potentcntial prOduction        Refined Copper ConsumgtiQn           to  C.P.E.'s         Demand for Primray Copper    Potenti&l Surplus
Alternative     Alt-ernti-ve
I 2/3/         II  4/           A  5/           B  6/                                    A  7/              B 7)
(1)                    (2)                 (3)              (4)             (5)              (6)                  (7)                 (8)                (9)                (10)
1969              4.98                    0.28                4.83            4.82            5.70             5.70                  0.10               4.74               4.74              0.08
1970              5.27                    0.41 2/             5.18 9/         5.18            5.82             5.85                  0.05               4.88               4.90              0.30
1971              5.68 2/                 0.52 9/             5.57 9/         5.17            6.20             6.10                 0.10                5.24               5.15       (-)l.16-0.?
1972             .6.20                    0.47                6.05            5.77            6.51             6.37                 D.ll                5.49               5.38             ._0.67
1973              6.67                    0.46                6.49            6.20            6.82             6.64                  0.10               5.75               5.60        
1974              7.13                    0.31                6.88            6.63            7.16             6.93                 0.10                6.03               5.84l
1975              7.44                    0.33                7.18            6.92            7.48             7.22                 0.10                6.30               6.o8            ,.'Lv
1980              9.05 10/                 -                  8.74 10/        8.42 10/        9.51             8.90                  0.10                8. 0               7.48           ,.-21i6
I/ World excluding the centrally planned economies (CPE's).                                                 7 The estimated demand for primary copper is assumed to equal  83.095%  of -he sum of the estimated con-
srcption of refined copper ard the assumsd net exports of refined copper to the OPE's. A and B
2/ Based on data supplied by an informed industry source, best estimates as of September                       series correspond to the A and B series given in columns (5) and (6), respecLtvely.
18, 1970. As for 1970 and 1971, adjustments have been made to allow for the loss of
productive capacity due to the Mufulira accident.                                                       8/ The difference between the estimated practicable capacities, columns (3) and (4), and projected
demand for primary copper, oolumns (8) and (9).
,/ 95% of capacity existing at beginning of the year plus one-third of scheduled new
capacity during the year with special adjustments for 1970 and 1971.
W  Based on column (3), with adjustments made by Bank staff.  1969 - actual production.
1970 - estimated on the basis of the assumption that the production will be 100%                        9/ canacity estimates for 1970 and 1971   are       adjusted for the probable losses of productive capacity
of the projected pgac+iLvable capacity. 1971 - based on the assumption that there will                     in these years resulting from the recent accident at the Mufulira mine in Zambia.
be an industry-wide strike in the U.S. resultirg in an assumed loss of production
equivalent to three months' operations.  1972 to 1974 - 93% of the estimated capacity                  10/ 1980 capacity figures   are      based on the assumption that capacity additions under all weaiills v
at beginning of year as given in colu mn (1) hcs beor. taoko.n i.n order to 6'10w for                      increase at the rate of 4.0% per annum between 1975 and 1980.
possible delays and failures in the scheduled capacity additions as well as for
further probable losses of production due to labor strikes and technical breakdowns
beyond the minimum already assu,ed.                                                                    Source;  Industry source, and the Economics Department staff estimates.
5/ 1969 - actual consumption.  1970-1980  - projected on the basis of the correlation
between refined copper consumption ard industrial production in the developed
countries and of an extrapolation of the trend for the developing countries.
ThiB series implies 8n average growth of 4.6% per annum during 1969-1975.
0
6/  1969=actual.  1970 -1980  -  projected by an extrapolation of the least-squares
trend line fitted to 1950-1968 data.  This series implies an average growth
rate of 4.0% per annum in 1969-1975.                                                                                                                                                                                     2



ANNEX 3 CHART I
WORLD (Excl. C.P.E.'s) CONSUMPTION OF
REFINED COPPER*
(MILLIONS OF METRIC TONS)
10                                         I Trn  , T1TT Tl                          10
9                                                                                   9 ___  _  _   -  9
8                                                                                   7
7                                                                    7~7   _
6                                                                                   6
Logo Y3.41;72+0.01828t
-      1~~0
5 _                                                                                 5
4       or                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
3       -                  .9                                        -_             3
d.9 
-        Actual consumption
_____ Trend Extrapolated to 1980
*_a_* Alternative Projection                            SEMI-LOG'ARITHMIC SCALE
1  I I lf i-Lw          mI    I I  I   1  l L_ fi  I   I      I E       i      1
1950         1955         1960          1965         1970          1975          1980
* Includes primary and secondary copper.
IBRD-4609(3R)



COPPER PRICES (LONDON METAL EXCHANGE, US. AND CHILEAN PRODUCERS) 1960-1970, BY MONTHS
(U.S. CENTS PER POUND)
I lOrTr-TT TTTTF-F7F-yrT   TTrT TTTThf VT T   1             I T    rTT    rr FT 7'7T7rrTTm FT--t FVT          111 TT  YTF    !TfI-I-T n-F F1YOo
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --TT F l    I                                - l    !    i 7TI
|1    11                                  I                                                                                       I   
90 ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~       I                                         -       -__                       90
I    00 METAL EXCHA.GE.SPOT
80                                                                                                                      ___ _ _ _._ _ 1_ __    80
80                                                                                   -X--                                                  so   - -   --6
70         ,                                                                                                                               70 __,  ___
60     _                                                                                                                                  ,60
50                           -         t                     U       - j>- -            t                                                  50.  
40       4 -
50                                                                                                  _____&-  ----t ------- 
\______ __  ______      __ _            _ __                                  ___                 __ _  __ _                           40ETC  tT  
K:                                 . ... ... .. . ..-- ~            t_ _ _                            _  __. .....
1960        1961        1962         1963        1964        1965         1966         1967        1968         1969        19TO
UU.*.C~~ffl S1SUfl



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
BOTSWANA
Description of the Infrastructure Project
1.        The Infrastructure Project will provide power, water, transport,
township and medical facilities as described in paragraph 4.01 to support
the mining venture at Selebi-Pikwe. A detailed description of these facil-
ities is provided in the following paragraphs.
The Power Facilities
2.        The power plant which is to be located at Pikwe adjacent to the
mine will comprise initially 4-15 MW steam turbo-generators, and 3-15 MW
boilers designed for outside operation. Approximately 13 MW of waste heat
steam will be available from the mining company's smelter. Three of the
four turbo-generators will operate in conjunction with the three boilers
and the fourth will be supplied with steam from the smelter waste heat
boiler. Provision is also made for the waste heat steam to be fed directly
into the main steam range.  T e turbo-generator sets will be designed for
Fteam conditions at 625 lb/in and at a normal temperature of 865OF meas-
ured at the superheater outlets. The mining company will be responsible
for delivering the waste heat steam to the power station at the design
pressure and temperature.
3.        The stoker-fired boilers will operate on local coal, and the
Anglo-American Corporation will install the coal mining facilities at
Morupule which is about 69 miles south of Pikwe. The coal is of medium
grade, non-cooking bituminous quality with a calorific value of about
10,400 BTU/lb and 20% ash.
4.        The transmission system will comprise a 66 kV single circuit
transmission line about 70 miles in length, from Pikwe, to, supply Francis-
towii and Shashe. Two 11 kV single circuit distribution lines from the
power plant to Selebi/Pikwe each about 2 miles in length wuill supply
Selebi/Pikwe Township and an 11 kV single circuit spur line just under
1 mile in length will supply the township water treatment plant. The
Selebi/Pikwe distribution system is included in the township services.
The Water Facilities
5.        The water facilities will comprise a dam on the Shashe River, a
primary treatment plant and pumping station, a pipeline from the dam to a
bulk service reservoir at the mine area, and a treatment plant, service
reservoirs and distribution system for the domestic requirements of the
township. The dam will be designed for a yearly average yield of 8 IMgd,
the average requirements being 7.5 IMgd by 1980. These are shown in
detail at the end of the Annex. Provision has been included for a possible
supply to Shashe siding and Francistown. The dam will be a zone earth



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
embankment 77 ft high, 9,700 ft long, containing about 1,350,000 cubic
yards of fill material. The design will allow heightening of the dam in
the future, which would increase its yield to over 10 IMgd. The concrete
spillway will be 1,000 ft long, with a concrete diversion apron protecting
the dam. A tower, with intakes at several levels will control the flow
drawn from the reservoir into the concrete supply culvert.
6.        The dam site has been chosen after careful investigation of an
alternative on the Motlautse River, nearer Pikwe, which promised a saving
of R 2,000,000. However, because of the uncertain yield (estimated between
a low of 1.7 IMgd and a high of 6 IMgd) encountered on the Motlautse altern-
ative, and the low probability of impoundment during the first wet season
the Shashe site was selected to ensure a greater margin of safety in meet-
ing the requirements of the mining area.
-.        The water from Shashe dam will be pumped (see appendix to this
Annex) to a primary treatment plant (sedimentation, microstraining and
chlorination). A treated water pumping station will then supply a 50-mile
pipeline, 24/30 inches in diameter that will convey the water to the bulk
reservoir at Selebi/Pikwe. The water will then be distributed to the mine
complex and power station and to a second treatment plant for filtration
and chlorination to serve the domestic consumers in the town. A conven-
tional water distribution system is to be built in the town writh every con-
nection metered. Including the two reservoirs connected to the distribution
system, the total storage capacity for the township will be equivalent to
one day's maximum seasonal water demand.
8.        The requirements of the coal mine at Morupule for water are small
and estimated at only 30,000 gals per day. The region north of Serowe,
about 25 miles to the west of Morupule is the potentially best source of a
ground water supply for Morupule. If this is proved to be the case the
water would have to be pumped from boreholes through a 28 mile pipeline to
the Colliery. Alternative methods for providing this water are being con-
sidered.
Telmporary Water Supplies
9.        Water from the Shashe reservoir will not be available until mid-
1973. During the corstruction stage water will be obtained from local
sources, i.e. wells in the Motlautse River sands and some bor,eholes, and
will be limited to the amount available estimated at 0.25 Imgd. This
should be adequate, subject to strict rationing. The temporary water sup-
plies, include a series of wells in the Motlautse River sands, pumping
units, connecting mains, a treatment plant, a main pumping plant and dis-
tribution, a service reservoir and a small distribution system. The works
of the first of the two stages were completed and became operational during
mid-1970.



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
The Roads and Railway
10.       To open up the mining area and connect it with the existing road
system, BCL has cut an earth track from Seruli to Pikwe. The present con-
dition of this track is relatively good but it is low lying and lacks drain-
age and would not be able to carry the increased traffic during or after
construction. For all practical purposes, therefore, Pikw,e lacks an ade-
quate road in any direction and the project includes the construction of an
alternative gravel road between Seruli and Pikwe, a distance of about 40
miles, which would be designed to all weather standards.
11.       A traffic forecast indicated that about 70% of the traffic to and
from Pikwe would be in the direction of Francistown, and an examination of
the existing main road revealed that about 36 miles spread over different
sections between Seruli and Francistown need raising and improved drainage
and an additional 10 miles need other minor improvements to bring the whole
of this section up to all weather gravel standards. The betterment and re-
construction of these sections of the Seruli-Francistown road aggregating
46 miles has been included in the project.
12.       The railway branch line from Seruli to Pikwe will be about 40 miles
long and the branch line from Palapye to the colliery at Morupule will be
about 10 miles long. The project will include the irrecoverable components
of the cost of these two lines, i.e. bridges, culverts, foundations for
tracks and other associated civil works, and also the installation costs of
the railway track and other recoverable material which will be provided on
loan by Rhodesia Railways Corporation at an annual interest charge of 7-1/4%.
The Railways Corporation will also maintain the track at an annual cost of
bR 500 per mile and will be responsible for clearing firebreaks at a cost
of about 6R 500 annually. All of these are costs to the Government and will
be recovered in Part 2 of a proposed two-part tariff applicable to the traf-
fic passing over to the new spur. Part 1 of the tariff will cover the trans-
portation services which are to be provided by the Rhodesia Railway Corpora-
tion.
Townsite, Housing, Buildings and Medical Facilities
13.       Selebi/Pikwe township will be located some 2 miles from Pikwe be-
tween Pikwe and Selibi (9 miles apart) and will be designed for a population
of some 10,000 growing to 25,000 by 1980.
14.       Although Pikwe will initially be a mining town, lplanning is based
on the assumption that in a developing country such as Botswana, the town-
ship will continue to have a viable function after the min:Lng potential,
which was the original justification for establishing the itownship, has been
exhausted. Experience in other areas has shown that further mining develop-
ment is likely to take place within the locality and minor industry and sup-
porting services should be attracted to the township.



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
15.       The town plan includes, in addition to the housing areas, a com-
mercial zone of about 10 acres where shops and local government offices will
be located, and an industrial zone of about 275 acres. ProviLsion has been
included for a park and other open spaces for recreational facilities. Min-
imum road reserves of 32 ft will be adopted, and the township plan includes
the usual services, i.e. water, sewage disposal, electric porer distribution
telephones, etc.
16.       The estimated requirements for housing and apartmerkts as shown
by the consultants are:
High Density   low Density
(a)  BCL                                     1,809            240
(b) Central and Local Government
and Railway                             129            117
(c)  Services (Power and Water)                119            103
(d)  Other (Private and Commercial)             72             48
The project would include the requirements shown under (b) and (c) above.
BCL would provide the finance and be responsible for the erection of housing
for the use of its personnel shown under (a) above. The other housing shown
under (d) would be privately financed.
17.       The principal medical facility included in the Infrastructure Proj-
ect is a 48-bed health center which would be located in the twanship of
Pikwe. Additional medical facilities to meet the recommendat:Lons contained
in the WHO report include the provision of a 350-bed regional hospital to
replace the existing hospital at Francistown which will be inadequate to
meet the future requirements of Northeast Botswana. This hospital which
will be designed for later extension to 500 beds has not been included in
the Project, but construction is expected to commence towards the end of
the Project construction period and separate financing is to be arranged.
Doctors for the hospital would have to be recruited from outside Botswana
and the nursing staff would have to be trained at the existing Gaborone and
Francistown hospitals in Botswana.



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5 pages
BOTSWANA
SHASHE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
ESTIMATTED WATER REQUIEMENTS
From Shashe Works
UNIT: IMgd
1974                  1978                  1982
Maxim$m                aximum            -     ax
Average  Seasonal      Average Seasonal      Average  Seasonal
Selebi Pikwe Township      .31       .62           .84     1.68         1.18      2.36
munaccounted for,          .08       .15           .21      .42          .30       .59
Total "Town"                .39      .77          1.05     2.10         1.48      2.95
Mining Company            3.52      3.52          4.1o     4.10         4.60      4.60
Power Plant and
Waste Heat Oenerator*       .92     1.00           .97      1.06        1.03      1.12
Total "Industry          4h.4       4.52          5.07     5.16         5.63      5.72
Pipeline Losses             .25      .25           .30       .35         .35       .43
Total Pumped from
Shasheto      e           5.08      5.54          6.42     7.61         7.46      9.10
*  Including .110 IMgd to be demineralized in the Power Plant and passed over
to the Mining Company.



APPENDIX TO ANNEX 4
BOTSWANA
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
SHASHE DAM             Outlet Works
AND RESERVOIR/
Pumping Station
Shashe River
Primary Treatment Plant
10.0 lMgd (45,500 m3/day)
PUMPING
STATION
i ji
c-a     I 
_ E    jhL               b Francistown
( Provisional Only
-: ,    L.._---.......Shash e Sidi ng
-o
~~~~ ~~(Provisional Only)
Buk S4.6 lMgd (20,900 m3/day)
Bul k Servi ce Reservoir             Min  Plant
5. 3 I Mg (24, 000 m 3)  Mz1ine Plant
-) 1 15IMd    Power Station    SELEBI/PIKWE
:2: (520  3(Including Waste -
0' /day)      Heat Generator)
cs
Treatment Plant
2.9 lMgd
(13,000 m3/day)
Service Reservoirs      2.9 lMgd (13,000 m3/day)
2 x 1.5 lMg            -Township
(2 x 6,800 m3)                        s
IBRD - 4866(4R)



ANNEX 5
BOTSWAKA
INFRASTRUCTURE -PROJECT
SLMKARY OF COSTS
.ocal     Fore1gn     rotal      Lo-al      Foreign     Total
-       - --                                              - l,OOO  ------ ---
A. Power Facilities
Ruilding and other Civil Works                                         500       1,29)0     1,791        700      1,806       2,506
Mechanical Fqoipment                                                    60       3,900      3,960         84      5,46o       5,544
Electrical EouiPment                                                    60      5,730       5,790         84      8,022       8,1o6
Station Diesel Sets                                                     20        200         220         28        280         308
Delivery and Erection                                                  900       1,400      2,300      1,260      1,960       3,220
Transmission System                                                    140        800         940        196      1,120       1.316
qlv  Total                                                      i,68o     13,320      15,000      2,352     i8,648     21,000
Continge-ioes (i 5% on plant 10% other cots                            i68        840       1,008        235      1,i76       1,411
Pralalios at about 5% pa. on all costs
Fn.zinding plant                                                    200         530        730        280        742       1,022
Total 1 '                                                       i,o48     14,690      16, 738     2,867     so,566     23,433    L t
B. Water Faciiitles
Shashe Dsm Works                                                       800      2,800       3,600      1,120      3,920       5,040
Pikre Tr-nk Main                                                     1,490      3,900       5,390      2,o86      5,460       7,546
Pikwe  ireatmsnt plant, cecond service
recervoir and pomp station                                           48         330        378         67        462         529
Morapule Water Supply                                                   80         220        300        112         308        420
Sob Total                                                       2,418      7,250      9,668       3,385     10,150      13,535
Contingencies 15%                                                      362       i,088      1,450        507      1,523       2,030
Escalation at sboot 5% pe. on all costs
excluding plant and equipment                                       210        794       1,054        364      1,112       1,476
Total ?                                                         3,040      1,132      12,172      4,256     12,7S      17,041
C. Roads and Riilvay
Serolli -  FEve Gravel Road                                            250        606         856        35(1       848       1,198
Scrlli - Francistown (Road npgrading)                                  165         392        557        231        s4h3        780
Seruli - Piswe Railwsay Branch Line
(irrecocerables only)                                                290        706        996         4o6        988      1,394
Palapye - Morapule Railway Orasnh Line
(irrecoverables only)                                                 44        160         204         62        224        286
lub Total                                                         749      i,864      2,613       1,049      2,6o0      3,658
Contingencies 15% (To include road maintenance study)                  112         278        390        157         389        546
Escalation at about 5% pa.                                              86        214         300        120        300        420
Total                                                             947      2,356       3,303      1,326      3,298      4,624
D. Towship
Water Distribution System                                              130         320        450        182        448         630
Power Distribution System                                               8o        190         270        112        266         378
Roads and other Services                                               500         589      1,089        799        825       1,525
Government and Corporation Douses                                      658        920       1,578        921      1,288       2,209
Railway Rouses                                                         107        148         255        150        207         357
Other Government building. and works
including Health Centre                                             400        566         966        560        792       1,352
Sub rotal                                                       1,875      2,733      4,608       2,625      3,826      6,451
Contingencies 15%                                                      290        400         690        4o6        56o         966
Escalation   absout 5% pa. (excluding Housing)                         146        200         346        204        280         484
Temporary Water Supply & Preliminary
Water distribution Works 3'                                         120        580         700        168        812         980
Total                                                           2,431      3,913      6,344       3,403      5,478      8,881
E. Enrineering and Administration
Administration and training 4'                                         500        200         700        700        280         980
Engineering design of facilities financed by
Bank Loan to be refoancod from Credit 172-BT                         50        600         650         70        840         910
Other Engineering Costs                                                300       1,900      1,800        420      2,100       2,520
Contingencies @ 20% on additional engineering costs                     60         300        360         84         420        504
Total                                                             910      2,600       3,510      1,274      3,640       4,914
Grand Total                                                9T76      322691     42.067      13,126     45,767      58,8q§
L' Pover facilities to be financed by the Canadian International Development Agency.
2' Cost of tronk main and valves (eacloding laying) entinated at about US$7.6 million equivalent to be financed by USAID.
33 Temporary water supplier and part of Pikwe township water reticulation (estimated cost US$0.98 million) to be financed by the GoVernment
through a UR interest free loan.
4/ This estimate inc luden the cost of the Management Team's secooded .oIerrnmet staff estimated at US$100,300 which will be financed by
the Government, the salary and expenses of the Project Co-ordinator estimated at US$80,000 which are being financed through the 14FDP
Special Pond and the cost of the training program and early hiring of the management and uperating staff for the power facilities
estimated at US$310,000 which it ha. been assumed will be financed from a Canadian Technical Aid Grant.
April 7, 1971



ANNEX 6
B O T SWAN A
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE FOR THE INFRASTRUCTURE AND MINING PROJECTS
SELEBI-PIKWE COPPER/NICKEL MINING AND PROCESSING COMPLEX
1970                          1971                            972                           1973                          i974
DESCRIPTION                     JFIAJ  IJ¢AISIOIN C J;FMzAIFAI    l                     N O    I
SHAkFT StNIGAD  QIMN
_ .. W-'C-SW2|M                                  I                        AMU  A                              I,
UNDERGIOUND DEVEL              j                   .    .                         S       I II                         II
INSTALLAjTION OR MEFCHANICAL                                                                                   C       .D
_AND FLECTRICAL E    N           .                                                           I iCL UNDE GROUND DEVELOPMENT
SELE, I MINING   HEADPRMS IA                                        I Mi
_      NRTE _.  DIIIU 111 .l                                                                              *0                                         t 
ERICE SHAF   SINKING EQUIPMENT                                         I
SERGIOE UNF DINK'"  INSE     I OR                                                                                                 [ =
SICH. AND ELECT. EQUIPMENT                                                                                       C       U            D         I
DEAD FRAMES
WINDERS
COMRPRESSORS                                                                                                                  [
PRI,ARY CRSHERISAND
UTILTY SERVICES
SCEEDOUSE AND EQ.IUPHET
CRUSHER DOUSE AND EQUIPMENT
CON VEYORS
FINE ORE RRNC
MILL AISLE BUILDING                                                                                                       0  Co.. 5  s D    NG
Co NCEINTRATO,
FLOTATION AISLE MK U!LDNG                   I
.ND EQUIPMENT
REAGENT TANKS
XPiKFWE~~. __-.i. ---.i __                                        i 
LAN,D PLAINT 
UTILITY SERVICES                                    l       U
FILTER P.LANT                       I       I       I            I
DRYER PLANT           -                                oI
SMELTE WUIDI0 G II|
FLAE fI REEA T   A
ANDASSOIAD A CAT| EQUINE NT
WASTE TEAT RECOVERY EQUP MENT                                                                                                                      R
AND  ASSOCIATED EQUIIPMENT
SSCONDEREW   ANDj                                                    I
SHELTER       ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT                      I                         D
SLAG GRAINULATION PLNT
HATIE GRANULATION
AND RAGGING RUINS
UUUICVLXOEES   IBIIIIIIIISTUCTURAL EEECTION                 EQUIPSTENT ERECTION
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
J  FIM AIM  JIJIAISIOINID  J  A~~~~~~~                                    M~j        S J ;A   DJ  FIM   A        1J974S0           
HPE SUPPLY                 ~JAS
WATER  DELIUERY  W ITR TREIA~TMENT PLANT
POT ATION     PA LA,VEy UEJEFIS
______   ROAD  IAMPEVEMENTS                                                                       i                                                    t -        -ry                    -
ROADS  AND     __ 5EW                                                                                                   DHADN LD IF VIII
OAR 8    NI PIK W GOVERNMENT  HOUSING                                                                I          .
OTWHER GOVERNMENT  BUILDINGS                                                        II~i
SELERI-PRAWE   I MANY CONTRACTS;DH,VMNA
PoWE.ERSTATION   KEY DIATES ONLY SHOWN)                                                                                                                            ~
IPREPARE PROJECT REPORT AND  AGREE SCOPE OR CONTRACT                   FREEFUE  CONTEIACT VC)CUMENT5                        F7MFNA IZRCONTRAC   DOCUMENTS
TENIDER PERIOD                                                        ATC,CTINLADTLATESTCT  FORN                                                    -11~               R
a         ADVERTISE CONTRACT IAAMRIDA                                     DVERT SE CON,TRACTI (EDNA I                                 LATUENST AEFOR A,,RMSOV     O DL
1PERHANENT  WATER SURELY UVAILUARELIRE590



ANNEX 7
B3'SWANA
INP1USTRUCTURE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from Bank Loan
IBRD, fiscal year                                         Cumtlative Disbursement
and Quarter                                               at end of Quarter
(US$1,000)
1971/72
September 30, 1971
December  31, 1971                                            4,4oo
March     31, 1972                                            6,200
June      30, 1972                                           9,400
1972/73
September 30, 1972                                          12,000
December  31, 1972                                          15 ,ooo
March     31, 1973                                           18,000
June      30, 1973                                          20,000
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                          22,500
December  31, 1973                                          25,o800
March     31, 1974                                           27,000
June      30, 1974                                          28,800
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                          29,300
December  31, 1974                                          30,500
March     31, 1975                                          30,800
June      30, 1975                                          32,000
April 1971



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
BOTSWANA
Environmental and Health Aspects of the Infrastructure and
Mining Project
1.        In the area affected by the Project, there is at present no in-
dustry and human activity is currently confined to cattle raising and some
subsistence agriculture; the small number of inhabitants live in traditional
villages, widely scattered over the country. The townsite will be some 40
miles to the east of the road and railway which run side by side and which
are the main communications across Botswana.
2.        The dam which is to be constructed at Shashe near the road and
the railway will create a lake which is to be the focus of a recreation
area and the effect of which on the surrounding area will not be detrimen-
tal. The lake, or reservoir, will be fenced in order to pr,event water con-
tact and pollution, mainly from cattle, since the closest village is two
miles away. Bilharziases will be a hazard but the W.H.O. report on the
health aspects of the Project mentions no malaria problem in the immediate
project area.
3.        In planning the township, the Government has kept in mind the
need to meet the health and associated social problems whiclh will arise
due to the relatively large size of the work force to be engaged for the
construction of the mining and infrastructure developments and the expected
growth of the township. Provision is made for adequate watier supply and
services, and housing in the township will be suited to the cultural re-
quirements of the inhabitants. Opportunities will also be provided for
recreation and social activities suited to the socio/cultural needs of
the inhabitants.
4.        The township is sited between Pikwe and Selebi mining areas and
although its location has taken into account the prevailing winds, there
is some reason to believe that the distance (2 miles) between the smelter,
the power station and the future town may not be sufficient to fully pro-
tect the latter from occasional exposure to exhaust gases and dust. The
Government recognized the need to examine the effect of gases and dust
emitted from the power station and smelter on the health and livelihood
of the human and animal population, and on the vegetation and fauna of the
area, and engaged through the U.K. Ministry of Overseas Development Dr. P.
Leeson of the U.K. Central Electricity Generating Board to investigate and
report on the measures which should be taken to keep all aslpects of pollu-
tion from the mining plant and power station to acceptable levels.
5.        The principal recommendations contained in Dr. Leeson's report
which was published in October 1970 concerned the height of the power sta-
tion and smelter stacks. Dr. Leeson considered there were mo visual or



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
audio problems, and likewise there should be no problem with process water
after use providing this is fenced to prevent access by cattle and treated
to avoid the risk of toxic effluents entering human and anitaal food chains.
6.        The Bank engaged Dr. M. Katz of York University, T7oronto, who
is an acknowledged international expert on pollution, to examine and com-
ment upon the recommendations contained in Dr. Leeson's report and also
to comment on the draft legislation on pollution which has been prepared
by the Government. Dr. Katz's report which has recently been received
shows that he agrees with Dr. Leeson in all respects other than the recom-
mended heights for the smelter and power station stacks. Dr. Katz con-
siders these should be of a minimum height of 650 ft and 250 ft respectively
compared with 500 ft and 160 ft recommended by Dr. Leeson. Some useful
recommendations on important issues overlooked in the Government's draft
legislation on pollution were also included in Dr. Katz's report.
7.        BCL subsequently engaged the services of Dr. Halliday of the
Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, Pretoria, South Africa,
to advise them on the problem of the smelter stack height in the light of
the conflicting recommendations contained in the Leeson and Katz reports.
Dr. Halliday comments that because of the arid nature of Botswana and its
very low population density plus the fact that S02 concentrations at present
are virtually zero, with no present industrialization, a max:Lmum ground
level concentration of approximately 1 mg/m3 (which implies an average
daily concentration of less than 0.1 mg/m3) can be safely accepted. On
this basis he considered a stack height of 520 ft would be adequate.
Dr. Katz's recommendation of 650 ft was based on an average daily con-
centration of S02 of less than 0.08 mg/m3 but he agreed with Dr. Halliday's
conclusions that for the reasons stated, the higher figure of 0.1 mg/mr
should be acceptable and on this basis a smelter stack heighl: of around
520 ft to 525 ft would be adequate. On the basis of the information sub-
mitted by the various consultants the minimum acceptable heights of the
smelter and power station stacks will be 525 ft and 250 ft respectively.
Even so there will be some risk of air pollution in the township as the
nearest houses will be less than two miles from the smelter and the power
station, and the Government will have to establish a system for monitoring
ground level concentrations of S02 and taking the necessary action when
this exceeds acceptable limits.
8.        Provision must be made by the Mining Company for the suitable
treatment of liquid waste effluents from the ore treatment to prevent
discharge of these materials into the nearby surface waters. It is planned
that the effluents will be led to a tailings dam where the suspended mate-
ri4ls will settle out prior to release into the surface waters. In any
event, every effort must be made to avoid pollution of the river waters
by treating the effluents as may be necessary prior to their release so
as not to prejudice the use of these waters by downstream users.



ANIEX 8
Page 3 of 3
9.        Occupational health and safety problems associated with the min-
ing operations, including dust control at the mining faces, are expected
to be satisfactorily handled and particulate levels frequeintly monitored.
Miners are expected to be periodically examined for signs of "miner's lung"
and proper treatment instituted. Safety equipment and training will be
provided.
10.       Most of the solid wastes will be returned to the underground
cavities left by mining operations. Wastes to be incinerated will have
the proper fly ash and particulate controls.



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
BOTSWANA
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Economic Comparison of Steam Station at Pikwe with Alternatives
1,        The following alternatives to the proposed steam station at Pikwe
using coal produced in Botswana were considered:
(a) Local generation by diesel engines.
(b) Import of power from South Africa.
(c) Use of cheaper coal imported from Rhodesia for the
proposed steam station instead of local coal.
Alternative sites for the station were also considered, as idescribed in
Annex 11.
2.        The diesel alternative would have the lowest capital cost, showing
a saving of nearly US$9 million compared with the equivalent steam station;
but it would have the highest running costs owing to the high cost of fuel.
The figure of 13.3 cents (Rand) per imperial gallon for fuel imported through
South Africa is equivalent to 79 cents per million Btus, compared with 34
cents per million Btus for local coal. The consequent savings in running
costs for the steam station represent a rate of return on the additional in-
vestment of 12.5% which is satisfactory. The real return to Botswana will
be higher since this calculation does not take into account the fact that
the steam station will use locally produced coal from a new mine, which will
provide additional direct and indirect employment for Botswana citizens,
whereas a diesel station would be dependent on imported oil.
3.        Importing power from South Africa instead of generating it at Pikwe
would involve consequential changes in the other infrastruclture facilities.
The detailed figures, excluding items common to both alternatives, are shown
at page 3 of this Annex. The steam station alternative has appreciably high-
er capital costs (the difference is about US$15.5 million), although it shows
savings in annual running costs. If the local scheme is credited with the
additional benefits to Botswana resulting from Increased govrernment revenues,
the return on the extra investment which it requires is still only 1.4%, which
is very low. Nevertheless, the Government has chosen local production on
the grounds that political considerations and the longer-term economic ad-
vantages expected from local generation and the establishmenit of a coal min-
ing industry outweigh the financial advantages of imported power. Moreover,
the real return to the economy of the locally based scheme will be higher
than shown to the extent that the social opportunity costs of inputs for
the two alternatives (e.g. of imports and local unskilled labor) differ from



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
their money costs and that there are further secondary benefits which can
be credited to the local scheme, including multiplier effects of the extra
local expenditure associated with it. Owing to lack of data it is not pos-
sible to quantify these factors, but they could raise the equalizing dis-
count rate appreciably above the calculated figure of 1.4%.
4.        The cdhuiltants found that imported coal from Rhodesia would be
initially about 25% cheaper than local coal, although its cost advantage
would fall to about 17% by 1980 with increased production of local coal.
The use of local coal for power generation would represent an additional
annual cost of about 100,000 Rand (US$140,000). Despite the extra cost,
however, the Botswana Government has chomew the use of local coal on simi-
lar grounds to those which led them to f&vor local generation, and also
because of current U.N. sanctions against Rhodesia.



BOTSWPAN
INFRASTRUCTURE  PROJECT                                1
Economic Conparison Between Schemes Based on Local Generation and Imported Power-
(Expressed in Rand 1,000)
Capital Costs                                                                              Running Costs                                          Credits to Local  .eneratioc            Total Costs
Year  Scheme Based                                                                                                                                                           Scheme        Soheme~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~chm  Sh
Year                      S~hsm. 'R"e 2                                 Scheme Based                                 Scheme Based                                  Scheme Based                    Extra - .                          Based on      Based on
ending                on Local Generation-                            on Imported Bower                            on Local Generation                            on Imported Power                Customs    Colliery                   Local       Imported
March 31      Power   Water   Trans   )(uing    Total PH.e..'    Water    Trnns   Total                   Power   Weter       Trans    Housing   Total   Poses 3' Water   Trans    Total   Revenue                 Tax         Total    eneration       Pswer
1971         602      301      121               1,024         152        301        101      554                                                                                                                                     1,021           q54
1972       2,258   3,422       382      115      6,177      1,4i4       3,412        565   5,391                                                                                                                                       6,177        5,391
1973      8,584   5,4o4   1,814        485      16,287      3,314      5,301       1,113   9,728                                                                                                                                     16,287         9,728
1974       6,269   3,046   1,368       195      10,878      4,283       3,041      1,279   8,603         163       52        565        2          782    1,385        52      S51      1,988       100                      100      11,560       10,591
1975         888      48o                        1,368          22        380                 402      1,010      110        894        2        2,006    1,519       100      880      2,499       790                     790       0,q8L         2,901
1976                                                                                                   1,042      111        944        2        2,099    1,540        111     930      2,5d1       290                      290       1,809        2,581
1977                                                                                                   i,078      121        999        2        2,196    1,561        121     981      2,663       100                      100       2,096        2,663
1979                                                                                                   1,101      132      1,051        2        2,286    1,575        132   1,037      2,744                                          2,286        2,744
1979                                                                                                   1,124      142      1,106        2        2,374     1,590       142   1,092       2,824                                         0,374        9.824
1980                                                                                                   1,159      152      1,176        2        2,489    1,607        152   1,162       2,921                                         0,489        2,971
1981                                                                                                   1,188      152      1,226        2        2,578    1,628        i62   1,212       3,002                     10         10       2,;6e        3,002
1982-                                                                                                  1,217      173      1,226        2        2,618     1,646       173   1,212       3,031                     50         ;0       2,568        3,031
1998
Eq-1.isig Nicc--n Pate: 1)44
I   Items common to  both altereatice.  iavg been excluded.
2' The ncheme Based on local generation isScheme 3 in the somnu1tante  supplementary
report which provides fur a power station at Pikw with integrated waste heat stemm.
3' In order to preserve comparability between the two sche-ec, the capital and running
costs relative to the waste heat generating unit have been included in the vapital
aod runing costs of the scheme based on'imported power.
4/  1-ca1  neeratics i,nelees addi         l innle ci mnc l           anter-lsic-   mc icn N o 6..t.  will
be payable   since the imports sill be on gover.ment acc-ut             - nder the  -ustono
reven-e sharing agreement with South Africa the Botswana Q-o-ernme-c will benefit
to the extent of about 20% of the value of these items.
5' This is the  ,o-er-ent's e-timate of the yield of  omp-ny tam from the coal mine at
Morupule.
April 28, 1971



BOTSWANA: INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
ESTIMATED ANNUAL ELECTRIC POWER DEMAND
50
MAXIMUM DEMAND ,-
40                                       ___
,,Zzzz///,    //, PIKWE TOWNSHIP DE dND  /SH
2 30              t                                                                             DEMAD
I.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 
30
LU   20
MIEDEMAND1-
10
0
1974     1975     1976    1977    1978       1979    1980       1981     1982     1983    1984
IBRD 5709



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 3 pages
BOTSWANA
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Economic Comparison
Of Alternative Power Station Sites
1.        In the final feasibility report the consultants examined the rela-
tive merits of Pikwe, Shashe and Morupule as sites for the power station.
The main argument for Pikwe is that the mining complex there will provide
about 90Z of the initial load, as shown in Annex 10. It would therefore
have the lowest transmission costs and the supply to the mine would be more
secure. ON the other hand, coal supplies would have to be transported about
90 miles by road and rail from Morupule. Coal would have to be transported
a similar distance witlt the station at Shashe but Shashe has the advantage
of being centrally located in relation to the various initial loads and other
loads which may develop in the course time. Shashe would also be most fa-
vorably situated with regard to water supplies. Since most of the power
would have to be transmitted to Pikwe, however, transmission costs in the
initial years would be higher than for a station at Pikwe. Locating the
station at Morupule would minimize the coal costs but station capital costs
would be higher, since dry cooling would be necessary, and ithere could be a
problem with water supply; it would also be remote from the main centers of
load development.
2.        In their detailed comparison of the sites the consultants took
account only of the known loads asssociated witlh the mining project and
Francistown i.e. those at the mine itself, the township, the Shashe pumping
load and Francistown (see Annex 10). In the supplementary report they ex-
pressed the view that this conclusion would not be invalidated if allowance
were made for possible future load developments in the Shashe area but they
did not consider any detailed cases allowing for this possibility.
3.        As a chieck two further cases were examined as follows:
Case 1. In addition to the load assumed by Gibb the following
new loads were allowed for:
(1)  a new copper/nickel mine comparable with Selebi-Pikwe
starting up in 1980 about 25 miles east of Francistown;
(2)  processing plants for soda-ash and gypsum coming into
operation in the Shashe area in 1976;
(3)  copper/nickel production starting at Matsitama in 1983.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 2 of 3 pages
Case 2. This case was based on more optimistic assumptions
about new loads as follows:
(1) two new mines comparable to Selebi-Pikwe starting up
in 1976, with associated township;
(2) mine at Matsitama starting in 1980;
(3) the soda-ash and gypsum plants starting up in 1976
as in Case 1.
4.        The assunmptions used for these two cases were derived from known
possibilities already being discussed in Botswana. The soda-ash and gypsum
projec:ts are mentioned in the consultants' report. The two new mining
prospects are at Selkirk and Mount Struck in the Tati Concession 25-30
miles east of Francistown. BCL had originally intended to start mining at
Natsitama in 1976 but subsequently decided to defer this indefinitely. All
these developments seem likely therefore at some time in the future altlhough
their scale and timing are uncertain. Case 1 may be regarded as represent-
ing a conservative view of the prospects, Case 2 an optimistic view.
5.        The comparison was carried out for the period up to 1993 i.e.
covering 20 years' operation of the Selebi-Pikwe mine, assuming it starts
operation in August/September 1973 as presently planned. It was based on
1970 cost figures but it is not thought that the use of 1971 figures would
affect the result. Other assumptions which should be mentioned are:
(1) Station Capital Costs
The power station costs at Pikwe assume the station will use
the waste heat steam from the smelter. To make them compar-
able, the costs at Morupule and Shashe include provision for
a separate waste heat generating unit at Pikwe belonging to
the mining company. The Morupule figures also allow for the
higher costs associated with dry cooling, which would be nec-
essary at this site owing to shortage of water and the pro-
hibitive cost of piping it in from outside.
(2) Coal Costs
The pit head cost of coal varies according to:
(a) the tonnage produced;
(b) whether the station is at Morupule or elsewhere.
If at Morupule the cost will be lower according
to Anglo American as economies in both capital
and operating costs at the coal mine will then
be possible. On the other hand coal requirements



ANNE, l1
Page 3 of 3 pages
will be higher at Morupule because of the use of
dry cooling (15% extra has been assumed). The
pit head costs used were derived from figures
provided by Anglo American. The transport costs
of coal to Pikwe and Shashe were taken from the
consultants' report.
(3)  Common Costs
Capital and operating costs common to all three sites were
excluded from the calculation, so that the figures quoted
below do not represent the full costs of construction and
operation over the period considered.
6.        Gibb based their comparison of the three sites on a discount rate
of 8%. The actual rate used should be related to the opportunity cost of
capital. No information is available for this in Botswana but 8% is almost
certainly too low. Anglo American indicated that they would expect a 10%
return on the coal mining operation in Botswana. As a check on the sensitiv-
ity of the outcome to the discount rate assumed, the calculations were car-
ried out at 8%, 10% and 12%. The results of the comparison are set out
below:
Present worth of costs at April 1, 1970, million Rand
(1)             (2)             (3)
at 8%           at 10%          at 12%
CASE 1   Pikwe                29.645           27.038           24,929
Shashe              30.015            27.404          25,290
N:orupule           29.968            27.703          25,842
CASE 2   Pikwe                32.027           28.977           26.522
Shashe              31.744            28.785          26.391
Morupule            31.045            28.553          26.501
The difference in all cases is marginal but it will be seen that Pikwe
emerges as the most favorable site in Case 1. In Case 2 Morupule shows an
advantage but the difference is small at 10% and 12% interest and cannot
be considered significant in view of all the uncertainties involved. These
results provide no ground, therefore, for differing from the consultants'
conclusion that the Pikwe site is to be preferred.



ANN,EX 12
Pagie 1 of 4 pages
BOTSWANA
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Internal Financial Rates of Return on the Mining DeveLopment
and Infrastructure Project
1.        The internal financial rate of return to BCL and the Government
on the combined investment in the mining development plus iLnfrastructure
was first calculated by finding the discount rate which equtalized the pres-
ent worths of the time-streams of costs (capital plus operasting) and attrib-
utable revenues over a 25 year operating period. For this purpose the
projected mine costs and revenues shown in Annex 1 were used. The detailed
figures are shown at page 3 of this Annex. The calculated rate of return
was 10.2%. In making this calculation, capital expenditure before March 31,
1971 amounting to R 19.927 million was included. Since this represents
sunk costs, it may legitimately be disregarded; if this is done, the rate
of return becomes 13.1%, which is acceptable.
2.        The calculation was also carried out using the mining company's
projections of its sales revenues, which assume nickel and copper prices
of US$1.3644 and US$0.50 per lb. respectively instead of $1.20 and $0.43
as in Annex 1, and a sulfur price of R 24/short ton instead of R 23. This
results in a rate of return of 14.1% if pre-March 31, 1971 capital expenditure
is included, or 17.8% if it is excluded.
3.        A separate calculation was made of the internal financial return
to Botswana on the Infrastructure Project alone, treating as benefits the
projected direct revenues payable to the Government by BCL in the form of
royalties, taxes and dividends, plus the estimated revenues from the infra-
structure facilities, less the increase in Government ordinary expenditure
attributable to the infrastructure. The detailed figures are shown at
page 4 of this Annex; they assume the projected mine revenues shown in
Annex 1. The resulting rate of return is 12.3%, which is satisfactory; it
rises to 13.3% if pre-1971 expenditure is excluded from the calculation.
If BCL's projection of mine revenues is used, the corresponding figures are
15.8 and 17.1%.
4.        Apart from the revenues shown at page 4, there wiLl be additional
benefits to the Government from the Infrastructure Project Ln the form of
the extra yield from income tax and customs revenue. Allow:Lng for these,
the rate of return becomes 15.7% including, or 17.2% exclud:Lng pre-1971 ex-
penditure. Using BCL's revenue projections, these figures become 19.3 and
21.1% respectively.
5.        In calculating the above rates of return on the Infrastructure
Project, only the development of the power loads attributable to the mine,
Pikwe township, Francistown and Shashe pumping have been taken into account;



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 4 pages
no allowance has been made for any new industrial loads which might emerge
in the future, such as for soda ash and gypsum production in the Shashe
area. Such additional power demands, leading to earlier utilization of the
full capacity of the power station, would result in somewhat higher rates
of return than those calculated here.
6.        The figures quoted also under-estimate the real returns to the
Botswana economy. Although these cannot be calculated owing to lack of
data, they are likely to be higher since the above figures are based on
the money costs of inputs rather than their social opportunity costs (which
will be lower for unskilled labor, for example) and include no allowance
for the positive multiplier effects of the associated expenditure.



BOTSWANA
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Internal Financial Return on Mining Project plus Infrastructure Project
Rand 1, 000
Extra4/
Year enling       Capital Costs             Running Costs    2           Revenues              Customs Total   Total
-' 'ch 31    Mine    I-frastructure   Mine   Infrastructure-2      Mine  Infrastructure3/   Revenue  Costs  Revenues
1971     17,211        2,7161/                                                                        19,927
1972     23,875        7,441                     132                                                  31,448
1973     25,710       17,901                     220                                          516    43,831      516
1974      5,796       12,919       9,020       1,061            5,839           25          2,812    28,796   8,676
1975                   2,0L8      21,798       1,722           27,843          135          4,367    25,568  32,345
1976                     121h     21,798       1,804           41,304          155          1,963    23,726  43,422
1977                              21,798       1,883          k4130h           202            198    23,681  L1,70L
1978                              21,798       1,965           41,30h          219             12    23,763  41,535
1979                              21,798       2,037           41,259          253                    23,835  41,512
1980                              21,798       3,800           41,123          297                    25,598  41,420
1981                              21,798       2,06l           4l.123          322                    23,859  41,LS5
1982                              21,798       2,130           La,123          359                    23,928  41,L82
1983                              21,798       2,150           41,123          359                    23,948  41,482
198L;                             21,174       2,169           39,205          359                    23,3L3  39,564
1985                             19,298       2,190           33,453          359                    21,488  33,812
1986                              199,298      2,214           33,453          359                    21,512  33,812
1987                              19,298       2,236           33,453          359                    21,534  33,812
1988                              19,298       2,261           33,453          359                    21,559  33,812
1989                              19,298       2,287           33,453          359                    21, 5 85  33,812
1990                              19,298       2,315           33,453          359                    21,613  33,812
1991                              19,298       2,34L           33,453          359                    21,642  33,812
1992                              19,293       2,374           33,453          359                    21,672  33,812
1993                              19,298       2,406           33,453          359                    21,704  33,812
I99L                              19,258       2,437           33,453          359                    21,735  33,812
1905                              19,298       2,471           33,453          359                    21,769  33,812
19,298      2,506            33,453         359                    21,804  33,812      a 
19°7                             19,298       2,543           33,453          359                    21,841  33,812        S
1995                               19,298      2,582           44,453          359                    21,880  44,812
1/ Tnciudes  16,0(Y  expendcd by MLarc> 131, 1970.           Rate or Return - (a) including expenditure to March 31,  Z
2/ Including additional Governmernt recurrent expenadi.ture.                        1971 - 10.2%.
3/ Revenues from  sale of power to Francisto;mn.
T/ Extra customs revenue resulting from infrastructure and mining               (b) excluding expenditure to March 31,  (D
company imports under customs revenue shiaring agreement with                    1971 - 13.1%
South Africa.
May 1971.



BOTSWANA
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Internal Financial Return on Infrastructure Project
Rand 1,000
Costs                                                                    Revenues
Year ending                                                            1/             2 /    Township 
March 31       Capital    Running    Total           Royalty       Tax7-     Dividend7    Contribution      Power     Water     Transport-       Total
1971           2,716                2,716
1972           7,44i        132     7,573
1973          17,901        220    18,121
1974          12,919      1,061    13,980             750                                                  1,211       744         145         2,850
1975           2,o48      1,722     3,770             750                                      302         3,188     1,538         290         6,o68
1976             124      1,804     1,928             750                                      302         3,231     1,636         315          6,234
1977                      1,883     1,883             750         603          6o4             302         3,293     1,668         315          7,535
1978                      1,965     1,965             750         931          298             302         3,327     1,715         315          7,638
1979                      2,037     2,037             750         974          459             302         3,373     1,739         315          7,912
1980                      3,800     3,800             750       1,028          525             302         3,431     1,755         315          8,106
1981                      2,061     2,061             750       1,064          571             302         3,469     1,769         315         8,240
1982                      2,130     2,130             750       1,118          636             302         3,508     1,786         315         8,415
1983                      2,150     2,150             750       1,182          715             302         3,508     1,786         315          8,558
1984                      2,169     2,169             750       1,236          783             302         3,5o8     1,786         315          8,680
1985                      2,190     2,190             750       1,290        1,153             302         3,508     1,786         315          9,104
1986                      2,214     2,214             750         731          420             302         3,508     1,786         315          7,812
1987                      2,236     2,236             750       3,490          423             302         3,508     1,786          315        10,574
1988                      2,261     2,261             750       3,648          972             302         3,508     1,786         315         11,281
1989                      2,287     2,287             750       3,681          827             302         3,508     1,786         315         11,169
1990                      2,315     2,315             750       3,681          827             302         3,508     1,786         315         11,169
1991                      2,344     2,344             750       3,681          827             302         3,508     1,786         315         11,169
1992                      2,374     2,374             750       3,681          827             302         3,508     1,786         315         11,169
1993                      2,406     2,406             750       3,681          827             302         3,508     1,786          315        11,169
1994                      2,437     2,437             750       3,681          827             302         3,508     1,786         315         11,169
1995                      2,471     2,471             750       3,681          827              302        3,508     1,786          315        11,169     l
1996                      2,506     2,506             750       3,681          827             302         3,508     1,786          315        11,169    C
1997                      2,543     2,543             750       3,681          827             302         3,508     1,786          315        11,169    .-r
1998                      2,582     2,582             750       3,681          827             302         3,508     1,786          315        11,169    o
1999                                                  750       3,681          827              302                                             5,560    It
2000                                                            3,681                                                                           3,681   -ri
l/ E-timated tax payable by BCL.                                                 Rate of return  (a) including costs incurred to March 31, 1971 - 12.3       v
2'  Government share (15%) of estimated dividends                                                 (b) excluding costs incurred to March 31, 1971 - 13.3d,
payable by BCL.
3' BCL contribution to township costs and temporary
water service.
4/ Estimated incremental revenue from fuel/lubricant
tax, vehicle tax, vehicle licences and railway
-urcharge.
May 1971.



BOTSWANA
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Estimated Source; and Applicaiions of Funds for the Study. Engineering and Construction Phases or the Project
(Thousand  of Rad)
----------------------------------  Year Ending March 31 -------_________________
1969         1970        1971         1972         1973          1974         1975         1976            Total
SOURCRS
Specific Grants-in-aid to Government
United Kingdom                                              35          370              5                                                                               410
United Nations Development Programme                       150                          10           15           15            15            5                          210
Canadian Technical Aid                                                                               20           40            40          120                          220
1m           370            15            35           55           -5          T2y 
Government Budgetary Funds
Counterpart Cocts of Feasibility Studies                   446                                                                                                           446
Interest on U,S. AID Credit                                                                          15           45          105            80                         245
Government Staff Seconded to Project Management                                        10            15           15            19           15                           70
10o           30                       1 270         9-5                        -761-
Borrowings
United Kingdom                                                                         160          180                                                                  340
Canadian International Development Agency                                                         1,900        8,300        5,500           60o        438           16,738
U.S. Agency for International Development                                                         1,030        2,410        1,726           270                       5,436
IDA Design Credit (172-BT)                                                          1,550          (414)                                                              1,136
Proposed Bank loan                                                                                5 000        8,000        6 764        2 700         3             22 857
=           ____                      18,710       13,990        3,570          _             4'07
TOTAL SOURCES                                        631           370         1,735        7,761       18825         14165         3,790        831            48   8
APPLICATIONS
Power Facilities                                              1;)0                                   1,900        8,300        5,500           600        438           16,838
Water Facilities                                              355                                    3,310        5,280         3,132          450                      12,527
Road, and Railway                                             141                                      350        1,700        1,253                                     3,444
Township                                                       25                           5          820        2,000        2,200           500        124             5,674
Design and Preliminary Work;                                                           1,550           236                                                                1,786
Additional Engineeri-g Costs                                                                           600          600           600          300         60             2,160
Administration and Training                                                                20          110           130          130          310                          700
Temporary Water Supply and Preliminary
Water Distribution Works                                    13          370            160          180                                                                  720
Interest During Construction
Proposed Bank loan                                                                                  240          770        1,245        1,550         209            4,,014
USAID Credit                                                                                         15           45           105           80                          245
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                    631          370         1,735        7,761        18,825       14,165        3,790       P83             45,10O
Note: This table incluides expenditures on feasibility studies, totalling P 646,0D0, principally made in 1968/69, which were financed by  rND? and iX grants and by the
Governrment, and expenditures to be financed from  the IDA design credit '172-BT), estimated at R 1,136,000, but since these works are not part of the Project,
they are not included itn Annex 5, Summary of Costs of the Infrastructure Project. Also included in this table and not shown in Annex 5 are the estimated
requirements for intere-t during construction on the proposed Bank and '1,1. AID Locns.
In estimating the phasing oi expenditures and the disbursement of the  al,ank loan for purposes of this table and Annex 7, allowance has ber. made for the
possibility that Project completion would be delayed by about one - ear heyond the scheduled com-pletion date which is geared to coincide with commence-
ment of' mining operations abou' September 1973, with full scale operations trom January 1, 1974.  A delay in completing the Project would most 'ikely result
from problens associated with the construction of the power facilities ratser than that of the other facilities which are simpler to execute.  Thus, the
phasing of expenditures, shown on this table for power facilities, engineering, and administration and training is more extended than estimated for purposes
of the economic evaluation 'Annexes 11 and 12) and the financial forecasts ('nnexes 14 and 15), which assume the Project will be completed on schedule. The
phasing of zorrowings, as shown on this table, corresponds to the ass,mp'ions made about an extended construction period, and the estimate of interest during
construction on the propoced Dank Loan and bSAID Sredi- is also based or. the assumption that the Project completion will be delayed, and in the case of the
Bank Loan, that the grace period will extend to about mid-1-?7-.
April 30, 1971



ANlNFX i14(a)
' I'r:;WANA
Ptkwe Divislon of holswan&  ,bwer (p,Crparnt0
Estimated Sales anid Revenues, 1974-1-)8i'
____________________________----- Year Ending March 311-  ----------------------------------
1974       1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980        1981       1982
Maximum Demand (MW)
tline                                                30.3      30.3        30.6        30.9        31.2        31.5       31.8        32.0        32.0
Pikce Township                                      1.5        2.5         ?.9         3.3         3.6         4.0        4.4         4.9           4
Shashe Pumping                                         .6        .7          .8          .8          .8          .9          .9         .9         1.0
Francistown                                           1.0   *-3             1.5         1.8         2.0         2.3         2.17       3.0          3
Total Billed                                    3Ri    77             75.         3.         T.           77                     140.1
Power Station Aojciliaries                           2.0        2.0         2.0         2.0         2.0         2.0        2.0         2.0         2.0
Totsl Demand                                   35         7                      73           3.1r    W7             IT          142.13
Energy Sales (GWh)
Mine                                                95.0      212.0       214.0       216.0       218.0       220.0      222.0       224.0       225.0
Plkwe Township                                       2.5        6.7         9.0        10.2        11.1        12.4       13.7        15.2        16.5
Shashe Pumping                                        1.5       4.0         4.2         4.4         4.6         4.9         5.3         5.8        6.2
Francistown                                            .75      4.o         4.8         6.3         7.0         8.o         9.5        10.5        12.3
Total Sales                                      57       7          232.0 337              240,7       2      350.5            2.              0
Transmlssion Losses                                    .1         .2         .2          .3          .3          .3          .3          .4          .4
Distribution Losse.                                    .8         .9        1.2         1.4         1.5         1.6         1.8         2.0         2.2
Total Sent-out                                10b                    2334T    4   7         242.5       2            52,        257.9       262.6
Station Use                                          9.35      13.0        13.0        13.0        14.0        14.0        15.0       15.0        15.0
.otal Cenerat4_ _25 11                                                               0              . 0                         2 277       Y77T
Operating Revenues (Thou-ands of Rand)
Mtne - Fixed Charges - Capital                       144.5_    1,707      1,676       1,646       1,627       1,595      1,568       1,537       1,495
- Operations                    752'      291        291         292         294         295         295         299         294
- Energy Charges                                9232'   1 489        1 481      1 476       1,489       1 474       1 478       1,470       1 471
Total Revenues from Mine                       71        ,4437 w                            3,364                               3,302
Pikwe Township                                       143        382         428         468         496         530         567        607         644
Shashe Pumping                                        40        107         114         108         107         115        116         117         127
Franclitown                                           25        135         155         202         219         266        297         322         359
Total Revenues                                !1                                                322  2  1,75          3 = =
Average Revenue per kWh Sold in Rand Cents
Mine - Total Revenues                              1.52       i.54        1.(1        1.58        1.'.6       1.53        1.50       1.47        1.45
Pikwe Township                                     5.70       5.70        14.76       4.59        4.47       4.27        4.114       '. 99       3.90
Shashe tomping                                     2.8ti      2. 61       2.71        P.A4        2.31        2.31'      :'.1'1      2.02        2.05
frs1 stown                                         3.37       3.37        3.23        3.71        1.1         3.33        1.13        3.()7      2.')?
Total Sales                                   1.14/      1.1         1.19        1.7t        1/.0(      1.714       I.12        1.0         1  .6j
Nlet reve-:;es From  1ine After Waste Heai Credit
(Th.cusends of Randl                               1,275      2,825       2,793       2,764      2,764       2,722       2,703       2,669       2, 631
Average Net Revenut per kWh Sold Mine -
Rand Cents                                         1.34       1.33        1.31        1.28        1.27       1.24        1.22        1.19        1.17
1' The period ending March 31, 1974 covers 7 months from the estimated start of operations on September 1, 1973.
2'  Under the power agreement with BCL, a tariff of Ro 1.25 per kWh is applicable to preliminary sales between the date when the Power Corporation
is first able to supply power on a commercial basis and the date when the power facilities are completed and fully commissioned. It is
estimated that this latter date will be January 1, 1974. Accordingly, this preliminary tariff has beern used in estimating revenues from sales
to the Mine for the period September 1, 1973, to December 31, 1973, and these revenues amounting to R 5,25 thousands are included under "energy
charges" for the period ending March 31, 1974. The balance of the energy charges and the estimated fired charges for capital and operations
for this period represents the charges for sales in the period January 1, 1974 - March 31, 1974, estima.ted on the basis of the demand and
energy charges applicable under the sgreement after completion of the facilities.
April 30, 1971



ANNEX 14(b)
BOTSWANA
Pikwe Divis,on oB Botswana Power Corporation
Estimated Income Statements, 1974-1982
(Thousands of Rand3
---------------_ -----------------__-  - Year Ending March 31----------------------------------------
1974         1975         1976         1977         1978         197          1980         1981          1982
Total Operating Revenues                                  1,651        4.111        4.145        4.192        4.232        _,27S        4,R21           48        4.R90
Opermting Expenses
Generation
Salaries, Wages and Administration                   91          220          227          233          240          248          255           263          271
Fuel, etc,                                          400          730          753          781          797          812          838           858          877
Water                                               130          261          259           249         259           249          252          246          253
Maintenance                                          28           60           62           63           64           65           67            68           70
Waste Heat Purchases                                168          662          655          650          646           642          638          633          629
Hou ing- Net of Employee Rents                      _              2            2            2             2           2             2            2            2
Total Generation                               817        L9           1.958        1.978        2.008          018        2.052        2,070        2.102
Transmission
Salaries, Wages and Administration                    9           15           16           16            17           17           18           18           19
Maintenance                                           1            4            4            S             6            6            8            8            9
Sotal Transmission                              10           19           20           21           21         -_             26                         o R
Distribution
Salaries, Wages and Administration                   54           90           N3           9S            981         101          104          107         a11
Maintenance                                           2            4            S            6             6            7            R            9            9
llousing- Net of FlAployee Rents                                   I                           1   1      I            1            1            1
total Distribution                              96           95           99          102          l            10 -                      1 
Depreciation                                          129          307           307          308          309          309          31(1         311          311
Total Operating Expenses                 1.012        2.156        2,384         2.           2.445        _,459        2.S01        2.524        2.56
Operating lncome                                            6B9        1.755        1.761        1,781        1.787        I&16         1.820        1.824         a828
Other Income
Interest on Te,morary Investments                     -             32           40           4l8          5C            68           80           80           S9
Gross Income                                                6q9        1.787        1.801        1.831        1.845        },884        1,900        '.0          1.887
Interest Expenses
Short-tens Bank Loans                                   3
Long-ters Debt due Government                         602        1,600        1.578        1.S51        1.524          494        1.461         1.427        1.1
Total Interest                                  605        1,600        1.578        L55          1.524        L494         1,461        1.427        1.390
Net Income                                                   34        _18            223          280          321           9                        477497
Allocation of Net Income
Depreciation (Sinking Fund Interest)                  -             10           36           63           93           125          160          197          23E
Balance to Retained Farnings                           34          177          187          217          228          265           279          280          259
Rate of Returl
Operating Income to Gross Fixed Assets
in Service 2' - %                                 2.8          7.8          7.8          7.9          7.9          8.0          8.0           8.(          8,1
Times Total Interest Covered by
Gross Income                                      1.1          1.1          1.1          1.2          1.2          1.3           1.3          1.3          1.4
The period ending Msrch 3i, 197j4covers 7 months froa the estimated start of operations on September 1, 1973.
2' See footnote 1 to Annex 14(d).
April 30, 1971



TrSWAdA
Pikwe Di
Estimeted 8aorces ard A,plications of FErds, 19714-1962
('Thorands of Rand)
---------------------------- Yeaw &dirg March 31i, -- ------
1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979        1980       18         2982
SaRCES cO PUJNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Fross Inoor                                             639        1,787       1,801      1,831      1,845      1,881      1,900        1,        2,887
Depre ciali on                                          129          307         307        308        309        309        310         311        311
Total lnternal Cash Generation                    75                 22,0916        23           15ir     2=93        2,2102
Borro lngs
ort-Term Bank Loars - Net Change                      (52)         _          _           -          -          -          _          -
TCfAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                            716        2,0914      2,108      2,139      2,154       j           21093  ?J2           2 198
APPLICATION OF UJNDS
Construction  tupenditores
Distribution Exparrion                                   -             50         50         50         50         50         50          50         50
Gereration Fapansien                                                   -                     -                     -           40        4 °X       750
Total Construction Expentitures                     -        ____        ___            500               __             90        =5       _0_hoI
Debt Service
o-rig-feraiDebt Due Government
Amortization                                           -           163         343        369        396        425        1456       190         526
Interest                                              602        1,600      1,578       1,551      1,524      1,4914     1,461      1,1427      1,390
Short-Term Bank Loans
Interest                                                3          -           -          -          -          -
Total Debt Service                                  0            M3      Tr,        1, 920      .o           9                   1,916
Short-Tewm lnvest mert s (Furds Held for
Future Developiiert ) - Net Change                       50           160        120        150        160        210         180       (171)      (550)
Increase in Workirg Capital
Accounts Receivable                                     127             8          6          4          16 5                   5          3
Materials and Supplies                                   15             3          4          2          3           4          4          2          14
Prepvrents                                              -             -          -            2         -           -           1                    -
Cash                                                    5514          107         (1)         5          7          (3)         3          2         12
Decre ase (Incrse 3 in
Accounts Paable                                         (33)           (2)        (1)        (14)       (1)         (3)        (3)        (2)        (1)
Accrued Interest                                       (602)                       9 _       10         11         11         13          13         14
Total Working Capital Requirerents                __            121        17          19         24              3                 _          32  x
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                         716        2,0914     2, 1       2,19       2 154      2,193        220       2.215                 j 
Cash Balance at Erd of Year                               579           6B6        685        690        697         694        697        699        711
Tires Annual Debt Oervice Covered by
Internal Cash Generation                                1.27       1.18        1.09       1.11       1.12       1.14       1.15       I.'5        1.14
/  The pericd ending March 31, 1974 covers 7 months irom the estimaated start of operatiors on September 1, 1973.
April 30, 1971



BOT SWANA
Pikwe Divilion of Fotsana Power Corporation
Estimated halance Sheets, 1 -73-1982
(Thou7acids of RIend)1
A.   of                                            -   A   of March   31   --------------------------------------------------
Sept. I,
1973         1974         1975          1976         1977         1978          1979         1980         1981         198?
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Utility Plant in Service                                 2,454         p2,454        22,504       22.,54       22,604        22,654       22,704        '2,754      22,804       99.8c4
Less:  Depreciation                                        -               129          446          789           460        1 562        1,996         2,466       2,974        3,523
Net Plant in Sercice                             7     ;i'm     22,325   2 2,5c7          21,765            =                      W  7         20,708  2 907,8          TTl9,
Work in Progress                                           -              -            -            -             _            _            -               40         440        1,l9o
Total Fixed Assets                               22,454         22,325       22,058       21,7          22,4         21,092       20,708        2G,328      20,270       20,'?
Current Assets
Accounts Receivable                                        _               127          135          141           145          149           154          159         162          168
Material, and Supply - Fuel                                  50             61           63            65           66           68            70           72          73            76
- Other                               30             34           35           37            38           39           41            43          44           45
Prepayments                                                  20             20           20           20            22           22            22           23          23            23
Short-Teem  Inventments 2'                                 _                50          210          330           480          64o          850         1,030         860          310
Ca'h                                                         25            579          686          685           690          697          694           697         699          711
Total Current Assets                                 125           871        1,149        I             1,41         1,615         1,831        2,o74       1,861         1,333
TOTAL ASSETS                                22,579        23,196              23,207    j 43      22,885                     22,539       22,352  72,131            1,8'4
CAPITAL AND LIAPILITIES
Equity Capital
Government Permanent Loan 3'                                320            320          320          320           320          320           320          320         370           320
Retained Farnings                                          -                34          211          398           615          843        1,108         1,387       1,667        1,925
Total Eouity                                         320           354          531           718          935        1,163         1,428        1,707       1,987         2,746
,ong-Ten Debt Due r-overnment
Amount Due                                               22,134        22,14        71.971       21,628       71,2'9        20,863       20,438        19,982      19,492       18.966
T.e-s.  Maturities Due Within One Year                     -               163          343           369          396          4-S           456          490          '26          S65
Net long-Tern Debt                                22,134       9',971       291,T729S     2T799            B6        20,438        19,9 c2      19,492      T96       6   T8F51
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                             73            106          108          19           113          114           117          120         129           176
lank 'oan,                                                   52                                                   -            -
'ong-Tenm Debt Due Within One Year                         -               163          343           369          396          425           456          490          '26          '65
Intere-t Accrued                                           -               602          597           588          578          567           556          543          530 316
Total Current L,abilitie,                            62 071                   1,04                1,066                1,106          29         1,1S3       1.178
T:T.AJ uAPliAL AND LIAFIJ,ITIES            22,79         23,19f        23,207        3,043          885        2,707         22,S39       2 2         22,131       21,854
RATIOS
Debt 'Equity                                                99'1           9,2          98'2         97 3          96'4         95'5          93'7         92'8        91 '9         69 '11
Current Assets to (Current !iabilitie,                        -            1.0          1 1          1.2           1.3          1.S           1.6          1.8         1.6           1.1
Tnclude  amount to te spent for genermtir.g spare- for which it in no- n-,w pr,a-tical to make a precise e'timamte.  When the facilitie, are comissioned, the generating spares                     a
may be clac'ified an materials and  -upplies, rather then as utilily plaftc.  A provision for working capital equal to 1% of the gross fixed am-ets is to be taken into account    x
both for determining tie capital ^harges included it  the price payasle 1Y,7 w-l, .nder its power contract with BPC (see paragraph 6.071 awd the minimum rate of return covenant
!see paragraph 6.111.  In actua' practicc, a *pecific allowance for thin pr-rlrBon will be made.  For purposes of the financial forecasts, however, this has not been done                          r
since the capital cont estimate is considered to be 7officie-t to coer thir mlr.or requirement.
2   Pepresents investmet s of f-nds held fe finan-i    future .ocolr'.l on rerlil rements.
3' The amount shown as `'overn,ment Permanent Loan" repre'entt the e'lt Iamed &m-r.' of' the lovernment's investment in the Corporation to he made a- unredeemable capital, which
may be con'idered a- tantamount to an equity intere-t 'see paragyap, f (. )1.
Apri' 30. 1971



MNNEX 14(e)
Page 1 of 5 pages
BOTSWANA
Botswana Power Corporation - Pikwe Division
Explanation of Bases for Financial Projections 1974-1982
Sales
1.        The mine load and energy sales are based on the mining com-
pany's estimates for the period from the estimated start of its opera-
tions on September 1, 1973, through the first full year of operations
and allow for a 1% annual increase thereafter until 1982. Township
sales have been estimated on a more conservative basis than the con-
sultants'. It has been assumed that the Township demand would initially
be 2.5 MW and that the annual growth in demand would be about: 15% for
the first two years following the initial year of operations (1974/75),
and about 10% thereafter. This compares with the consultants' estimate
that the initial Township demand would be 3 MW and would increase 15%
annually. As was assumed by the consultants, the load factor for the
Township, including distribution losses estimated at 12%, haes been taken
at 40%, except in the initial year when 35% has been used. After review-
ing the demand and energy requirements for pumping water from Shashe to
Pikwe, a lower estimate than used by the consultants has been adopted
for sales for Shashe pumping. The consultants' revised estimates for
Francistown sales have been adopted, and these assume an annual growth
of about 15%. A load factor of 35% initially increasing to 40% has also
been assumed.
Revenues
2.        With the exception explained in paragraph 5, the following
basis was used in estimating revenues. It has been assumed that the
charges would be designed to provide an annual return of 8% on the
investment in fixed assets, including housing for employees, amortized
on a sinking fund basis over 25 years. The fixed capital and fixed
operating charges of the power station have been allocated to the
various users (the Mine, Pikwe Township, Shashe pumping and Francis-
town) proportionate to their annual maximum demands.  The power station
running costs have been allocated proportionate to energy sent out.
The waste heat purchased from the mine has been priced at thei equivalent
fuel cost to generate this heat from the power station's boilers (treated
as a running cost) plus the capital charges on the cost of a fourth boiler
taken on the same basis as for the Power Corporation's fixed assets (treated
as a fixed cost). The amount paid for waste heat has also been shown as a
credit for the Mine in stating its net power costs.



ANNEX 14(e)
Page 2 of 5 pages
3.        The capital and operating cost of the Pikwe/Shashe transmis-
sion line have been charged to Shashe Pumping and Francistown propor-
tionate to their annual maximum demands. All of the capital and opera-
ting costs of the Shashe/Francistown section of the transmission line
have been charged to Francistown.
4.        The capital and operating costs of the distribution system have
been charged to Pikwe Township.
5.        At present, Francistown is supplied by diesel generation.  The
economic justification of the transmissionillne to serve Franciatown
assumes the new Pikwe power station woul&be available in any case and
attributes no portion of its cost to Francistown. Moreover, in the early
years of the 1974-1982 forecast period, the estimated capital costs of
expanded diesel capacity to meet increasing demands would be smaller
than the capital cost of the transmission line from Pikwe to Francistown.
It would not be attractive to Francistown, therefore, to give up diesel
generation if the price charged to it would exceed the runninlg costs of
diesel generation - estimated at about 2.50 per kWh - and the annual
capital costs of the investment in additional diesel capacity calculated
on the assumption this investment would be financed by borrowLngs which
would be repaid over 10 years through level debt service including interest
of 8-1/2% per annum. The charges to Francistown have been estimated
on this basis until 1978/79 when it is estimated the load for Francistown
will have grown sufficiently that the full charges to Francistown -
including its share of fixed generation costs - would not materially
exceed this limit. The forecast indicates that the rate of return on
the capital costs (including generating assets) attributable to Francis-
town supply would be about 4.5% in the first full year of operations,
1974/75, would increase to 6.5% in 1976/77, and reach 8% by 1978/79.
Operating Expenses
6.        Operating expenses have been estimated as follows:
(a) Salaries, wages, and administration costs are based on
the appraisal mission's estimates. Allowances have
been made for a 3% annual increase in these costs. Gener-
ation, transmission, and distribution expenses have been
charged with the estimated costs of staff directly in-
volved in operating these facilities. In addition, of
the total management and administrative costs estimated
for the Corporation, it has been assumed that 30% would
be allocated to Generation at Pikwe power station, 5% to
Transmission to Shashe and Francistown, 30% to Distribu-
tion in Pikwe Township, and 35% to the Corporation's
activities in Gaborone and Lobatse.



ANNEX 14(e)
Page 3 of 5 pages
(b)  "Fuel, etc." costs are based on the consultants' updated
estimates of running costs per kWh sent out, Ri 0.525 in
1974 reducing to RF 0.485 in 1982. These have been
further increased by about 10% to take into account the
high cost of the Morupule water supply (see paragraph
6.16). The fuel costs are calculated on the total GWh
sent out less 100 GWh annually (25 GWh for the 3 mDonth
period ending March 31, 1974) which would be generated
from waste heat purchased from BCL. Allowance has also
been made for an estimated 10 GWh to be generated in the
period September 1 - December 31, 1973 from waste heat to
be supplied without charge by BCL during the time when
the tariff for preliminary sales is in effect (seei footnote
2 to Annex 14 (a)).
(c)  Water costs are additional to the minor allowance made by
the consultants (Ri .006 per kWh sent out) and are based
on our own estimates of charges as explained in paragraphs
6.12-6.14. BCL will require an estimated 40 IMg of de-
mineralized water per annum for its smelter operations
and has arranged to purchase this through BPC rather
than install its own water treatment facilities. This
quantity is included in the estimated purchases of water
by BPC from WUC as shown in Annex 15(a). The water costs
as shown on Annex 14(b) represent the estimated net cost
of water to BPC, after allowance for the resale of this
treated water to BCL at a price equal to WUC's unil bulk
supply price of water plus compensation, estimated pro-
visionally at R 10,000 per year, for: the additiortal
investment in water treatment facilities BPC will incur
to supply BCL's requirements for treated water as well
as its own; an allocable share of the operating cosEts
of the treatment plant; and a margin for BPC's trouble
in handling this water for BCL.
(d)  The allowance for maintenance is in addition to the pro-
vision made (Ri .026 per kWh sent out) by the consultant
and included in the running cost estimates mentioned in
(b) above. It is based on an empirical provision of
Ri .025 per kWh generated, and Ri .05 per kWh sent out to
Pikwe, Shashe and Francistown, to cover the additional
maintenance costs for generation, transmission and
distribution which are exoected to be incurred.
(e)  Of the amount shown in Annex 14(b) for "Waste Heat
Purchases", R 28,000 in 1973/74 and R 112,000 in all
other years is the estimated amount payable to BCL ias a
fixed operating cost, representing the capital charges
on the cost which BPC would have to incur for a fourth



ANNEX L4(e)
Page 4 of 5 pages
boiler, and the balance is the estimated amount payable
to BCL as a running cost, representing the fuel cost:s
which BPC would have to incur to generate 100 GWh (25 GWh
for the 3 month period ending March 31, 1974), if it: were
not purchasing the waste heat.
(f)  The estimated cost of employee housing, about R 1,100,000,
is included in fixed assets, and has been allocated to
generation, transmission, and distribution plant on the
basis of the direct labor costs estimated for the first
full year of operation. As explained in paragraph 2 above,
in estimating revenues, allowance has been made for an 8%
annual return on this investment amortized over 25 years,
or total annual capital charges of 9.37%. In addition, pro-
vision has been made under operating expenses for mainte-
nance costs and property taxes on this housing, estimated
at en amourt which with the capital charges would result in
total annual housing expenses of 12% of the cost of housing.
Rentals payable by employees, estimated at 15% of direct
wage and salary payments, have been netted against the
estimate of maintenance expenses and property taxes.
(g)  The provision for depreciation has been made on a sinking
fund basis, as explained in paragraphs 6.08 and 6.09.
(h)  For income tax purposes, the deduction for depreciation
would be much larger than the provision charged on the
Corporation's books. Taking this into account, it iis not
expected, that the Corporation would have any taxable
income over the period of the forecast.
Other Income
7.        Interest income on temporary investments has been estimated
at 6% per annum. Of the amount shown in Annex 14(b), R 24,000 per year
represents the estimated amount of interest income which will be earned
on funds of BPC accumulated and held under the trust arrangement (see
paragraph 6.36) pending the payment to the Government of each semi-annual
installment of debt service under the subsidiary loan agreement. The
balance represents the estimated interest earned on funds held for
financing future construction requirements.
Debt Service
8.        It has been assumed that the Corporation's debt to the Government
would be repaid on an annuity basis over 25 years, at 7-1/4% interest, in
50 semi-annual installments beginning November 15, 1974. Interest payable
on temporary Bank Loans has been estimated at 9% per annum.



ANNEX 14(e)
Page 5 of 5 pages
Current Assets and Liabilities
9.        Accounts receivable as of the end of each financial year have
been estimated on the basis of one month billings to BCL, to the Water
Corporation for Shashe pumping, and to Francistown; and 1-1/2 months
billings for Pikwe Township. The estimate of accounts receivable from
BCL also makes allowance for monthly prepayments in an amount equal to
one-sixth of the Corporation's semi-annual debt service to the Government,
plus one-twelfth of the annual fixed operating costs, attributable to
Pikwe power station. Materials and supplies have been estimated in an
amount about equal to one month fuel and six months maintenance expenses.
The cash balance shown at each year end (March 31) has been estimated in
an amount approximately equal to 4 months debt service and 1-1/2 months
total salaries, wages and administration. Accounts payable have been taken
at about one month fuel and water expense, one and one-half uLonths main-
tenance, and one-half month salaries and wages.



°YT'WANA
-hashe and MorupuIle iDisions of Water Utilities -orporat ion
Estiated  ales and Revenues, 1974-1982
-----.--- 1974 ---------            ----------------------------------- Year Ending March 31 ----------------------------------------------
Dec.  11         Marchn31          1975            1976                            1978           1979            19-90           1981           1982
Water Sales and Deliveries (Iag)
Shashe Division
EBulk Supply ales and Deliveries
Sales to Mine (BCL)                                  320    73        320    73    1,350   70    1,400   68    1,450   67    1,500   67    1,550   67    1,600   67    1,650   67    1,680    67
Sales to Power Corporation                            84    19         84    19       344   18        347   17        350   16        354   16       360   16        365   15        370   15       376.   15
Deliveries to Pik.e Township                          35      8        35     8       225   12        312   15        375   17    -87   17           400   17        412   18        425   18       437    18
Total                     l3j   12                              490      0    1,919  !                TM 5T17s t                                     2,241  100    2,310  !7 27   100    2 5 100    210
Pikve Township Sales - Dlcsestic, etc.                   28               28              180            250             300             311             320            330             340             350
Morupule Division                                            3.2             2.4              9.6             9.6             9.6            9.6             9.6             9.6             9.6            9.6
operating Revenues - Thouasnds of Rand
Shashe Division
Mine (BCL)              21
Blk Supply Charge2                                                    264             1,038           1,018           1,008           1,018          1,027           1,034           1,041          1,053
Domestic Wu ter Contribute on-s 2                                      34                150            199             222             258            265             263             266            265
Total Charges                                                    wlWT12                                                                 r,     71 2            1,27
Poulr Corporation       2'                              1'                69                267             254            241             243             230            232             233             236
Domkestlc Water  goetrYbut,on.                       1                  9                 38             50              52              60              62             62              58              58
Total Charges                                  7                                   305                            29 239 32
Total Shashe Division                                                  9 7             1,637          I,72       L      7             1,827          ,757                                            1,910
Morupule Dvision
Total operating Revenues                             26                20                 79             79              80              81             82              82              83              84
Average Revenue per 1,000 Ig 'Rand)
Mine and Power Corporation                                 .90             .93               .8'             .87             .85            .85             .83             .81             .79             .78
Pikve T-.nship Consuserr                                    8               .80 8.eo                         .80             .80            .85             .85             .85             .85            .85
Morupule Division                                        8.23             8.23              8.23            8.23           8.33            8,44            S.54            8.54           8.t5            8.79
Shashe Division - Basis for Revenue Charge,
Annu1 Polk 5uppl Costs- - Thousands of Rand
nuratn  Cos                                                                                 198             212            220             235             248             259             269            287
Capital Charges                                                                           1,285           1 285          1,285           1 285           1 285           1 285          1,285           1 285
Total                                                                                  1.             1,97              505                                          _               T                  7
Allocated to,
Mine 5hCt.)                                                                            1,038          1,018           1,008           1,018          1,027           1,034           1,041           1,053
Power Corporation                                                                        267            254             241             243             230            232             233             236
Pikve Township                                                                           178            225             256             259             276            278             280             283
2'
Annual Pikve Township  Costs- - Thousands of Rand
Allocable rrk S--nply Costs                                                                 179             2255            256            2.9             27G             278             2u0
Distcibuttnn Costs-
Operating CostO                                                                          117            127             135             141             147             152            157             162
Capital Charges                                                                           37              97            123             166             176             176             176            176
Total                                                                              332               957                          75                              mg               1              M
Revenues                                                                                 '44             200            240             248             272            281             289             298
Deficiency                                                                                              9 712 9         '27             318             __7            _2_             324             323
Allocated an Domestis Water Contribution to:
Mine (BCL)                                                                                                         222            258             265             263             266            265
Power Corporation                                                                                                   52              60             62              62              58              58
1  Utnder the proposed water agreement with  1CL, a tariff of Po 9) per 1,000 Ig is applial  in½  t-e period from the date when the Wa-er Corp-rstion is first able t0 supply water on a cu-anrcial
basi., which is estimated to be Septem er 1, 1973, until the date when it is nile  o -ake ful1  s sin deliceries  .esosed to be 3anuary 1, 1974 (see footnote 2).
2' Under the proposed water agreenent with *0CL,  eginni-g when the Water Utilities Corporstisn is first nble to deliver water to lCL at a rate of 1,000 Tog per year 'whic. i  assumed for purpOses
of this forecast to be January 1, 1974), the ciharge  to PCI. shall bi  its pr-pvrin-t  -r,sre, based on total bulk supply sales and ieliveries, of the bulk supply COStS, and its share of the
Domestic Water Contribution, divided prcporti.nctely with the Power Corporation on 'ie 'asi, Or relative bulk supply sales. This sane basis is to be used for charges to the Power Corporation.
The annual capital charges included in thesn costs are  -o-ors whicl  will s-ortise :uo  3½    1ssstruction -osts oS the fi-ed assets and provide a return of M  per annum  f-c the hulh supply
facilities, and a return inreasiv.g from zero initially to 88 by 1979 for thi  distribot- fa-ilities  -see prgraphs n.12-6.14).
April 30, 1971



ANNEE 15(b)
BOTSWANA
Shashe and Morupule Divisions of Water Utilities Corporation
Estimated Incoe  Statements, 1974-1982
1'
----------------------------___- Year Ending March 31- --------------__----------------------
1974        1975         1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         1981         1982
Total Operating Revenues
Shashe Division                                          784          1,637        1,721        1,763        1,627        1,856        1,872        1,884        1,910
Morupule Division                                         46             79           79           80           81           82           82           83           84
Tot al                                             U             1,716        I            1,13                      1,938       1,954             7
Operatir.g Expenses
Shshmvsoon
Bulk Supply Operating Costs
Salaries, Wages and Administration                   54             96           99          102         105          108           ill          114          117
Maintenance                                           3              5           12           19           26           33           40           47           55
Power and Water Treatment                           4O            101          105           103         108          ill          112          112          1l9
Houosing - Net of Employee Rents                     (2)            (4)          (4)          (4)          (4)          (4)          (4(          (4)          (4)
Total                                         __3 l                                                  21 2 2        2        _23 2 83  2        7_
Distribution (Pikwe Township) Operating Costs
Salsrie, Wages and Adninistratiom                    57            101          io4          107          110          114          117          120          124
Maintenance                                           1              2            4            6            8           10           12           14           1,
Power and Water Tre,ttent                            5              14           19          22           23           23           23           23           23
Housing - Net of EMaployee Rents                     -             --                                           -                                - _
Total                                                                       7  11!T                            J7           J' T_ 1S
Deprec:iation
Sppiy Pacilities                                  82            139          139          139          139          139          139          139          130
Distribution Facilitien                              19             33           33           33           35           33           33           33           33
losIsjng                                              p              4            4            4            4            4            4            4            4
Total                                           _            176          17t        -7T                                          __l.e               -TI
Total Shashe Division                              261             491          515          531          552          571          587          602          62~
Morupul! Division
Siarien, Wages and Administration                    13             23           23           24           25           26           26           27           28
MIintenance                                           2              3            3            3            3            3            3            3            3
Power                                                 6             10           10           10           10           10           10           10           10
Depreciafion                                          4              7            7            7            7            7            7            7            7
Total Morupule Division                        25       4      Z73    4     4         -47         _-S5    4 6           4 6               '7             fl
Total Operating Expenses                      286            534          558          575          597          617          633          649          673
he Division                                           523          1,146        1,206        1,232        1,275        1,285        1,285        1,282        1,285
Morupule Division                                         21             36           36           36           36           36           36           36           36
Total Operating Income                        544          1,182        1,242        1,268        1,311        1,321        1,321        1,31         1,321
Other Income
Intere-  on Tempor-ry Investments                         -              33           34           37           41           46           54           61           69
Gros,s Income                                                 544          1,215        1,276        1,305        1,352        1,367        1,375        1,379        1,390
Intereet       e      Loas                                       3--
Long-Term Debt Due Government                            488          1,170        1,151        1,132        1,111        1,090        1,067        1,041        1,01
Government Permanent Loan                                 -              26           26           26           26           26           26           26           26
Total Interert Fxpense                                           1,,7                                                                                      .,04l
Net Income                                                     53              19          99           147         215          251          282           312          340
Allocation oi' Net Income
Depreciation  Sinking-Fund Tnterest)                      -               9           24           40           58           78           98          121          145
Balance to Retained Eamings                               53             10           75          107          157          173          184          191          204
Rate of Return - Itlperating Income so
OrossFed Assets in Service2
Shashe Division - 1r                                   3.3          7.1          7.5          7.7         7.95          8.o          8.o          8.o         8.o
Mortspule Division - 1                                 4.7          8.o          8.0          8.o          8.o          8.o          8.0          8.o          8.o
Total of Shashe and MtruPule Divisions                 3.3          7.1          7.5          7.7          7.95         8.0          8.o          8.o          8.o
Interest Coverage - /Times Total Interest                     1.1          1.0          1.1          1.1          1.2          1.2          1.3          1.3          1.3
Charges Covered by Gross Income)
1'  The period ending March 31, 1974 covers 7 months from the estimated start of operations on September 1, 1973.
7' See foo-ote 1 to Annes 15(d).
May 20, 1971



BOTSWANA
Shashe and Morupule Divisions of Water Utilities Corporation
Estimated Sources and Applications of Fwnds, 1974-1982
Thousand8 of  and)
------------------------------------- Year Ending March 31 -----------------------------------------
19741'      1975          1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         1981         1982
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Groas Income                                              544          1,215         1,276       1,305        1,352        1,367        1,375         1,379        1,390
Depreciation                                              107            183           183         183          183          183           183          183          183
Total Internal Cash Generation                       5              3                       1,0 1,535                 1,550                     1,568        1,573
Borrowings
Short-Term Bank Loan - Net Change                         (30)           -                   -            -            -            -            -                   -
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                              621          1,3            1,459       1,488        1,535        1,550        1,558        1,562        1,573
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Debt Service
Long-Term Debt Due Government
Amortization                                            -             119           248         270          289           310          333          357          384
Interest                                               488          1,170         1,151       1,132        1,111        1,090        1,067        1,041        1,015
Short-Term Bank Loans - Interest                            3            -             -           -             -            -            -            -            -
Government Permanent Loan - Interest                       -              26             26          26           26           26           26           26           26
Total Debt Service                                   491          1,315         1,425       1,428        1                                                      2426  1,426  1,426  1424  425
Short-Term Invectments (Funds Held for
Future Investments) - Net Change                          250            -               25          50           90          115          125          125          140
Increase in Working Capital
Accounts Receivable                                        36             19              5           2            4            1            1            2            1
Materials and Supplies                                     -                1             1           1            1          -              1          -              1
Prepayments                                                -                1             1         -              1          -            -              1          -
Cash                                                      462             76             (4)         (2)           1            3            1            1            2
Decrease (Increase) in:
Pavables                                                (7!            (3 4)                      (1)          ()(,/)()t|
BCL Prepayment                                        (112)           (12)            1           (1)           7           (1)          (3)         -             (2)
Interest Accrued                                      (439)             1             9           7            8             8            9           10           10
Total Working Capital Requirements                  (120)            83             9          10           19            9             7           13            8
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                          621          1,398         1,49           88        1,535        1,550        1,558        1,61,573
Cash Balance at End of Year                                   424             500           496         498          499          502          503          504          506
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by
Internal Cash Generation                                    1.32          1.06          1.02        1.04          1.07         1.08         1.09         1.09         1.10
1' The period ending March 31, 1974 covers 7 months from the estimated  start of operationn on September 1, 1973.
May 20 1971



BOTSWANA
Shashe and Morupule Divisions of Water Utilities Corporation
Estimated Balance Sheets, 1974-1982
(ThouansofHad
As of         --------------------------------------- As of March 31 -------------------------------------______________
Sept. 1,
1973       1974          1915          1976          1977          1978          1979          1980           1981          1982
ASSETS
Fixed Assets               1/
UtieiAtysPlant in Service                           16,503      16,503        16,503        16,503        16,503        16,503        16,503        16,503        16,503       16,503
Less: Depreciation                                    -            107           299           506           729           970         1,231         1,512         1 816        2 144
Net Plant in. Service                          16,503      16,396       16,204        15,997        15,774        15,533         15,272        14,991            7         im
Current Assets
Accounts Receivable                                   _             36            55            60            62            66            67            68            70           71
Materials and Supplies                                  12          12            13            14            15            16            16            17            17           18
Prepayment                                               6           6             7             8             8             9             9             9            10           10
Short-Term Investmen-2/                                            250           250           275           325           415           530           655           780          920
Cash                                                    22         424           500           496           498           499           502           503           504          506
Total Current Assets                               40         728                        853        _97__ 1,124                                 1,25-1-,127;               1,525
TOTAL ASSETS                             16,543      17,124        17,029        16,850        16,682        16,538        16,396        16,243        16,068       15,884
LTABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Equity
Government Permanent Loan3/                            355         355           355           355           355           355           3;5           355            355         355
Retained Earnings                                     _             53            63           138           245           402           575           759           950        1,1S4
Total Ecuity                                      355     -                418 ___       493           60             757           930         1,11          1,30t        1,509
Long-Term Debt Due Government
Amount of Debt                                      16,148      16,148        16,029        15,781        15,511        15,222        14,912        14,579        14,222       13,83P,
Less! Maturities Due Within One Year                  -            119           248           270           289           310           333           357            384         412
Net Long-Term Debt                             16,148      16,029       15,781    1         5 ,511 15,222          14,912            79        1,2           13,838 1
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                        10          17            20            24            25            28             30            32            33          37
Bank Loan-                                              30                      -                           -             -
Long-Term Debt Due Within One Year                     -           119           248           270           289           310           333            357           384         412
Due ECL for Prepayments of Fillings                    -           112           124           123           ]24           117            118           121           121         123
Interect Accrued                                       -           439           438           429           422           414           406           397            387         377
Total Current Liabilitl es             25                  :          o      30      ;                                8 6907                              9     925          9
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL            16,543      17,124        17,029        16,850                      16,538        16,396         16,243       16,068       _8
RATIOS
Debt'Equity                                            98/2        9812          97/3          97/3          96/4          95'5          94/6           93/7          92 '8        90'10
Current Assets to Current Liabilities                  1.0         1.1           1.0           1.0           1.1           1.2           1.3            1.4           1.5           1.6
1'   A provision for working capital equal to f of 1% of the gross fixed assets is to be taken into account both for determining the capital charges included in the price payable
by BCL under its water coattract with WUC (see paragraph 6.07) and the minimum rate of return covenant 'see paragraph 6.17).  In actual practice a specific allowance for this
provision will be made.  For purposes of the financial forecarsts, however, this has not been done since the capital coat estimate is considered to be sufficient to cover this
minor requirement.
2'   Represents investments of funds held for financing future construction requirements.
3'  The amount shown a- "Government Permanent Loan" represerts the estimated 4mouint of the Ciovernment's investment in the Corporation to be made as unredeemable capital, which
may be considered as tantamount t) an equity interest (see paragraph 6.19).
May 20, 1971



ANNEX 15 (e)
Page 1 of 3 pages
BOTSWANA
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION - SHASHE AND MORUPULE DIVISIONS
EXPLANATION OF BASES FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS 1974-1982
Sales
1.        The demands for water have been estimated as per Annex 4, with
the exception of Pikwe Township demands. The estimates for the mine are
those of BCL, and include allowance for a 3% annual increase (not compound-
ed); the consumption of the power plant (and integrated waste heat exchang-
er) is directly related to electricity production; the domestic demand is
assumed to reach the 1975/76 projected figures in Annex 4 but to grow there-
after at only 3% (compounded) per year. This more conservative assumption,
used only in the financial projections, reflects circumspection regarding
the prospect for continued expansion of Pikwe after 1976, taking into ac-
count the likelihood that it will remain principally a mining town, the high
cost of housing, the low wages, and the possibility that growth will occur
because of greater density of population rather than through new housing and
new connections. The 3% rate of domestic water demand expansion is the
average one in South Africa.
2.        "Unaccounted" for water (differences in metering, treatment losses,
unmetered uses for operational reasons, flushing, fire fighting, leakages)
is assessed at 25% of domestic consumption; pipeline "losses" at 5%.
3.        No supply to Francistown or Shashe Siding (domestic or industrial)
has been taken into account, since there is still uncertainty whether and
when these demands would materialize, and in any event this would probably
be late in the forecast period and would not materially modify the alloca-
tion of costs.
4.        The demand at the colliery at Morupule is assumed constant.
Revenues
5.        The basis for estimating revenues is explained in paragraphs 6.12
to 6.14 for the Shashe Division and in paragraph 6.16 for the Morupule
Division.
Operating Expenses
6.        Operating expenses have been estimated as follows:
(a)  Salaries, wages and administration are the estimates of
the appraisal mission, with allowance for a 3% yearly in-
crease. The estimated costs of staff directly involved in
bulk supply and distribution for the Shashe Division have



ANNEX 15 (e)
Page 2 of 3 pages
been charged to these functions. In addition, it has been
assumed that the total management and administrative costs
estimated for the Corporation would be allocated as follows:
33% to Shashe bulk supply, 31% to Shashe distributioin, 2% to
Morupule, and 34% to the Corporation's activities in Gaborone
and Lobatse.
(b)  Annual maintenance expenses have been estimated on tihe
basis that by the end of the forecast period (1981/82)
expenditures would average .25% of the cost of the dam,
.4% of other civil works, and 4% of plant, and that these
levels of expenditure would be reached gradually over
the forecast period with the initial expenditure about
1/10 as much.
(c)  Power requirements were estimated by the appraisal mission
on the basis of water consumption and estimated heads, and
the power costs were based on approximately the present
estimate in Annex 14(a).
(d)  Primary treatment costs at Shashe are as estimated by Gibb;
potable treatment costs are based on those for the system
serving Gaborone.
(e)  The estimated cost of employee housing is included iin
fixed assets, about R 325,000 for housing in Selebi/Pikwe
Township and R 70,000 for housing at Shashe Dam, the latter
being a provisional allowance included in the estimated
dam costs. It is estimated that over 90% of the housing
at Selebi/Pikwe Township will be occupied by employeles
engaged in distribution activities, and the balance lplus
the housing at the dam by employees engaged in bulk isupply
activities. The investment in housing has been allocated
to bulk supply and distribution on this basis. Capital
charges which would provide an 8% annual return on t1his
investment amortized over 25 years have been included in
the bulk supply and Pikwe Township costs as shown in
Annex 15(a) and in the estimated revenues as computed on
this basis. In addition, provision has been made under
operating costs for maintenance expenses and property taxes
on this housing, less rentals payable by employees. The
maintenance expenses and property taxes have been esitimated
at an amount which with the capital charges would reisult in
a total annual housing expense of 12% of the cost of the
housing. Rents have been estimated at 15% of direct wage
and salary payments.



ANNEX 15 (e)
Page 3 of 3 pages
(f) The provision for depreciation has been made on a sinking
fund basis as explained in paragraphs 6.08 and 6.12. The
estimated cost of the UNDP feasibility studies, including
Government's counterpart contribution, allocable to the
Shashe water supply, has been included in the cost of the
dam since their main purpose was to find the water sources.
The costs of the reservoir and of some permanent reticula-
tion built under the UK grant for "temporary water supply"
have been allocated to the water distribution system.
(g) WUC has been exempted from payment of income taxes.
Other Income
7.        The comment on other income in Annex 14 (e) also applies here,
except that R 18,000 per year is the estimated amount of interest income
earned on funds of WUC accumulated and held under the trust arrangement.
Debt Service
8.        The comment on debt service in Annex 14 (e) applieis here.
Current Assets and Liabilities
9.        Accounts receivable as of the end of each financiaL year have been
estimated on the basis of one month billings to the Power Corporation and the
coal mine at Morupule, and 1-1/2 months billing for Pikwe Township.  In the
case of BCL, it will be required to make monthly prepayments to the WUC in
an amount equal to one sixth of its semi-annual debt service to the Government,
plus one twelfth of its annual fixed operating expenses, for the Shashe
Division. This will exceed BCL's bills for water services, and BCL will be
entitled to a refund of the excess if as is now forecast revenue from other
sources plus normal revenues from BCL are sufficient to cover the operating
expense and rate of return requirements of the Shashe Division. In
estimating the amount of these prepayments at year end it hasi been assumed
that the settlement for the overpayments would be made no later than quarterly.
The cash balance shown at each year end (March 31) has been estimated in an
amount approximately equal to 4 months debt service and 1-1/2 months total
salaries, wages and administration. Other working capital retquirements,
which are not material, have been estimated broadly.



BOTSWANA
Infrastructure Project
Pikwe Township - Estimated Revenues and Expenditures, 1971/72 - 1981/82
(Thousands of Rand)
--------------------------------------__ Year Ended March 31 -------------------_----__________- ___-______
1972      1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978        1979         1980       1981        1982
REVENUES
Rates (Real Property Taxes)                                                             26          45          45          54          55          56          58          60
Local Government Income Tax                          14         30          99         104         log         115         120         126         133         139         146
School Fees                                           2          8          14          15          15          16          17          18          19          20          21
Beer Permits                                           1         3           3           3           3           3           4           4           4           4           4
Trade Licenses and Miscellaneous                      1          1           2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2
Rents from Employee Housing -
Net of Maintenance Expense                                     3           3           5           5           5           5           5           5           5           5
Total Revenues                             18         45        12L         155         179         186         202         210         219         228         238
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
Finance and General Purposes                          16        23          18          22          26          27          30          32          34          35          37
Education                                            11         45          71          85         102         107         118         123         129         136         143
Public Works                                           1         4          11          13          16          17          19          20          21          22          23
Debt Service to Central Government .                                        10          35          35          35          35          35           35         35          35
Total Recurrent Expenditures               28         72         110        155         179         186         202          210         219        228         238
Excess (Deficit) of Revenues over
Recurrent Expenditures                            (10)       (27)         11          -                                   -           -           -           -           -
The amount shown for "rates" is the estimated amount which will have to be raised from real property taxes, after allowing for receipts from other sources,
to balance the budget.  The Government has indicated that the amount of "rates" will be determined on this principle.                      .  
j No provision is made in this table for any capital expenditures which would be separately financed.
3   The estimated amount of the capital cost of "common services" of the Township and temporary water supply allocable to the Local Government is about R 100,000,
and the estimated cost of housing for Township employees is R 265,000. The "debt service to Central Government" represents the annual payments reauired to
repay over 25 years the former at 10 interest, and the latter at 8% interest.
May 20, 1971



BOTSWANA
Estimated Government Receipts and Expenditures Related to BCL Mining Pro1ect
and Associated Infrastructure Project for Representative Years During Operational Phase
(Thousands of Rand)
------------------------------ Year Ending March 31 -----------------.---------------____
1975        1976       1977        1978         1981        1985        1986        1987        1989-98
Receipts
- Debt Service to Government                            1,768       1,930       1,930       1,930       1,930       1,930       1,930       1,930        1,930
WUC - Debt Service to Government                            1,290       1,408       1,408       1,408       1,408       1,408       1,408       1,408        1,408
- Interest on Unredeemable Loan                            26          26          26          26          26          26          26          26           26
BCL - Annuity Payments for:
Common Costs of Building Township                                120         240         240         240         240         240         240          240
Temporary Water Service                               75          75          75          75          75          75          75          75           79
Royalty Payments                                        750         750         750         750         750         750         750         750          750
Income Taxes                                                                    603         931       1,064       1,290         731       3,490        3,681
Dividends                                                                       604         298         571       1,153         420         423          827
Railway Surchargec                                            240         240         240         240         240         240          240        240          240
Pikwe Township - Debt Service to Government
for Common Costs of Building To-nship
and Costs of Ruilding Employee Housing                   35          35          35          35          35          35          35          35           35
Miscellaneous Revenue Sources
Roads - Fuel, Lubricant and Vehicle Taxev                50          75          75          75          75          75          75          75           75
Income Taxes - Mine Employees and Other
Residents of Pikwe Township                    281         238         238         238         238          224         224         224          224
Total Receipts                                  4,515       4,897       6,224       6,246       6,652        7,446       6,154      8,916        9,511
Expenses
Additional Recurrent Expenmes Due to
Mining 'Infrastructure Project 2~
Miscellaneous Government Expenses                       114         105         111         118         140         174         185         194          280-
Pikwe Township Health Center                             25          26          26          27          30          33          34          35           452
Road Maintenancel                                       126         137         147         160         240         240         240         240          240
Total Additional Recurrent Expenses              -          265     284                        305            4107 7                 5     65
Net Receipts Available for Debt Service                     4,250       4,629       5,940       5,941       6,242        6,999       5,695        8,447      8,946
Debt Service Payments by Government
Proposed Bank Loan                                          620       1,820       1,993       1,993       1,993       1,993       1,993       1,993        1,993
Canadian Loan                                                                                                  420        .420         420          420
USAID Loan                                         110         110         110         110         110         280         280         280          280
Total Debt Service                                          73        1,930       2,103        ,103       2,693       2,693       2,693       2,693        2,_69_3
Net Receipts                                              3,520       2,699       3,837       3,838       4,139        32~        3,002                    6,253  x
Debt Service - Times Covered                                       5.8         2.4         2.8         2.8         3.0         2.6         2.1         3.1          3.3
1' It is now foreseen thae  it would be economic to improve the surfacing of the Project roads throujgh an expenditure of about R 1,800 thousands in the year
ending March 31, 1980, vith the result that road maintenance expenses would be reduced thereafter.  As estimated for purposes of this Annex, the expenses
for road maintenance, beginning with the year ending March 31, 1981, include provision for an annual payment of R 185,000 thousands for amortization of
an assumed loan of R 1,800 thousands over 18 vears at 7is interest, plus R 55,000 thousands per year maintenance.
2' Represents ertimated average annual expenditure for the period 1989-1998.
May 24, 1971



BOTSWANA
PROPOSED INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITIES
Z  Kasone                       ~~~~~~~~~~~ANGOLA,ZM¶
SOUTH  WEST  AFRIC             s                                               SOAT H
. A                                 .            :)  RE,; tAt
o   J ft G           \                                       XSOUThfSOThO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
t°3 N                                                                        ..
SOJTH AFTHO
t                             >        ~~~~~~~S O U T H E R N
;    .      .--                                                                   __R  H  O  D  E S  I A
F DAMsITE
'=  "' . s                    ,6/ No~~~~~~~~Nta     
A   r                     _                        ~~~~ ~  ~  ~~   ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~120 0  50  iO
R      o k o pss PAN,                                   STATION
Lake Dowm               MA .----TSTAM              ST
AKI DIAMOND  Ltlkn  PRS PECT~ 9v S e
MINING PROJECT           -    /W
S ero we              Qv.</P IKW E
MORUPULE               l olpy                   TOWNSHIP
COAL FIELD           £              -TSITE
B 0  T S W  A  N   A                   MohoI1
Mamobul.c5<} <
*     t      REPUB iL IC    OF
s9Vj    SOUTH   AFRICA
MoiepoIoIeOX 1chud0
ThamagaQ    . L*o'
Moshupoo.  jGoor ne
an  Lbotse
-.i a> -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
MAIN ROAD
-ot-   1slzRAILWAY
? Mafeking               --ZZ  RIVER
PROPOSED ROUTES
ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINE
WATER PIPE LINE
}/  tt*X"'   RAILWAY BRANCH LINES
ROAD
FUTURE ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION
LINES
APRIL  1971                                                                          IBRD  2843R2



