RESTRICTED
Report No.  P-969
F ILEE COPY
This report is for of ficial use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited writhout Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completcness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED BANK LOAN ;
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR THE
SHASHE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
June 16, 1971



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED BANK LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR THE SHASHE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Botswana for the equivalent of US$32 million to
assist in financing the construction of infrastructure facilities in
support of a copper/nickel mining project. The loan would be guaranteed
by Bamangwato Concessions Limited (BCL), a Botswana mining company,
Botswana RST Limited (BRST), American Metal Climax, Inc. (Amax), RST
International Inc. (RST Int), Anglo American Corporation of South Africa
(Anglo), Charter Consolidated Limited (Charter), Zambian Anglo American
Limited (Zamanglo), and Metallgesellschaft AG (MG) of Germany. The term
of the proposed loan will be 29 years, including 4 years of grace, with
interest at 7-1/4% per annum.
PART I - INTRODUCTION
2.        Since gaining political independence in 1966, Botswana, under
its President, Sir Seretse Khama, has been striving to obtain a greater
measure of financial and economic independence within the particular
constraints of her situation. As a landlocked country, she has to rely
on the railway systems of Southern Rhodesia and South Africa to trans-
port virtually all imports and exports. The economy is linked with
South Africa through the Customs Agreement of 1969 between Botswana,
Lesotho, Swaziland and South Africa, and through the use of the South
African Rand as currency. Botswana has been dependent on grants from
the United Kingdom to finance deficits on her recurrent budget since
1956. All public development expenditures have had to be financed from
extermal sources, largely interest-free loans from the United Kingdom,
although recently IDA has become an important source, with Sweden as a
prospective partner.
3.        The Association has financed three projects in Botswana.  The
first credit (No. 63-BEC) of $3.6 million in 1964 was for a road project
in the Bechuanaland Protectorate, and has been successfully completed.
The second credit (No. 172-BT) of $2.5 million in January 1970 assisted
the Government in financing engineering design and certain preliminary
works for the Shashe project (see paragraph 7 below).  As of May 31,
1971, $0.5 million was undisbursed. The third credit (No. 233-BT)
of $3.0 million was made in February 1971 to assist Botswana in
financing improvements and extension to the water supply for the two
largest towns. This credit was made effective on May 26, 1971. The
status of these credits is summarized in Annex 1.
4.        A livestock project and a second road project are under
appraisal, and it is hoped that proposals for credits, possibly in
participation with the Swedish International Development Agency,
will be ready for submission to the Executive Directors in the course
of the next fiscal year.



5.        The main economic activity in Botswana has been the rearing and
processing of livestock, mainly cattle, since the land offers excellent
and extensive grazing. The sparse and erratic rainfall, however, severely
limits the scope for arable farming. Cattle raising is the full, or at
least part-time, occupation of most citizens of Botswanag and the develop-
ment of the livestock industry in the context of rural development is an
important social and economic objective. Under the existing conditions
in Botswana, however, livestock alone holds out little prospect of pro-
ducing a rate of economic growth necessary for the attainment of both the
normal social aims of a very poor developing country and a greater degree
of economic independence.
6.        When the Roan Selection Trust (RST) copper mining group of
Zambia, which had been exploring in northeastern Botswana for several
years through its subsidiary company, BCL, discovered promising ore
bodies containing both nickel and copper in the 1960's, the Botswana
Government gave every encouragement to their exploitation and under-
took to attempt to raise the large sums required to provide the infra-
structure needed to support mining in the completely undeveloped region
where the deposits were found. The Government was, moreover, anxious
to take responsibility for providing the infrastructure, rather than
requiring BCL to do so, because those services would be used not only
by the mining company but also by the general public expected to be
attracted into the area in increasing numbers. Another important
consideration was the wish to avoid the possibility that sole owner-
ship of all the facilities by one mining company might impede further
developments in the area by others. The Government now sees the
development of its probably considerable mineral resources as the
main hope of achieving budgetary independence and of generating a
significant contribution to development finance from public savings.
Its policy is to establish a stable basis for association with private
foreign capital.
7.        In 1967, the Bank agreed to be the Executing Agency for a
UIIDP-financed feasibility study of the infrastructure requirements
for the proposed mining development to be carried out in parallel
with the preliminary designs for the mining installations by BCL
and its consultants. Pending the completion of commercial and financ-
ing arrangements, and in order to gain time, the major shareholders of
BCL undertook to provide interim financing of about $10 million for final
engineering and mine development, and the Association provided Botswana
with a credit of $2.5 million for engineering design of the infrastructure,
together with some preliminary works. Under a Reimbursement Agreement
with the Association, BCL is obligated to reimburse 50 percent of the
funds disbursed under the credit should BCL not proceed with the mining
project.
8.        The interim period, in which engineering studies and prepara-
tory works for both the mining project and the infrastructure project
were undertaken, was devoted to working out definitive financing arrange-
ments. In addition, arrangements were made for the refining, in the



-3-
United States, of the copper/nickel "matte" produced by the smelter in
Botswana, and for the sale of the metals and the sulphur and cobalt by-
products under long-term contracts. The working out of these arrange-
ments and those for the guarantee of the proposed Bank loan has been
complicated by the fact that throughout the period the effective control
of BCL has been in transition.  Since the Appraisal Report was prepared,
changes in the corporate structure have been agreed to and are described
in paragraph 15 below.
9.        The Botswana Government asked the Bank to arrange the financing
for the infrastructure, and we tried to obtain as much aid as possible on
concessionary terms. Ile also hoped that the whole infrastructure project
could be financed on an untied basis. The bilateral aid that was in fact
forthcoming from Canada and the United States, however, is available sub-
stantially on tied terms. In those cases where the costs of goods and
services procured bilaterally are higher than would probably have been
obtained with international competitive bidding,however, the benefits
to Botswana of the concessionary terms of the financing will
offset the higher costs for the project.
10.       Since the loans and credits for both the mining operation and
the infrastructure have to be serviced from the revenues of the mining
company, lengthy and involved negotiations were necessary among Botswana,
the mining company and the various lenders, including the Bank, to arrive
at consistent financial and other arrangements for the mining and infra-
structure projects taken as a whole. The final shape of these arrange-
ments is discussed in detail in paragraphs 33 - 42.
11.       So that the infrastructure will be ready in time, the Govern-
ment, with the consent of the Bank and the other lending agencies, and
in accordance with their respective procurement policies, has already
let certain contracts. The Bank and the other lenders have indicated
their willingness in principle to finance retroactively any payments
made, subject to all necessary approvals. In the case of the proposed
Bank loan, retroactive financing will be required in respect of ex-
penditures since May 1, 1971 under the Shashe dam contract,and to a
minor extent, of engineering services. Assuming loan signature by mid-
July, the amount of retroactive financing required would be of the order
of $400,000. Meanwhile, BCL has undertaken to advance funds needed to
meet any payments due before effectiveness of long-term financing
arrangements. Should those arrangements not be completed, BCL will
not only cover the payments due but also any contract termination costs.
12.       Negotiation of the draft Loan Agreement between the Republic
of Botswana and the Bank and of the draft Guarantee Agreement between
BCL, BRST and certain of its shareholders, MG and the Bank, took place
in lWashington during the month of April. The Government delegation
was led by Mr. H.C.L. Hermans, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance
and Development Planning, and included Messrs. M.D. Mokama, Attorney
General; L.D. Lekalake, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Commerce,
Industry and Water Affairs; M.O.S. Hawkins, Permanent Secretary,



- 4 -
Ministry of Works and Communications; H.H.B. Murray-Hudson, Project
Coordinator; B. Edwards, Parliamentary Draftsman; C.J. Lang, NE.,
Director, Department of Water Affairs; C.J.P. Joubert, Assistant
Project Coordinator; and D. Blachford, Secretary, Botswana Power
Corporation. The representatives of the guarantors negotiating the
guarantee agreement were:  H. Rieger and A. Kappler (MG); D. aLlcott
(Amax); G. Carey-Smith (Anglo); H. Pritchard (Charter); and H.M.
Simeon (BCL).
PART II - THE MINING AND INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
13.       The attached Appraisal Report, entitled "Appraisal of Infra-
structure Project - Botswana" (PU-67b) dated June 11, 1971, describes
both the infrastructure project, to be financed by the proposed Bank
loan together with those from Canada and the United States, and, in
Chapter 3 and Annex I to the Report, the mining project, on which the
justification for the infrastructure project depends. Annex 3 of the
Appraisal Report analyzes the market prospects for copper and nickel.
The Mining Project
14.       The mining project consists of the construction and installa-
tion of mining and processing facilities at Selebi-Pikwe (see map).
The facilities are designed to produce a matte (impure mixture) of copper
andnickel from the Selebi and Pikw-re ores at an average annual rate over
the life of the mine, presently estimated at 25 years from the start of
full production, of 35,000 metric tons and, as by-products, 103,000
metric tons of sulphur and 90 metric tons of cobalt.   The matte wqill
be refined in a refinery in the U.S.A. otmed and operated by Amax.
The entire expected production of refined copper and cobalt and twro-
thirds of the expected nickel output will be shipped to Germany and
sold to MG, with which BCL will sign a 15-year sales contract.   The
remaining one-third of the nickel will be sold by BCL on its own
account in Germany or elsewhere, depending on wqhere the price is
more favorable. M4ost of the sulphur will be sold to Triomf Fertili-
zer (Pty) Limited of South Africa under a lO-yoar sales contract.
15.       The mining project will be constructed and operated by BCL,
the largest shareholder of which is another Botswana company, BRST.
A planned reorganization of these two companies will result in the
Botswana Government, with its 15 percent shareholding (wfhich it wfill
obtain pursuant to the concession agreement) and BRST (85 percent)
as the only shareholders of BCL.  BRST, in turn, will be owqned 29.L
percent by companies in the Amax group (Amax and RST Itt.), 29k4
percent by companies in the Anglo-A.merican group (AMglo, Charter
and Zamanglo), 5.6 percent by other companies, and the remaining
35.6 percent by public stockholders.



- 5 -
Amax and Anglo will provide BCL with necessary technical and
managerial staff. BCL has already recruited key operating persornel
with substantial experience in copper mining.
Financing of Mining Project
16.       The capital cost of the BCL mining project, including working
capital, is estimated at US$121 million, of which 65 percent will be
financed from loans and 35 percent from equity. To finance exploration
and development costs, certain shareholders of BRST and BCL had, as of the
end of 1970, paid-in $3.9 million of the required BCL equity and made
interest free advances (convertible to equity) in the amount of $14
million. To finance completion of the mining project, BCL has nego-
tiated (a) with Kreditanstalt fUr W4iederaufbau (KfW), together with
a consortium of German banks, a loan of DM222 million, repayable over
10 years after 5 years of grace, at an expected interest rate of 9.1
percent, and (b) with the Industrial Development Corporation of South
Africa (IDC) a suppliers' credit of R13.5 million at an effective
interest rate of 8.9, repayable over 10 years from the date of com-
pletion of construction. The remainder of the equity required will
be provided to BCL through a BRST rights issue to be taken up by the
corporate and public shareholders of BRST. The subscription through
BRST of the additional equity of BCL and the effectiveness of the KCW
and IDC loans will be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
Bank loan.
17.       Those shareholders of BRST which are guaranteeing the Bank
loan have also undertaken, in the event of a cost overrun on the
mining project, to make available to BCL the necessary additional
financing, including working capital, required. The guarantor share-
holders would provide this additional financing 40 percent as equity
and 60 percent as subordinated loans, up to the first $10 million,
and thereafter as either equity or subordinated loans at their option.
The Infrastructure Project
18.       The proposed infrastructure project will consist of the
construction of power and water supply systems, road and rail links
and a township at Selebi-Pikwe. A Loan and Project Summary is at
Annex II.
(1) The water facilities include a dam on the Shashe River,
pumping station, pipeline, treatment plant and distribution system to
serve the mining complex, power station and township, and a separate
water supply to serve a coal mine at MIorupule. Upon completion of
construction., the facilities will be owned and operated by the newly
established national water authority, the Water Utilities Corporation
(WUC).



- 6 -
(2) The power facilities will include a 60 HfW conventional
steam power station, a transmission line to Francistown, the main city
in northern Botswqana, and an electric distribution system in the mining
township. Upon completion of construction, the facilities wi1 be oT;med
and operated by the newly establislhed Botswana Power Corporation (BPC),
which will take over the responsibilities for operating and expanding
all public power facilities in Botswana. The coal for the power plant
will be supplied from a new coal field in Botswana located at i±Iorupule.
The coal mine will not be part of the infrastructure project.
(3) Two railroad branch lines will be built to connect with
the Rhodesia Railways main line through 3otswana, a 10-mile spur to the
coal field, and a [O-mile spur to tie mine, smelter and power plant.
The Government will own the rail-bed, 9ut will hire the tracks and other
recoverable items and equipment from Rhodesia Railways. The Government
will also build an access road to the project area, and upgrade the
existing main road to Francistown.
(4) The township facilities will include housing for Govern-
ment, Govermment corporations and railway employees, roads, sewerage and
other services, schools, administration, health service and other
Government facilities. Upon completion of construction, the facilities
will be taken over by a Township Authority.
19.       To ensure coordination among all elements of the infrastructure
project, the Government has established a central iHanagement Unit which
will be responsible for construction both of those parts to be carried
out by the Government directly, and on behalf of tne respective statutory
corporations, the water and power facilities. This Ianagement Unit will,
in turn, work closely with 3CL to ensure coordination of the construction
of the infrastructure and mining facilities.
Financing of Infrastructure Project
20.       The total construction cost of the infrastructure project, as
set out in the Appraisal Report (and in the Loan and Project Summary -
Annex II), is $58.9 million. The total financing required, including
expenditures for engineering studies and preliminary works of $2.5
million and interest during construction of $5.6 million on the proposed
3ank loan, and $0.35 on the proposed USAID loan, is shoiwm as $67.35
million. These estimates were based on consultants' studies and actual
bids received as of April 1971, and require revision in the light of
bids received subsequently.  The lowest responsive bid for the water
main pipe contract, to be financed by USAID, is about $3.2 million below
the Appraisal Report estimate. On the other hand, the bids for the civil
engineering and installation costs for the power station to be financed by
CIDA are substantially higher than the estimates contained in the Appraisal
Report, and are now under examination by the Canadian authorities, who
are concurrently considering the implications for the financing required.
As soon as firm figures are availaole, a revised Loan and Project Summary
will oe distributed to the Executive Directors. The net effect of the
reduction in water supply costs and the increase in the revised estimates
for the power facilities that appears likely at this time woulc. be to reduce



- 7 -
the estimated rate of return on the infrastructure project as calculated
in the Appraisal Report by about 0.5 percent. The Appraisal Report noted
that, for the purposes of security of supply and creating employment,
Botswana had elected to produce the electric power requirements by using
domestic coal in a new power station - albeit at some cost over other
alternatives. This additional cost is nowj greater. However, it would
neither alter the conclusion of the Appraisal Report as to the merits
of the infrastructure project nor substantially affect the profitability
of the mining project.
21.       In the absence of public savings by Botswana, the loans from
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) and the Bank will finance
virtually the whole of the infrastructure costs.    The Government will be
the borrower in each case. The CIDA loan, of which 75 percent is tied
to procurement in Canada and 25 percent is available for local costs,
will finance the power facilities, except for the distribution system in
the township. The amount of the loan as negotiated was Can $20 million,
an increase in the amount is now under consideration in view of the need
to revise the previously estimated costs of the power facilities in the
light of bids recently received. The loan will be repaid over 40 years,
after 10 years of grace. No interest will be charged. USAID is granting
a loan of up to US$6.5 million for the water trunk main, repayable over
30 years after a 10-year grace period, with 2 percent interest (which
will be capitalized) during the grace period and 3 percent thereafter.
The AID loan will be tied primarily to U.S. procurement. About$1.5 million
required for temporary water facilities, training and administration will
be provided through grants and loans from the U.K., Canada and UHDP and,
as necessary, from the Government budget. The effectiveness of the USAID
loan is linked to effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan (see paragraph
38 below). The effectiveness of the CIDA loan is conditioned on signing
of the 11aster Agreement between Botswana and BCL (see paragraph 36 below).
22.       The remaining parts of the infrastructure facilities, for which
no other aid is available on concessionary terms, that is, the Shashe dam
and water supply facilities (other than the water trunk main), the roads9
rail spurs and the township, will be financed by the nroposed Bank loan
of $32 million. The proposed loan would also refinance an amount of $0fl
million from Credit oo. 172-ST in respect of the engineering services
directly related to those facilities. Procurement for all items to be
financed by the proposed Bank loan will be in accordance with the Guide-
lines for Procurement under W1orld Bank Loans and IDA Credits.
23.       The Government will relend all of the Proceeds of the CIDA and
USAID loans and part of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to the DPC
and WUC on terms similar to those of the Bank loan, that is, repayment
over 25 years, followqing 4 years of grace and at an interest rate of 7-1/4
percent. The arrangements for the relending are set forth in subsidiary
loan agreements between the Government and the Corporations.   The balance
of the Bank loan will be applied to the cost of equipment and construction
items for which government departments are directly responsible. The cost
of construction and of services provided by the infrastructure facilities
will primarily be recovered by charges to BCL. The respective obligations



-8-
of BCL and the infrastructure operating entities are set out in 25-
year contracts covering power, water, railway and township facilities.
Security Arrangements
24.     The appraisal of the mining project concludes that BCL will be
profitable and will be able to oenerate the revenues from which, directly
or indirectly, the loans to BCL and to the Government will have to be
serviced. However, there are risks inherent in most mining projects and
Botswana is not at this time able to repay, or assure repayment of, loans
on conventional terms. Accordingly, special arrangements have been worked
out to minimize the risks to the Bank, the creditors of BCL, and to Botswana.
These arrangements, whichare set out in detail in Part IV below, include
guarantees of the Bank loan by BCL, DIG and the principal shareholders in
BRST. In addition to these guarantees, the Bank will share equally with
KfWi and IDC in the security arrangements they have with BCL (including
the security they are taking on BCL's mining lease and housing properties)
in order to prevent a dilution of the Bank's own security with BCL.
25.     The power and water contracts further provide for a minimum
charge, whether or not power and water are consumed, sufficient to cover
the annual debt service payable by the BPC and WUC to the Government under
the respective subsidiary loan agreements. These amounts exceed the
amounts due by Botswana under the CIDA. USAID and proposed Bank loans.
26.     The proceeds of all sales by BCL will be paid in the first in-
stance to a trust in the United K'ingdom, from which the trustee will pay
all amounts due by BCL to KfW and IDC and,in addition, payments due to
BPC, tJUC, and Botswana, before the balance is transferred to BCL.  The
trustee will pay on behalf of Botswana payments due to the Bank under
the proposed Bank loan.
Benefit to Botswana
27.     The construction and operation of the infrastructure and mining
projects will have a major impact on Botswana. As a measure of this
imnpact, annual value added as a result of the mining company's operations
is expected to average about US$21 million, compared to a GDP of about US
$59 million in 1967/68.
28.     Direct government revenues from the mining project will average
about $5 mnillion a year and will come primarily from (i) dividends on
Botswana's 15 percent equity participation in the mine; (ii) taxes on
BCL's profits: (iii) royalties (7-1/2 percent also on profits before
income tax with a minimum payment of $1,050,000 annually). Direct and
indirect government revenues from all sources (net of debt service on
all government loans for the project and other governmental expenses
incurred on the Droject) are expected to average about $6 million a year.
This compares with total government revenues from internal sources of
about US$15 million in 1969/70, when recurrent and development expendi-
tures exceeded $26 million.



-9-
29.     In addition, a temporary windfall is expected to cone in
customs revenues from imports for the Shashe pnject and other mining
developments which is estimated to be large enough to bring about a
surplus in the budget for a three-year period (1972-75).
30.     The internal financial rate of return to the Government from
the infrastructure project based on direct government revenues,9 using
conservative projections of mining revenues, is expected to be 12 per-
cent and rises to 13 percent if expenditures prior to liarch 31, 1971,
are excluded from the calculation.
31.     The mine will provide direct employment for about 1,300
Botswana citizens, and the coal field at liorupule another 300. Indirect
e,aployment. including expansion of government services accompanying the
mining development, is estimated to offer job opportunities for another
1,500 people by 1974. By 19a0, the overall employment associated witlh
the mining development at Selebi-Pilcwe is estimated to increase to 5,400.
This represents an increase of about one-fifth of the total labor force
in paid employment within Botswana, based on the most recent employment
figures available.
32.     The creation of institutions providing integrated public poxwer
and water supply systems9 the availability of coal for power generation,
and the improvements in transportation may encourage additional mining
and industrial development in Botswana.   The presence of other promising
mineral reserves in northeast Botsu'ana have already been confirmed. The
Government is hopeful that a successful realization of the Shashe project
will encourage further mineral development in association writh private
foreign capital, and thereby lead to greater diversification of the
economy.
33.     There are other benefits from the mining venture, such as the
positive multiplier effects of the expenditures. These benefits are
not readily quantifiable but their existence should not be overlooked.
There are, on the other hand, potential social and environmental costs
in this project which are also unquantifiable.   One is atmospheric
pollution caused by the sulphur content in gases from the powqer and
smelter operations. BCL and BPC are designing the plants to comply
with the atmospheric pollution bill recently passed by the N'ational
Assembly. Water pollution from the mining operation is also a potential
hazard.  BCL will take measures to prevent effluent water vrom reaching
the river.  BCL also intends totake precautions regarding h._alth and safety,
including regular examination of the miners and dust control at the mining
faces.
PART IV - LEGAL INISTRUT4ENTS AND )-UT'ORTTY
34.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Renublic of Botswana and
the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Bank, on the one side
and Amax, Anglo. BRST, Charter, HG, RST Int., Zamang1.i and BCL, on the
other side  a draft letter from the Bank to the Guarantors on Section
3.02 (iii) of the Guarantee Agreement; a draft letter from the Borrower to
the Bank on Section 5.05 of the Guarantee Agreement, the Report of the



- 10 -
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement, and the text of a resolution approving the proposed loan
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
35.     The major legal documents for the proposed Project can be
broadly classified into the following categories: (a) agreements
governing the basic relations between the Government and BCL, (b) fin-
ancing agreements for the infrastructure facilities, (c) finarncing
agreements for the mining facilities, (d) agreements concerning security
arrangements   (e) agreements concerning the operations of the infra-
structure facilities, and (f) agreements concerning the processing and
sale of the products of the mining operations. The important aspects
of certain documents are briefly set forth below.
(1)  Agreements Governing the Basic Relations
Between the Government and BCL
36.     These agreements include, among others, the Master Agreement,
Tax Agreement) Deed of Concession, and Ilining Lease, which set forth the
basic rights and obligations of the Government and BCL. Provisions are
made for arbitration of important disputes between them, using the facili-
ties of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes.
(2) Financing Agreements for Infrastructure Facilities
37.     These agreements include, the Loan Agreement between the Bcrrower
and the Banl, the Guarantee Agreement betxween the Bank and the Guarantors,
two Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and BPC and WUC,
respectively, covering the relending by Botswana of the USAID and CIDA loans
and part of the Bank loan.
(a) The Loan Agreement
38.     The Bank Loan Agreement contains provisions normally used for
the Bank's power, water, railway and road projects. In addition, provi-
sions are included for:
(i) the shortening of the amortization period of the Loan,
if taking into account various factors, it is certified
that the ,iining Project would cease to be commercially
justifiable prior to the last maturity date of the Loan
(Section 2.13)-
(ii)  the prepayment by the Borrower to the Bank of the Loan
if the Borrower prepays USAID or CIDA (Section 2.09) or
the Borrower receives prepayment by the two corporations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements (Section 4.16);
(iii) the revision of the General Conditions to take into
account the fact that private companies are Guarantors
of the Loan-



- 11 -
(iv)  making the effectivuess of the agreements referred to in
paragraph 35 a condition of the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement (Section 8.01).
(b) The Guarantee Agreement
39.   Under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantors undertake to
guarantee (on a several oasis as between the main guarantors) the
paymrent of the principal of, interest and other charges on, the Loan.
The detailed guarantee arrangements are provided under Section 2.01
of the Guarantee Agreement. In addition, the following provisions are
included:
(i) the Guarantor Shareholders agree to provide funds to complete
the Nlining Project and to provide initial working capital
required by 3CL; (Section 2.02);
(ii) the obligations of the Guarantors would be suspended or
terminated upon the occurrence of certain events of a
political nature (Article III);
(iii)  unless the Loan is accelerated by the Bank solely because
of the Borrower's violation of certain covenants of the Loan
Agreement, the Guarantors waive and agree not to exerciee
the rights of the Bank against the 3orrower to which the
Guarantors may be subrogated (Section 5.05);
(iv) the Bank agrees not to amend certain provisions of the
Loan Agreement without the prior consent of the Princi-
pal Guarantors (Section 5.07);
(v) the guarantee obligations of Amax to the 3ank are
subordinated to certain senior indebtedness of Amax
(Section 2.07(b) and Schedule 3).
(c) The Power and Water Subsidiary
Loan Agreerments
4o.   Under the two Subsidiary Loan Agreements, the Government would
relend part of the proceeds of the Bank loan, the proceeds of the USAID
loan and the CIDA loan to the two corporations. Provisions concerning
detailed administration of the power and water projects, financial
restrictions, management, rate of return and other matters usually
contained in Bank loan or project agreements are also included in the
two Agreements.
(3) Ag'reements Concerning Security Arrangements
41.   These agreements   include the Trust Deed, the Agreement of
Hypothecation, the 3ank, IDC and KfW Piortgage 3onds. Under the Trust
Deed, 3CL would be required to assign all the sales proceeds of the
products of the mining project to the Trustee in London, who wiould make



- 12 -
payments due by 3CL to KfCi, IDC, 3PC, IVUC and the Government.  Under
the Trust Deed, monies payaole to 3PC and -UC by 3CL under the Power and
.Jater Agreements are first applied in paynent to the Government of
9PC and lJUG's deot service and other charges undbr the Power and :later
,ubsidiary Loan Agreerments. The Govermment would instruct the Trustee
to pay directly to the Bank debt service and other charges on the Loan
out of certain monies otherwise payaole to tne Goverm-nent by the Trustees.
42.   The security offered *y 3CL to KU. and IDC, and shared by the 3ank,
is for the purpose of securing 3CL's loan obligations to MI and IDC, and
its guarantee obligations to the Bank.  The 3ank would share trith KfU and
IDC a first mortgage created under the Agreement of Hypothecation on
3CL's title, rights and interests in the !iining Lease on a pari passu
basis.  The 3ank wnould also share, on the same basis, the security created
under the iortga-e 3onds on BCL's housing facilities in the township
area with IDC and Kfl.
(4) The Lenders' Agreement
43.   For purposes of coordination and cooperation of the adninistration
of the Bank Loan, the 2fl1 Loan and the IDC Loan, the Bank, Knl and IDC
would enter into a Lenders ' Agreement closely following the pattern of
other Lenders' agreements the Sank has had in the past.
Compliance wiith Articles of Agreement
44.   I ain satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART V - ECOITOYIC SITUATION
45.   An economic report (AE-4a) on 3otswana wias distributed to t-e
Executi-ve Directors on Octooer 31, 1969. An updating economic memorandum
(AE-18) dated June 16, 1971 accompanies this report.
PART VI - RECOiMiEZDATIOMT
46. I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. .IcITanara
President
June 16, 1971



ANNEX 1
STATEMIENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as of May 31, 1971)
Amount
(US$ million
Loan or                                                        undisbursed)
Credit No.    Year       Borrower         Purpose
63            1964     Bechuanaland    Road Project              3.6    -
172           1970     Botswana        Engineering Design       2.5   O.5
and Preliminary
Works for the
Shashe Project
233           1971     Botswana       Water Supply for          3.0   3.0
Gaborone-Lobatse
Total                     9.1
Total undisbursed               3.5



Ai??FX 2
Page 1 of 2
REPTUBLIC OF PSTSTJADTA
LOMT ANIP TI∂MASTRUICTITP T IPCJFCT S'UIAARY
Borroxrer       Benub lic of Rots-wana
Guarantors:     Companies in the American Metal Climax croup, includinog
American Metal Climax Inc.- comDanies in the Anplo-Amnerican
group, including ,4ng1o-American Co. of South Africa-
Tletallgesellschaft, AG- and Banangwato Concessions Limited.
Project-         Shashe infrastructure project for copper/nickel mire.
Amount and Terms of ID.A Credit (172-ET)
USSl1.59 million (The credit wlras originally 82.5 million but
$n.91 is being refinanced as a part of the Bank loan).
3/4 of 12 per annum service charge
50 years, including 10 years grace.
Amount and Terms of Bank Loan
TSS32 million ecquivalent; 7-1/4%
29 years including 4 years grace
Amount and Terms of CIBA Loan
The present cormitment   is for CanS2f million but the
Canadian  Government is considering an increase in this
amount. (See paragrarh 20.)
50 years, including, 10 years grace, no interest rate.
Amount and Terms of ATr loan:
LTS5.5 million- 9, durinc grace period and 3% thereafter
40 years including 1' years of grace.
Relending Terms,
The Plepublic of Botswana w*7ill relend part of the proceeds
of the proposed Bank Loan and the CIDA and USAID Loans to
thve Botswana Power Corporation on terms of 29 years, in-
cluding a 4-year period of grace at 7-1/A4 interest.
Procurementz    (a)  International competitive bidding for the Bank-financed
part of the facilities-
(b) 75% procurement in Canada and 25% available for local
cost for the facilities financed by the CIDA Loans
(c)  Procurement in the U.S. and selected countries, including
Botswana, for the JUSAID Loan.
ConS-ruction Period: 1971-1973
Dishursement Schedule:
FY72   FY73   FY74     FY75
Fstimated Disbursements     9.4   10.6 r   .8      3.2.
Consulting Services-
Consulting engineers for design and supervision of
construction.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
ESTIMATED COST OF INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
US$ Million
Cost as Estimated by Bank
Local      Foreign       Total
Engineering Studies and
Preliminary Works                         0.88          1.61        2.49
Construction Costs
*Power Station and Transmission        2.35         18.65       21.00
*Water Supply                          3.38         10.15       13.53
Transportation                         1.05          2.61        3.66
Township                               2.62          3.83        6.45
Temporary Water Supply                 0.17          0.81        0.98
Contingencies:
Physical               1.39         4.07        5.46
Price                  0.97         2.413        3140
Sub-total     11.93         42.55       54.48
Administration and Training            0.70         0.28         o.98
Engineering (including US$0.9
million refinanced from
Credit 172-BT)                       0.49          2.94        3.43
Total Construction Costs              13.12        45.77        58.89
Interest During Construction
On Bank Loan                            -            5.62        5.62
On USAID Loan                           -            0.35        0.35
-           5.97         5.97
14.00        53.35        67.35
Sources of Financing                                US$ Million
Government of Botswana
Counterpart expenditures on
feasibility studies                             .62
Expenditures for interest on USAID
Loan and project management                     .45
UNDP Orant for feasibility studies
and project management                            .29
UK Grants and Credits for feasibility
studies and temporary water service             1.05
IDA Design Credit (172-BT)                        1.59
*Canadian International Levelopment
Agency Loan                                     23.44
Canadian Technical Assistance Grant                 .31
*USAID Loan                                         7.60
Proposed Bank Loan                                32.00
Total Sources                           *67.35
Internal Financial Rate of Return                     12%
* These cost estimates are as contained in the Appraisal Report (see
naragranha 4.08 and 6.02 of that report). The amounts of the USAID and
CIDA loans as shown are also the appraisal estimates of the amounts that
would be required on the assumption that the cost estimates would be
confirmed by the bids to be received. Both the cost estimates and the
financing plan as shown above will be revised to take account of awards
for power and water supply contracts to be made on the basis of bids
received since April 1971 and now being evaluated (see paragraph 20 of
this report). The estimates for the water supply and the USAID loan are
expected to be lower, whereas the estimates for the power station and
transmission and the CIDA loan will be higher, than shown above.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BOTS^JANA
COUN4TRY DATA
Area and population
Area                                             220,000 sq. miles
Population (1970; based on assumption
of 3% p.a. growth since 1964)                  648,ooo
Annual rate of population increase
Government estimate                            3 percent
U.N. estimate                                  2.2 percent
(Next population census will be
in August 1971)
FPpulation density                               1.1 per sq. km.
(2.9 per sq. mile)
Political Status
Independent Republic since September 1966.
Member of British Commonwealth.
Regional Economic Association
Member of the Sterling Area and the Southern fifrica Customs
Union.
GDP at market prices (1967/68)
Total                                            R 42.2 million
Per capita                                       R 70 ($98)
Growth rate in real terms                        3 - 5 percent per year
GDP at factor cost (1967/68)                          R 39.7 million
Origin of GDP (1967/68)                               (percent)
Agriculture                                         46
Mining                                             - 3
Manufacturin,g                                       9
Construction                                         5
Trade, restaurants and hotels                        6
Transport and communications                         6
Government                                          20
Ownership of dwellings                               6
Other                                                5
100



ANNEX 3
page 2
Commercial Bank Statistics                       End of September
1968     1969      1970
Deposits (Rand million)                 13.6     13.9      17.1
Advances (Rand million)                  5.9       8.2     11.8
Ratio of advances to deposits           43.lmi    59.0%    69. 0
Central Government FTnances             1967/68  1968/69   1969/70  1970/71  1971/7
Revised     Draft
Estimates Estimat
-(Rand million)                   --
Recurrent revenues (internal
sources)          5.7      7.0     10.8     11.2      16.1
Recurrent expenditures               12.6     12.7     1.0      17.0     19.7
Recurrent deficit                     6.8      5.6       3.2      5.8       3.6
Development expenditures              3.8      3.3       4.9      7.0     20.9
Total foreign aid disbursements      10.7      8.9      11.7     10.6     21.7
of which U.K. Government            9.3      8.5       9.6      8.5      6.3
Foreign Trade                                1967      1968     1969
(Rand iTllion)
Merchandise exports                      9.2       7.5     13.1
of which livestock and livestock
products           8.5      7.2     10.2
Merchandise imports                     22.4      23.2     30.8
External Public Debt                              Dec. 31, 1970
(US$ million)
Total debt outstanding                           13.3
U.K.                                            (5.7)
IDS                                             (6.1)
Privately held debt                             (1.5)
Total debt service (1970)                          0.6
IMF Position
Quota, since December 16, 1970              $5.0 million
Drawings                                    INione
Special Drawing Rights                      $1.039 million
Exchange Rate                                    1US$   0 0.714 Rand
June 16, 1971



BOTSWANA
PROPOSED INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITIES
SOUTH    WEST    AFRICA                                                TIJIA7ZAMBI777
SOUTH.. FcSI 
WEST  A
:0                      .                                    ∞   U6Li  SWAZILAND
\ O   _._..       \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ESOuT   <5 THO
03     --,                             \                   ~
<s=F  >OS O  U T H E R N
\ ~~~~~~~~R H                                O D E S I A
;=.swomp
,,, Xoun                                D Nota  _  gAMSITE
;0  0              1900
: ^e~~ke                                                               M I L E R
POWER
A               ~~~~STATION
Lake Dow             ..    Fronci~~~stown  SITE
Lelr CJw   ^.- *- -MATSITAMA  'SßF3Cst9   /sT
ORAPAN-w' LetMiekane COPPER  Shosh  
PR DAONDEC        PROSPECT            .5hSh
PROSECT SELEBI-PIKWE.
COPPER-NICKEL   Serèe              (
MINING PROJECT
Seow                            PIKW-E -
MORUPULE          -PlopyTWNHI
MCOAR U P U L FIELD                          _ SITE
B O   T S W   A   N  A              MOI.O,
M c m ob u .c7<p
,/ oAr    R EPUB L IC   OF
's  gj         ~SOUTH AFRICA
MolepoloieQ...  CtIUd
Mosh P. o0 f  b ro ne
Momoutsc
{< tse
f -        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
MAIN ROAD
-b--' ';   1   RAILWAY
iX       Mafeof X king  ---C  RIVER
PROPOSED ROUTES
ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINE
Öf  ~  ~  - WATER PIPE LINE
!  lilililRAILWAY BRANCH LINES
ROAD
FUTURE ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION
LINES
APRIL 1971                                                                    lBRD 2843R2



