CONFORMED COPY
Uater 6ubsidiarp
Loan tgreement
(Shashe Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
AND
THE WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
DATED MARCH 1, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
Wtater Subsidiary
Loan agreement
(Shashe Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
AND
THE WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
DATED MARCH 1, 1972


﻿WATER SUBSIDIARY LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,       dated  March    1,   1972,   between  REPUBLIC OF
BOTSWANA (hereinafter called the Government) and THE WATER UTILITIES
CORPORATION (hereinafter called the Water Corporation).
WHEREAS (A) By an agreement dated June 30, 1971, as amended by an
agreement dated   March   1,  1972, each   between the Government and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the
Bank), which agreements and the schedules and the General Conditions therein
referred to are hereinafter called the Bank Loan Agreement, the Bank agreed to
make to the Government a loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to $32,000,000 (hereinafter called the Bank Loan) on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Bank Loan Agreement,
(B)   By an agreement dated June 30, 1971, as amended by an agreement
dated February 14, 1972, each between the Government and the United States
of America, acting through the Agency for International Development (hereinafter
called AID), which agreements and schedules thereto are hereinafter called the AID
Loan Agreement, AID agreed to make to the Government a loan in an anount
not exceeding $6,500,000 (hereinafter called the AID Loan) on the terms and
conditions set forth in the AID Loan Agreement;
(C)   Under the terms of the Bank Loan Agreement the Government agreed
to relend part of the proceeds of the Bank Loan and the proceeds of the AID
Loan to the Water Corporation and to cause the Water Corporation to apply the
proceeds of such relending to financing the cost of goods and services required
to carry out the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (hereinafter
called the Water Project) and agreed to enter into the Water Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with the Water Corporation; and
(D)   The parties hereto have agreed to enter into this Agreement pursuant
to Section 3.01 (c) of the Bank Loan Agreement;
NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED between the parties hereto as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Bank Loan Agreement have


﻿4
the same meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a)   "Water Subsidiary Loan" means the loan referred to in Section
2.01 (a) hereof and provided for under this Agreement.
(b)   "Bank Subsidiary Loan" means that part of the Water Subsidiary Loan
deriving from the proceeds of the Bank Loan and referred to in
subsection (a) (i) of and the proviso to Section 2.01 of this
Agreement.
(c)   "AID Subsidiary Loan" means the part of the Water Subsidiary Loan
deriving from the proceeds of the AID Loan and referred to in
subsection (a) (ii) of and the proviso to Section 2.01 of this
Agreement.
(d)   "Lenders" means the Bank and AID and includes any or all of them
as the context may require.
(e)   "Currency of Botswana" means such coin or currency as at the time
referred to is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts
in the territories of the Government.
(f)   "Water Delivery Date" has the meaning ascribed thereto by the Water
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Water Subsidiary Loan
Section 2.01. (a) The Government hereby agrees to lend to the Water
Corporation, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement
(i) the Bank Subsidiary Loan in an amount in various currencies not exceeding
$12,250,000 equivalent; (ii) the AID Subsidiary Loan in an amount in the currency
of the United States of America not exceeding $6,500,000; and (iii) an amount
in various currencies not exceeding $2,200,000 equivalent, representing the costs
of the Water Project financed from sources other than (i) and (ii) hereof.
Provided that if there shall be made available to the Government any
additional amount in respect of goods or services required for the construction


﻿5
and installation of the Water Project and properly capitalized in accordance with
sound accounting principles deriving from:
(i)        the proceeds of the Bank Loan;
(ii)       the proceeds of the AID Loan; or
(iii)      any other source;
the Government shall make such amount available to the Water Corporation and
(save where the Government, the Water Corporation and the Bank shall agree that
such amount shall be made so available in the form of unredeemable loan capital)
the loan respectively specified in paragraph (i), (ii) or (iii) hereof shall be increased
by and shall for all purposes include such additional amount. In addition, the loan
specified in paragraph (iii) hereof shall (save as aforesaid) be increased by and
shall for all purposes include any additional amount which the Government shall
make available out of its own resources to the Water Corporation in respect of
goods or services required for the construction and installation of the Water Project
and which is properly capitalized in accordance with sound accounting principles.
(b)  The Government shall, upon the request by the Water Corporation,
from time to time, forthwith make application to the Bank and AID for withdrawal
of amounts which the Government is entitled to withdraw under the Bank Loan
Agreement and the AID Loan Agreement in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
or services required for the Water Project.
(c)  The Water Corporation shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Government all such documents and other evidence as shall be required by the
Bank or AID to enable the Government to make withdrawals under the Bank Loan
Agreement or under the AID Loan Agreement.
(d)   Funds withdrawn by the Government under the Bank Loan Agreement
and the AID Loan Agreement and obtained from other sources and relent to the
Water Corporation shall be credited to a Water Subsidiary Loan Account to be
opened in the books of the Government in the name of the Water Corporation:
(i)        with respect to the Bank Subsidiary Loan in such amo,ints and
currencies as the Government is required to pay to the Bank
under the Bank Loan Agreement in respect of the Water Project;


﻿.6
(ii)       with respect to the AID Subsidiary Loan in such amounts and
currencies as the Government is required to pay AID under the
AID Loan Agreement;
(iii)      with respect to that part of the Water Subsidiary Loan referred
to in items (1) to (3) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement in such
amounts and currencies as shall have been or shall be expended
by the Government on the Water Project;
(iv)       with respect to that part of the Water Subsidiary Loan referred
to in item (4) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement in such amounts
as shall be capitalized by the Government and in such currencies
as shall be determined pursuant to Sections 2.03 (d) and
2.04 (b) hereof.
(e)   The Water Corporation shall be entitled to withdraw from the Water
Subsidiary Loan Account the proceeds of the Water Subsidiary Loan in such
amounts and currencies as have been .credited to such Water Subsidiary Loan
Account.
Section 2.02. The Water Corporation shall pay to the Government interest
on the principal amount of the Water Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at the rate of:
(a)   Eight per cent (8%) per annum, for such period as interest is capitalized
as described in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)   Seven and one-quarter per cent (7-1/4%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.03. (a) The Water Corporation shall pay to the Government a
commitment charge at the rate of three-quarters of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Water Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from
time to time. Such commitment charge shall accrue from a date 60 days after
the date of this Agreement or in the case of amounts furnished pursuant to the
proviso to Section 2.01 (a) hereof from the date on which such funds are made
available to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Water
Corporation from the Water Subsidiary Loan Account or shall be cancelled.
(b)   At the written request of the Water Corporation the Government shall
forthwith request the Bank to enter into special commitments in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods or services required for Section 1 of the Water Project.


﻿7
Such special commitments shall be upon such terms as shall be agreed between
the Government and the Bank as provided in the Bank Loan Agreement.
(c)  The Water Corporation shall pay to the Government the equivalent
of all amounts which the Government shall be obligated to pay to the Bank on
account of charges for such special commitments pursuant to Section 3.02 of the
General Conditions.
(d)  The commitment charges under this Section shall be paid in the
currency of Botswana.
Section 2.04. (a) Interest and other charges shall be paid semi-annually on
May 15 and November 15 in each year. Amounts spent on the Water Project prior
to the date of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been credited to and
withdrawn from the Water Subsidiary Loan Account pursuant to this Agreement
on the date of expenditure (or on such other date as the parties shall, with the
approval of the Bank, agree) and the initial calculation of interest charges payable
pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) shall cover the period from such date to
May 15, 1972.
(b)  All amounts to be paid by the Water Corporation to the Government
on account of interest pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement shall be paid
in the currency of Botswana in an amount equivalent, at the date of payment,
to the amounts due as determined in Botswana and foreign currencies in relation
to the principal amount of each currency credited to and withdrawn, or deemed
to be credited to and withdrawn, from the Water Subsidiary Loan Account. Interest
to be paid on capitalized interest and commitment charges pursuant to Section
2.02 (a) shall be deemed to be made in the amount equivalent in the currency
of Botswana to the amount determined as aforesaid.
Section 2.05. (a) The Water Corporation shall repay the principal of the
Water Subsidiary Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)  The Water Corporation shall have the right to make prepayment of
the principal amount of the Water Subsidiary Loan in the same manner as provided
in Section 3.05 of the General Conditions. Except as the Government shall
otherwise agree, any prepayment of the Water Subsidiary Loan by the Water
Corporation shall be subject to the payment of the premium set forth in Schedule
I to this Agreement.


﻿8
(c)   The repayments of the principal amount of the Water Subsidiary Loan,
and the payment of any premium under paragraph (b) hereof, shall consist of
amounts of each currency credited to and withdrawn, or deemed to be credited
to and withdrawn, from the Water Subsidiary Loan Account obtained by applying
the percentage specified in the amortization schedule set forth (subject to
subsections (d) and (e) hereof) in Schedule I to this Agreement for the particular
installment or installments payable, modified to reflect the inclusion of the premium
for prepayment if applicable, to the total amount of each such currency so credited
and withdrawn. With respect to such repayments of principal, and payments of
any required premium for prepayment, the Water Corporation shall pay to the
Government an amount in Botswana currency equivalent, at the date of payment,
to the amounts of such currencies due.
(d)   If the Water Delivery Date shall fall in the period:
(i)        prior to November 15, 1973, or
(ii)       from November 16, 1973 to May 15, 1974, or
(iii)      from May 16, 1974 to November 15, 1974,
the date for the first and each subsequent repayment of principal by the Water
Corporation in accordance with Section 2.05 hereof set out in Schedule I hereto
shall be brought forward by eighteen, twelve or six months, respectively, and the
Premiums on Prepayment referred to in the said Schedule shall be revised
accordingly.
(e)   If the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to the Bank Loan
Agreement shall be revised in the manner specified in Section 2.13 thereof, the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement shall be
simultaneously revised to provide for the payment of the principal of the Water
Subsidiary Loan then outstanding, together with interest and other charges thereon,
in equal semi-annual installments using the Exhaustion Date as the final maturity
date and the Premiums on Prepayment referred to in the said Schedule shall be
revised accordingly.
(f)   In the event that the principal amount outstanding under the Bank
Loan Agreement (i) shall have been accelerated under the provisions thereof and
such accelerated amounts shall have been paid to the Bank in full, or (ii) shall
have been prepaid in full by any Guarantor or Guarantors under the provisions
of the Bank Guarantee Agreemeit, the principal, interest and all other charges


﻿9
of the Bank Subsidiary Loan outstanding under this Agreement at the date of
such payment shall thereupon be deemed to have been paid in full by the Water
Corporation.
Section 2.06. (a) Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purpose of this
Agreement, to determine the value in terms of currency of Botswana of any other
currency, such value shall be determined on the basis of the par values of the
currency of Botswana and of such other currency as then established with the
International Monetary Fund or, if the Government shall so determine, on the
basis of the mean of the closing spot cable buying and selling rates of exchange
of Barclays Bank International Limited for such other currency on the date such
valuation is made.
(b)  Payments made by the Trustee to the Government from the Water
Corporation Debt Service Account under the Trust Deed or in accordance with
Section 3.07 (vi) (a) thereof shall be deemed to be payments made by the Water
Corporation under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. The Water Corporation shall apply the proceeds it receives
from BCL pursuant to Section 9.02 (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g) of the Water
Agreement to the prepayment of the principal of the Water Subsidiary Loan then
*        outstanding and to the payment of interest and other charges thereon.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of
the Water Subsidiary Loan
Section 3.01. (a) The Water Corporation shall apply the proceeds of the
Bank Subsidiary Loan exclusively for the purchase of goods and services required
to carry out Section I of the Water Project. The specific goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Bank Subsidiary Loan and the methods
and procedures for the procurement of such goods and services shall be in
accordance with the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement as such
SIthecule may be amended from    time to time by agreement between the
Government, the Lenders and the Water Corporation.
(b)  The Water Corporation shall apply the proceeds of the AID Subsidiary
Loan exclusively for the purchase of goods and services required to carry out
Section 2 of the Water Project. The specific goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the AID Subsidiary Loan and the methods and procedures


﻿10
for the procurement of such goods and services shall be in accordance with the
provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Government, the Lenders
and the Water Corporation.
(c)  The allocation of that part of the Water Subsidiary Loan referred to
in Section 2.01 (a) (iii) of this Agreement is shown in Schedule 5 to this Agreement
as such allocation may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Government, the Bank and the Water Corporation.
Section 3.02. Except as otherwise agreed among the Government, the Bank,
AID and the Water Corporation, all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of this Water Subsidiary Loan shall be used exclusively in carrying out the Water
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Water Project
Section 4.01. The Water Corporation shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out, the Water Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 4.02. (a) The Water Corporation hereby authorizes the Government
aid the Government hereby undertakes to perform each of the obligations relating
to the construction of the Water Project impoaed upon the Water Corporation
by this Agreement.
(b)  In addition, the Government hereby undertakes:
(i)        to establish and maintain during the period of construction of
the Water Project the Management Unit referred to in Section
3.02 (a) (i) of the Bank Loan Agreement for the purpose of
administration, coordination and supervision of, inter alia, such
construction and to make the arrangements referred to in
paragraphs (ii) and (iii) of subsection (a) of that Section:
(ii)       to indemnify and hold harmless the Water Corporation from any
claims for damages which may arise out of any obligations
undertaken by the Water Corporation in terms of this


﻿A                                11
Agreement, or in terms of any of the other Specified Documents
to which the Water Corporation is a party, only insofar as such
obligations relate to the construction of the Water Project;
(iii)      to transfer to the Water Corporation or facilitate the acquisition
by the Water Corporation of the land and rights referred to in
Section 4.07 hereof;
(iv)       to consult with the Water Corporation during the construction
of the Water Project and upon completion thereof to furnish
to the Water Corporation copies of all records and documents
referred to in Section 4.06 hereof; and
(v)        to establish a fund to be called the Shashe Project (Water Utilities
Corporation Loan) Special Fund into which the Government
shall pay the monies entrusted to it in accordance with
subsection (c) of this Section for the purpose of carrying out
the obligations of the Water Corporation undertaken by the
Government in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section,
and to submit to the Water Corporation such accounts of the
monies so entrusted as the Water Corporation may from time
to time reasonably require and all records, accounts and financial
statements required by the Water Corporation for the purposes
of Section 6.02 of this Agreement.
(c)  The Water Corporation hereby entrusts to the Government all monies
lent to it by the Government in terms of subsection (a) of Section 2.01 of this
Agreement, and hereby authorizes the Government to use such monies in its
discretion for the purpose of carrying out the construction of the Water Project
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and of the Bank Loan
Agreement.
Section 4.03. In order to assist the Water Corporation in carrying out the
construction of the Water Project, the Water Corporation shall employ, or cause
to be employed, engineering consultants acceptable to the Government and to the
Lenders to the extent and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Government and to the Lenders.
Section 4.04. In carrying out the construction of the Water Project, the Water
Corporation shall employ, or cause to be employed, contractors acceptable to the
Government and to the Lenders to the extent and upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Government and to the Lenders.


﻿12
Section 4.05. (a) The Water Corporation undertakes to insure, or cause to
be insured, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Water Subsidiary Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Water Corporation to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   The Water Corporation shall take out and maintain, with responsible
insurers, or shall make other provision satisfactory to the Government and the
Lenders for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with sound practice.
Section 4.06. (a) The Water Corporation shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Government and to the Lenders, promptly upon their preparation,
the reports, plans, specifications, construction schedules, work schedules and
contract documents for, or in connection with, the construction of the Water
Project, and any material modifications or amplifications thereof, in such detail
as the Government or the Lenders shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Water Corporation shall: (i) maintain, or shall cause to be
maintained, records adequate to record the progress of the construction of the
Water Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Water Subsidiary Loan and to disclose the
use thereof in the Water Project; (ii) enable the Lenders' representatives to inspect
the Water Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Water Subsidiary
Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Lenders all such information as the Lenders shall reasonably
request concerning the Water Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Water
Subsidiary Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 4.07. The Water Corporation shall take or cause to be taken all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construction and operation
of the facilities included in the Water Project and shall furnish to the Government
and the Lenders, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Government and the Lenders that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Water Project.
Section 4.08. (a) The Water Corporation shall cause title to all goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Water Subsidiary Loan to be obtained free and clear
of all encumbrances.


﻿13
(b)   The Water Corporation shall not, without the prior consent of the
Government and the Bank, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
properties or assets which shall be required for the efficient carrying on of the
operations of the Water Corporation.
ARTICLE V
Management
Section 5.01. The Water Corporation shall establish a separate Shashe
Division.
Section 5.02. The Water Corporation shall appoint as its Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Accountant persons having the qualifications, experience and
qualities appropriate to such positions. To that end, the Water Corporation shall
consult the Bank about any proposed appointment to such positions sufficiently
in advance of such appointment for the Bank to have adequate opportunity to
comment on it and shall make any such appointment only after consideration of
the views promptly expressed by the Bank.
Section 5.03. The Water Corporation shall at all times carry on its operations,
manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, and plan the future expansion
of its water supply system, all in accordance with sound business, engineering,
financial and public utility principles and practices, under the supervision of
experienced and competent management, and with the assistance of adequate,
qualified and experienced staff.
Section 5.04. In order to assist the Water Corporation in establishing its
accounting and financial systems and administrative organizations, the Water
Corporation shall employ management consultants or make other arrangements
acceptable to the Government and the Bank to the extent and upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Government and the Bank.
Section 5.05. The Water Corporation shall at all times operate and maintain
its plants, machinery, equipment and other property and make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof, in accordance with sound engineering and public utility
practices.
Section 5.06. The Water Corporation shall exchange views with the
Government and Lenders from time to time during the construction of the Water
Project on its programs for the recruitment and training of staff.


﻿14
Section 5.07. The Water Corporation shall at all times maintain its right
to carry on its operations, and take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and
renew all rights, powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 5.08. The Water Corporation shall, under arrangements satisfactory
to the Government and the Bank, cause the dams, waterways, earthworks and
reservoir banks constructed under the Water Project to be periodically inspected
in accordance with sound engineering practice in order to determine whether there
are any deficiencies or potential deficiencies in the condition of such structures
and earthworks, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of
operation of such structures and earthworks which may endanger the safety of
such structures and earthworks.
ARTICLE VI
Records, Accounts and Auditing
Section 6.01. The Water Corporation shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition including separate records and accounts relating
exclusively to its Shashe Division, as referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The Water Corporation shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) including the separate accounts and financial statements of its Shashe
Division for each financial year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Government and the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Government and the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than five months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements including the financial
statement of its Shashe Division for such year as so audited and (B) the reports
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Government
and the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Government
and the Bank such other information concerning the records, accounts and financial
statements of the Water Corporation and the audit thereof as the Government
and the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE VII
Financial Covenants
Section 7.01. Except as the Government and the Bank shall otherwise agree:


﻿15
(a)   The Water Corporation shall take all necessary steps within its power
(including but not limited to the establishment and adjustment of its water tariffs
and other charges for the water supply services provided by its Shashe Division)
as shall be required (i) to satisfy in respect of the Shashe Division as a separate
accounting entity all provisions of Section 19 of the Water Utilities Corporation
Act, 1970, as amended to the date of this Agreement, and (ii) to earn an annual
rate of return on the value of the gross fixed assets in operation plus an appropriate
allowance for working capital of the Shashe Division of not less than 7% for the
financial year 1975, 7-1/2%  for the financial years 1976 through 1978 and 8%
thereafter.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the
operating income of the Shashe Division for the year in question
to the average of the value of the gross fixed assets in operation
plus an appropriate allowance for working capital of the Shashe
Division at the beginning and at the end of each financial year.
(ii)        The term  "value of the gross fixed assets in operation" shall
mean the gross value of such assets, as recorded in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles and consistent with
the Water Agreement, and as revalued from time to time in
accordance with the Water Agreement.
(iii)       The term "appropriate allowance for working capital" means an
amount equal to 1/2% of the value of the gross fixed assets
in operation.
(iv)        The term "operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(A)   gross operating revenues accruing from the water supply
services provided by the Shashe Division, and
(B)   the operating and administration expenses of the Shashe
Division, including the administrative and overhead costs
of the Water Corporation which are properly allocable to
the Shashe Division, taxes (if any), adCquate maintenance
and depreciation based on the sinking fund method using
an 8% interest factor and the service lives referred to in
the Schedule to the Water Agreement, but excluding
interest and other charges on debt.


﻿16
(v)        Each financial year shall be identified by the calendar year in
which the financial year ends.
(c)  The Water Corporation shall not change the basis of calculation of
charges for water set out in the Water Agreement without the prior consent of
the Government and the Bank.
Section 7.02. (a) If in any month the entitlement of the Water Corporation
to payment by BCL under the Water Agreement shall be limited by Section 9.01
thereof to the payment by BCL of the Basic Monthly Charge for such month,
the revenues required to be earned by the Water Corporation in respect of the
then current year under Section 7.01 hereof shall be reduced by the amount by
which the said Basic Monthly Charge falls short of one-twelfth of the Annual Costs
of the Water Facilities for such year less all revenues payable to the Water
Corporation by consumers other than BCL in respect of the supply of water for
such month from the Water Facilities.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section the expressions "Basic Monthly
Charge", "Annual Costs" and "Water Facilities" shall have the meanings ascribed
thereto by the Water Agreement.
Section 7.03. Except as the Government and the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)   The Water Corporation covenants that the total debts incurred by it
in any financial year shall not exceed the equivalent amount of R 55,000 in the
currency of the Borrower.
(b)   For the purpose of this Section, the term "debt" means all debt except
debt maturing by its terms on demand or less than one year after its incurrence
and except the debt incurred by the Water Corporation hereunder.
ARTICLE VIII
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 8.01. The Government and the Water Corporation shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Water Subsidiary Loan will be accomplished.
To that end, the Government and the Water Corporation shall from time to time,
at the request of either party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the performance


﻿17
by the Water Corporation of its obligations under the Water Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Water Corporation and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Water Subsidiary Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof; and
(b)  furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Water Subsidiary Loan.
Section 8.02. (a) The Water Corporation shall furnish and cause to be
furnished to the Government and the Bank all such information as the Government
and the Bank shall reasonably request concerning (i) the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Water Corporation, and (ii) the relations between
the Water Corporation and BCL and the exercise of their respective rights and
the carrying out of their respective obligations under the Specified Documents and
any other agreements related thereto.
(b)  The Water Corporation shall promptly inform the Government and
the Bank of any failure by the Water Corporation or BCL to comply with any
of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the Water Agreement or
of any other condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of this Agreement or the Water Agreement, the
maintenance of the service of the payment thereunder or the performance by the
Water Corporation or BCL of their respective obligations thereunder.
(c)  The Water Corporation shall inform the Government and the Bank
of any failure by any other party to comply with any of the obligations of that
party under the Specified Documents of which the Water Corporation shall have
actual notice.
(d)  The Water Corporation shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Government or the Lenders to inspect all plants,
sites, works, property and equipment and all relevant records and documents of
the Water Corporation.
ARTICLE IX
Obligations of the Water Corporation
under other Agreements
Section 9.0 1. The Water Corporation shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Water Agreement, and shall take all necessary action to enable the


﻿18
Government to perform its obligations in respect of the Water Corporation under
the Bank Loan Agreement, the AID Loan Agreement and the Master Agreement.
Section 9.02. The Water Corporation shall exercise its rights and perform
its obligations under the Water Agreement and the Trust Deed in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Government, the Lenders and the Water
Corporation and, except as the Government and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Water Corporation shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive any of such
Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 9.03. (a) The Water Corporation shall duly perform the obligations
imposed upon the Water Corporation by the Specified Documents to which it is
party.
(b)   Except as the Government and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Water Corporation shall, to the extent that it is obligated or entitled to do so,
take all such reasonable action as may be necessary to maintain in full force and
effect and to secure the prompt and diligent performance by the parties thereto
of the Specified Documents.
(c)  The Water Corporation and the Government shall exchange views as
to any arbitration or any proceeding for the settlement of dispute contemplated
or undertaken pursuant to any of the Specified Documents referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section. The Water Corporation shall promptly advise the
Government and the Bank of any such arbitration or proceeding contemplated
or undertaken and shall give the Government and the Bank such information as
the Government or the Bank shall reasonably request to enable the Government
or the Bank, if it so desires, to make its views thereon known to the Water
Corporation in connection with any such arbitration or proceeding.
ARTICLE X
Remedies of the Government
Section 10.01. If the Government's right under the AID Loan Agreement
or under the Bank Loan Agreement to make withdrawals shall have been suspended
or terminated with respect to any amount of the AID Loan or the Bank Loan
regardless of the reason therefor, then the right of the Water Corporation to receive
further monies under this Agreement in respect of the Water Subsidiary Loan
shall likewise and simultaneously be suspended for the like period or terminated,
as the case may be.


﻿19
Section 10.02. If any of the following events shall occur, then the right
of the Water Corporation to receive further monies hereunder shall, unless the
Government shall otherwise agree, be suspended, until the event or events which
gave rise to such suspension shall have ceased to exist or until the Government
shall have notified the Water Corporation that its right to make withdrawals has
been restored, whichever is the earlier:
(a)  The Water Corporation shall have defaulted in the due and punctual
payment of any amount payable under this Agreement.
(b)   A default shall have occurred in the performance by the Water
Corporation of any covenant or condition (other than in respect of the due and
punctual payment of any amount payable under this Agreement) contained in this
Agreement or in the Water Agreement.
(c)  Any creditor shall have become entitled to demand payment from the
Water Corporation of monies lent to the Water Corporation prior to the agreed
maturity of any loan having an original maturity of one year or more in accordance
with the terms of such loan.
(d)  Any of the Bank Loan, Project Loans, IDC Loan or the KFW Loan
shall have become due and payable prior to their maturity pursuant to the terms
thereof.
(e)  The security constituted by any of the Agreements of Hypothecation
shall have become enforceable.
(f)  The right of the Government to withdraw amounts under any of the
Project Loan Agreements or the Bank Loan Agreement shall have been suspended.
(g)  The right of BCL to withdraw amounts under the IDC Loan Agreement
or under the KFW Loan Agreement shall have been suspended.
(h)  Any of the events specified in Section 3.01 (a) or (c) of the Guarantee
Agreement shall have occurred which, if continued for the period specified therein,
would cause the obligations of any of the Guarantors under the Guarantee
Agreement to be suspended or terminated.
(i)  Any event specified in Section 9.02 (c), (d) or (e) of the Water
Agreement shall have occurred.


﻿20
(j) A default materially and adversely affecting the Bank, the Project or
the Mining Project or the operation thereof shall have occurred in the performance
by BCL or any subsidiary of BCL of any of its obligations under the Specified
Documents to which BCL or any of its subsidiaries is a party.
Section 10.03. If any of the following events shall occur and shall continue
for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the
continuance of such event, the Government, at its option, may declare the principal
of the Water Subsidiary Loan then outstanding to be due and payable immediately,
and upon any such declaration such principal shall become due and payable
immediately, anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding:
(a)   any of the events specified in Section 10.02 (c), (d) or (h) of this
Agreement shall have occurred;
(b)   the security constituted by any of the Agreements of Hypothecation
shall have been enforced;
(c)   any of the events specified in Section 10.02 (a), (b), (f), (g), (i) or
0) of this Agreement shall have occurred and shall have continued for a period
of ninety days, after notice thereof shall have been given by the Government to
the Water Corporation.
Section 10.04. Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all the
provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as in
this Agreement specifically provided.
ARTICLE XI
Miscellaneous
Section 11.01. This Agreement shall become effective on the Effective Date.
Section 11.02. (a) Any notice, demand or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered in the case of the
Government to the Ministry of Finance and Development Planning, and in the
case of the Water Corporation, to Private Bag 29, Gaborone, Botswana or at such
other address which the Government or the Water Corporation, respectively, may
from time to time specify in writing.
(b)   Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the


﻿21
Government may be taken or executed by the Minister for Finance and
Development Planning or such person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
(c)   Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any dociment
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Water
Corporation may be taken or executed by the Secretary or such person or persons
as he shall designate in writing.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
and to be delivered in Gaborone, Botswana, as of the day and year first above
written.
Witness                     REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
1.   C.J.P. Joubert
2.   C. J. Lang                  By    /s/  Q.K.J. Masire
Authorized Representative
Witness                    THE WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
1.   C.J.P. Joubert
2.   C. J. Lang                  By    /s/  S. T. Ketlogetswe
Authorized Representative


﻿22
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
(expressed in percentage
of total Water Subsidiary
Loan including
Date Payment Due                              capitalized interest) *
November 15, 1975                                    0.734
May 15, 1976                                         0.761
November 15, 1976                                    0.789
May 15, 1977                                         0.818
November 15, 1977                                    0.847
May 15, 1978                                         0.878
November 15, 1978                                    0.910
May 15, 1979                                         0.943
November 15, 1979                                    0.977
May 15, 1980                                         1.012
November 15, 1980                                    1.049
May 15, 1981                                         1.087
November 15, 1981                                    1.127
May 15, 1982                                         1.167
November 15, 1982                                    1.210
May 15, 1983                                         1.254
November 15, 1983                                    1.299
May 15, 1984                                         1.346
November 15, 1984                                    1.395
May 15, 1985                                         1.445
November 15, 1985                                    1.498
May 15, 1986                                         1.552
November 15, 1986                                    1.608
May 15, 1987                                         1.667
November 15, 1987                                    1.727
May 15, 1988                                         1.790
November 15, 1988                                    1.855
May 15, 1989                                         1.922
November 15, 1989                                    1.991
May 15, 1990                                         2.064
November 15, 1990                                    2.138
May 15, 1991                                         2.216
November 15, 1991                                    2.296
May 15, 1992                                         2.380
November 15, 1992                                    2.466
May 15, 1993                                         2.555
November 15, 1993                                    2.648
May 15, 1994                                         2.744
November 15, 1994                                    2.843
May 15, 1995                                         2.946
November 15, 1995                                    3.053
May 15, 1996                                         3.164
November 15, 1996                                    3.278
May 15, 1997                                         3.397
November 15, 1997                                    3.520
May 15, 1998                                         3.648
November 15, 1998                                   3.780
May 15, 1999                                         3.917
November 15, 1999                                   4.059
May 15, 2000                                        4.230
*    Subject to Section 2.06 of this Agreement


﻿23
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Water Subsidiary Loan:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  3/4%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                           2-1/4%
More than six years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                              3%
More than thirteen years
but not more than
nineteen years before
maturity                                       4-1/2%
More than nineteen years
but not more than
twenty-five years
before maturity                                5-3/4%
More than twenty-five years
but not more than
twenty-seven years
before maturity                                6-3/4%
More than twenty-seven
years before maturity                          7-1/4%


﻿24
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Water Project
The Water Project is the construction, installation and operation of a
complete water supply system to supply water from the Shashe River to BCL
for the Mining Project and to other consumers. The Project includes the following:
Section 1.
(i)        The "Shashe Works" meaning (A) a dam on the Shashe River, providing
an estimated yearly average yield of 36,000 kiloliters per day with a concrete
spillway and protective concrete diversion walls and outlet works with intake at
several levels, connected to a concrete culvert under the dam; (B) a first pumping
station and pipeline (exclusive of the items included in Section 2), connecting the
outlet works to the primary treatment plant; and (C) a primary treatment plant
(sedimentation, microstraining and chlorination) of 45,500 cubic meters per day
design capacity.
(ii)       The "Selebi-Pikwe Trunk Main" meaning (A) a second pumping station
and ancillary works on the 80 kin pipeline of 41,300 cubic meters per day design
capacity connecting the primary treatment plant to the bulk service reservoir; (B)
a bulk service reservoir of 24,000 cubic meters capacity serving the mining complex,
Selebi-Pikwe township and the power station; and (C) connecting pipes between
the bulk supply reservoir and the delivery points.
(iii)      The "Selebi-Pikwe Water Works" meaning a secondary treatment plant
of 13,000 cubic meters per day design capacity, a third pumping station and two
township service reservoirs each of 6,800 cubic meters capacity.
(iv)       The "Selebi-Pikwe Water Distribution System" meaning the water
distribution system supplying the Selebi-Pikwe township from the Selebi-Pikwe
Water Works.
Section 2.
A 24/30 inch pipeline about 80 km long for the Selebi-Pikwe Trunk Main
and for connecting the culvert under the dam to the primary treatment plant
through the first pumping station, together with the associated fittings, equipment
and supplies.


﻿25
SCHEDULE 3
1.    Goods and Services Eligible for Financing under the Bank Subsidiary Loan:
Amount of the Bank
Subsidiary Loan
Allocated (Expressed
Items                                         in Dollar Equivalent)
(1)  Shashe Dam Works                                      6,200,000
(2)  Civil Works, Plant and Works associ-
ated with Trunk Pipelin, excluding
works described in Schedule 4                        1,300,000
(3)  Selebi-Pikwe Water Works                              1,150,000
(4)   Selebi-Pikwe Distribution System                      500,000
(5)  Housing                                                400,000
(6)  Consultant Services                                   1,440,000
(7)  Administration                                         160,000
(8)  Costs of Common Services of
Selebi-Pikwe Township allocable
to the Water Corporation's fixed
assets                                                 100,000
(9)  Unallocated                                           1,000,000
TOTAL         12,250,000
II.  Procurement
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods and services (other than
services of consultants) to be financed out of the proceeds of the Bank Subsidiary
Loan shall be procured on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA


﻿26
Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.    With respect to any contract for (i) civil works estimated to cost $ 100,000
equivalent or more, and (ii) contracts for the supply of equipment estimated to
cost $50,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to pre-qualify, the Water Corporation shall,
before qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in the said procedure as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The list of pre-qualified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
pre-qualification, shall be furnished by the Water Corporation to the Bank for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Water Corporation shall make
such additions or deletions from the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Water Corporation shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications
and other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedure to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification or addition to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Water Corporation
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name
of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Water Corporation's
consultants on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of said consultants, and the reasons for the intended
award. The Bank shall promptly inform the Water Corporation whether it has any
objection to the intended award and shall state the reasons for any objection it
may have.
(d)   If the contract shall be awarded over the Bank's objection or if its
terms and conditions shall, without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be financed out
of the proceeds of the Bank Subsidiary Loan.
(e)   Two copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank promptly
after its execution.


﻿27
2.   With respect to any other contract for civil works or eCquipment, the Water
Corporation shall, promptly after the contract is awarded, furnish to the Bank
two conformed copies of the contract as well as a copy of the record of public
opening of the bids, an analysis of bids by, and the recommendations for award
of, the Water Corporation's consultants. The Bank shall promptly inform the Water
Corporation if it finds that the award of the contract is not consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits and, in such
event, no expenditures under such contract shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Bank Subsidiary Loan.
0


﻿28
SCHEDULE 4
I.    Goods and Services Eligible for Financing under the AID Subsidiary Loan:
Amount of the AID
Subsidiary Loan
Allocated in
Items                                             U.S. Dollars
Trunk pipeline and associated
equipment as described in the
AID Loan Agreement and pipe-
laying                                              6,500,000
TOTAL        6,500,000
I1.  Procurement
Procurement of goods and services shall be in accordance with Article VI
of the AID Loan Agreement.


﻿29
SCHEDULE 5
Allocation of that part of the
Water Subsidiary Loan referred
to in Section 2.01 (a) (iii)
of this Agreement
Amount Allocated
(Expressed in U.S.
Items                                             Dollar Equivalent)
(1)   Administration                                          50,000
(2)   Selebi-Pikwe Distribution System
and Service Reservoir                                  170,000
(3)   Capital Cost of Temporary Water
Facilities allocable to the Water
Corporation's fixed assets                              25,000
(4)   Interest and other charges on the
Water Subsidiary Loan*                                1,955,000
TOTAL         2,200,000
*    Up to December 31, 1974, or the date on which the Water Project begins
commercial operations, if earlier. For this purpose, the Water Project shall
be considered to begin commercial operations on the "Water Delivery Date"
as determined pursuant to the Water Agreement, or such earlier date as may
be mutually agreed by the Government and the Water Corporation from
which the operating income of the Water Project, as defined in Section 7.01
of this Agreement, is sufficient to cover the interest charges under the Water
Subsidiary Loan.


