DOCUENT      OAK MUMEv/,5JM
Loan Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
JAMAICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                           3     , 1982


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     3, 1982, between
JAMAICA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated Feb-
ruary 19, 1982 from the Borrower describing a program of object-
ives, policies and actions designed to achieve a structural
adjustment of the Borrower's economy, declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of that program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgent imports;
(B) the Bank has decided in support of such program to pro-
vide assistance to the Borrower by making the loan as hereinafter
provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions), namely, that Section 2.01 No. 11 shall read: "The
term Project means the activities that may be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Loan Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in


﻿-2-
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 2
(1975);
(b)   "structural adjustment program" means the program of
objectives, policies and actions referred to in the Preamble to
this Agreement;
(c) "Bank of Jamaica" means the Bank of Jamaica established
and operating under the Borrower's Bank of Jamaica Act;
(d)  "Project Account" me,ns the account opened at the Bank
of Jamaica pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement; and
(e)   "Jamaican Dollars" or "J$" means the currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy-six million two hundred thousand dollars ($76,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of imported goods included in such
Schedule.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Upon the award of any contract for goods,
costing the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description
thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom the con-
tract was awarded and the contract price.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Bor-
rower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of the amount of the Loan. The fee shall be
payable  in  such   currency  or  currencies  as   the  Bank  shall
specify. In the event that the Bank shall not have received full
payment of the fee by the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loat Account and pay to
itself the amount required for the full payment of the fee in the
currency or currencies specified for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1983 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.09. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.10. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.11. (a) The Bank of Jamaica is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby delegates to the Bank of Jamaica the authority
for the coordination and collection of relevant documentation,
and the preparation of withdrawal applications, under the Loan;
such withdrawal applications shall, to the extent practicable, be
grouped so that the proceeds of the Loan shall be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in aggregate amounts of not less than $25,000
equivalent.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall open and thereafter
maintain an account (hereinafter called,the Project Account) at
the Bank of Jamaica and shall, upon each withdrawal from the Loan
Account, deposit in said account in accordance with its usual
financial procedures the equivalent in Jamaican dollars of the
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account (such
equivalent to be determined as of the respective date of such
withdrawal). The amounts so deposited in the Project Account
shall be used exclusively to finance the Borrower's expenditures
in its public sector investment program.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank by June 30,
1983, or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree,
all such information ae the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the utilization of the amounts deposited in the Project
Account pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all such action
including the expeditious granting of import licenses as shall be
necessary or convenient to facilitate the timely importation of
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes that adequate pro-
vision shall be made for the insurance of the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of,/ the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transpottation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and that for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the, Bank shall, not later
than August 31, 1982, carry out a review of the progress achieved
in carrying out the structural adjustment program.
Section 3.05. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any


﻿-5-
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall rt apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of pu.chase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, inclu;ing gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution p-rforming the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that records shall
be kept to register all expenditures financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan in accordance with sound accounting practices consis-
tently applied.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall by September 30, 1982
establish a scheme to promote savings and investments by
Jamaicans resident abroad.
(b)   The Borrower shall by December 31, 1982 operate a
security system requiring a force of about 200 rural wardens to
protect crops from theft.


﻿-6-
(c) The Borrower shall by November 30, 1982 review with the
Bank progress made in its sugar rehabilitation program.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that an event has
occurred which shall make it improbable that the structural
adjustment program, or a     significant part thereof, will be
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Te nation
Section 5.01. The date            d 2/ /at        , is hereby
specified for the purposes     f Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston
Jamaica
Cable address:
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Kingston


﻿-7-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
JAMAICA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The goods that may be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be imported items included in SITC Divisions, with the
exception of items described in the groups or subgroups of SITC
listed in paragraph 2 of this Schedule.
2.   (1) No withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract
which a national or international financing institution or any
other agency shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(b)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption;
(c)   expenditures for ite-s in the following groups or
subgroups of SITC:
Group     Subgroup
112          -            Alcoholic beverages
121          -            Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122          -            Tobacco, manufactured
667          -            Pearls, precious and semi-precious
stones, unworked or worked
688          -            Uranium depleted in U235 and thorium,
and their alloys, unwrought or wrought,
and articles therefor, n.e.s.; waste
and scrap of uranium depleted in U235
and of thorium
718        718.7          Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof,
n.ees.
897        897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)


﻿-9-
Group     Subgroup
-         971.0         Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates);
(d)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(e)   expenditures for items included in SITC Section 3
(Minerals, fuels and related materials), in an aggregate amount
exceeding $18,750,000 equivalent;
(f)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(g) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods, or on the importation, manufacture, pro-
curement or supply thereof; and
(h) expenditures for goods procured under invoices for less
than $5,000 equivalent.
(2) No withdrawals shall be made in respect of any expenditures
whatsoever after there has been withdrawn from the Loan Account
an aggregate amount equivalent to $50,000,000 unless and until
the Borrower has first, to the satisfaction of the Bank, com-
pleted, or cause to be completed, all of the actions described in
the Annex hereto attached.


﻿- 10 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Additional Conditions for Withdrawal of Loan proceeds.
1- Public Enterprises: Preparation and approval by the Borrower
of specific programs to enable the Banana Company of Jamaica
Limited, the Jamaica Omnibus Service and the Jamaica Railway
Corporation to become financially self-sufficient so as, in the
first  instance,   to  eliminate  operating  subsidies   from" the
Borrower and, in the second instance, to enable the enterprises
to finance an increasing share of their investment requirements.
2.    National Development Bank: Preparation and adoption by the
National Development Bank of a program of operational policies
and procedures which will allow the National Development Bank to
function as an effecttve lending institution capable of meeting
the term credit needs of the industrial and tourism sectors.
3.    Public Sector Investment Program: Preparaticn by, the Bor-
rower and delivery to the Bank of a public,sector investment pro-
gram for its fiscal years 1983/84 to 1985/86 and progress in the
auditing of the system for monitoring the said program; provision
by the Borrower of sufficient resources to permit the monitoring
system to operate efficiently; and satisfactory progress in
making the system for monitoring the public sector investment
programs operational.
4.   Capital Market Developmer.it Program: Progress by the Borrower
in carrying out a study designed to determine ways and means of
stimulating the availability of risk capital in Jamaica.
5.    Import Licensing System: Satisfactory progress by the Bor-
rower in carrying out a study to analyse the ways of increasing
the efficiency of the import licensing system.
6.   Sale or lease of Government-owned agricultural lands: Satis-
factory progress towards developing a policy for the sale or
lease to agricultural producers of government-owned lands not
required for other purposes.
7.    Control of hillside erosion Satisfactory progress towards
developing a program for soil conservation directed at introduc-
ing methods that are less expensive and are likely to be main-
tained by the farmers. A program to improve the maintenance of
existing cultivation works shall be developed.


﻿- 11 -
8.   Irrigation: Satisfactory progress by the Borrower in devel-
oping an action program designed to increase the efficiency of
water management and to support the gradual establishment of new
irrigation systems in Jamaica.
9.    Land resource inventory: Satisfactory progress in carrying
out a land resource inventory for Jamaica.
10.  Agricultural merketing organizations: Satisfactory progress
in undertaking: (A) management audits of the sugar, banana and
pimento marketing organizations; (B) studies of the non-marketing
activities of all agricultural marketing organizations involved
in export marketing of cocoa, coffee, citrus, pimento, bananas,
sugar and coconuts; and (C) studies of the external marketing
operations of the external marketing organizations for coffee,
citrus, pimento and cocoa so as to make recommendations to
increase the export earnings of the crops concerned, increase the
earnings of growers and provide marketing outlets for the small
producers.
11.   Exports: Satisfactory progress of a study to examine the
implication of a phased institution of tariffs for quantitative
restrictions on selected products and the establishment of an
action program to increase non-traditional exports.
12.  Industry programs: Satisfactory progress in the preparation
of an action program to rationalize the garment, footwear and
construction material industries.
13.    Sugar prices: Increase of the domestic price of -ugar
sufficient to assure that the Borrower's subsidy to the sugar
industry for the crop year 1981/82 will not exceed J$25,000,000.


﻿- 12 -
SCEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1986
through   September 15, 1998               2,930,000
On March 15, 1999                               2,950,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 13 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   2.05%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                          4.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   7.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                  10.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                  11.60%


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to value the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the current
edition of the publication of the Bank entitled "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" dated March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding, subject to the following
modifications:
(a) by the deletion of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines and
the subsitution therefor of the following:
"1.2 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner (see also para. 3.1) of the opportunity to
bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply
for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, prequalify, or
bid, in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the
Borrower's country and by at least one of the following
methods:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication, Deve-
lopment Foruo Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in these Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b)   By the addition at the end of paragraph 2.9 of the
Guidelines of the following:
"As an alternative, bidding documents may require the
bidders to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."


﻿15 -
(c) By the deletion of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of para-
graph 2.10 of the Guidelines and the substitution for sub-
paragraph (a) of the following:
"(a) Payments under the contract will be made in the
currency in which the price has been stated in the success-
ful bid."
(d) By the deletion of the third sub-paragraph of paragraph
3.8 of the Guidelines and the substitution therefor of the fol-
lowing:
"Customs duties and import taxes should be excluded for
the purpose of comparison among bids for the supply of
goods."
(e) By the deletion of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
2.   Goods procured under a contract or purchase order estimated
to cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 each shall be
awarded on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the
purchaser of such gooods.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the delivery to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids and recommendations for award, a description
of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract or purchase order referred to
in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
thereof, any relevant documentation and information the Bank may
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications thereunder.
5.    The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of a con-
tract or documentation received, as the case may be, was not con-
sistent with this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this lAk     day of         198 2.
FOR SECRETARY


