                   Document of
                 The World Bank


                                         Report No: 68337-KG




             RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                      ON A

        PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                      OF
PAYMENTS & BANKING SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
                (CREDIT 3871-KG)

          (APPROVED ON MARCH 16, 2004)


                    TO THE

               KYRGYZ REPUBLIC


                  April 25, 2012
                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

PBSMP   Payment and Banking System Modernization Project
PDOs    Project Development Objectives
NBKR    National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic




            Regional Vice President:      Philippe Le Houerou
                  Country Director:       Saroj Kumar Jha
                     Sector Director      Gerardo Corrochano
                    Sector Manager        Sophie Sirtaine
                 Task Team Leader:        Sylvie K. Bossoutrot
     KYRGYZ REPUBLIC - PAYMENTS & BANKING SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
                                                 P074881
                                            Credit No. 3871-KG

                                            Restructuring Paper


1.   The closing date for the Kyrgyz Republic Payment and Banking System Modernization Project
(PBSMP) will be extended from April 30, 2012 until October 30, 2012.

2.        PBSMP has made substantial progress towards reaching its main objective of developing a
modern integrated national payment system that is accepted and used by the commercial banks and their
clients. The project financed the implementation of three systems under Part A (Payment System
Modernization): the Bulk Clearing System (introduced in October 2006), the Real Time Gross Settlement
System (introduced in June 2008) and the Inter-Bank Card Processing Center (operational since
December 2006). The project has exceeded its end-of-project targets for the PDO indicators for these
systems. While disbursements under these three systems have been completed, the overall disbursement
level is low (63%) due to long-term delays with procurement of the General Ledger for the National Bank
of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBKR) under Part B (General Ledger System) and due to some savings under
other Parts of the project. The Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Implementation Progress are
rated Moderately Satisfactory in the last Implementation Status Report.

3.       The proposed extension is necessary to allow sufficient time to complete the last ongoing project
activity - implementing the IT system for the General Ledger of the NBKR. The General Ledger is
technically complex, and its procurement proved difficult. Three separate bids were tendered between
2008 and 2011. The third attempt led to the selection of a contractor in August 2011, nine months later
than anticipated in the previous extension request. Contract completion was scheduled for August 2012.
The NBKR hoped to accelerate the contract implementation with a view to complete the project-financed
portion prior to the project closing date of April 30, 2012, but by November 2011 it became clear that the
contract implementation timetable could not be compressed. The new General Ledger System will play a
critical role in the orderly functioning of the country’s payments infrastructure. Project funding is
required to continue smooth contract implementation, which is in the most critical phase in April. NBKR
does not have available allocated budget funds to finance the remaining portion of the contract on its own.

4.      This will be the third extension of the project. The PDOs continue to be achievable with regards
to the payment system reform.1 The performance of the Borrower and NBKR has been satisfactory, as
explained above, based on the successful upgrade of the other payment system elements and smooth
implementation of the General Ledger contract once the complex procurement was completed. The
NBKR has prepared a specific action plan acceptable to the Bank to monitor the implementation of the
General Ledger contract. The financial arrangements for the project, although rated moderately
satisfactory in the latest Implementation Status Report, have been improved by the NBKR and
upgraded to satisfactory during the latest financial management supervision mission.



1
 A first level restructuring is being processed simultaneously to cancel funds for the banking sector reform due to
procurement delays and availability of funds outside the project and to remove the second element of the PDO
related to assisting the Borrower in the banking sector reform.
