Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               5
Report No. 1782a-AF
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AFGHANISTAN
FPUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
February 21, 1978
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture III
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Afghani (Af)
US$1 = Afs 47.5 /1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 man                                       4 kg
. 1 seer                                      7.66 kg
While the metric equivalents of man and seer vary among regions the above values
are those most commonly used.
1 beswa                                     0.05 jerib
1 jerib                                     0.2 ha
1 ha                                        2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AgBank - Agricultural Development Bank of Afghanistan
AMSCO  - Agricultural Machinery and Services Company
ARI    - Afghan Raisin Institute
ASC    - Afghan Seed Company
AVEC   - Afghan Vegetable Export Company
DAB    - Da Afghanistan Bank
EPB    - Export Promotion Bank
FAO    - Food and Agriculture Organization
GOA    - Government of Afghanistan
IDA    - International Development Association
IDBA   - Industrial Development Bank of Afghanistan
PACCA  - Project on Agricultural Cooperatives and Credit
in Afghanistan
PCU    - Project Coordinating Unit
SIDA   - Swedish International Development Authority
UNCTAD - United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UNDP   - United Nations Development Program
FISCAL AND CALENDAR YEAR
March 21 to March 20
/1 This was the GOA supported rate at the time of field appraisal and the GOA
indicated that this would be the lower limit to the long term rate which it
would support despite a possible short term decline to US$1 = Afs 44 which
has occurred.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   SECTOR  .....        ........................................           1
A.   Structure of Agriculture ......................                   1
B.   Organization and Supporting Services ..........                   2
C.   Policies and Prospects ........................                   3
D.   Performance under Previous Projects            ...........        4
E.   The Horticultural Subsector ....           ...............        5
II.   THE PROJECT ........................................                    9
III.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING .........................                   12
IV.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ................                  17
A.   General ...      ..................... ...... ..........         17
B.   Export Promotion Unit .....          ....................        18
C.   Export Promotion Bank .....          ....................        19
D.   AgBank .       ..............                                    25
E.   Afghan Raisin Institute .......................                  27
F.   Afghan Seed Company .....         ......................         30
G.   Afghan Vegetable Export Company .............        ..          32
H.   Ministry of Agriculture .......................                  34
I.   Auditing Requirements .....         ....................         34
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .....         ......................            35
A.   Procurement ...................                                  35
B.   Disbursement ................                                    37
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation                    .                   38
D.   Environmental Impact .....          .....................        39
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ......... ........                  39
A.   Production, Markets and Prices ....           ............       39
B.   Financial Analysis ............................                  41
C.   Economic Evaluation ...........................                  43
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .................... ................                  47
This report consists of the findings of an appraisal mission of Messrs.
R. Hunt, R. Hing and H. Eisa (IDA) and Messrs. H. Nyberg and E. Shoreibah
(Consultants) which visited Afghanistan in June 1977 for about 3 weeks. Mr.
Y. Suzuki (Y.P. IDA) assisted in the analysis and drafting of the report.
This documcnt has a rtricted distrlbution and may be mud by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutia. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.   Financial Intermediaries
Export Promotion Bank - Background, Sources of Funds, Operations Review,
Additional Financing Required, Institution Building, Portfolio Analysis,
Required Undertakings, Interest Rate Spread.
Chart 1 - Export Promotion Bank - Outline Proposed Organization Chart
Table I - Export Promotion Bank - Profit and Loss Statement
Table 2 - Export Promotion Bank - Balance Sheet
Table 3 - Export Promotion Bank - Projected Receipts and Applications
of Funds
Table 4 - Export Promotion Bank - Disbursement and Repayment Schedule
Table 5 - AgBank - Projected Receipt and Application of Funds and
Disbursement and Repayment Schedule
2.   Financial and Economic Analysis
Raisin Marketing Credit Program
Table 1 - Afghan Raisin Institute - Projected Cash Flow
Table 2 - Afghan Seed Company - Vegetable Seed Multiplication - Projected
Cash Flow
Table 3 - Afghan Seed Company - Fruit Rootstock and Seedling Production -
Projected Cash Flow
Table 4 - Afghan Vegetable Export Company - Projected Cash Flow
Table 5 - Fresh Fruit Packing and Cooling Plant - Projected Cash Flow
Table 6 - Refrigerated Truck Transportation - Projected Cash Flow
Table 7 - Grape/Raisin Production - Existing 1 jerib Vineyard Trellised
in year 9 - Projected Incremental Cash Flow
Table 8 - Grape/Raisin Production - New and Replacement 1 jerib Trellised
Vineyard - Projected Cash Flow
Table 9 - Onion and Potato Production - Operating Costs and Revenue
Economic Analysis - General Considerations - Exchange Rate, Output and
Input Prices. Economic Rate of Return.
Table 10 - Economic Rate of Return Analysis Summary
Table 11 - Economic Rate of Return - Projected Cash Flow by Component and
Total
3.   Technical Assistance
Table 1 - Technical Assistance and Training by Component and Year
Chart 1 - Phasing of Technical Assistance and Training AVEC Organization
AVEC Organization
4.   Chart 1 - Outline Organization of the Afghan Vegetable Export Company
5.   Project Files Table of Contents
A.   Implementation File
B.   Background File
MAP
IBRD 13175 Afghanistan - General



I. SECTOR 1/
A. Structure of Agriculture
1.01      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Afghan economy.  It is
estimated to account for 50% of GNP, about 55% of the settled labor force and
about 60% of total export earnings. This contribution to the economy has been
stable for some years indicating that growth in agricultural production remains
in line with overall annual growth in the economy at about 3%. Afghanistan's
remote landlocked mountainous location is responsible for its relative under-
development and continues to act as a major constraint. Extremes of climate
due to the continental location and topographic features have created an
uneven pocket type dispersion of the rural population. Reliance on winter
precipitation for crop irrigation, combined with the topographic extremes,
limits expansion of cultivated area despite capital intensive irrigation
developments. The net result is that only an estimated 13% of the land is
arable; of which, due to lack of water, only 50% is cultivated.
Cropping Pattern, Yields and Inputs
1.02      The cropping pattern is virtually unchanged over the last 15 years
with wheat occupying 60% of cropped land. Non-food crops, of which cotton is
the most important, did show a steady expansion in output up to 1975/76 but
now show some tendency to level off. Since cotton is a substantial foreign
exchange earner it is likely that the GOA will further increase the cotton/
wheat price ratio in the future to offset such a decline. The substantial
area of non-irrigated and partially irrigated land and the need for self-
reliance together with the lack of commercial alternatives, both born out of
lack of market access, are largely responsible for this overall stationary
pattern. With gradual increase in irrigated area and the development of a
cash economy, there are indications of change to cropping patterns which
relative output prices would indicate as more optimal.
1.03      Yields are low by most standards, but experiments demonstrate them
capable of substantial improvement in an economically and financially viable
manner. The traditional, isolated barter system is only now giving way to
a more modern structure. Hence the development of the input market is still
in its infancy and input levels are far below those of most other developing
countries. Thus growth in yields has been slow and confined mainly to wheat.
Income Distribution
1.04      In the absence of significant metropolitan areas, income distribution
is largely constrained by tenancy, holding size and access to irrigation, as
cropping pattern is constant. Farm incomes are low and on 1.5 to 3 ha irri-
gated farms would seldom exceed Afs 5,000 (US$100) per capita; about 50% of
1/   For an in-depth review see Afghanistan Opportunities for Agricultural
and Rural Development Sector Report Vols. I and II, World Bank Report
No. 848a-AF, November 1975.



- 2 -
the rural population is estimated to be below the absolute poverty level of
US$89 per capita. While the average holding size is about 3.5 ha of arable
land, ownership is skewed in most areas. Although data is not available it
is believed that sharecropping is the dominant form of cultivation and a
large proportion of the non-nomadic rural population consists of landless
labor or sharecroppers. Recently enacted legislation sets limits on land
ownership and a Graduated Land Tax requires all land holders to submit tax
declarations. No water charges are levied in traditional irrigation schemes,
and an effort is being made under the Khanabad I Irrigation Project (Credit
248-AF) and the proposed Khanabad II Irrigation Project to initiate the con-
cept of a water charge taking into consideration equity and water use effi-
ciency criteria.
B. Organization and Supporting Services
Government Departments
1.05      The Ministry of Agriculture is the main administrator of agricultural
development, but its performance in influencing agricultural development has
been limited by a number of inter-related factors, including insufficient
funds, unsatisfactory administrative framework and lack of trained staff. The
Research Department within the Ministry has been of limited effectiveness and
receives low priority. Agricultural extension is the responsibility of the
Department of Extension which has a total staff of about 2,600 (including
nearly 140 college graduates), most lacking agricultural or vocational train-
ing. The extension service is inadequate to meet the wide and pressing needs
of agriculture and its upgrading is a major need. In view of the severe short-
age of vocationally trained people, an IDA financed education project (Credit
674-AF) has been launched recently which would train middle level personnel in
agriculture. The recently constituted Water and Power Ministry (WAPM) offers
the possibility of more efficient utilization of the nation's scarce water
resources, including the planning, design and implementation of irrigation
projects. The Rural Development Department within the Prime Minister's Office
is responsible for the implementation of minor irrigation projects. The Food
Procurement Department of the Ministry of Finance has responsibility for carry-
ing out the Government's wheat price stabilization policy. Since 1968 the
Swedish International Development Authority has been financing a project which
is executed by FAO, on agricultural credit and cooperatives. In 1973 this
pilot project was changed to a nationwide cooperative program and a coopera-
tive law was enacted in November 1974. The biggest weaknesses in the current
cooperative structure are the absence of trained personnel and a lack of member
understanding and participation.
Marketing and Credit
1.06      The traditional bazaar combines the functions of both a wholesale
and a retail market. It operates with only limited Government interference,
and at present generally meets the needs of the volume and pattern of agri-
cultural production. Government fixes prices for certain commodities (cotton



- 3 -
and sugar beet) which are marketed directly with the processing companies, and
has indirect influence on commodity price levels through import and export
policy, wheat purchases, and pricing of fertilizer and other inputs. Since
1973, Government's pricing policy has aimed mainly at keeping domestic food
prices stable; imports and exports are made on both a free trade and barter
basis and are handled by Government organizations and private traders mainly
through the Ministry of Commerce. The majority of farmers rely on money-
lenders for short term loans, for which they pay very high finance charges.
Commercial banks provide limited short term financing for processing and
marketing, particularly for export. The Agricultural Development Bank of
Afghanistan (AgBank), which has received 3 IDA credits so far, is virtually
the only source of insitutional credit for agriculture, but because of staff
constraints and loan security requirements, credits made by it so far cover
only about 5% of farmers.
Farm Inputs and Machinery
1.07      The use of inputs such as fertilizer and agro-chemicals is low,
although the use of fertilizer has doubled since the formation of the Afghan
Fertilizer Company (AFC) in 1973. The multiplication of improved seed
(cereals and cotton) will be carried out by the newly established Afghan
Seed Company (ASC), which is being assisted by an Asian Development Bank
(ADB) loan.  Due to high demand for labor from neighboring oil producing
countries, a rural labor shortage is developing in certain areas. This
situation is further aggravating the prevalent critical seasonal labor
shortages during peak demand periods, such as harvesting of wheat, planting
of second crops (June-July) and cotton harvesting in the fall which coin-
cides with wheat planting. Under these circumstances, the process of farm
mechanization is likely to grow, and in general, would be economically and
socially justified. However on owner operated holdings, where labor supply
is not a problem, returns to labor and land are low, and the proposed proj-
ect is designed to improve these returns.
C. Policies and Prospects
The 7 Year Plan
1.08      The 7 Year Plan (1976-83) I/ lists increased output income, earnings
and capital formation in agriculture as well as a more even distribution of
agricultural income as its main objectives, all of which are in agreement with
Bank policy. The Plan indicates that 25% of total developmental expenditure
or Afs 43 billion (US$900 million) would be allocated to investment in the
agricultural sector during the 7 year period.   Strategies to achieve increased
1/   Government of the Republic of Afghanistan.  First Seven Year Economic and
Social Development Plan 1355-1361 (March 1976-March 1983), Vols. I and II.
Ministry of Planning, Kabul, 1355.



- 4 -
output are based on increasing and improving cultivated land, seed, fertilizer,
pesticides and credit. The production aims are based on the principles of
comparative advantage; but, aims such as the target of over 200% increase in
sugar production give more weight to the practice of import substitution.
The fact that this will reduce wheat cultivation ig an improvement in resource
allocation. Although the final quantitative targets seem ambitious in view of
past performance, the Plan presents a reasoned attempt at planning for agricul-
tural development in a situation where data is scarce and unreliable.
1.09      The general strategy for achieving these targets is based largely
on public investment and pricing policies. Thus, for example, investment in
improved seed production and marketing by ASC, and extension training programs,
are to increase grain yields by 28%; while altering relative output prices
will cause a 4% decline in grain area giving a 24% net increase in production.
Increased investment will be financed principally by increased application
and collection of graduated land taxes. Notably absent from the Plan is
any significant role for private investment. Whereas public investment is
expected to grow by about 300% over the Plan period, similar growth projected
for private investment is only 30%. Nonetheless, private and corporate
taxes are projected to increase by 360% and 280% respectively. This lack of
capitalization on the well recognized entrepreneurial ability of the Afghan
private businessman, together with the disincentive of the projected tax
burden, would appear to be a substantial drawback to achievement of the
overall Plan targets. Administrative inabilities of government employees
coupled with the lack of a salary incentive system are likely to cause a
slower and less efficient implementation of the public investment targets
than foreseen by the Plan.
D. Performance under Previous Projects
1.10      In the agricultural sector, IDA has already financed 3 credit, 2
livestock and I irrigation projects. A second irrigation project is being
processed. The continuum of these credit and livestock projects has shown a
progressive improvement in implementation. In each case a substantial insti-
tution building program has been involved and is under implementation. This
reasonably successful experience of developing administrative capabilities
among Afghan institutions validates IDA's policy in Afghanistan of concen-
trating technical assistance in key institutions.
1.11      The Agricultural Credit I Project (202-AF) was successfully completed
by the AgBank and yielded an overall economic rate of return of 46%. One com-
ponent, the Minor Irrigation Schemes, although conceptually sound proved to be
premature in the Afghan context, relying as it did on an unrealizable amount
of interministerial and inter-community cooperation and goodwill. AgBank
developed under the first credit project was further strengthened under the
Agricultural Credit II Project (539-AF), which omitted the irrigation com-
ponent, but introduced short term lending in agriculture to Afghanistan with
notable success in promoting the use of fertilizer and increasing storage
capacity of the Afghan Fertilizer Company, another basic institution.



1.12      The Livestock I and II Projects (375-AF and 649-AF) are responsible
for the promotion of livestock production and export in Western Afghanistan
including the development of range production systems, producer and export
marketing systems and the construction of a modern slaughterhouse to meet
international export standards. The establishment and development of the
Herat Livestock Development Corporation, which is responsible for all com-
mercial aspects of the project, was again a major step forward in the building
of Afghan institutions. Progress, initially slow due to problems of satis-
factory subloan collateral and co-financing in the first project, is now
satisfactory in both livestock projects.
1.13      The Khanabad I Irrigation Project (248-AF) provides for moderniza-
tion of an existing irrigation system in the Khanabad valley covering about
30,000 ha. Delays, initially in the ratification of the project by Govern-
ment, and subsequently in establishing the Project Authority, recruitment of
its staff and appointment of project consultants, caused substantial setbacks
to its implementation. The amended credit agreement increased IDA's contri-
bution from US$5 million to US$15 million to meet cost overruns. Construc-
tion began in early 1976 and is now well advanced. Project completion is
expected by the end of 1978. This project also developed another institution
in Afghanistan, Khanabad Irrigation Project Department (KIP), which will be
used by the proposed Khanabad II Project.
E. The Horticultural Subsector
1.14      Because of the nature in which the horticultural subsector is
integrated with the rest of the agricultural sector, it is not possible to
separate its contribution distinctly. However, it is estimated that fruit and
vegetables account for about 6% of the total cultivated area, 10% of irrigated
land and about 10 to 15% of permanently irrigated land. Fresh and dried
fruits, nuts and medicinal herbs make up 40-45% of total exports. Because of
drought induced scarcities in 2 consecutive years, exports of fresh vegetables
have been completely embargoed for the past 5 years; this appears to have
reduced production in the Western and South Western Provinces, defeating the
aim of the embargo. Due to their relatively high labor intensity, both fruits
and vegetables do provide substantial employment within the sector, and any
reduction is likely to bias income distribution against small holders.
Production Constraints
1.15      Low yields and very slow growth in productivity are the principal
constraints. The area under fruit and vegetables has remained quite constant
despite the superior financial returns to these crops. A number of factors
appear responsible for this; principally the lack of market access, particu-
larly for fresh produce. This has the effect of negating the potentially
higher returns to horticultural production and causing the actual returns to
alternative crops to favor wheat in many years. Sharecropper and tenant
farmer access to irrigated land, unequal distribution of water rights and
uncertain availability of irrigation water during the summer also have an



-6-
effect but more marginally so. The continued preoccupation of the farmers
with wheat production is also a factor, due to the need of the producers
to ensure adequate quantities of storable food for their families over the
lengthy and harsh winter period. Government is now planning expansion and
improvement of the public food storage and distribution facilities to reduce
the individual's burden in this respect.
1.16      Another significant factor adversely affecting the production of
grapes is the virtual absence of trellised vineyards. Presently trellising
can be found only in the Parwan region, where a few farmers have adopted
it in growing bush variety grapes. Trellising first began after the Ministry
of Agriculture demonstrated its value through the SIDA supported, FAO-executed
PACCA Project. These farmers are unanimously in favor of trellising and
have benefitted by obtaining 3 to 5 times the yield of non-trellised vines.
The traditional (non-trellised) system of vineyard production is highly labor
intensive and can only be justified if labor is shadow priced at an extremely
low rate. Such pricing may well have been valid in the past but continued
and consistent indications are that it is no longer so. Estimates indicate
that the financial rate of return to such investment, with labor priced
at actual hiring rates, range from 6% down to -7% depending on the region.
By comparison the financial rate of return of trellised vineyards is esti-
mated at 17%. Given the significance of the grape/raisin industry to the
Afghan economy this suggests that almost any effort to encourage trellising
is worthwhile.
1.17      The low yields and slow growth in productivity are also due to the
general low level of fertilizer use, poor quality of other inputs used, a poor
extension service and poor management ability. Some of these factors are
virtually unrecognized in Afghanistan, such as the need for pest controls and
the use of trace elements. Others, such as the quality of vegetable seed or
fruit or vine rootstock, the lack of adequate extension effort and poor
management, are individually recognized but neither the extent of the deficit
nor the need for an optimum input balance is perceived by farmers or extension
workers.
1.18      Access to institutional credit is a major reason for the low level
of inputs in horticulture. It is believed that most of the horticulturally
cropped land is operated by sharecroppers and tenant farmers whose only
sources of credit are the private money-lenders, who charge 25 to 30% interest
for short term credit. Much of this credit is applied in the form of poor
quality inputs, and thus the outlook for improving productivity is not good.
Although AgBank is responsible for supplying credit to the agricultural
sector, the present types of collateral (principally land titles or joint
liabilities through a cooperative or group) together with the lack of devel-
opment of the cooperative system almost totally prevent it from extending any
credit to sharecroppers and tenant farmers.
Horticulture and the 7 Year Plan
1.19      In the 7 Year Plan, fruit production is seen as of significant
importance, particularly in earning foreign exchange, and also as a basis for
future processing industries. The Plan targets call for an annual increase of



7
4.2% in fruit production which compares with an annual growth of 0.8% in the
previous 7 year period. The projected annual growth of 2.9% in the yield is
very high when compared with the annual rate of 0.25% actually achieved in the
pzevious 7 years. Grape production projections of yield (3.5% p.a. versus
1.3% p.a.) and output (4.7% versus 1.3% p.a.) are similarly ambitious. The
past 7 year period's high export growth rate of 9% p.a. was at the expense of
a decline in the per capita domestic consumption. The implied projected per
capita consumption increase of 1.5% p.a. appears reasonable, but if achieved
may result in a reduction in the grape/raisin export availabilities as the
high yield projections appear impossible to realize in the Afghan context.
The proposed project will assist in moving towards the Plan's goals, but is
unlikely to overcome the lack of realism. The 7 Year Plan's targets for
vegetable production, calling for increases of 3.9% p.a. in area, 2.1% p.a.
in yield and 7.0% p.a. in total output, seem more reasonable than for fruit.
But, taking the past 7 year period's annual growth of 0.3% in area, 1.2%
in yield and 1.4% in total output, together with the production constraints
outlined, the targets still appear somewhat optimistic. Since export of
vegetables is not explicitly foreseen in the Plan, the implied projected per
capita consumption increase is 4.5% p.a. But, this would require a per capita
real income increase of 8% p.a., or a reduction in price which would, of
course, affect output. Any vegetable exports would require the removal of
the export embargo.
1.20      The general conclusions are that:  (a) for fruit production, substan-
tial investment and effort will be necessary to maintain exports at their
present level without any curtailment in domestic consumption; (b) for fruit,
the 7 Year Plan targets are unlikely to be realized, but in order to generate
increased export volume and quality and thus earnings, additional investment
and effort in inputs and production, and improved processing should be under-
taken immediately; and (c) for vegetables, the Plan targets are achievable if
the necessary investment and effort is made, an exporting system is rapidly
developed and access to export markets is permitted.
Marketing Problems
1.21      Preliminary estimates of the absorptive capacity of Afghan fruit
export markets indicate that this is not a limiting factor to expansion.
Existing export levels fail to fulfill agreed quotas negotiated in trade
agreements. But many of the institutional arrangements established under
bilateral trade agreements are inhibitory. The major problems are the delay
in payment and the unilateral adjustment of prices by the importer (mainly by
the USSR). These cause Afghan traders to market domestically, where returns
are faster. Also the allocation of the bulk of export quotas to private
traders, as opposed to fruit cooperatives, has resulted in raisin production
remaining unsold during periods of surplus production. 1/ The wide variation
in quality due to lack of grading and the poor quality of packaging, if any
packaging at all, are also very significant limiting factors. The continued
1/   Discussed in detail in Horticultural Subsector Survey - Afghanistan,
Vols. I and II, World Bank Report No. 1324-AF, May 1977, page 61,
para 8.19



- 8 -
appreciation of the Afghan currency is also an influencing factor. Many of
the trade agreements are now due for renewal and the authorities should take
this opportunity to reduce payment times and arrange for final price deter-
mination before the goods leave the country. The authorities must also
provide access to export markets for vegetables, and give further considera-
tion to the exchange rate issue.
1.22      Grading, processing and packaging of Afghan fruit for export
is sparse and inferior. The income tax system is such as to cause discoura-
gement to private investment in fixed assets and is considered to be sub-
stantially responsible for the low level of value added to fruit exports. The
discouraging private investment climate has also affected the storage and
transportation system, which, although presently adequate in volume capacity,
is poor in terms of reliability and quality. Since no refrigerated transport
or storage now exists, the volume and quality of fresh produce exports is
restricted and the ability to manage the market is almost non-existent. At
present the Government is actively involved in establishing joint ventures
with international firms (Western European and USSR) to provide improved truck
transport for exporters, involving protocols to reduce the tax difficulties.
However, there is need for rationalization of the entire income tax system
to provide (i) a climate which will encourage investment, particularly in
grading, processing and packaging; and (ii) a broader tax base to offset any
loss in tax revenue.
1.23      Substantial policy changes, some of which are developing, are
required in the sector in order to generate a more optimum use and more
equitable distribution of resources 1/ and a number of programs need to be
initiated or further developed and strengthened in order to promote the neces-
sary changes. Land reform legislations have opened the way for restructuring
farm size and ownership but a more active implementation program still remains
necessary to permit redistribution. In combination with needed horticultural
extension and education programs, such improvements would lead to more optimum
land use and increased crop productivity. At present, virtually no extension
expertise is available in horticulture and there is no legal basis for uti-
lizing security instruments other than land title mortgages. Legal reform in
the areas of crop and chattel mortgages are outstanding needs to facilitate
the use of short term credit. More rapid progress is required in the on-going
cadastral survey program as assignment of land titles subsequent to such
survey would extend credit access to a large number of farmers. Selective
development of the cooperative system to provide sharecroppers with access
to credit is also necessary for improving aggregate productivity in horti-
culture.
1.24      With the exception of the collateral issue, these policies are
addressed and advocated in the 7 Year Plan and specific targets are set out.
1/   These are treated in some detail in World Bank Report No. 1324-AF, Horti-
cultural Subsector, Afghanistan, Vols. I and II, May 1977 and World Bank
Report No. 848a-AF, Afghanistan, Opportunities for Agricultural and
Rural Development Sector Report, Vol I and II, November 1975.



- 9 -
But definite programs, designed to achieve these objectives, have not been
spelled out. The emergence of a gradual but steady development of these
policies and programs is necessary, as soon as adequate investment is avail-
able to capitalize on the increased production capability. Such programs
would supply the necessary market access for this increased output.
II. THE PROJECT
Objectives
2.01      The main objectives of the project are to:  (a) provide new, and
improve and expand existing marketing channels for the export of raisins,
vegetable seeds and fresh vegetables; (b) increase production of grapes and
vegetables, and raise labor productivity; and (c) develop operational capabili-
ties in the project related institutions.
Project Components
2.02      The project would consist of seven components:  (i) Raisin Market-.
(ii) Vegetable Seed Multiplication and Fruit Rootstock Production; (iii) Veg::
table Exports; (iv) Agroindustries Credit; (v) On-farm Credit; (vi) Marketinr
credit; and (vii) Technical Assistance and Training.  These components are
cribed below. Investment financing would be channeled through 2 specialized
banks, one for agroindustries and raisin marketing and one for on-farm credi)
Implementation of the noncredit components would be by specialized Government
controlled commercial institutions while the credit components would be under
taken by private investors. Monitoring and evaluation would be in the hands
of the Agroindustries Export Promotion Unit (EPU) located in the Ministry of
Commerce.
2.03      Raisin Marketing.  The existing Afghan Raisin Export Promotion Ins
tute would be expanded and reorganized as the Afghan Raisin Institute (ARI)
under the project to extend marketing services to producers and improve its
existing services to processors and exporters. A quality control department
would be added in the ARI to promote improved quality at the farm level and
the processing plants through implementation of approved grading standards ar
each level. Laboratory equipment necessary for implementing these standards
would be provided under the project. Eight storage plants with a total
capacity of 22,000 tons would be constructed at suitable locations, within
the grape producing areas, which would incorporate precleaning, grading and
storage facilities. Attached to these storage plants would be 4 small vine-
yards of about 0.8 ha each, which would be taken on lease by ARI from private
farmers and would be developed and operated to demonstrate and promote quality
improvement techniques including trellising, pruning, harvesting, drying and
packing.
2.04      These stores and vineyards would be the center point of the ARI
implemented program to improve raisin quality at the farm level. The stores
would also become marketing points for raisins produced by farmers. Pricing
of raisins would be based on professional grading. Storage and marketing



- 10 -
credits, and a market information service would be available to the producers
as incentives to participate. A market information and promotion service
would also be made available to traders at the export level. Technical assis-
tance and training would be furnished for on-farm quality control, storage,
processing and export quality control as well as marketing and accounting and
in developing farm and export: level grading and certification systems.
2.05      Vegetable Seed Multiplication and Fruit Rootstock Production.  The
project would provide facilities, equipment and technology to produce (a) vege-
table seeds, and (b) vine and fruit tree rootstocks. Production of vegetable
seeds 1/ would be mainly undertaken for export through contractual arrangements
between the existing Afghan Seed Company (ASC) and an international seed com-
pany, who would supply the imported foundation seed and possibly the necessary
technical expertise. The latter would undertake to accept the multiplied seed
for international sales through its own marketing organization. Due to small
domestic demand with perhaps the exception of onion seed, the project does not
envisage production for domestic use in the near future. Nonetheless, the
project would provide the production technology to meet future domestic demand.
ASC has a legal monopoly on the production of all seed in Afghanistan, and has
recently received a loan from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) to support wheat
and cotton seed production and marketing. The activities of this project com-
ponent would compliment ACS'sE crop rotations under the ADB wheat and cotton
seed project. A number of reputable seed firms have expressed interest in the
component. Two of these have actually visited Afghanistan in connection with
the component and are now reviewing it internally. Both the Government and
the ASC have been encouraged to enter contractual arrangements with a suitable
firm as soon as possible.
2.06      The project would also finance a greenhouse, laboratory and farm
equipment, and technology for production of seedlings and rootstocks, mainly
for vines but also for some stone and pome fruits. ASC would also be respon-
sible for this component and would work very closely with the Ministry of
Agriculture, and the Agricultural Faculty of Kabul University. It would liaise
with these institutions to remain abreast of varietal developments in their
research and trial programs, and avoid duplication of research efforts. Con-
centration would be on the production of vine seedlings because of the need
to meet the projected expansiona in vineyards.
2.07      Vegetable Export.  Under the project, a new company, the Afghan Vege-
table Export Company (AVEC), would be established in Herat to export vegetables
to neighbouring countries, principally to Iran. Initially it would export
potatoes and onions, due to their low perishability, but later could expand
its business to cover higher valued and more perishable vegetables. The com-
pany would let out contracts for the production of 5,000 tons of potatoes and
onions among local farmers artd would also produce crops on its own farm of
about 500 jeribs (100 ha), which would be established in the Herat area as a
part of the project. This faLrn would ensure a minimum supply to permit con-
tinuous operation year round, permit rapid start up and ensure some supplies
1/   Beans, Onions, Eggplants, Tomatoes, Lettuce, Brassicas, Melons, Cucumbers
and Carrots.



- 1J. -
to meet export market contracts. The project would provide (a) equipment for
handling, washing, grading and packing the vegetables for export, (b) two
suitably insulated, temperature modified stores-of 2,000 tons capacity each,
where vegetables could be stored to permit flexibility in marketing, (c) a
small cold room for seed potatoes, and (d) two insulated 10 ton trucks for
transporting vegetables to the export markets. However the majority of the
export transportation would be carried out by rented trucks, of which there
is an adequate supply for dry cargo including potatoes and onions.
2.08      Construction of 2 deep wells equipped with pumps and associated
water distribution networks is also included in the project for providing
irrigation to the land to be cultivated by AVEC. Necessary farm equipment
would also be provided by the project.
2.09      Agroindustries Credit.  The project would make available through
the Export Promotion Bank (EPB) a line of credit to assist in the develop-
ment of horticulturally related agroindustries. This credit is expected to
be taken up by 3 fresh fruit grading and packing plants with cold stores,
and 5 articulated type refrigerated trucks of about 20 ton capacity. These
plants are likely to be located around Kandahar, an area of extensive fruit
production, adjacent to the traditional export markets in India and Pakistan.
Much interest 4±n this type of investment has been shown by the local traders
in Kandahar.
2.10      On-Farm Credit.  Medium and long term credit would be provided to
farmers, through AgBank, to facilitate on-farm investment, primarily in
trellising about 900 ha of vineyards. Investment would cover poles, wire,
pruning shears and drying mats and installation charges for trellising of
about 300 ha of existing vineyards. For new vineyards, in addition to the
above items, credit would also be provided for boundary walls, seedlings,
wheel barrows, drying mats and initial fertilizer and manure requirements.
2.11      Despite promotional efforts supported by other international agen-
cies, trellising is not widely practised in Afghanistan. Trellising has many
advantages including increased yields and reduced operating costs 1/ but the
investment costs are relatively high 2/. The past promotional efforts appear
to have now developed a significant interest in trellising among farmers ex-
posed to it. Consequently the time is considered ripe to develop a concen-
trated effort to introduce the practice through an integrated credit and
promotion program, which includes an added incentive of assistance in meeting
the initial investment cost through a Government subsidy amounting to 30% of
cost of poles and wire. Investment is mainly restricted to new vineyards due
to the cost of levelling the 2-3 metre high earthen banks of the traditional
system. However, existing bush type vineyards would be trellised as well.
2.12      A line of short term credit would also be provided, through AgBank,
to those local farmers, who are under contract to AVEC for production of
1/   Yield increases of 300-500% and Operating Cost Reductions of 10-15% over
the best alternative system.
2/   2.5 times that of the best alternative system.



- 12 -
potatoes and onions (para 2.07). It would include their requirements for
working capital for seed, fertilizer and pesticides.
2.13      Marketing Credit.  Under the project EPB would extend a line of
short term credit to farmers producing raisins, which would enable them to
phase the marketing of their production rather than having to dump their crop
on the market at harvest time by meeting their cash needs. This would be
arranged through the ARI storage plants and would be restricted to raisins
which have been cleaned and graded through ARI facilities and which are stored
in the ARI stores.
2.14      Technical Assistance and Training.  In order to assist in the imple-
mentation of above components, the project would provide technical assistance
to the concerned institutions by furnishing experienced specialists and would
also arrange to train local personnel in project related disciplines. A total
of 674 manmonths of technical assistance and 159 manmonths of training fellow-
ships and study tours are provided.  Details are summarized in the table below;
further breakdown is in Annex 3, Table 1.
Technical
Component                                     Assistance     Training
------ manmonths ------
Raisin Marketing                                  168             87
Vegetable Seed and Rootstock Production           168             30
Vegetable Export                                  170              -
Export Promotion Bank                             144             42
Agroindustries Export Promotion Unit
(Min. Com.)                                     24
Total                                           674            159
All overseas training programs would be completed by December 31, 1980 to en-
hance the rapid transfer of responsibilities from the expatriate to the Afghan
staff. This large component is considered necessary to meet the institution
building needs of the seven separate and completely independent project imple-
menting entities.
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Project Cost
3.01      The total Project cost is estimated at about Afs 1,311 million
(US$27.6 million) of which the foreign exchange component is estimated at
about Afs 711 million (US$15.0 million) or 54% of total cost. Since no cus-
toms duties are levied on IDA-financed imports, and other local taxes are
insignificant, the cost estimate, which is summarized below is net of duties
and taxes:



-13-
PROJECT COST
Local    Foreign    Total          Local    Foreign    Total         Foreign
CONPONENT                    --------- Afs'000 ----------        -_------- US$'000 ---------        Exchange
I. Afghan Raisin Institute
Storage Plants                         90,791   120,352   211,143           1,911      2,534    4,445           57
Laboratory Equipment                      -        1,187      1,187           -           25        25         100
Quality Control Program                    792     9,112    9.904               17       192       209          92
Subtotal                         91,583   130,651   222,234           1,928     2,751    4,679
II. Afghan Seed Company
a. Vegetable Seed Multiplic.
Buildings                            6,294      4,945    11,239            133        104       237         44
Machinery                             -        31,270    31,270            -          658       658         100
Vehicles and Office Equip.             503      7,879      8.382            11        166       177          94
Subtotal                          6,797    44,094    50,891             144        928    1,072
b. Fruit Rootstock Production
Buildings                              603      1,717      2,320            13         36        49         74
Machinery                              -        3,504      3,504                       74        74         100
Vehicles and Office Equip.             203      1493       1,696             4         32        36          88
Subtotal                            806      6,714     7,520             T7        142      159
III. Afghan Vegetable Export Company
Land, deen welts and pumps             12,858      2,823    15,681            271         59       330          18
Building and Stores                     8,474    13,826    22,300             178        291       469          62
Machinery and Storage Equip.              -       21,738    21,738            -          458       458         100
Vehicles and Office Equip.                 136     6,660      6.796             3        140       143          98
Subtotal                         21,468    45,047    66,515              52               T14
IV. Credit
a. Agroindustries
Fruit Packing and Cooling           12,470    76,600    89,070             262      1,613    1,875          86
Transportation                       5.775    27.500    33,275             122        579       701         83
Subtotal                         18,245   104,100   122,345             384     2,192    2,576
b. On-farm
Trellising existing Vineyards       24,975    30,525    55,500             526        643    1,168          55
Trellising New and Replacement
Vineyards        145,088    74,743   219,831           3,054      1,573    4,628          34
Vegetable Production                 2,895      2.184      5,079            61         46       107         43
Subtotal                        172,958   107,452   280,410          3,641      2,262    5,903
c. Raisin Marketing                   168,053      5,197   173,250          3,538        109    3,647            3
V. Technical Assistance                      38.392   153L472   191,864             808     3,231    4,039           80
Total                           518,302   596,727 1,115,029         10,911    12,563   23,474            56
Contingencies
Physical (3%)                       15,523    20,576    36.099             327        433      760          57
Price  (14%)                        65,397    93.975   159.372           1,377     1,978    3,355           59
Grand Total                     599,222  -711,228 1,310,500         12,615    14,974   27,590            54
====_e 17===e                                  =====      ==           ==_
August, 1977



- 14 -
3.02      The cost estimate is based on prices prevailing at end 1977.  A
5% physical contingency has been included on all items except Tcchnical
Assistance and credits for Raisin Marketing and Vegetable Production. Price
contingencies have been based on an estimated annual inflation in local and
foreign costs of 7.5% for equipment and 9% for civil works through 1979, and
7% and 8% respectively thereafter. The exchange rate used for the calculation
of project costs (US$1:AFs. 47.5) dates to March - June 1977. The exchange
rate in Afghanistan is highly volatile, responsive to seasonally variable but
significant flows of workers' remittances as well as capital flight from
neighbouring countries, and intervention by the central bank. It is there-
fore, preferable to use an exchange rate which reflects more stable trends.
The latest available exchange rate (December 1977) is somewhat overvalued
and does not reflect the foreign trade prospects in the coming months. A
renewed intervention by the central bank in response to the Government's
need for foreign exchange and to provide domestic price incentives given
poor short-term prospects in export prices is also likely.
Project Financing
3.03      The financing plan for the project is given below:



- 15 -
Subborrower    GOA       EPB    AgBank    IDA         Tota]
---------------------- Afs '000 -----------------
I. Afghan Raisin                 -          -       58,568      -    234,273   292,841
Institute
II. Afghan Seed Company
a. Veg. Seed                 -          -          -        -      65,352    65,352
Multip. /1
b. Fruit Rootstock           -          -           -       -       8,846      8,846
Prod. /1
III. Afghan Veg. Export Co.        -       19,129/2      -        -     60,408    79,537
IV. Credit
a. Agroindustries
(i) Fruit Packing    24,679          -          -        -      98,714   123,393
& Cooling
(ii) Transportation    7,785          -                   -      31,140    38,925
b. On farm
(i) Trellising         11,628    16,650/3       -    11,628   18,234    58,140
Existing
Vineyards
(ii) Trellising New   46,037    32,967/3         -    46,037  105,143   230,184
and Replace-
ment Vineyards
(iii) Vegetable             -          -          -      1,016    4,043       5,079
Production
c. Raisin Marketing          -      173,250        -        -         -      173,953
V. Technical Assistance          -        6,175        -        -    228,778   234,953
Total (AFS'000)         90,129   248,188    58,568  58,681  861,126 1,310,500
(US$'O00)         1,898      5,225      1,235   1,235   18,000    27,590
Share of Total (%)        7%        19%         4.5%    4.5%    65%          100%
/1   The FE Cost of this component is 89%.  Also EPB will be required to finance
substantial operating zosts on a long term basis due to long gestation
period (Afs 17.5 million over 5 years for Vegetable Seed and Afs 14.7 mil-
lion over 8 years for Rootstock).
/2   Capital Subscription
/3   Subsidy (30% of cost of poles and wire including 5% physical contingencies)



- 16 -
3.04      The proposed IDA credit of US$18.0 million would finance about 65%
of total project cost including the full foreign exchange component of US$15.0
million, and about US$3.0 million of local cost. The remaining US$9.6 million
in local costs would be financed by Government (US$5.23 million), EPB (US$1.23
million), AgBank (US$1.24 million), and subborrowers (US$1.90 million). Con-
tributions of the subborrowers would amount to about 20% of the credit for
agroindustries and on-farm investments. Since neither ARI nor ASC have surplus
liquid assets, they would be unable to finance any portion of the project com-
ponents to be implemented by them. Institutions designated by Government as
public sector capital subscribers to AVEC will provide some additional quasi
governmental equity financing.
Trellising Subsidy
3.05      The value of trellising has already been proven in Afghanistan (para
1.16). In order to promote adequate interest in trellising, amongst the
farmers engaged in viticulture in general and the farmers around those areas
where ARI's storage plants would be located in particular, Government would
subsidize 30% of the cost of poles and wire for trellising investments made
under the proposed project. This is the appraisal mission's estimate of what
would be required as an inducement in order to have a reasonable impact
on speeding up innovation and implementation. It is based on discussions with
producers, Ministry of Agriculture and AgBank officials. This subsidy would
be equivalent to about 14% of the total trellised vineyard investment cost;
cost to be borne by the farmer would be 54% higher than the best alternative
traditional system. If installation labor and initial manure treatment are
supplied by the farmer, the subsidy becomes 20% of the cash investment needed
which would appear a very significant saving to the average Afghan farmer.
Coupled with an active demonstration and promotion program by ARI, AgBank
and the Ministry of Agriculture, this investment grant would create a very
desirable investment climate.
3.06      By itself, a demonstration and promotion program would be insuffi-
cient and time consuming. It would take 3 years to develop demonstration
plots for trellising existing vineyards and 8 to 10 years to develop new trel-
lised vineyards. Every hectare invested in a non-trellised vineyard would
cost the Afghan farmers about US$3,000 in income foregone annually at full
development (10 years following investment) and would cost the economy US$5,000
per hectare per annum. By contrast a Government subsidy for trellising the
vineyard would be about US$1,000. The loss to Government in direct taxes alone
would amount to about US$500 per hectare per annum at full development. Con-
sidered as an investment, the financial rate of return on the subsidy to Gov-
ernment is 28% for existing and 20% for new and replacement vineyards. The
added advantage of this type of incentive and public investment over that of
investing in the extension service is that subsidy cost recovery is directly
related to the volume of investment, whereas there is no such well defined
relationship between cost and cost recovery with investment in extension. If
the subsidy fails as an investment incentive, loss to Government would be far
less.



- 17 -
3.07      The subsidy scheme would be operated by AgBank, who would also admin-
ister the on-farm credit component of the project (para 2.10). AgBank would be
reimbursed by Government for the subsidy payments made to subborrowers on a
semi-annual basis, and such payments by Government would constitute Government's
contributions to project cost. The subsidy scheme would neither be restricted
to any specific region nor would it be operated on the basis of allocations
amongst various grape growing regions of Afghanistan.  The scheme would be
operated on first-come-first-served basis, to expedite disbursements from the
proposed IDA credit.  Prior to any loans by AgBank for the trellising invest-
ments the Government would take the necessary steps to legally institute
a program for subsidizing the capital investment cost of a :rellised vineyard
in the amount of 30% of the cost of poles and wire initially. The amount of
the subsidy may, with prior agreement with IDA, be varied from 30% if the rate
of disbursement of loans for trellising is found to be unacceptably fast or
slow. This program would be limited to not more than Afs 50 million in value
(about US$1.05 million) and not more than 900 ha in volume and the Government
would enter into a subsidiary agreement with AgBank, acceptable to IDA, which
authorizes AgBank to operate the program on the Government's behalf and which
guarantees prompt reimbursement of AgBank's disbursement to producers in
connection with the program up to the maximum amounts and/or volume indicated
above.
3.08      Government's share of project financing is proposed to be limited
to about US$5.2 million. This would consist of (a) a contribution of about
US$0.40 million to AVEC's capital (b) about US$1.05 million in the form of
a trellising subsidy of 30% of the cost of trellising for existing (US$0.35
million) and new (US$0.70 million) vineyards; (c) a provision of US$3.65
million to the credit program for raisin marketing; and (d) US$0.13 million
to the Technical Assistance. Since EPB's authorized and subscribed capital
will need to be substantially increased to maintain a satisfactory debt
equity ratio, Government would be requested to contribute its financing of
the raisin marketing program to the necessary capital increase for EPB and
have EPB finance this program. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that Government, EPB, AgBank and participating subborrowers would contribute
agreed amounts to finance the project and also that the Government would
establish the trellising investment subsidy program, including finalizing the
subsidiary agreement, acceptable to IDA, with AgBank, not later than June 30,
1978.
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
4.01      The Government would be the borrower under the Project.  Because of
the export orientation of the project and at the request of Government, the
Ministry of Commerce would be the ministry responsible for the project. An
existing preappraisal project unit in this Ministry's Export Promotion Depart-
ment would be reorganized to coordinate and monitor the project. It would be



- 18 -
known as the Agroindustries Export Promotion Unit (EPU). Because of the
greater administrative and technical experience of the other project entities,
and the diverse nature, complete independence and specialization of their
activities, the EPU's role in actual implementation would be relatively minor,
and would be limited principally to monitoring and evaluation.
4.02      Government would channel project funds and would operate through two
financial intermediaries, EPB and AgBank. EPB would handle all loans to agro-
industries, and would also operate the raisin marketing credit program. AgBank
would be the financial intermediary for all on-farm credits. EPB would on-lend
the necessary funds to three implementation agencies - ARI, ASC and AVEC. The
raisin marketing credit component would be coordinated through ARI, who would
have the primary responsibility for implementation of the raisin processing and
marketing components. ASC would be responsible for vegetable seed multiplica-
tion and export, and fruit rootstock production, and AVEC, which would be
established under the project, would have the responsibility for vegetable
production and export. Under the project, EPB would be developed into a fully
operational financial intermediary, capable of servicing the agricultural pro-
cessing and export industry in Afghanistan.
4.03      As seen in the sector review (paras 1.10-1.13), Bank assisted proj-
ects in the Afghan agricultural sector have involved substantial technical
assistance over quite long time periods. In this respect the present project
is no exception. The project involves 7 distinct entities. In terms of their
operations all are completely independent. One of the 2 banks, EPB, the ser-
vice institute, ARI, and one company, ASC, are relatively new while a second
company, AVEC, is completely new. Thus substantial institutional development
is necessary. Most aspects of the project are innovatory, both technically
and commercially, requiring specialized skills and training. Since managerial
and technical skills are in short supply in Afghanistan, expatriate technical
assistance is required. The necessary technical assistance and training is
supplied by the project as detailed for each entity below.
B. Export Promotion Unit
General
4.04      EPU would oversee and monitor the timely implementation of various
project components. EPU would be allied to and assisted by the Export Pro-
motion Department and under the overall direction of the Minister of Commerce.
Responsibilities
4.05      Major duties of EPU would be (a) to coordinate project activities
between the two financial intesrmediaries - the EPB and the AgBank; (b) to
monitor the project's progress and to submit quarterly progress reports to IDA
including up to date information on financial commitments and disbursements;
(c) prepare a project completion report upon completion of the project; and
(d) to acquaint itself fully with IDA's procurement guidelines as well as



- 19 -
Government's local procurement procedures, and to review all procurement
actions, on behalf of Government, prior to sending such references to IDA.
EPU would assist EPB and AgBank in identifying potential subborrowers.
It would also be responsible for preparing a long-term investment program
for horticultural exports, including identification and preparation of spe-
cific projects. A major responsibility of EPU would be to establish and
operate a project monitoring and evaluation system for the project. By
June 30, 1978 it would submit to IDA for its approval a program for such
a system. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that all project
entities and subborrowers would fully cooperate with and assist the EPU
in the execution of its responsibilities.
Staffing, Financing and Technical Assistance
4.06      A 14 person unit, which assisted in the preappraisal and appraisal
stages, already exists in the Ministry of Commerce. This unit would be suit-
ably staffed for the project implementation stage. Its size would be adjusted
in keeping with its new role, and it would continue to be supported by the
Government budget. The costs for this unit are presently about Afs 1 million
per annum. To assist and guide EPU in executing its responsibilities an
experienced expatriate would be employed as a Consultant Manager to EPU by
May 31, 1978, with qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
appointment satisfactory to the Association. During negotiations assurances
were obtained to this effect.
C. Export Promotion Bank
General
4.07      EPB was established in 1976 to extend financial assistance to
exporters and exporting industries, and it was intended that EPB would develop
as a specialty bank with expertise in the area of export development. Its
chartered objectives are to provide financing to: (i) promote and diversify
the export of Afghan products in foreign markets; (ii) assist producers in the
adaptation of their exportable products to the requirements of foreign markets;
and (iii) facilitate exporters in undertaking specific promotional activities
abroad.
Sources of Funds
4.08      The authorized capital of EPB is Afs 100 million (US$2.1 million)
made up of 100,000 shares of Afs 1,000 each. The only practical sources of
funding are currently EPB's own capital, borrowings from the Da Afghanistan
(Central) Bank foreign loans and internal cash generation. Foreign loans are
the only significant medium-term source of adequate resources. EPB's paid up
capital and a US$2 million short-term loan from the Central Bank were its
sole sources of funds until it received a US$10 million loan for 15 years in
May 1976 from the Iranian Central Bank. This loan became effective in June
1977.
4.09      The amount of borrowing from the Central Bank and from overseas
sources will depend on the allowable debt/equity limits. Presently no policy



- 20 -
or requirement on limiting its debt obligations exists. A reasonable debt/
equity ratio must be considered in terms of the Bank's proposed activities,
risk taking and liquidity. Since it is unlikely to be able to raise funds
from current or time deposits, it might be viewed more as a development
finance company. A prudent debt/equity limit would depend on how the Iranian
loan is utilized. A company heavily committed to providing equity finance
should limit its total equity investments to its own net worth and probably
not exceed a 5:1 debt/equity (net worth) ratio.
Organization, Management and Technical Assistance
4.10      Headed by a General Assembly of shareholders, the main policy making
body is the Supreme Council which includes the shareholders and the President
of the EPB together with a number of senior Government officials. The day-to-
day business is under the authority of the Executive Board, which consists of
senior officers of the EPB headed by the President and reports to the Supreme
Council. A Board of Auditors consisting of 3 persons appointed by the General
Assembly of Shareholders is empowered to investigate any facet of EPB's
operations. The outline organizational chart of the EPB (Annex 1, Chart 1) is
somewhat tentative, in that EPB is still very much in the formative stage,
nonetheless it constitutes a systematic organization of the elements necessary
for purposeful operation and expansion.
4.11      To enable EPB to perform the important role assigned to it under
the project, it would be essential to establish a Financial Planning Depart-
ment and an Internal Audit Department. The Credit Department would also be
strengthened and reorganized. Three experienced expatriates would be employed
to guide these departments for terms of 2 to 5 years, and during this time
would train their counterparts to make over these managerial positions.
Later, for the remaining 1-2 years of their terms, these expatriates would
assume the role of advisors to the Afghan managers. The expatriate heading
the Financial Planning Department would also be the head of the expatriate
team working in EPB.
4.12      The Financial Manager would work with EPB's Director General of
Finance and would report to EPB's President. He would advise the President on
financial matters such as the bank's liquidity position, the best utilization
of its short-term assets, compliance with foreign loan agreements, establish-
ing relationships with foreign commercial banks, working with the external
auditors in carrying out their responsibilities, preparing financial reports
to the Supreme Council, and assisting in setting up the accounting and audit-
ing systems. The Credit Manager would head the Credit Department and would
work with EPB's Director General of Credit. He would report jointly to the
Finance Manager and the President. In addition to having full responsibility
for running the Credit Department, he would organize an extensive training
program for Afghan personnel including the training of his Afghan counterpart.
One immediate task would be to develop in cooperation with ARI a suitable sys-
tem for implementing the Raisin Marketing Credit Program. Such a program
would be developed soon after the arrival of above experts and would be sent



- 21 -
to IDA for approval by December 31, 1978. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained to this effect. The Internal Auditing Manager would work with
EPB's Director General of Accounting and would report jointly to the Finance
Manager and the President. He would be responsible for building EPB's
Internal Auditing Department which would audit all operations and check the
implementation of the Board of Directors' and Executive Board's decisions,
examine all loan documentation and audit clients defaulting on loans. A
qualified accounting firm would also be retained to establish a computerized
accounting system within EPB. Since such a system would be a necessity in the
near future, it should be established in EPB during its formative period, but
after the experts furnished under the project have had the time to reorganize
EPB. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that EPB would prior to
Effectiveness of the Credit (a) establish a Financial Planning Department and
an Internal Audit Department; (b) employ, on terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA, three experienced experts to head its Credit Financial Planning and
Internal Audit Departments; (c) employ suitably qualified and experienced
nationals to work as counterparts to these experts; and (d) by December 31,
1978, retain a qualified accounting firm to establish a computerized account-
ing system in EPB.
4.13      To assist in the development of necessary skills amongst EPB's
national staff, several fellowships of six months duration would be provided
under the proposed project. These would be in the fields of financial manage-
ment, credit operations, audit techniques and computerized accounting. Suit-
ably qualified Afghan personnel would be selected for such training, in con-
sultation with the experts in EPB and IDA, and their training would be arranged
abroad in suitable institutions in consultation with IDA. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that EPB would (a) send a training program and time-
table to IDA for its approval by December 31, 1978; and (b) select the trainees
in consultation with IDA and the experts employed in EPB, and arrange for
their training abroad in accordance with the agreed program.
Portfolio Analysis
4.14      EPB's portfolio consists of short-term loans for a period of up to
180 days. The money is used to provide pre-export financing for products such
as raisins, carpets, fresh fruits, dry fruits, and handicrafts. The EPB's
policy is to extend credit for up to 75% of the invoiced valued of the goods,
for which it charges an 11% fixed interest rate, The client assigns the
proceeds of the goods sold to EPB, which receives the money after the foreign
exchange is converted through the Central Bank. This present policy of
restricting its operations to short-term pre-export financing is appropriate
in view of the short-term nature of its own funds. The terms of its operations
appear to provide adequate protection against losses, and the experience
to-date has been satisfactory.
4.15      However, the fact that EPB has not yet suffered a loss on any of its
loans does not mean that its portfolio is risk free; this risk will rise once
EPB enters the business of financing projects on a medium and long-term basis.
To cover such risks, EPB would create an accounting reserve against possible
losses.



- 22 -
Role and Responsibilities
4.16      While an older and well established financial institution would have
been more suited to act as a financial intermediary for the export-oriented
components of the project, no such institution exists in Afghanistan. There-
fore EPB, which has a suitable charter, would be built up under the project to
assume greater responsibilities. EPB's management is very interested and will-
ing to participate in the proposed project and would welcome the institution
building effort which the proposed project would finance. It is expected that
as a result of the efforts to be made under the project, EPB would progress
rapidly towards fulfilling its objective of developing and promoting export
industries including those financed under the project.
4.17      Under the project EPB would have the responsibility for on-lending
to the subborrowers for the agroindustries and marketing components. It would
thoroughly acquaint itself with the procedures followed by IDA for appraisal
of proposed investments, so that it can carry out an indepth review of sub-
projects proposed by its subborrowers - ARI, ASC and AVEC. In cooperation
with EPU it would closely monitor the progress of approved subloans to these
agencies. It would also be responsible for identifying and appraising invest-
ments in agroindustries, including but not necessarily restricted to fresh
fruit packing and cooling plants and refrigerated transportation. In all
cases EPB would be responsible for assessing the creditworthiness of the sub-
borrowers, acquiring adequate satisfactory loan collateral and providing for
the working capital needs of all agroindustry subborrowers under the project.
In cooperation with ARI, by December 31, 1978 EPB would develop a suitable
system and timetable for implementing the Raisin Marketing Credit Program
and submit these to IDA for its approval. An outline of such a program is
contained in Annex 2.
4.18      In order to suitably equip EPB for its new and expanded role under
the project, it would be necessary that Government allocates necessary capital
to EPB to ensure that its debt/equity ratio does not exceed 5:1 and that EPB
has sufficient operating funds at all times. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that (a) Government would allocate necessary funds to EPB to
ensure that it has adequate resources to carry out its role under the proj-
ect, (b) adequate and suitable loan collateral, acceptable to EPB and IDA be
made available by Government to all agroindustry subborrowers, (c) Government
would grant all agroindustry subborrowers eligibility for all benefits avail-
able under the Afghan Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law, (d) EPB's
debt/equity ratio would not exceed 5:1, and (e) Government would contribute
its agreed financing of the Raisin Marketing Credit Program to EPB as paid-in
equity capital and phase its contribution to meet both the demands of this
program and the maintenance of a 5:1 debt/equity ratio in EPB.
On-Lending Rate
4.19      At present EPB has no policy for interest rates on long-term loans.
Long-term loans to industry are made by the Industrial Development Bank of



- 23 -
Afghanistan (IDBA) at a rate of 10% p.a. but the volume is negligible.
Currently IDBA, with Government approval, is charging a rate of 6% p.a.
for a special small scale industry scheme, 1/ but since this is a new in-
novation no data on uptake is available. With a current inflation rate
of about 3% p.a. (1976/77), this would imply a real rate of interest of
3%. Although AgBank charges 8% p.a. on medium and long-term loans, which
are only about 3% of its outstanding loans, it is considering an increase
in this rate. EPB's onlending rate for medium and long-term loans, there-
fore, should not be less than 10%. The above rates thus provide real posi-
tive margins. But given the innovative nature of the project and the need
to convince the Government and investors of its worth, increases in interest
rates are considered best delayed to future projects.
4.20      The interest rate for short-term raisin marketing loans to farmers
would also be 10% p.a., which would be competitive with the 10% p.a. rate
charged by AgBank for short-term loans, and somewhat less than the 11% p.a.
rate now charged by EPB from raisin exporters. This difference is justi-
fied as (a) lending to exporters is well established and the demand has
occasionally been difficult to meet; and (b) the direct farmer marketing
credit program, which is meant to be an incentive for the farmers for im-
proving quality of exports, is innovatory in Afghanistan. AgBank also extends
marketing credits (but only at the export level) through cooperatives with a
1% rebate on the 10% p.a. rate charged.
Interest Rate Spread
4.21      Consideration of an appropriate spread between EPB's cost of the
proposed IDA funds and its lending rate should take into account reasonable
operating expenses, a provision for losses, local taxes, a reasonable return
to EPB and a possible special promotion funds. EPB's present operating
expenses amount to less than 1% of its assets, but are estimated to increase
to about 3%. Provision for loan losses is hard to forecast; so far with less
than one year's operations there have been no defaults. For projection pur-
poses, a minimum provision for losses of 3% against each disbursement should
be used. At 3% each for operating costs and loss provisions would require a
4% spread to break even. A gross 6% spread would yield an operating profit
permitting reserve provisions of 2%. On this amount, EPB would have to pay
a 20% profits tax (equivalent to 0.4%), plus a municipal profits tax of 10%
(equivalent to 0.2% with an average on-lending rate of 10%), plus a 2% tax on
gross earnings (equivalent to 0.2% with an average on lending rate of 10%).
This would total an additional cost of 0.8% for tax provisions, leaving a net
spread of 1.2% on the IDA credit.
4.22      To permit the necessary 6% gross spread, Government should on-lend
funds from the proposed IDA credit at 4%. This compares very favourably
1/   The upper loan limit is Afs 4 million.  There are qualifying restrictions
on the asset size of the enterprise.



- 24 -
with the 4.5% p.a. rate at which Government on-lends the proceeds of IDA's
Third Agricultural Credit to AgBank, particularly when it is recalled that
AgBank's short-term loans comprise over 90% of its lending. As a result of
a Government guarantee to cover all short-term fertilizer loan defaults and
assistance in collections, AgBank's required provision for losses is greatly
reduced. For the Third Agricultural Credit Project, the weighted average
spread amounts to about 5.5%. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that Government would on-lend to EPB for a term of 17 years including 5 years
grace at 4% per annum and that EPB's on-lending rate would not be less than
10% per annum. A subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and EPB
and satisfactory to the Association, governing the terms and conditions of
on-lending by the Government to EPB and by EPB to its subborrowers, would
be entered into and ratified prior to Effectiveness of the Credit.
On-lending Policies and Procedures
4.23      In granting loans to agroindustry subborrowers, EPB would be respon-
sible for evaluating their creditworthiness for such loans, and their ability
to execute the proposed sub-projects and to meet the predetermined loan repay-
ment schedule. It would obtain securities or other collateral acceptable to
it whose value covers 100% of each loan. The market value of real property
should not be less than 133% of the mortgage loan value. By agreement with
each and every subborrower EPB, in its own right and in cooperation with PCU
would obtain and review financial and physical progress reports on implementa-
tion from each subborrower and take whatever additional steps are necessary to
effectively supervise the loans. In the case of all subborrowers other than
ARI, ASC and AVEC the subloans would be fully appraised by EPB and for loans
of over US$20,000, or the equivalent, the loan applications and appraisal and
creditworthiness reports would be submitted to IDA for review and approval.
This would involve about 8 loans, or 26% of the funds on-lent through EPB. In
the absence of an explicit government guarantee EPB would limit its subloans
to any business entity to 20% of its own networth, and to 10% of its networth
for loans to any interrelated business entities and in any case its total
debt/equity ratio to not more than 5:1.
4.24      Repayment of each subloan would be in accordance with the useful
life of each investment and the repayment capacity of the subborrower but in
no case should exceed 17 years. For loans to subborrowers other than ARI, ASC
and AVEC the subborrower contribution should be not less than 20% of the total
investment cost. For ARI, ASC and AVEC, subborrower contribution would not be
less than that indicated in the Project Financing table. EPB's appraisal of
subprojects would include financing plans for working capital to be made avail-
able by EPB to all agroindustry subborrowers including ARI, ASC and AVEC as
and when required. During negotiations assurances were obtained that EPB
would follow the above-mentioned lending policies and procedures. Prior to
Effectiveness of the Credit separate subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory
to IDA would be entered into by EPB with ARI, ASC and AVEC governing the on-
lending procedures and policies of EPB with each of these subborrowers and all



- 25 -
assurances required by EPB of each of these subborrowers. EPB would enter
into a written agreement with each subborrower defining the terms of the sub-
loan and requiring an annual report on the physical and financial progress of
the investment by the subborrower.
Foreign Exchange Risk
4.25      Foreign exchange risk would be borne by Government for all project
entities except ASC and AVEC. Since ASC and AVEC would receive their revenues
in the form of foreign exchange they could be expected to repay their loans
with foreign exchange. All other entities would receive their revenue in Afs
and thus are not in a position to accept the foreign exchange risk.
D. AgBank
General
4.26      With the assistance of IDA, AgBank is already functioning as a well-
established credit institution. The proposed IDA credit would be the seventh
to be wholly or partly channeled through AgBank (previous credits were: 3 for
agricultural credit, 2 for livestock and 1 for irrigation). An extensive
reassessment of AgBank was carried out by the Third Agricultural Credit
Appraisal Mission and the results are included in their report. 1/ AgBank
was found to be very satisfactory as a financial intermediary and continuing
in general to make excellent progress in developing all aspects of its agri-
cultural development banking operations. The previous President of AgBank
was relieved of his duties on October 21, 1977. Since an effective leader of
this institution is vital to this and all IDA projects touching agriculture in
Afghanistan, during negotiations the Government was requested to fill the
position as soon as possible. A qualified individual, acceptable to IDA, has
recently been appointed to the position.
Role and Responsibilities
4.27      AgBank's role would be to act as the financial channel for on-farm
investments in trellised vineyards and working capital in vegetable production.
Its lengthy experience and success in the field of on-farm credits makes it a
logical choice for this role.
4.28      Under the project, AgBank would be responsible to grant long-term
loans to farmers for (a) the establishment of trellised vineyards, (b) trel-
lising existing vineyards, and (c) seasonal credit for the production of
1/   Appraisal of a Third Agricultural Credit Project Afghanistan - World Bank
Report No. 1490-AF, May 12, 1977.



- 26 -
vegetables under contract to AVEC. To discharge this responsibility ade-
quately, AgBank would acquaint itself with all aspects of improved vineyard
production including pruning, cultivating, fertilizing and trellising. It
would also satisfy itself on the creditworthiness of each subborrower and
obtain securities and other collateral acceptable to it.
4.29      AgBank through its subsidiary AMSCO, 1/ would be responsible for
procuring and distributing the necessary tools and materials (pruning shears,
dusters, trellis poles and wire) for investments in trellising and raisin
production. It would cooperate with ARI in this procurement and distribution
function and would make use of ARI's rurally located stores to facilitate
distribution of these tools and materials. It would also participate in ARI's
quality control program for raisin production through financing production
investments as well as distribution of drying mats and directing its field
supervisory staff to promote the program actively. It would cooperate with
AVEC to develop a working program for extending seasonal credit to the farmers
producing vegetables under contract with AVEC. It would liaise and cooperate
with PCU in monitoring and supervising implementation of the project. Assu-
rances were obtained during negotiations that AgBank would procure and dis-
tribute necessary tools and materials for trellising and raisin production,
and distribute drying mats in cooperation with ARI.
On-Lending Policies and Procedures
4.30      The proceeds of the proposed credit allocated to on-farm investment
would be on-lent to AgBank by Government. AgBank would on-lend these funds
in accordance with the following terms. Besides assuring itself of the bor-
owers creditworthiness and obtaining suitable collateral, it would establish
loan repayment plans for the subborrowers keeping in view the estimated finan-
cial live of the investments and the repayment capacity of the subborrowers.
In the case of investments in new and replacement trellised vineyards, the
repayment period would not exceed 12 years including a maximum 5 year grace
period. For loans for investments in trellising of existing vineyards, the
repayment period would not exceed 6 years including a 2 year maximum grace
period. For loans for seasonal credit for vegetable production, repayment
would become due only upon payment to the subborrowers for contracted produc-
tion by AVEC. Seasonal credit loans under the project would be restricted to
farmers producing vegetables under contract with AVEC. AgBank and AVEC would
jointly develop a scheme for restricting the seasonal credit for such contracts
and channeling contract payments through AgBank to facilitate loan repayment.
AgBank would submit to IDA by September 30, 1978 details of the agreed scheme
to be adopted. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that AgBank
would (a) ensure execution of these policies and procedures, and (b) submit to
IDA by September 30, 1978, details of the scheme agreed with AVEC for extending
seasonal credit to farmers under contract with AVEC.
1/   AMSCO - Afghan Machines and Service Company, formerly the AgBank Supply
Department. Described in detail in World Bank Report No. 1490-AF,
Appraisal of a 3rd Agricultural Credit Project Afghanistan, Annex 4.



- 27 -
On-Lending Rates, Terms and Spread
4.31      AgBank's current short-term on-lending rate of 10% is acceptable
since there is no evidence of disequilibrium at present (see para 4.20). Thus
10% p.a. would be the minimum on-lending rate for the subloans to be financed
by this project. The current long-term loan rate of 8% p.a. has, as a matter
of policy, been deliberately set below the short-term rate to encourage
investments in on-farm development. This policy continues to be acceptable.
Since AgBank currently extends long-term financing for traditional systems of
grape production at 8% p.a., a higher rate, if proposed for this project,
would prejudice potential investors against investing in trellised vineyards.
Also given the innovative nature of the project (para 4.20) particularly of
the trellising component, adjustments in the interest rate are considered best
delayed to future projects. Consequently the on-lending rate for medium and
long-term investment in trellised vineyards would be 8% p.a. Since IDA, Gov-
ernment and AgBank have recently determined, for the Third Agricultural
Credit Project, that a 4.5% p.a. on-lending rate from Government to AgBank
was satisfactory, this rate would continue to apply. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that Government would on-lend to AgBank for a
term of 16 years including 8 years grace at 4.5% and that AgBank would on-
lend these funds at interest rates of not less than 10% for short-term and
8% for long-term. A subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
AgBank, acceptable to IDA, and governing the terms and conditions of on-
lending by the Government to AgBank would be entered into and ratified prior
to Effectiveness.
Technical Assistance
4.32      In order to assist AgBank in developing expertise in viticulture
among its field supervisory staff, 5 training fellowships would be provided
under the project in viticulture. Each fellowship would be for about 6 months
and would be arranged at a suitable institution where the trainees would
receive extensive training in on-farm practices in viticulture. Candidates
for such training would be selected by AgBank in consultation with the expa-
triate viticulturalist of ARI and IDA. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that AgBank would (a) send to IDA for approval by December 31, 1978
a training program and implementation timetable for the fellowships; and
(b) select the candidates for such training in consultation with ARI's expert
and IDA, and arrange the placement of selected candidates in consultations
with IDA.
E. Afghan Raisin Institute
Organization and Management
4.33      Originally named the Afghan Raisin Export Promotion Institute, ARI
was established in 1975 by the Ministry of Commerce for the purpose of in-
creasing production, trade promotion and the keeping and storage of raisins.



- 28 -
It is a non profit service institute, financed by a raisin export levy and
donated facilities and funds. It is not authorized to trade either on its
own behalf or that of its members, though it may sign contracts on behalf of
members. Its membership is comprised of raisin exporters (both firms and
individuals), raisin processing factories, agricultural cooperatives and
representative of the Ministries of Commerce and Agriculture. An 11 man
unsalaried Board of Directors is elected for 3 years by the members, and the
Board appoints from the Directors a salaried Executive Board of a President
and 2 members. The Executive Board's duties are to administer ARI to imple-
ment the policies and programs set by the Board of Directors. These mainly
concern the improvement of the product at the point of processing and
resolving individual and industry wide export marketing problems. At present
ARI's permanent executive staff is limited to 3 intermediate level managers
for quality control, marketing and accounting.
4.34      To strengthen ARI's management and to train its national staff, a
viticulturalist, a processing and transportation specialist and a marketing
specialist would be employed for a period of 4 to 5 years each on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. They would assist ARI in its objectives, and
would be responsible for training ARI's national staff in their respective
fields. A local accountant would be retained to develop an accounting and
auditing system and to train ARI's staff in this field. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that by September 30, 1978 ARI would (a) employ a
viticulturalist, a raisin processing and transportation specialist and a
marketing specialist for 5 years on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA;
and (b) a local accountant would be retained for at least 4 months annually
over a minimum 4 year period to develop an accounting and auditing system and
to train ARI's staff in this field.
4.35      Study tours of 3 months each would be provided for the President and
two managerial level staff in processing and quality control. Five fellowships
of about 6 months each would be provided for marketing, laboratory training
and production. The study tours and fellowships would be arranged by ARI and
its experts and their schedule would be approved by IDA. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that (a) the training program for Afghan personnel
would be sent to IDA for its approval by December 31, 1978; and (b) the selec-
tion of candidates for training and their placement abroad would be done in
consultation with IDA.
Developmental Problems
4.36      Due to understaffing, lack of technical expertise and lack of capital,
at present ARI can only touch on a very small portion of the problems affecting
the entire industry's performance. Since the immediate need is to upgrade the
quality of raisin exports, ARI in conjunction with the Afghan Bureau of Norms
and Standards (Ministry of Mines and Industries) is exploring the introduction
of a mandatory export grading and certification scheme at the point of final
processing.  ARI's present charter authorizes it to supervise such standards,
but due to lack of facilities and training, progress is slow. Major problems
are sorting out the large quantity of foreign matter (sticks, stones, soil,



- 29 -
insects, fungi and animal droppings) which gets mixed with raisins during grow-
ing and harvesting, and the drying and packing processes carried out on the
farms. Much of this foreign matter cannot be separated out by machine in
export packing plants. Thus it is necessary to initiate a program to correct
this at the farm level. This program would require training of local personnel,
who would then implement the quality control and marketing elements of this
project component.
Role in the Project
4.37      Under the project, ARI would construct and operate a number of
rurally located stores which would incorporate precleaning and storage facil-
ities for raisins. Farmers would bring their raisins to these facilities for
precleaning and grading. Marketing credits (from EPB) and storage would be
made available on an optional basis and raisin traders and exporters would
use these stores as purchasing points. ARI would cooperate fully with EPB to
implement the Raisin Marketing Credit Program with the aim of distributing the
credit to the fullest extent practicable to those most in need of it. A more
detailed outline of this program is contained in Annex 2. A farm gate level
grading system would also be introduced and farmers would receive incentive
prices based on their professionally graded product.
4.38      Allied to these stores would be vineyards, which would be developed
and operated by ARI to demonstrate production and quality control techniques,
including trellising, pruning, harvesting and drying. ARI would supply
imported paper drying mats to the farmers on credit advanced by AgBank.
4.39      An inspection and advisory service for final processing plants would
be incorporated into the existing grading and certification program and the
market information, advice and assistance program would be expanded with the
aid of technical assistance. This would include preseason export market fore-
casts and an information dissemination service.
4.40      Following appraisal and prior to negotiations ARI's charter was
revised to expand the membership of the Board of Directors, elevate the
present position of President of ARI to Chairman of the Board and transform
the Presidency into a full time, well paid professional managerial position.
Prior to this the membership of the Board of Directors was heavily weighted
in favor of exporters and no banks were represented. The presidency was a
part-time position and as yet the staff is small and not well trained. None-
theless the major needs of the industry are recognized by ARI and it is pre-
pared to meet these. Given this perception and commitment, the project aims
to assist ARI to meet these needs, especially the need of upgrading and
modernizing the raisin export industry by providing a general program of
investment, operation, training and financing. Government has ratified the
revised ARI charter. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that ARI
would formulate plans, including a timetable, for implementing the grading
and certification program at both the export and producer level and forward
these plans to IDA for approval by December 31, 1978.



- 30 -
F. Afghan Seed Company
4.41      ASC was established in August 1976 by Government to produce certi-
fied seed for use in Afghanistan. At present its scope is restricted to the
production of cotton and wheat seed under a project financed by the Asian
Development Bank (ADB). 1/ The ADB project aims to establish a modern seed
industry in Afghanistan with a view to assist in increasing cotton export
earnings and to attain self sufficiency in wheat. This project would finance
the development of ASC farms, seed processing and storage plants, the estab-
lishment of contract seed production by farmers, a varietal research and
evaluation program, a seed quality control service supported by legislation,
a market intelligence service and a small farm implement design unit. Sub-
stantial technical assistance is also included in the ADB project. Imple-
mentation and supervision of this component would be coordinated in all
aspects at a working level with ADB.
4.42      The ASC component of the proposed project would create a vegetable
seed multiplication and fruit rootstock and seedling production capacity in
ASC, and would blend well with the ADB project as it would complement the
necessary crop rotation and make use of the relatively large areas of cotton
and wheat as isolation barriers between the open pollinating vegetables. Tech-
nical assistance and training to meet the development needs of this component
would also be supplied under the project as outlined in paras. 4.44 and 4.45.
Financial Position
4.43      ASC's capital of Afs 5 million (about US$100,000) is allocated as
follows:  Ministry of Agriculture 50%, Ministry of Planning 20%, Ministry of
Finance 20x, Afghan Fertilizer Company 4%, and Agricultural Development Bank
6%. Current capital assets are valued at US$6.9 million, of which land is
94% (about 600 ha). Consequently ASC is quite short of liquid assets. This
problem is exacerbated by a total lack of financial management expertise. The
project would include either independently or in conjunction with ADB necessary
technical assistance in the form of a financial manager, and would also require
audited financial statements annually (para. 4.55). EPB would be required to
meet the working capital needs of this component during a fairly lengthy gesta-
tion period for both vegetable seed and rootstock (para. 4.25). Possible
deficits on ASC's cotton and wheat seed operations are covered by a guaranteed
Government subsidy. This limits the need for any amalgamation of operating
funds. However in the absence of a satisfactory cost accounting system it is
likely that only direct deficits would be replaced.
Organization and Management
4.44      ASC operates under the direction of a Supreme Council whose chairman
is the Minister of Agriculture. Other members of this policy making body are
I/   Asian Development Bank-Seeds Project-Afghanistan.  Loan No. 276-AFG(SF)-
November 15, 1976.



- 31 -
the Minister of Finance, Minister of Planning and the Presidents of all
concerned government agencies, namely, the Afghan Fertilizer Company, the
Agricultural Development Bank and the Departments of Agricultural Research,
Extension and Cooperatives. The President of ASC is a member of the Supreme
Council and also acts as Secretary of the Council.
4.45      The Executive Board of ASC is composed of the President and two Vice
Presidents. One Vice President heads the technical department, which is
responsible for the seed production farms, agricultural research, the process-
ing plants and the contract seed growers schemes. The other Vice President
heads the department concerned with finance and administration. As yet no one
has been appointed to this post. This position would be filled up as soon as
possible. An expatriate Financial Manager would be employed under the project,
who would work in an executive position with the Financial Vice President.
In addition the project would provide an experienced pomologist to develop the
fruit rootstock and seedling production operations. These experts would also
train their Afghan counterparts and other staff. A Technical Manager and a
Seed Processing Technician would also be furnished under the project to assist
in the development of the vegetable multiplication division including the
training Of local counterparts and other staff. These 2 positions may be
filled by staff deputed by the international company, who would contract for
the vegetable seed multiplication and preferably should be so filled in the
interest of assuring the international company of the quality of the seed
produced. To assist in training of local ASC staff, 5 fellowships would be
provided in seed production, and fruit rootstock and seedling production
technologies. Experts provided under the proposed project would work in close
coordination with the consultants employed by ADB for its project. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that ASC would (a) employ expatriates
as Technical Manager and Seed Processing Technician, on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA, as early as possible, (b) send a training program to IDA
for its approval by December 31, 1978, (c) selection of candidates for train-
ing and their placement abroad would be done in consultation with IDA, and
(d) employ an expatriate Financial Manager by June 30, 1978 whose qualifica-
tions, experience, terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to IDA.
In the event that the technical team finally selected under the ADB project
includes a Financial Manager, financing provided for such assistance under this
credit would be reallocated elsewhere.
4.46      In an effort to avoid comingling of funds from this project and the
ADB project, ASC would establish separate divisions for its field crops (ADB),
vegetable seed and fruit rootstock and seedling operations. Following appraisal
and prior to negotiations the charter of ASC was revised to reflect this, to
bring it into greater conformity with the Afghan commercial code, broaden
its shareholder base and to permit it explicitly to enter into contractual
arrangements for vegetable seed export with non Afghan firms. Government
has ratified ASC's revised charter. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that ASC would (i) appoint an Afghan counterpart to the Financial
Manager, not later than June 30, 1978, whose qualifications, experience,
terms and conditions of employment are acceptable to IDA, (ii) implement an
accounting system approved by EPB, and satisfactory to IDA, not later than
September 30, 1978, and (iii) establish separate operating divisions and



- 32 -
accounting system by September 30, 1978 for field seed, vegetable seed multi-
plication, and fruit rootstock and seedling, production and marketing. No dis-
bursements for vegetable seed multiplication would be made until contractual
arrangements with an international seed company agreeing to terms for the
multiplication and export marketing of vegetable seed, acceptable to IDA, have
been concluded.
G. Afghan Vegetable Export Company
4.47      Under the project, AVEC would be established to purchase, produce,
store and export vegetables.  Since its major market is expected to be Iran
and possibly the USSR, it would be located in the Herat area. Vegetables
would be produced, both on its own farm (to be purchased) and under contract
by local farmers. Production through the latter would account for about two
thirds of the exports. Initially production would be restricted to potatoes
and onions in view of their lower perishability and lower wastage. Working
capital for contract production would be provided through AgBank under the
project's on-farm credit component.
4.48      AVEC would be a joint stock company, modelled after the Herat Live-
stock Development Corporation (established under IDA's Livestock I Project),
in which Government would own and subscribe to a minimum of 51% of the capital
stock. The remaining 49% could be taken up by non Government sources, public
or private, Afghan or non Afghan. Initially it is seen that Government would
take up 100% of AVEC's capital due to a lack of demand by non Government
sources for such investments. As the investment climate changes Government
would release 49% of its stock for public sale. The initial allocation of
capital among Government agencies in the charter is as follows:
Agency                                        Shares          %
Ministry of Commerce                            120          48
Ministry of Planning                             50          20
Ministry of Finance                              50          20
Export Promotion Bank                            10           4
Agricultural Development Bank                    10           4
Afghan Seed Company                               5           2
Herat Livestock Development Corporation           3           1.2
Afghan Fertilizer Company                         2          0.8
250        100
It is believed that these proportions adequately reflect the interest of those
likely to be concerned and involved with the company. The total capital sub-
scription required would be small, about Afs 20 million; the remainder of the
capital investment needs would be met by long term loans.
4.49      AVEC's charter has been ratified by Government and its president
has been nominated in consulitation with IDA. The President of AVEC would
be responsible for selecting the company's personnel including the expert



- 33 -
assistance provided under the project. It would also be necessary for Govern-
ment, as soon as possible, to provide it with a farm of about 500 jeribs (100
ha) or the means to purchase such a farm and to grant adequate export quotas
to AVEC to permit it to enter the export market in line with its handling
capacities. During negotiations assurances were obtained that Government
would provide title and possession of suitable agricultural land in the
vicinity of Herat with an area of at least 100 ha to AVEC by December 31,
1978. Granting adequate export quotas, ranging from 1,000 tons in its first
year of operations to a peak of 9,000 tons in its ninth year of operations,
to AVEC would be a condition of effectiveness. Such quotas should be inter-
preted as a right but not an obligation of AVEC to export these amounts. The
Government would retain the right to modify these quotas in the event of a
domestic shortage or surplus of vegetables as confirmed by IDA. Nonetheless
at all times AVEC would retain the rights to trade internationally in non
Afghan as well as Afghan vegetables and vegetable products.
Organization
4.50      Membership of the Board of Directors would reflect the capital stock
ownership with the representative of the Ministry of Commerce as chairman.
The Executive Board would consist of the President, the Contracts and Market-
ing Manager, and the Financial Manager. An outline proposed organization chart
is attached as Annex 4.
4.51      The project would provide a Contracts and Marketing Manager, a Pro-
duction Manager, a Processing and Storage Manager, and a Master Mechanic.
These experts would work with their Afghan counterparts, and would train them
to take up these managerial positions. The Contracts and Marketing Manager
would head the technical assistance team, report to the President, and would
be responsible for (a) developing the export marketing program, and (b)
developing the contract production process, in cooperation with AgBank and
with assistance from the Production Manager with the farmers. He would also
be responsible for direction and coordinating the activities of the expatriate
team. The Production Manager would be responsible for developing and managing
AVEC's own farm for procurement of farm machinery and other equipment, he
would be assisted by the Master Mechanic, who would be responsible for main-
tenance of all machinery and equipment. The Processing Manager would be
responsible for the development of the packing, storage and transportation
operations including construction of stores and procurement of machinery,
equipment and trucks. The Master Mechanic would be responsible for assisting
in the procurement of above equipment and maintenance of this equipment. He
would train a team of Afghan mechanics in the maintenance and upkeep of all
equipment.
4.52      The project would also provide a hydrological expert for about 2
man-months to aid AVEC in selecting a suitable site of about 100 ha for its
own production farm. The expert's main objective would be to ensure that
groundwater resources are adequate to meet the production needs of the 100
ha farm. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that AVEC would (a)
employ as a team 4 experts on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA; (b)



- 34 -
employ a hydrological expert to aid in the selection of AVEC's production
farm, each of whose qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of
employment are acceptable to IDA.
H. Ministry Of Agriculture
4.53      The Ministry of Agriculture would also play an important role in the
development of this project through its extension and research activities.
The Ministry would actively promote investments in trellised vineyards and
improved techniques in the production and drying of grapes through its Exten-
sion Service, which would coordinate with AgBank and ARI in their efforts in
this field. To assist the Extension Service, the project would provide three
fellowships to suitably qualified personnel in viticulture for 6 months each.
This training is intended to augment the Ministry's existing expertise in
viticulture. The Ministry would send a training program in this respect to
IDA for approval and would select the candidates for this training in consul-
tation with IDA. Placement of the selected candidates would be handled in
the same manner as that for AgBank's candidates (para 4.33). During negotia-
tions assurances were obtained that the Ministry of Agriculture would (a)
send a training program to IDA for approval by June 30, 1978, and (b) the
selection of candidates and their placement for training would be in consul-
tation with IDA. The Ministry's Research Service would (a) aid ASC in
selecting suitable varieties of fruit, particularly grapes, from existing
stock; and (b) assist ASC and AVEC by coordination and by giving them access
to all research work carried out in various project related fields especially
varietal improvements of project crops.
I. Auditing Requirements
4.54      In accordance with the Afghan Law of Money and Banking (July 1975)
DA Afghanistan (Central) Bank (DAB) is required to audit the accounts of all
Afghan banks annually. As a requirement of the 3 agricultural credit projects
financed by IDA, an annual audit of AgBank to an acceptable international
standard by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA is already being carried
out. Two sets of audited accounts and the auditor's report are forwarded by
IDA within 4 months of the end of the Afghan fiscal year. Under the proposed
project, similar requirement for auditing AgBank annually and supply of audited
accounts to IDA would continue. At the time of appraisal EPB was in operation
for less than 1 year and no audit had taken place. Since its operations had
been confined to short term export credits and its accounts appeared quite
satisfactory, a preproject audit would serve little purpose. Therefore, only
an auditing arrangement simi:Lar to that now required of AgBank would be cove-
nanted for EPB. During negotiations, assurances were obtained to these
effects.



- 35 -
4.55      Both ARI and ASC were in operation for about 2 years at the time of
project appraisal but neither had been audited, internally or externally.
From the available data it was not possible to construct balance sheets and
income statements for either entity, consequently a preproject audit is not
practical. Under its technical assistance component, the project would provide
expert financial guidance to ARI, ASC and also AVEC, which would permit the
development of accounting systems suitable for an annual audit by an external
auditor of acceptable international standard acceptable to IDA. Two sets of
these audited accounts together with a copy of the auditor's report should be
forwarded to IDA within 4 months of the end of the Afghan fiscal year. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that these accounting and auditing
requirements would be fulfilled by ARI, ASC and AVEC.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Procurement
5.01      Project procurement for loans through EPB would be arranged by the
subborrowers with the assistance and supervision of EPU. AgBank would be
responsible for procurement of poles and wire for trellising, but may delegate
this responsibility to its subsidiary the Agricultural Machines and Services
Company (AMSCO) which is suitably qualified for this task. To the extent
practicable, items would be grouped together to permit bulk procurement and
attract maximum participation. Purchases above US$25,000 of equipment and
materials subject to international competitive bidding would consist of vehi-
cles, farm machinery, cold storage plants, refrigerated trucks, greenhouse
equipment, grading and packing equipment, poles, reinforcing rods and wires
for trellising. The estimated total cost of these is about US$7.0 million. In
addition technical assistance totalling about US$5.0 million would be procured
internationally. To facilitate speedy implementation, in view of the lengthy
investment period the number and variety of independent subborrowers with
relatively small annual investments importantly requiring continuity in after
sales service and the relatively large volume of specialized equipment (for
raisin and vegetable seed processing), additional procurement procedures
are provided.
(1) Contracts for the purchase of equipment and materials esti-
mated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000 may be
procured on the basis of price quotations from at least
three independent suppliers and in accordance with proce-
dures acceptable to IDA. The price of the contracts so
procured shall not, in the aggregate, exceed $55,000.
(2) Contracts for the purchase of common items, including
vehicles, farm machinery, motors, generators, deep-well
pumps and dehumidifying equipment estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $150,000 may be procured in



- 36 -
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally, including timely
notification to member countries of the Association which
have diplomatic representation in Afghanistan; provided,
however, (i) that such contracts estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $25,000 may be procured without
notification and (ii) that the price of the contracts so
procured shall not, in the aggregate, exceed $4,500,000.
(3) Contracts for the purchase of specialized items, including
raisin drying mats, raisin cleaning machinery, seed
processing and cleaning machinery, greenhouse equipment
and laboratory equipment may be procured in accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA on the basis of compe-
titive bidding advertised locally, including timely
notification to member countries of the Association
which have diplomatic representation in Afghanistan,
and, additionally, international shopping if so desired.
(4) Contracts for small civil works included in Disbursement
Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) may be procured on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association;
provided, however, that the price of the contracts so
procured shall not, in the aggregate, exceed $5,000,000.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that project procurement would
be arranged in accordance with "Guidelines for Procurement Under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits - March 1977", and as outlined above. Bidders for the
works included in Disbursement Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) shall be pre-
qualified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
5.02      For goods and works to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the Project, EPU would prepare and forward to IDA
as soon as possible, but not later than 60 days prior to the date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents, a
general procurement notice. IDA will arrange for the publication of this
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works. Such a notice would be updated
by EPU annually so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding. All procurement would be under
the administrative supervision of EPU who would be responsible for reviewing
all drafts of bid documents, final bids, evaluation reports and recommenda-
tions for award to ensure that IDA rquirements were met, prior to forwarding
these documents to IDA. In this connection, EPU would seek the assistance and
guidance of the more experienced AgBank as necessary. Where technical assis-
tance in preparing or in evaluation of tenders is required the services of
AMSCO would be utilized and any charges incurred would be borne by the sub-
borrower.



- 37 -
B. Disbursement
5.03      Disbursement of IDA credit allocated to the agroindustries compo-
nents and the raisin marketing credit program would be made through EPB, while
disbursement of IDA credit allocated to on-farm credit would be made through
AgBank. IDA disbursements through EPB would be over a period of 5 years, but
disbursements through the AgBank would extend over a 6 year period, although
the on-farm investments would extend over a 10 year period. All IDA funds
disbursed through AgBank would be completely committed by the sixth year at
the latest. In order to restrict the disbursement period to 6 years, dis-
bursements to AgBank have been proportionately increased. Disbursements
would be made as follows: (a) vehicles and equipment - 100% of foreign
expenditures if imported and 70% of local expenditures if procured locally,
(b) buildings, furniture, stores and deep wells - 17% of expenditures, (c)
trellising - 40% of amounts disbursed for existing vineyards and 65% for
new vineyards, (d) sub-loans to farmers for vegetable production - 80% of
amounts disbursed, and (e) technical assistance and training - 100% of for-
eign expenditures. Disbursements for (c) and (d) above will be made against
statements of expenditures and AgBank will retain the supporting documents for
review by supervision missions. Savings in any category could be reallocated
to other categories, if required. Applications for disbursement under Catego-
ries (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (8) above would be fully supported by relevant
documentation. For Categories (6) and (7) disbursement would be made against
certificates of expenditure while supporting documentation would remain in
AgBank and would be made available to supervision missions.
5.04      A schedule of estimated disbursements is as follows:



- 38 -
IDA                                           Estimated Cumulative
Fiscal Year                 Quarter                  Disbursement
(US$ million)
1979                        1
2                        0.2
3                        1.2
4                        2.8
1980                        1                         4.3
2                        5.0
3                        5.8
4                        6.6
1981                        1                         7.8
2                        8.9
3                       10.0
4                       11.1
1982                        1                        12.0
2                       12.6
3                       13.1
4                       13.9
1983                        1                        14.9
2                       15.6
3                       16.1
4                       17.1
1984                        1                        17.6
2                       17.7
3                       17.7
4                       18.0
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation
5.05      The Export Promotion Unit in the Ministry of Commerce would be
primarily responsible for all monitoring and evaluation activities. EPB and
AgBank, as well as other concerned agencies, would be responsible for ensuring
that all information relevant to this task would be promptly made available to
EPU as would all agroindustries subborrowers. Quarterly reports would be sub-
mitted to IDA by EPU on the financial and physical progress of the project.
Quarterly and Cumulative Quarterly disbursement data would be recorded and
reported by category and component. EPU would also monitor and report on
any difficulties or special problems encountered during implementation and
would also report on the actions proposed to resolve them.



- 39 -
5.06      Since EPU would be responsible for evaluating the impact of the
project in terms of achieving its stated objectives, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that it would submit to IDA for approval, not later than
June 30, 1978, a proposed system for such evaluation. During negotiations,
assurances would be sought that EPU would (a) send its proposals for a moni-
toring and evaluation system to IDA by June 30, 1978 for approval, and (b)
the agreed system would be promptly implemented, and periodic reports would
be sent to IDA. EPU would seek cooperation and assistance of AgBank and EPB,
and the implementing agencies in assembling and assessing the necessary sample
data. With respect to evaluating the achievements made through the on-farm
investments, EPU would work closely with AgBank and the Ministry of Agricul-
ture; and (c) prepare a comprehensive project completion report and send it
to IDA within 6 months of project completion.
D. Environmental Impact
5.07      The Project would have no adverse effects on the environment.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production. Markets and Prices
Production
6.01      At full development in 1993, the project would result in annual
incremental production of (a) about 5,000 tons of fresh grapes; (b) about
3,800 tons of raisins; (c) about 500 tons of vegetables seeds; (d} about
300,000 fruit tree rootstock and vine seedlings; and (e) about 4,500 tons
of potatoes and 3,750 tons of onions. Grape production would be primarily
due to the trellising that would be carried out on existing (300 ha) and new
(594 ha) vineyards. The increase in production at full development is esti-
mated at 22.5 tons/ha, both on existing vineyards, which are assumed to be of
the Bush type as in Parwan region, and on new vineyards. Increase in yield
of existing vineyards would develop over 6 years, and on new vineyards over
10 years.
Markets
6.02      Raisins.  Raisins comprise 20 to 25% of Afghanistan's export earn-
ings, consequently raisin export market outlook is extremely important. A
detailed review of export market outlook is contained in the Project Imple-
mentation File; in summary, the prospects are favorable. In Western Europe,
the main competition is from USA, whose exports are expected to stabilize in
terms of volume. During the 1976/77 period the US imported substantial quan-
tities of raisins directly from Afghanistan as a result of domestic crop
failure. Afghanistan has little or no competition in its traditional



- 40 -
neighboring country markets, USSR, People's Republic of China (PRC), India and
Pakistan. Demand in the USSR, the largest export market, and PRC is expected
to increase, possibly quite rapidly with the advent of quality improvement
under this project. Demand in India, a major market, is likely to remain
stagnant due to a bilateral trade and blocked account agreement, unless
Afghanistan imports a greater volume of industrial goods under this agreement.
Entry to Pakistan is not a problem but growth is likely to be slow in view
of the slow growth in consumer incomes. With the advent of long distance
trucking, exports to the Gulf States are expected to grow substantially
although the overall volume is likely to remain small. It is therefore
concluded that marketing of raisins would not pose any problems. However,
increased output and exports are not likely to be great in the near term and
for this reason the quality improvement program is an important part of the
project and would prove to be valuable in the medium run in increasing the
earnings from raisin export.
6.03      Grapes.  The export markets for fresh grapes are mainly India and
Pakistan. Recently, Iran has lifted its embargo on import of fresh grapes
and apples from Afghanistan. The packing and cooling facilities to be pro-
vided under the project, and the provision of refrigerated transportation
is expected to permit substantial expansion into this new market. These
facilities would also permit shipments to the USSR border at Torghundi, from
where refrigerated railroad transportation is available.
6.04      Vegetable Seed.  Since entry is quite restricted, the international
market for vegetable seed is rather difficult to evaluate and much discussion
by mission members and analysis of available industry and national data in-
dicate that the outlook, particularly for quality seed, is quite satisfactory.
In addition to an expanding demand, particularly in the Mediterranean region
and the West African countries, there is a shortage of suitable areas, in
terms of physical financial and political climate, for seed multiplication.
Afghanistan is well suited on all of these grounds. The seed multiplication
component is designed bearing in mind Government's policy towards foreign
investment, the restricted market access situation and the long run techno-
logical needs of Afghanistan.
6.05      Fruit Rootstock and Seedlings.  Output from this component is des-
tined for the domestic market. The principal output would be grape vine
seedlings for which there is an expanding domestic market as a result of
expanded grape production as foreseen in the 7 Year Plan.
6.06      Potatoes and Onions.  Iran is the principal market for potatoes
and onion. Presently, Iran imports potatoes and onions, principally from
India and Turkey. Demand for these is expected to further increase over
domestic supply in the future, and Afghanistan is the best place of all
countries to supply these. Data available is quite contradictory. Iranian
data indicates annual imports of over 50,000 tons annually at present while
export trade data of the major importers put Iranian imports of potatoes and
onions at 4 to 5 times this level. All show extremely rapid growth in recent
years (30% per annum). Anticipated Afghan exports would amount to less than



- 41 -
1% of Iran's total consumption. Additionally, the proposed production area
is very close to Meshed, a large city and an important religious pilgrimage
center in Eastern Iran.
Prices
6.07      Grapes.  Presently Afghanistan is exporting grapes to India and
Pakistan at US$245/ton to US$260/ton. There is a strong possibility that
the Afghan exports would extend to Iran, the Gulf States and USSR and due
to this expansion of market the export price is likely to increase in real
terms. However for the economic analysis, price of grapes has been assumed
as US$240/ton while for the financial analysis the prevailing farm gate prices
of Afs 7 per kg (US$154/ton) has been assumed.
6.08      Raisins.  Presently farm gate domestic price of raisins varied from
Afs 21 per kg (US$440/ton) to Afs 25 per kg (US$526/ton), and the export price
was about US$900/ton. With a slow, even growth of exports, which is assured
by improvement in quality through processing, grading and packing, the export
price is likely to increase. For the economic analysis a price of US$940/ton
has been assumed having adjusted the export price for processing and freight
costs taxes.
6.09      Vegetable Seed.  An average price of US$2,570/ton at the farm gate
level has been used for the economic and financial analyses. This price is
based on the prices quoted by the sources which might be interested in par-
ticipating in the production of seeds.
6.10      Fruit Rootstock and Seedlings.  Present domestic prices have been
used in the economic and financial analyses. Since the market for these
products would increase in the future, present prices are fully assured.
6.11      Potatoes and Onions.  Present domestic prices average about Afs 8
per kg (US$168/ton) for both potatoes and onions in winter and about Afs 3 per
kg (US$63/ton) for potatoes and onions in summer. Based on these prices, a
weighted average export price of US$127/ton for both potatoes and onions have
been used in project analysis.
6.12      The prices of all traded goods were converted to Afs at an exchange
rate of Afs 55 = US$1 for the purposes of economic analysis. This is a more
appropriate rate than the average 1976/77 free market exchange rate of Afs
47.4 = US$1. The latter reflects the effect of sizeable emigrants remittances
on a rather thin foreign exchange market and does not reflect the changes in
comparative costs of Afghanistan's exports. This shadow pricing of foreign
exchange takes account of relative cost changes of domestic and foreign
produce.
B. Financial Analysis
6.13      The financial rates of return for the project components range from
12% to 35% for medium and long term investment and 29% to 42% for short term



- 42 -
investment in on farm vegetable production. For short term (less than 1 year)
producer participation in Raisin Marketing the financial rates of return are
87% without quality improvement and 434% with quality improvement, reflecting
low cost and rapid pay off. All financial rates of return are summarized in
the table below. Sensitivity analysis have also been carried out for these
components for the following conditions, and the results are also given in
the table below:
(a) a 10% increase or decrease in the revenue;
(b) a 10% increase or decrease in the capital cost; and
(c) a 10% increase or decrease in the operating costs.
6.14      Sensitivity analysis is generally satisfactory with the exception
of the refrigerated truck component. But, since revenue was estimated as the
minimum needed to sustain the component and since the economic rate of return
is so substantial, no serious problem is envisaged. No analysis of sensi-
tivity towards capital investment was carried for vegetable production or
raisin marketing as the incremental capital investment required is zero for
vegetables and extremely small for raisin marketing. Cash flow tables for
each component are in Annex 2. Important assumptions for these analyses are
stated on cash flow tables.



- 43 -
Financial Rates of Return Analysis Summary
Sensitivity Analysis
Component                   Basic    Revenue       Capital Costs   Operating Costs
+10%   -10%    +10%       -10%    +10%    -10%
-----------per cent-------------------
Afghan Raisin Institute    13        16      9       11        15      11       14
Afghan Seed Company
Vegetable Seed Multipl.  15       21       9       14       17       11       19
Fruit Rootstock Produc.  12       15       9       11       13       10       14
Afghan Veg. Exporting Co.  16       20      12       14        18      14       18
Agroindustry Credit
Packing & Cooling Plant  14       18      10       12       17       12       16
Refrigerated Trucks        14     27       2        8       21        8      20
On-Farm Credit Trellised
Vineyards Existing/i       35     37      32      32        37       35      34
New & Replacement          18     20      16       17       19       17       18
Vegetable Production/1
Potatoes & Onions          29     48      11       -         -       26      33
Onions                     42     72      13       -         -       36      51
Raisin Marketing Credit
Storage Program/2          87    105      68       -         -       79      96
Storage + Quality
Gains /3              434    487    380         -         -     393      482
/1   Incremental Rates of Return.
/2   Benefit cost ratio:  1.87.
13   Benefit cost ratio:  5.34.
6.15      ARI is a service (non-profit) institution, prices and revenues and
thus the rate of return have been deliberately held down. As a result, the
returns to the raisin marketing credit program are quite high. The return
to the ASC Fruit Rootstock component may also be biased downwards somewhat,
as the output prices used may be conservative, nonetheless a social pricing
approach is anticipated.
C. Economic Evaluation
Economic Rate of Return
6.16      The economic rate of return for all project components including
technical assistance, based on quantifiable benefits, is estimated at about



- 44 -
38%. Exclusion of the technical assistance component would improve the return
to about 47%. Economic rate of return for individual project components range
from 14% (fruit rootstock production) to 86% (trellising existing vineyards).
The individual rates of return are summarized in the table below, which also
lists the results of the sensitivity analyses carried out for the following
situations:
(a) a 10% increase or decrease in benefits;
(b) a 10% increase or decrease in capital costs; and
(c) a 10% increase or decrease in the operating costs.
Economic Rate of Return
Sensitivity Analysis
Component                   Basic  Benefits   Capital Costs  Operating Costs
+10%  -10%   +10%   -10%       +10%   -10%
---------------------per cent-------------------
ARI
Quality Control Program         58    63    53       54     63        57      59
ASC
Vegetable Seed Multiplic..    26    29    19         23     27        21      28
Fruit Rootstock Production    14    16    11         13     15        12      16
AVEC
Vegetable Export Program        26    32    20       24     29        23     29
Agroindustry Credit Fresh
Fruit Export Invest.            46    53    40       42     51        44     48
On-Farm Credit Trellised
Vineyards Invest.
Existing                      86    93    79      79      94        85     87
New & Replacement             31    33    29      29      33        31     31
Total Project Excluding
Technical Assistance            47    52    42       44     51        46     48
Total Project Including
Technical Assistance            38    43    34       35     42        37     39
6.17      The project would result in several unquantifiable benefits, the
most important being that of institution building. In addition to supporting
the already well established AgBank, the project would build the newly estab-
lished EPB and train its staff to assume an increasingly important role in
the country's export trade. Similarly a new institution AVEC would be estab-
lished with some basic facilities and a well trained staff. This institution
has a large potential for expansion. The project would also contribute sub-
stantial technical assistance to ARI and the ASC and impart much-needed



- 45 -
training to their staff, which would be extremely valuable for the future
expansion of these institutions and the future production by ASC of high
quality vegetable seeds for the domestic market. Another benefit expected
to accrue is the development of emphasis on quality and cost efficiency among
Afghan fruit exporters particularly through waste reduction.
Beneficiaries
6.18      A fundamental aim of the project is to improve income distribution
by creating income earning opportunities for small farmers by capitalizing on
their relative surplus of labor and the growing shortage of labor, thereby
achieving more rapid results and at a lower cost than restructuring would
involve. An additional aim is to generate a near term effect on income and
export earnings as well as a long term effect. Increased earnings for small
farmers, who are the major producers of labor intensive fruits and vegetables
would be achieved by developing improved market access for horticultural
crops. The.ARI's Quality Control Program (on farm practices, storage, grading
and certification), AVEC's vegetable export operation, and the fresh fruit
packing, cooling and storage component would develop this improved access and
provide the near-term effect while investment in vineyards would provide the
long-term effect.
6.19      The substantial price effects of the combined ARI raisin quality
control and EPB/ARI raisin marketing credit programs will accrue to the users
of the program. Consideration was given to restricting credit to a limited
volume of raisins per farmer in the interest of distributing benefits to the
low income group. But, consideration of the needs to (i) develop ARI's re-
venue stream, rapidly and (ii) reduce on-farm storage in general to a mini-
mum so as rapidly to improve export quality and price, lead to relinquishing
this in favor of financing a sufficient volume of investment to meet the
grading, storage and marketing credit needs of the estimated demand for
grading and storage services and marketing credits from all sources over a
10 year period. This demand amounts to 85% of the estimated raisin exports
over the period. Consequently access to the credit program would pose no
problem in this respect. Based on the national average vineyard size of 4
jeribs (0.8 ha) and average raisin exports of 76 kg per ha of vineyard, the
number of beneficiaries under the project would be about 900,000 families
or 5.8 million individuals, giving a cost per beneficiary of US$1.30.
6.20      The direct beneficiary of the ASC vegetable seed multiplication
component would be the GOA as owner of the ASC. But, in the long run the
transfer of seed production technology to the ASC should benefit the entire
horticultural subsector. The fruit rootstock and seedling production compo-
nent in the ASC would also directly benefit the ASC/GOA, but, investors in
new vineyards will benefit from the better varieties made available on a wide
scale. Such investors increasingly would be small farmers due to the labor
intensive nature of grape production, the growing scarcity of hired labor
and the growth in numbers of small farms through land reform. Again using
national averages the estimated number of indirect beneficiaries is 100,000
families or 639,000 people with a cost per beneficiary of US$0.25 per person.



- 46 -
6.21      The beneficiaries from the AVEC vegetable export component would
be small farmers and the GOA as owner of AVEC. In the Herat area, where
production would be located, the farms are 70% owner operated and the average
farm size is estimated at 4 to 5 ha. Contract operations would require about
210 ha annually which would increase the area in Herat province under horti-
cultural crops by 2%. The number of farm level beneficiaries is expected to
be about 600 families or about 3,800 individuals, giving a cost per benefi-
ciary of US$390.
6.22      The beneficiaries under the fresh fruit packing, cooling and trans-
portation component would be the entrepreneurs themselves. A maximum of 8
concerns would be involved but extended family type entrepreneurial investments
are likely to prevail.  But, through expanding market access benefits would
also be conferred indirectly on producers. It is not possible to estimate the
number of these.
6.23      Distribution of benefits from investment in trellised vineyards
including the investment subsidy (paras. 3.05-3.08) again based on the labor
intensive nature of production, labor scarcity and the labor supply of small
farmers accrue to small farmers. Much of the investment, particularly in
trellising of existing vineyards, will take place in the Parwan area where
virtually all farms are owner operated and average farm size (1 ha) is well
below the national average (3.5 ha). If the average AgBank loan size remains
at 3 jeribs as now, the number of family beneficiaries would be about 1,500 or
9,500 persons, giving an average cost of US$160 per beneficiary.
Risks
6.24      While the individual components and entities all face their own
specific risks and problems it is important to note that no component or sub-
borrower is related to any other. Thus failure by anyone of these bears
no such complications for the remainder. The principal risk common to all
components and entities is the lack of competent managerial and technical
personnel, hence the heavy emphasis on institution building and the large
technical assistance component. It is strongly believed that without such
technical assistance and institution building emphasis a successful project
would not be possible and any significant reduction in the level of technical
assistance or institution building, in either volume or positions, would
necessitate a reduction in the size and scope of the project.
Cost Recovery
6.25      Of the total project cost 57% consists of credits to subborrowers
and would be recovered directly through subborrower repayments. The subbor-
rowers would contribute 7% of the project cost. The remaining 36% consists
of investments in AVEC's capital (1.5%), the raisin marketing credit program
(13%), the technical assistance program (18%) and the trellising investment
subsidy (3.5%). Cost recovery of these would largely be indirect.
6.26      The Government would recover its contribution to AVEC's capital
through earnings on its capital stock, which yields a 16% financial rate of



- 47 -
return. Recovery of investments in raisin marketing credit, technical assis-
tance and trellising investment subsidy program would be through the existing
tax system. De facto specific export taxes are levied on raisins (Afs 750/ton)
and fresh grapes (Afs 250/ton), and import taxes on chemicals and packing mate-
rials used in raisin processing facilities. Such taxes are a major source of
GOA revenue and so are unlikely to be removed, ensuring continuity of the cost
recovery mechanism. Direct recovery by the GOA of its contribution to the
raisin marketing credit program is not possible as this would form part of
EPB's subscribed capital. But, with the likelihood of improved productivity
and supply the export tax mechanism and taxes on EPB's and exporters earnings
the possibilities for indirect cost recovery are excellent. In order to
develop this needed financial institution it is necessary for the GOA to
invest the funds as capital in EPB.
6.27      In the trellising subsidy program the increased income effects, from
increased volume, can reasonably be expected to be distributed throughout the
economy as are those from the present volume of production, and contributions
by different segments to cost recovery through existing border taxes would
remain unchanged. It is not possible in the absence of detailed information
to say whether the distribution of the burden is equitable. The subsidy
is not an income subsidy, but one which opens up and promotes the adoption of
new technology. It is non distortive and will substantially improve land use
efficiency by making grape/raisin production more accessible to small farmers.
The subsidy is limited in volume and value. Its initial level is based on mis-
sion judgement and adjustment is justified if disbursements are substantially
out of line with mission estimates.
6.28      In terms of income distribution, it is likely that the producers
contribution is a greater proportion of their income. But the component will
amend this by altering the producer supply function to improve productivity,
the gains from which will accrue solely to the producer. Also it is expected
that the ARI market information service will strengthen the bargairing posi-
tion of the producer.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(i)  the Government, EPB, AgBank and the subborrowers would contribute
agreed amounts to finance the project in accordance with the proj-
ect financing plan and that the Government would take the neces-
sary steps to constitute and finance the trellising investment
subsidy program on terms acceptable to IDA and authorize AgBank
to operate the program not later than June 30, 1978 (para 3.08);
(ii) all project entities and subborrowers would assist and cooperate
with the EPU in the execution of its responsibilities under the
project, and EPU would continue to be adequately staffed and
maintained by the Government (para 4.05), the EPU would prepare



- 48 -
and furnish to IDA promptly after completion of the project,
but in any event not later than 6 months after the project
Closing Date, a completion report evaluating the project
(para 4.05), and by June 30, 1978 EPU would retain the
services of an expatriate consultant manager, whose qualifi-
cations, experience, terms and conditions of employment are
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.06);
(iii) EPB would (a) retain a qualified accounting firm by December 31,
1978, to establish a computerized accounting system in EPB (para
4.12); (b) develop, in cooperation with ARI, a suitable system
for implementing the Raisin Marketing Credit Program and send
it to IDA for approval by December 31, 1978 (para 4.12); and
(c) in connection with its training fellowships, send a training
program to IDA for its approval by December 31, 1978, and select
trainees in consultation with experts employed in EPB and IDA,
and arrange for their training abroad in accordance with the
agreed program (para 4.13);
(iv) the Government would (a) allocate necessary funds to EPB to ensure
that it has adequate resources to carry out its role under the
project (para 4.19); (b) ensure that EPB would maintain a debt/
equity ratio not exceeding 5:1 (para 4.19) and would phase its
contribution to the Raisin Marketing Credit Program as needed for
this; (c) make available adequate and suitable loan collateral
systems, acceptable to IDA and EPB, to all agroindustry subbor-
rowers and make all agroindustry subborrowers eligible for benefits
available under the Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law of
Afghanistan (para 4.19); (d) on-lend the proceeds of the IDA credit
allocated for ARI, ASC, AVEC and agroindustrial investments to EPB
for a term of 17 years including 5 years grace at an interest rate
of not greater than 4% per annum (para 4.23); and (e) ensure that
EPB's on-lending rate would not be less than 10% per annum (para
4.23);
(v)  EBP would (a) be responsible for evaluating the creditworthiness
of agroindustry subborrowers and their ability to execute pro-
posed subprojects and to meet the predetermined loan repayment
schedule; (b) obtain securities or other collateral acceptable
to it whose value covers 100% of each loan; the market value of
real property should not be less than 133% of the mortgage loan
value of such property (para 4.24); (c) by agreement with each
subborrower EPB, in its own right and in cooperation with the EPU,
would obtain and review financial and physical progress reports on
implementation from each subborrower and take whatever additional
steps necessary to effectively supervise the loans (para 4.24);
(d) fully appraise all subloans to subborrowers other than ARI,
ASC and AVEC and for such loans over US$20,000, or the equivalent,



- 49 -
the loan applications, appraisal and credit reports would be sub-
mitted to IDA for review and approval (para 4.24); and (e) limit
its total loans to any business entity to 20% of its own net
worth and to 10% of its net worth for total loans to any inter-
related business entities in the absence of an explicit government
guarantee, and its total debt/equity ratio to not more than 5:1
(para 4.24);
(vi)  EPB would (a) ensure repayment plans for each subloan would be
in accordance with the useful financial life of the investment
and the repayment capacity of the subborrower but in no case
would exceed 17 years (para 4.25); (b) ensure, excepting ARI,
ASC and AVEC, that the subborrower contribution to investment
cost should not be less than 20% of the total investment cost
while for ARI, ASC and AVEC, subborrower contribution would not
be less than indicated in the Project Financing Table (para
4.25); (c) include financing plans for working capital to be
made available by EPB to all agroindustry subborrowers, in-
cluding ARI, ASC and AVEC, as and when required (para 4.25);
and (d) enter into a written agreement with each subborrower
defining the terms of the loan and requiring an annual report
on the physical and financial progress from the subborrower
(para 4.25);
(vii)  AgBank would (a) procure and distribute necessary tools and mate-
rials for trellising and raising production and would distribute
drying mats in cooperation with ARI (para 4.30) but would not
make any loans for trellising under the project prior to the
legal establishment of the trellising subsidy program by the
Government (para 3.07); (b) assure itself of its subborrowers
creditworthiness and obtain suitable collateral and establish
loan repayment plans for subborrowers bearing in mind the useful
financial life of the investments and the repayment capacity of
the subborrower (para 4.31); and (c) restrict seasonal credit
loans under the project to farmers producing vegetables under
contract with AVEC and would, with AVEC, develop a scheme for
restricting seasonal credit to such contracts and channeling
contract payments through AgBank and submit the details of
such a scheme to IDA for approval by September 30, 1978 (para
4.31);
(viii)  the Government would on-lend to AgBank the proceeds of the IDA
credit allocated to on-farm credit for a term of 16 years
including 8 years grace at an interest rate of not greater
than 4.5% per annum (para 4.32) and that AgBank would on-
lend the funds under the project at interest rates of not
less than 10% per annum for short term loans and 8% for medium
and long term loans (para 4.32);



- 50 -
(ix) AgBank would send to IDA for approval, by December 31, 1978, a
training program and implementation timetable in connection with
its viticulturalist fellowships and would select candidates for
such training in consultation with ARI's experts and IDA and
arrange the placement of selected candidates with IDA (para 4.33);
(x) ARI would (a) by September 30, 1978 employ a viticulturalist, a
raisin processing and transportation specialist and a raisin
marketing specialist each for a period of 5 years, each of whose
qualifications, experience, terms and conditions are acceptable
to IDA, and similarly a local accountant would be retained for
3 months annually over a minimum 4 year period to develop an
accounting and auditing system in ARI and train ARI's staff
in this field (para 4.35); (b) send to IDA by December 31,
1978 for its approval a training program for Afghan personnel
and implementation timetable in connection with the study tours
and fellowships supplied to ARI under the project and that
selection of candidates for training and their placement
abroad would be done in consultation with IDA (para 4.36);
(c) in consultation with IDA, appoint a competent person as
President of ARI by June 30, 1978 (para 4.41); and (d)
develop and forward to IDA by December 31, 1978 for its
approval plans, including a timetable, for implementing a
grading and certification program at both the export and
producer level (para 4.41);
(xi) ASC would (a) employ expert expatriate technical assistance
in the form of a Financial Manager for the entire company by
June 30, 1978, and Technical Manager and a Seed Processing
Technician for its Vegetable Seed Multiplication Division
and a Pomologist for its Fruit Rootstock and Seedling Divi-
sion and whose qualifications, experience, terms and condi-
tions are acceptable to IDA (para 4.46); (b) send to IDA by
December 31, 1978 for its approval a training program in
connection with the fellowships supplied to it under the
project, and that selection of candidates for training and
their placement abroad would be done in consultation with IDA
(para 4.46); (c) appoint an Afghan counterpart to the Finan-
cial Manager not later than June 30, 1978 whose qualifications,
experience, terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory
to IDA (para 4.47),; (d) implement not later than September 30,
1978 an accounting system approved by EPB and satisfactory
to IDA designed tc permit separate accounts for its field
seed, vegetable seed multiplication and fruit rootstock and
seedling production and marketing activities (para 4.47); and
(e) establish separate operating divisions and accounting
systems by September 30, 1978 for field seed, vegetable seed
multiplication, arLd fruit rootstock and seedling production
and marketing (para 4.47);



- 51 -
(xii) the Government would provide title and possession of suitable
agricultural land in the vicinity of Herat with an area of at
least 100 ha to AVEC by December 31, 1978 (para 4.50);
(xiii) AVEC would employ (a) as a team 4 experts, a Contracts and
Sales Manager, a Production Manager, a Packing, Storage and
Transportation Manager, a Master Mechanic and (b) a hydro-
logical expert to aid in selecting AVEC's farm each of whose
qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employment
are acceptable to IDA (para 4.53);
(xiv) the Ministry of Agriculture, in connection with the fellowships
supplied to it under the project, would (a) send a training
program to IDA for approval by December 31, 1978 and determine
trainees placements abroad in consultation with IDA (para 4.54);
and (b) aid ASC in selecting suitable varieties of fruit and
assist ASC and AVEC by coordinating their efforts and providing
them access to all research work in project related areas (para
4.55);
(xv)  EPB, AgBank, ARI, ASC and AVEC would undertake an annual audit
of acceptable international standard by independent, external
auditors acceptable to IDA and two sets of the audited accounts
and the auditors report would be forwarded by each to IDA with-
in 4 months of the end of the Afghan fiscal year (paras 4.55
and 4.56).
(xvi) procurement under the Project would be arranged in accordance
with "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits-March 1977" (para. 5.01).
(xvii) the EPU would be responsible for monitoring and evauation of
the Project and would (a) send its proposals for a monitor-
ing and evaluation system to IDA for approval by June 30, 1978;
(b) promptly implement the agreed system and send regular reports
to IDA, with the assistance of and in cooperation with EPB and
AgBank; and (c) prepare a comprehensive project completion
report and send it to IDA within 6 months of project completion
(paras 5.05 and 5.06).
7.02      The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(i) ratification by Government of the First Project Agreement
between IDA and EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC and the Second Project
Agreement between IDA and AgBank;
(ii) ratification by Government of Subsidiary Loan Agreements in
connection with the Project with terms and conditions accept-
able to IDA, between the Borrower and EPB (para 4.23), the
Borrower and AgBank (para 4.33), EPB and ARI, ASC and AVEC
respectively (para 4.25);



- 52 -
(iii)  establishment in EPB of a Financial Planning Department and
an Internal Auditing Department (para 4.12) and execution of
EPB contracts for employment of 3 expatriates, a Financial
Manager, a Credit Manager and an Internal Audit Consultant
Manager and 3 Afghan counterparts each of whose qualifications,
experience, terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory
to IDA (para 4.12); and
(iv)  the grant by the Government to AVEC of effective export quotas
for vegetables adequate to meet AVEC's anticipated scale of
operations ranging from 1,000 tons in its first year of operations
to a peak of 9,000 tons in its ninth year of operations (para
4.50).
7.03      No disbursement would be made to ASC for vegetable seed multiplica-
tion until ASC has completed contractual arrangements satisfactory to IDA with
an established internationally recognized seed company specifying the terms
agreed to by ASC and the international seed company for multiplication and
export marketing of vegetable seed (para 4.47).
7.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed Project consti-
tutes a suitable basis for.an IDA Credit of US$18 million to Afghanistan on
standard terms and conditions.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN
Export Promotion Bank
Background
1.01      The monetary authorities of Afghanistan are aware of the difficulties
of export financing faced by exporters. Despite the efforts made by such
banking institutions as Da Afghanistan Bank, they have produced only limited
success in the field of export financing. Both financial and non-financial
constraints are the causes of the modest results. These constraints include
the failure to mobilize local savings and the lack of a legislative framework
to facilitate expansion of the credit supply.
1.02      The law of money and banking was promulgated in July 1975.  The
purpose of the law was to develop financial capabilities suitable for economic
development in the years to come. The law purported to accomplish this
through: (i) tighter control of financial institutions by the central bank and
(ii) nationalization of all banks.
1.03      The Export Promotion Bank (EPB) was founded in 1976.  The major
objectives of EPB are: (i) promoting and diversifying Afghan export products;
(ii) assisting producers in adopting their products to meet the requirements
of foreign markets; and (iii) facilitating exporters' efforts in specific pro-
motional activities abroad. Headed by a General Assembly of shareholders, the
main policy making body is the Supreme Council which includes the shareholders
and the President of EPB together with a number of high GOA officials, the
Ministers of Finance (Chairman), Commerce and Planning, the President of
Da Afghanistan Bank (the Central Bank) and the President of the Export Promo-
tion Department in the Ministry of Commerce. As a result it is proposed
to merge the two bodies into a single Board of Directors.
1.04      The day-to-day business of EPB is under the authority of the Execu-
tive Board. This consists of senior officers of EPB headed by the President
and reports to the Supreme Council. A Board of Auditors consisting of 3
persons appointed by the General Assembly of Shareholders is empowered to
investigate any facet of EPB's operations. With the approval of the General
Assembly this Board may delegate all or part of their functions to profes-
sional auditors. The outline organization chart of EPB in this Annex is
somewhat tentative, in that EPB is still very much in the formative stage and
so much in the chart is merely proposed at present, nonetheless it constitutes
a systematic organization of the elements necessary for purposeful operation.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Sources of Funds
1.05      The authorized capital of EPB is Afs 100 million made up of 100,000
shares of Afs 1,000 each.  As of May 31, 1977, 71% of this was paid up.  The
breakdown by shareholder is as follows:
Shareholders                    Original Commitments    Paid-In    Balance Due
%     Afs (mill)    Afs (mill)   Afs (mill)
Pension Treasury Dept.             80.0       80              60         20
Afghan Chamber of Commerce         10.0       10               5           5
Carpets Guild                       3.3        3.3             2          1.3
Karakul Institute                   3.3        3.3             2          1.3
Raisin Export Promotion Inst.       3.4        3.4             2          1.4
Total                           100.0     100.0            71          29.0
It was expected that the remaining 29% would be paid in by the end of August
1977. Other sources of-funds permitted to EPB are:
(i) issuing of bonds;
(ii) borrowing abroad (subject to GOA approval);
(iii) selling or discounting bills to foreign or local financial
institutions;
(iv) accepting deposits and open current accounts of Afghan and
non Afghan nationals with interest payments if necessary;
(v) interests and commissions.
1.06      Of the above potential sources of funding, several of those tradi-
tionally available to commercial banks in countries with more developed finan-
cial markets are not available to EPB. There is no domestic market interested
or able to purchase bank debentures or bonds. There is no secondary market
able to purchase or discount bills or notes. The public in Afghanistan has
showed a reluctance to deposiit funds with any of the established commercial
banks and has preferred to place its funds with individual money traders.
Deposits in the short run are likely to be volatile at best but once EPB
acquires the necessary administrative and accounting skill it might succeed
in attracting deposits from the public in the medium term if an aggressive
policy of attracting such funds were pursued.
1.07      EPB borrowed $2 million (Afs 95 million) from Da Afghanistan Bank
at an interest rate of 9%. As of May 20, 1977, Afs 71.2 million is still
outstanding, and EPB plans to repay the loan fully when it will be due in the
coming months. EPB has alreacdy signed a $10 million loan from the Central
Bank of Iran. The loan is for 15 years with a one year period of grace on
principal payments. It bears an annual interest rate of 3 1/2%, payable in



ANNEX 1
Page 3
semi-annual installments. EPB has five years to use the funds, but it expects
to draw down the loan in advance. The purpose of the loan will be to permit
the bank to finance and promote Afghan exports. The loan agreement provides
no restrictions on how the funds should be used for this purpose, thereby pro-
viding full flexibility. EPB's management has indicated its intention to
utilize the funds mainly to provide pre-export financing, as it anticipates
that demand for this will eventually take up almost all of the loan.
1.08      When all the above commitments are implemented the source of funds
for EPB will be as follows:
Million Afs
DAB Short-term Loan
Iranian Long-term Loan                                475
Stockholders Equity                                    95
570
The debt/equity ratio then is expected to be 5:1. In setting the appropriate
level of the debt/equity ratio, many qualitative aspects have to be taken
into consideration. Such factors include the composition of short-term and
long-term sources of funds, the nature of business of the clients, and the
availability of time and demand deposits, etc. Considering such factors we
believe 5:1 is a desirable and reasonable level for EPB to pursue in its ini-
tial stage of operations. Since there is no fixed rule in this, the ratio
requirement should necessarily be reviewed from time to time in the future.
1.09      In order to maintain the 5:1 debt/equity ratio, an additional long-
term debt has to be matched by 20% of additional shareholder's equity. As
far as this project is concerned, we consider that this requirement would
be most conveniently met by treating the GOA's contribution to raisin mar-
keting (Afs 173.3 million) as an additional capital subscription to EPB.
Assurances of this were obtained during negotiations.
Operations Review
1.10      The revenues and expenses during the eight-month period ended
March 20, 1977 was as follows:



ANNEX I
Page 4
Revenue                          Afs '000       % of Total Net Worth*
Interest                          5,051.3                 9.8
Commission                         1,176.7                2.3
Total Revenue                      6,228.0               12.1
Expenses
Direct Expenses                    1,927.5                3.7
Operating Expenses
Salary                         618.8                 1.2
Other                          678.7                 1.3
Total Expenses                     1,298.5                2.5
Profit Before Tax                 2,972.0                 5.8
Taxes                                792.8                1.5
Net Income                         22179.2                4.2
* The net worth at the end of the period was Afs 51.5 million.
1.11      A 5.8% gross return during the period on the end of the period net
worth, or about 8.5% return annually appears to be satisfactory, especially
when the Bank's net worth is growing.
1.12      The only data available was for the two-month period below.  In this
time the following changes have occurred in major balance sheet items:
March 20, 1977   May 20, 1977   Net Change
-------- Afs Million --------
Cash                             4.1              8.3           +4.2
Loan                           154.1            178.6          +17.5
Borrowing from DAB              87.2             71.2          -16.0
Demand and Time Deposits        20.8             35.7          +14.9
Capital Contributions           48.3             71.0          +22.7
1.13      The table indicates that the increase in demand and time deposits
supplied enough funds for repayment of the DAB loan. The additional contri-
butions were mainly used for additional loans. The cash position was also
strengthened. As a result the current ratio rose from 1.46 to 1.68. EPB's
operations were quite satisfactory during this two-month period.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Additional Financing Required
1.14      In addition to the long-term credit which covers 20% of the capital
investment by Afghan Raisin Institute, EPB has to finance certain portion of
operating expenses required by ASC. Such local long-term credit requirements
are listed below.
Long-Term Local Credit for ASC
1       2       3        4       5        6       7        8
------------------------ Afs '000 -----------------------
Vegetable Seed    5,000   5,000   5,000   2,500        -           -            -
Fruit Rootstock   1,208   2,520   2665   2,737   1,995   2,829          -      770
Total              6,208   7,520   7,665   5,237   1,995   2,829        -      770
In order to avoid fund shortages, especially during the early stage of the
project, the need for this additional financing should be clearly notified to
GOA as well as EPB.
Institution-Building in EPB
1.15      EPB was founded in 1976 and it is still in the process of building
internal, institutional settings. The current task force of the bank is as
follows:
Functional Area
Professional                                                    Foreign
Staff     Treasury  Accounting  Administration  Credit  Relations  Total
High              1          1              -            1         -         3
Medium            -          1              1            1         1         4
Basic             1          -1                          -         -         2
2          2              2            2         1T       9
Support Staff    2           3              2            2         1       10
Total          4           5              4           4          2       19
1.16      As described in the Operations Review, the financial position of the
bank improved substantially during the two months period, from March 20, 1977
to May 20, 1977, and the bank operations were satisfactory during the past
months. However the operational results during this short period should not
be taken as an indication of established management practices in EPB. This
is especially true, when we take the nature of EPB's current business into
account. EPB is concentrating its operations in short-term financing. When



ANNEX 1
Page 6
it extends operations into long-term, project finance fields, the bank is
expected to encounter new and more complex challenges. In order to success-
fully overcome these challenges, EPB should immediately begin its institu-
tional building task especially in such critically weak fields as external
auditing, financial planning, and credit.
Portfolio Analysis
1.17      All present sources of funds are short-term money, with the excep-
tion of its capital base. EPB borrowed short-term $2 million from the Da
Afghanistan Bank (the Central Bank) at an interest rate of 9%. EPB could
not prudently use these funds to finance projects requiring medium or long-
term funds. The portfolio consists of short-term loans for a period of up
to 180 days. The money is used to provide pre-export financing for products
such as raisins, carpets, fresh fruits, dry fruits, and handicrafts. EPB's
policy is to extend credit for up to 75% of the invoiced valued of the goods,
for which it charges an 11% fixed interest rate. The client assigns the
proceeds of the goods sold to the bank which receives the money after the
foreign exchange is converted through the Central Bank.
1.18      This policy of restricting its operations to short-term pre-export
financing is appropriate in view of the short-term nature of its sources of
funds. The terms of its financing appear to provide adequate protection
against losses, and the experience to-date has been satisfactory.
1.19      However, the fact that EPB has not yet suffered a loss on any of
its loan does not mean that the portfolio is risk free. Eventually, any risk
taking financial institution will suffer losses. In the case of EPB, this
risk will rise once it enters the business of financing projects on a medium
and long-term basis. The portfolio, as of May 20, 1977 was heavily concen-
trated in financing raisin, as summarized below:
EXPORT PROMOTION BANK'S PORTFOLIO
As of May 20, 1977
Industry                        (Million Afs)       (US$'000)        %
Raisins                                   97.9              1,958         59
Dried and Fresh Fruits                    25.5                510         15
Handicrafts and Carpets                    7.2                144          4
Sheep, Goat and Calfskins                 15.1                302          9
Pickle and Canned Products                 8.0                160          5
Other                                     13.0                260          8
Total                                  166.7              3,334        100
1.20      The financing of raisins alone came to 59% of the portfolio, an amount
exceeding EPB's net worth by 30%. Just one company, Shirkat Samoon, a major



ANNEX 1
Page 7
exporter has an outstanding loan from the bank for Afs 58.2 million or 35% of
the total portfolio. Although the Government owns this company, it is not a
sound banking practice to carry such a high exposure with one client. A delay
in payment could jeopardize the liquidity of the bank, whose major obligations
are short term. This situation highlights the need to set lending limits per
client and to relate them to the paid-in capital and local assets of the
bank.
1.21      Again, any limit on EPB's exposure to any one client or investor
group will of necessity be arbitrary. The purpose is to reduce risk in the
event of failure of a specific project or bankruptcy of an investor group. In
the case of Afghanistan where many economic activities are carried on by State
owned or controlled entities, the particular risk may be illiquidity rather
than insolvency.
Required Undertakings
1.22      As outlined in the SAR, unless otherwise authorized by IDA, under
the proposed project EPB would undertake the following:
(i) create an accounting reserve against possible losses;
(ii) annually retain an internationally acceptable external
accounting firm to prepare an audit of its accounts;
(iii) establish within itself an Internal Auditing Department;
(iv) establish within itself a Financial Planning Department;
(v) establish a Credit Department within itself as separate and
distinct from the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Relations
Departments;
(vi) maintain a debt/equity ratio not exceeding 5:1;
(vii)  limit its total lending to any one single business to 20%
of its net worth or interrelated business group to 10% of
its net worth to reduce risk of loss;
(viii)  provide a program of subloans for raisin marketing credits to
farmers in cooperation with ARI and funded by moneys allocated
to EPB as part of its augmented capital stock.
1.23      In more detail these requirements would entail:
(i) Loss Reserve
Thus far, EPB has not created any accounting reserves against
possible losses, although its charter provides for such a



ANNEX 1
Page 8
reserve. A reserve against losses should be created in
advance of any realized losses. The amount of such a
reserve would ideally be based on experience, but even
without any experience, a reserve policy needs to be
instituted. A 5% reserve against equity investments, 3%
against medium and long-term loans and 1% on short-term
transactions of six months and over appears reasonable.
This policy would be reviewed periodically in light of the
composition and strength of EPB's portfolio.
(ii) External Audit
At the present time, EPB is not subject to any independent
external audit. The signing of loan agreements with for-
eign lenders underscores the desireability to appoint an
internationally recognized firm of external auditors which
would provide a variety of services.
Firstly, it would prepare or review the chart of accounts
around which EPB will build its accounting records and
reports.
Secondly, it would prepare or review the basic internal
documents to be used by the bank to control and record
movements of funds.
Thirdly, it would carry out an annual external audit
utilizing generally accepted accounting practices.
(iii) Internal Auditing Department
A new department would be added to be named Internal
Auditing Department. This department would be headed
by a senior officer and report directly to the President
and the Executive Board. The function of this department
would be to audit all bank operations periodically and
the Executive Board. The documentation of every loan
would be examined. This department would undertake
audits or inspections of clients whose loans are in
default.
(iv) Financial Planning Department
At present EPB has no operating budget nor any provi-
sion for one. A special department for financial
planning would be established to develop medium and
long-term budgets including projected sources and
applications of funds.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
(v) Credit Department
The Credit Department would be separated from the Foreign
Exchange and Foreign Relations Departments. This department
would be headed by a senior executive reporting directly to
the President. He would be responsible for establishing and
operating this department to receive credit applications from
clients, evaluate their credit standing and negotiate the
terms of the loan and then presenting proposals for approval.
This department would be responsible for getting the proper
legal documents prepared as well as collecting loans from
clients. Client relationships and portfolio management would
all be handled by this department. At the present time, these
functions are being handled by the President with the assis-
tance of the Director of Administration.
(vi) Debt/Equity Ratio
An initial restriction of 5:1 would be required here. With-
out attempting to analyze all the possible alternatives this
is the required level indicated by experience. Firstly, it
is EPB's intention to make equity investments, which would
be a policy consistent with its promotional objectives.
Secondly, there is no central regulatory agency in Afghan-
istan covering commercial banks. Thirdly, it would not be
prudent to count on financial support from the Central Bank
of Afghanistan in case the bank faced illiquidity. Practice
and tradition indicate that commercial banks, even Govern-
ment controlled ones, are left to resolve their own problems
without Central Bank intervention. To the extent that any
of the above assumptions are modified, a higher debt/equity
might be acceptable in the future.
Total debt to net worth (capital plus retained earning after
taxes) ratio was 1.5:1 as of May 20, 1977. All of these bor-
rowings came from the Central Bank. EPB will repay the
Central Bank loan when it matures within the coming months.
That would leave EPB with a $2 million paid-in capital and
a $10 million term loan from the Central Bank of Iran.
Therefore, any additional funding should be matched by a
20% equity contribution from shareholders or retained
earnings.
EPB's management has pursued conservative policies to-
date by lending only short-term, and more recently by
strengthening its cash position. During 1977 cash rose
from 20% in March to 25% in May. It also strengthened
its current ratio from 1.5:1 in March to 1.7:1 in May.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
This ratio is acceptable as long as the cash flow (prin-
cipal and interest) of the portfolio proves to be reliable.
(vii) Lending Limit to Firms or Groups
The maximum normal limit per client would be established at
20% of the bank's net worth. This would provide a limitation
of about $550,000 upon receipt of the GOA contribution to
the raisin marketing credit Program as a capital subscription
in conjunction with the proposed IDA credit. This percentage
is high by international standards and takes into account
IDA's desire to utilize EPB as a financier of relatively
large export projects. However, this will expose EPB to
higher than average risk in terms of diversification and
reinforces the neecd to build up reserves against possible
losses during the initial years. Because of the enlarged
family concept prevailing in Afghan society and the indis-
tinguishability of asset ownership within the family, it is
.seen as advisable to include a limit on EPB's total exposure
with a single interrelated business group. Thus a maximum
limit of 10% of EPB's net worth on its lendings to such a
group would be required. This would leave EPB with more than
adequate operating flexibility and still avoid excessive
exposure to risk with one group. The only exception to this
requirement would be the State itself. Since the State is
undertaking to promote a number of larger export projects
in which EPB would be expected to participate with funds
from the proposed IDA loan, EPB should view individual
State owned activities as separate entities and apply the
above restrictions accordingly. Thus ASC and AVEC although
State owned, would be considered separately for purposes of
limiting exposure. Proposed loans to ARI, ASC and AVEC
would be above these already high limits but since these
are GOA concerns it is proposed that the GOA would give
explicit guarantees to EPB to cover loan repayment defaults
by any of these. Other State owned concerns might also
exceed these lending limits provided explicit and specific
Government guarantees are provided for such excesses.



APPRAISAL OF
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN
EXPORT PROMOTION BANK - OUTLINE PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART 1
MSUPREM4E COUNCIL|
EEXECUTIVE BOARDA
F  r  ECTOR-  DIR CT                  F~~~D-IVISIOR       INVETOR          TREAUR         INTERNAL A-UDITING
DEMNAND*    COLLECTIONSDIISO
TMAE LCDSGENERALION                                  ADMINISTRATIO                  ACCOUNTN                MANAGER*
FINANCE           FRWA_-ING
l              g    .    .             pPERSONNELL~~~~~ |CURRENT ACCOUNTS|  GENERAL      I COMPTROLLERSs
r   .          g          .            ~~~~~~~~~DIVSO   DEPARTMENT         ACCOUNTINGI    DEPARTMENT
.FOREIGN      FOREIGN            rCREDIT  I... DEPARTMENT|
EXCHANGE   . ELATIONS          IDEPARTMENT rIACHVS
DEPARTMENT   DEPARTMENT                                 LDVSO             INVEN TORYI      |TREASURY L              UITN
I LOAN                                 I DIVSO  |DIVISION|                          zt _
|DEMAND |   COLLECT'IONS|         DIIIOISERVICESI
IDEPOSITS     DIISO  -jIDIVISIONf r                                                          TRANSFERS|
|DIVISION|                          LOANS   lDVSO
COLLECTION 
|TIM4E   L   L/C DIVISION|        DIVISION|
!DIVISIN     FIYANCTAL               FOR.WMRDIN-Gj 
PLANNING            DIVISION
|DEPARTMENT*|>
rtX
1/  As generally foreseen by the EPB.
*  Appraisal Report proposed technical assistance positions.
* Appraisal Report recommendation.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
EXPORT PROMOTION BANK - KABUL, AFGHANISTAN
PROFIT AND LOSS STATENENT
FOR THE EIGHT MONTH PERIOD ENDED
MARCH 20, 1977
(US$1 = Afs 47.5)
(Afs '000)         (US$ '000)
Revenues
Interest                                       5,051.3              106.0
Commissions                                    1,176.7               25.0
6,228.0             131.0
Direct Expenses
Interest and Commissions                       1,927.5               41.0
Profit before operating expenses                4,300.5              90.0
Operating Expenses
Salary-wages-supplements                         619.8               13.0
Rent                                             217.8                4.6
Travel-communication                               27.0               0.6
Office Expenses                                   96.7                2.0
Advertising                                       42.1                0.9
Government stamp tax                              33.8               0.7
Depreciation                                     172.8               3.6
Others                                            88.5               1.9
1,298.5              27.0
Profit before taxes                              2,972.0              63.0
Total taxes (excluding stamp)                      792.8              17.0
Net earnings                                     2,179.2              46.0



ANNEX 1
Table 2
EXPORT PROMOTION BANK OF AFGHANISTAN - BALANCE SHEET
(US$1 = Afs 47.5)
March 20, 1977             May 20, 1977
Million   US$ '000        Million   US$ '000
Afs                       Afs
Assets
Cash
On hand                                  8.1       171.0            .6        13.0
With Bank                                 .2         4.0           3.5        74.0
Sub-total                          8.3       175.0           4.1        86.0
Receivables.                              .4         8.0            .3         6.0
Short-term loans                       171.6    3,612.0          154.1    3,244.0
Total Current Assets             180.3    3,795.0          158.5    3,336.8
Fixed Assets                       1.3        27.0           1.0        21.1
Total Assets                     181.6    3,823.0          159.5    3,357.9
Liabilities
Demand Deposit
Individuals                             30.7      646.0           20.8      438.0
Banks                                    3.0        63.0           -         -
Sub-total                         33.7       709.0          20.8       438.0
Time Deposits                            2.0       42.0            -         -
Short-term loans from DAF               71.2    1,499.0          87.2    1,836.0
Accounts payable                          .7        15.0           1.0       21.0
Total Current Liabilities        107.6    2,265.0          109.0    2,295.0
Stockholders Equity
Capital Paid-in                         71.0    1,495.0          48.3    1,017.0
Retained earnings                       -          -              -          -
After taxes                              3.0       63.0           2.2        46.0
Net Worth                         74.0    1,558.0           50.5    1,063.0
Total Liabilities and Net Worth         181.6    3,823.0          159.5    3,358.0



APPRAISAL OF
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
AYGb'ANiS1TAN
E;oort Promotion Bank
Projected Receipt. ad Aeplicattina of Feeds
I,    Governmlent Siabnrseeaat oP
LongPenct Credit                       150,080    78,422   140,769    51,928    77,534                                                                                -               -
Capital Snb-ariptitomte  EPB               -       5.750    14,4381   43.43          - 3144                                                                     - 14,437 --  1.438    14,437  -  -  _  _   _         _          -            
Total                                      150,0R0   136.172   155 207    95.240    77.534    1.43R           _        14,437       -       14.438   JL,4.417                 -          -         -          -          -          -        -           -
II.   Intereta  Earninga free:
AfgheB RtisEi  En-titnre                   -        9,397      9,397    19,693    19,693    29,284    06,749    24,214    21,679    19,144    16,609    14,074   11,539             9,004      6,469      3,934
Afghan Seed Compay                         -        3,587      4,446     5,722      7,339      7,420      7,420     6,686      5,952      5,038      4,123     3,2D9    2,133       1,399        666       -          -         -          -          -
Afghan Vegetable Export Gompety            -        2,712      4,768      6,041     6,041      6,041      5A446    4h851       4,256      3,661      3,066     2,471    1,876       1,281        686       _          _
Agr-indnairy Credit                        -        1,192      6,119      9,013    11,552    10,514       9,571     8,942      7.954      6,967      5,980     4,993    4.006       32018      2,031      1,944        358
Reiain -aretting CreditA
hort-ter)                      _          -         2.888     3,610      5.775      5 775      6 497     6.497   _Ag2l1        7.219      7.791     8.663    8663    8,.663    8.663    8-66;             8,663    8,663       -,663      a.6i63
T.t.1                                         _       16,a858    27.618    44.079    50 400    590_3A    55.683    51,190    47,060    42-029    37,569    13,410   98-197    73.3365    18.515    13.641               9,02'i    8.663      8h663      8.663
TEE. Loan Collatiton fProt:
Afghan RaIein InTtitnee                              -          -          -          -       25,350    25,350    25,350    25,350    2              5,350    08,300    2 5,358   25,390    25,350    25,350    39,333  -
Afghan Seed Company                        -          -         -          -          -         -         7,337     7,337      9,146      9,146      9,146    10,756    7,337       7,337      6,656       -
Afghan Vegetable Export Compny                                                                     0 -   -'   900   S,950      5,950       ,950      5,950      5,950    5,950      5,950      6,858       -          -          -         -          -
Agroinduarry Credit                        -          -        3,970    10,370    10,360       9,425      6,296      9,872     9,872      9,872      9,872      9,872    9,872      9,872      9,872      6,867      3,573       -
Raiien Marketing Credit
(ahort--ear)               _             -       57,750    72.188   1150500   115.500   129,938   129938   144.375   144375   158 813   173.250  173-f,0   173.250   173.250   173.250   173- 50   173.250   1i63                     173.250
Total                                         -           -      h7         82.5E 72.8_80   156.05R        174.871   178,447   194.693   1949.69    209.131   225.178  22_1759   221.719   241.986   219_4 q   176f82l      3   173,250   173.25.0   173l.m
IV.   Additi-na1 Fi-annOng ReqOiEedLi               za.M         -                   __           _          -       __           _                                                     422    5,184    9,807    17.217    64.464
TOTAL RECEIPTS                             168,867   153,060   244,545   221,877   253,814   229,697   230,554   244,074   241,753   251,160   261,137   058,588  250,308   250,308   058,308   205,388   20,308   181,913   181,913   181,913
APPLICATIoRS
1.    Loon Dibarseement to:
Afgheo RaEien Iatitote                 93,961        -      102,964       -       95,908             -               -          -         -          -          -         -         -          -          -          -          -          -         -
Afghan Bead CompeoY                     35,866      8,596    120753    16,175         808
Afghao Vegetable Export Co-p-ny         27,120    200560    12,720         -          -
Agroitdnetry Credit                     11,920    49,266    32,917    35,753         -
RSieio Karketiog CradiE
(ehort-term)                 -       52~_17 0   ,31      115,500   115.500   109,938   129.938   144r75   144.375   158,513   1731250   17320   173.250   173.250   173.250   173,230   173J.2.                173-250   17,290
Total Loer Olehocaenent                   168 261   136.17 ? 0233 ,550   1674.42E   2120216   129.938   129.938   144.375   144 375   158,813   173,250   173.2S0  173.250   17325O0   173.085   173.250   173.250   1173.25    173.250
II.   Loan Repayment to Government                     -          -          -          -         -        '7,058    77,058    77,058    77,058    77,058    77,058    77,058   77,058    77,058    77,058    77,058    77,058                -
17.  Snr_lnI pFnd4                                     -        16,888  _J543        544.449    41.598    22.701    23,558    22.641    20.320    15.28          10.829     8.280      _-                    - _        _          _       ,h,3g       8.665   181.913
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                         168,867   153,060   244,045   221,877   253,814   229,697   230,554   244,074   241,753   251,160   261,137   258,588  250,308   250,308   058,308   288,3108   08,308   181,913   181,913   181,913
A Short-te= (6 montha per y-er) C-edit for REeinit harkting, I00 p.-.
Li To br fiE-neod by Export Pro-titon Sank frto  non IDA eoenea.
ZI  12 yrar level peym.ent, atrtiog in year 6.  4% p...
A4 B.o1at. i197t
A.g..t, 1977



o     oN~ 4N             3 40                              "C =  oNNO O  flo  t;    ,    g        *r 
-4  ON   N0   NO   NONX    ON   NO             O      004 o    .    NOON 
"       .   "g$ 9            -z y    , ;    g                  n
00          00       NsN    NO        a    0 jO       a 
-   -L g-                                                 N       a -W ,  
O       010       N   0S >O O        010     _ =     10
-4       NO =    0                     0  |N    ,b/ 0  - =       o0|
4   00      04               00          40    00    a0.0  0100 az 
*    I0 00            00          00               -40-4w1
>   87  *-9   PUto     OW              70@g                      a             N~ijo 
-4  _0    NO      I        0g OO                        000I                      =
ot s         4-o o> t0                   o__              NONz;                        fi        NO4 
_  tt       oto              WOW            0S             NON        
-4- 0n            I@         N/           ON            NON           
N   0-      00  s0           000          00 ov0          °0Og
000          000 It           40,  0      CroO|             -   
wI  °4 °      0    I IOA                 'J| P   0W O     0010O 0W| 
0;  ON       Co 7            000          00               O   i'     | vOw  
7 000                        NOO          00-             ooo 1| 
AgO 00                           N        0   0            00
a'  0       000                                  I'     ~I I  | I *S IIIIII|X*Ii|
0 0011I                                                                     j
0' 00 
I~ ~ 30I                                                            I 



APPRAISAL OF
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN
Aericaltornl D-veloonent Bank of Afohanistan
Projected Receipts and Anocatioss ai F          mod Oob9aenseent and Enpnnvnet Schedule
RECEIPTS                                                       1        2       3         4        5         6         7        8 _ __  __                             2            13 134         15       5i        17         8-      19      20
RECEEPTI ----~~~~~~~-----------------------------------7---------                                     -      -       -       -       Af'OOO ---------------------------------------------
3.   Government Dtsb-roements to AgBank
IDA Long-torn Credit                              2,463   6,169   12,337   24,675   40,714   37,019          -         -         -        -
IDA Short-tern Credit                                -     1,803       231     499        S12    1.018       -         -         -        -
Total Goveroneot Dibor.enento                         ?,463   7,972   I,568   ?_5,174   41,226   381037
II   Interest Earrings from
Local Long-term Credit (8% p.a.)                     -       -        -          32        71       260      664    1,372    2,394    3,532    4,341    3,555    2,812    2,128    1,434            760       258
IDA long-tern Credit (81; p.o.)                      -       -        -          34       112      472    1,267    2,683    4,882    7,619    9,609    7,961    6,347    4,803    3,239    1,760              582
Short-term Credit - Lotal cod IDA (10  p.t.)         -       -         135      152       190       228      267       30o      343       381       361      381       381       3_1      381       381       381       381     381      381
Total Intere.t Earntnga                                        -          135      208       373       960    2,198    4.360    7.619   111532   14 331   11,897    9,540    7.312    50504    2.921    1.221              381      381     381
III. Loan, Collection-
LncaS long-tern Credit                               -       -        -          60       215       669    1,663    3,385    5,708    7,986    9,837    9,273    8,554    8,659    8,192    6,527    3,222
IDA Lo-g-tera Credit                                                  -          94       338    1,142    2,942    6,134   10,775   16,035   20,616   20,147   19,307   19,544   18,490   14,732    7,272
Short-term Credit - Local . nd IDA                   -       -       1.803     . 034    2,533    3.045    30556    4,055    4.566    5.079    5.079    5,079    5,079    5,79 .079                0 079 5.079    5 079   5.079   5,079
Total Loan Collmotions                                         -       JQ803    2,188    3 086   4.856    8.161   13 574   21.049  209100   35,532   34.499   32 940   33.282   31.761   2t;.338   15.573    5,079   5,079   5.079
IV. Additional Financing Reqoired1                             660   1.636    3_138    6,175   10,373    7781          -        -        7,078                                                                                                    _
TOTAL RECEIPTS                                        3,123   9,608   17,644   33,755   55,058   51,634   10,359   17,934   35,746   40,632   49,663   46,396   42,840   40,594   36,815   29,259   16,794    5,460   5,460   5,460
APPLICATIONS                                                                                     ====
I.   Loon Dishbrseneot by AgBenk
Local Long-tern CreditL2                          1,029   2,571    5,143   10,287   17,097   15,741          623    1,247    2,057    1,870
IDA LS og-t   Credit                              2,094   5,234   10,467   20,935   34,916   32,337    1,870    3,740    6,172    5,661
Short-term Credit - Local and IDA/a                 _      1,803    0,034    2,533    3.045    3,_556    4,000    4.566    5.079    5 079    5 079    5.079    5 079    5,079   5.079    5,079    5,079    5,079  5.079.                _
Total Loan Dicbhrseneno                               3j123   9,608   17,644   33.755   00_008   51._63 4    6.548    9.553   13.308   120610   5.079    5,079 7        5. 079    50 079   5_079    5.,079   _5.27       4 079   5.079
IT.  Loan Rep.aye..  to G--ormont-A                            -        -       -         -                            -        -       2P,438   22,438   22,438   22,438   22,438   22,438   22,438   22,438           -         -        -
III. Sorplc  Fuond5                                                           -        -                            3_- -   11     8,381   -      5,584   22,346   18,879   14,963   13,077    9,298    1,742    11,715            381    381    5,460
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                    3,123   9,608   17,644   33,755   55,058   51,634   10,359   17,934   35,746   40,632   49,863   46,396   42,480   40,594   36,815   29,259   16,794    5,460   5,460   0,460
i. Additional fundo to he rained by AgBRnk
4 20%  of Capital Inve-t-ent fin  trellisina--Existing, New and Replaconemt.
3 Vegethble Prod-ction
EqgaI amnool payment for 8 Iearo.  8  ears grace period - 4.05% p.a.
Ro Blasscinr item.>
Note,  All the local credits, Song-term  or short-termaer  financed b, ABBrk fnd..
Augoet, 1977                                                         v A         n



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN
Afghan Raisin Institute
Raisin Marketing Credit Program
Overview
In this program the farmer will bring raisins to the Raisin Insti-
tute's regional store where they will be precleaned and graded at a cost of
Afs 300 per ton and stored at a cost of Afs 300 per ton per month. Storage
will be such as to substantially minimize deterioration in quality. Certi-
ficates of quality and ownership will be issued against which the Export
Promotion Bank (EPB) may issue marketing credits.  This will facilitate the
farmer's need for cash at harvest time but prevent the necessity of dumping
his output on the market all at one time causing a seasonal glut and reduced
prices. Because of the price fluctuating nature of the raisin market it is
expected that EPB will limit its marketing credit to about 50% of the value
of the stored raisins.
Some of the Afghan raisin crop is financed by commercial credit
from non institutional sources. This is, however, high risk credit with
correspondingly high lending costs to the borrower. The regional storage
program of the Afghan Raisin Institute can reduce these risks significantly.
Therefore, if the Institute operates these storage facilities in coordination
with lending agencies, a reduction of these risks could make credit available
on more favorable terms.
The following discusses the risks associated with raisin credit on
how the Institute storage facilities can serve to reduce these risks.
Risks in Raisin Credit
A lender has three major risks when extending credit for the purchase/
export of raisins. First, he is lending money on an unclean product. The
lender does not really know the product when raisins are inter-mixed with dirt
and other extraneous material. Second, he is lending money on an ungraded
product. The true quality of the raisins is not objectively known when credit
is extended. Third, the storage of raisins is under physically poor and inse-
cure conditions. The lender is, therefore, fearful of losing raisin value
because of rodents and insects, exposure to weather, thievery, etc.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
In the face of these risks the lender must charge more for credit.
The interest rate has to be higher and the amount loaned generally lower.
However, if these risks can be reduced, then hopefully interest rates can
be reduced and the amount loaned increased.
ARI Services
The Afghan Raisin Institute plans to construct and operate regional
storage plants in each of Afghanistan's major raisin production areas. The
functions to be performed in each of these plants will provide the following
services to credit providing banks.
1.   Accurate Weighing:  Raisins will be weighed as they enter
the plant to determine the gross, uncleaned weight. Then
raisins will be again weighed after cleaning and grading
to determine net weights. By so weighing, lenders will
know the true net quantity of product they are extending
credit on.
2.   Raisin Cleaning:  All raisins will be air pressure cleaned
to extract dirt, vines, rocks, etc. By so cleaning, lenders
will have a much more accurate idea of the general condition
of the product.
3.   Raisin Grading:  Following cleaning, all raisins will be
machine graded, tested for moisture, etc. When so graded
and inspected, lenders will have an understanding of the
products actual quality.
4.   Market Information:  Regularly each storage facility will
be provided with spot quotations from major export markets.
This will inform both the producer, exporter and lender of
the prices at which raisins are currently selling. The
lender will know more accurately the amount he can loan as
a result of this information.
5.   Selling Facilities:  Each storage plant will have a selling
area in which producer and exporter can meet to negotiate and
finalize raisin sales. The lender will receive an accurate
accounting of these sales, based upon proper net weights,
cleaning and grading and will all parties to the sale sharing
market information.
6.   Secure Storage:  Finally, the lender will have his goods
stored in these plants under secure conditions. He will be
assured that the raisins, for which he has extended credit,
are being preserved properly.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Storage Period and Price Gains
Farmer marketing of Afghan raisins continues on average from October
to June - 9 months. Wholesale raisin prices vary from low to high, on average,
by 20% over this period. 1976/77 prices varied by over 100% in this period
due to a poor harvest in California resulting from unusual weather conditions.
Prices tend to peak toward the beginning of the new year although this is not
regular due to the uncertain knowledge of world market conditions. It is
anticipated that, on average, raisins will be stored for one third to one half
of the 9 month marketing period and the farmer's price will increase by 10% as
a result. In 1976/77 the farmer's price varied from Afs 21 to Afs 25 per kg.
Thus the gain from storage would have been Afs 3.1 per kg or Afs 3,100 per
ton.
Quality Control Program and Price Gains
The Afghan raisin receives the lowest of all prices on the interna-
tional market, being 60% that of the top (Californian) raisin price. While
it is theoretically possible to achieve parity between the two this is not
anticipated to happen without a substantial long-term marketing effort. How-
ever, a significant gain of 15% to 20% is expected to be realized from the
present program of improved quality through double cleaning, professional
storage and certification permitting more reliable export sales arrangements
(less consignment sales). Because of the multiplicity of exporters (pro-
cessors and traders) most of this gain is expected to be passed on to the
farmers, certainly not less than 12% to 18%. A 12% increase on the average
1976/77 farmer price would amount to a price rise of Afs 5.76 per kg or Afs
5,760 per ton.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Incremental Costs: These are estimated to be as follows:
Item                 Unit Cost           Cost per Ton
 __-------  Afs --------- ----
Sacks                     10/sack                   120
Transportation             2/50 kg                   40
Cleaning & Grading       300/ton                    300
Storage                  300/ton/month            1,200
Total                                        1,660
Financial Return                                Afs per Ton
Incremental Revenue
Gains from Storage                           3,100
Gains from Quality Improvement               5,760
Total                                       8,860
Incremental Costs                                 1,660
Net Incremental Revenue                           7,200
Net Incremental Revenue from Storage              1,440
With such incremental revenue over a 3 month period it is seen that the
entire program is financially attractive to farmers. Even initially when the
only gains are likely to be those from storage the program remains highly
attractive.
It is anticipated that about 50-60% of the raisins stored would be
mortgaged for credits under this program requiring above Afs 173 million to
finance it at full development.



APPRAISAL OF
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN
Afehan Raisin Institute
Projected Ca.h Fls,
Y e a r
1        2          3        4          5          6         7          8          9        10        DI         12         13         14         15        16         17 U                  19         21)
Cash in Rand                    1.096    1,700    10,086   23,627    39,950    51,740    32,059    17,650           7,948    4,204   '2,848    12,099        28 ,232    42,075    62,208    78.042    86,256   133,493   176,440   223,677
Operating Revenue               2,500   31,596    38,892   59,918    60,032    67,064    67,386    74,775    74,965   82,105   89,295    89,295              89,295    89,295    89,295    89,295    89,295    89,295    89,295    89,295
IDA Credit                     69,341       -      64,693       -       50,331             -               -          -         -        -         -           -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -
Grant Li                        12,823      245    12,447        245     8,992      1,013        245       904        245    1,234    1,013         245         904        245      1,234      1,013        245       904        245      1,234
Long-term Loonl Credit/2       17.336       -       16235       -       13099         -          _                              - _                                     -          -          - _  _  _
Total                    103,096   33.541   142,353   83.790   172.404   119.817    99,690        93.329              8         93,156   101,639    118 431   131.615   152 737   168,350   175,796   23,692   265,980   314,206
OUTFLOW
Capital Expendit-re            99,201       -       93,375       -      74,241             -          -          -         -         -        -          -           -               -          -          -         -          -          -
Capital Replacenent                -      1,033      1,033    1,033      1,033      6,683      1,033     0,892      1,033    8,321    6,683       1.033       5,982      1,033      8,321      6,683      1,033     5,982      1,033      8,321
Op-eating Expendittre            1.890   13.754    15.650   26 047    ?8 630    37971    39901    40 385    40_817   41,270   41 270    41 270               41.270    41,270    41,?70    41 270    41.270   ,.g             41.270    41.27
Tntal                   101.396   14,787   lIl0.58   27.080   103.904    44 654    4Q_.96    46,277    41.850   49.591   47_953    42,303              47.252    42.303    49.591    47,953    42.303    47,252    42,303    49,591
Pre-Debt Servicing Balan.e       1,700   18,754    32,295   56,710    68,500    75,163    58,754    47,052    41,308   37,952   45.203    59,336             71,179    89,312   103,146   120,397   133,493   176,440   223,677   264,615
Debt-Servicing
Loan Repayment
IDA                                     -          -        -          -        16,000    16,000    16,000    16,000   16,000   16,000    16,000          16,000    16,000    16,000    24,365         -          -          -          -
Long-term Lncal Credit          -       -          -         -         -         4,000     4,000      4,000      4,000    4,000    4,000       4.000       4.000      4,000      4,000      6,672
Interest Payment
IDA (10% p.-.)                  -      6,934      6,934   13,403    13,403    18,437    16,837    15,237    13,637   12,037   10,437           8,837       7,237      5,637      4,037      2,437       -          _         _          _
Long-term Local Credit          -      1.74       1734 7       ,357   3-357      4.667     4,267      3.867      1.467         3,067   _.627   2.267       18.67      1.467      1-067        667       -          _          _         _
Tatal Debt Servip-                     8.668      8.668   16.760    16,760    43.104    41,104    39.104    37.104   35.104   33,104    31.104            29.104    27.104    25.104    34.141
NET CASH INFLOW
Cummulative                      1,700   10,086    23,627   39,950    51,740    32,059    17,650          7,948     4,204    2,848   12,099    23,232        42,075     62,208    78,042    86,256   133,493   176,440   223,677   264,615
LI  Ieprt DOty exempted f-o Capital Expenditure and REplacement
/2 20% of Capital Epanditure, met of iep.rt duty.
Augnat, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT COMPANY
AFGHANISTAN
Afghan Seed Companv
Vegetable Seed Multiplication Component
Projected Cash Flow
Year
1         2         3         4         5         6         7          8         9        10        11        12        13        14         15        16        17        18         19        20
INFLOW                         ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Afs'000 ---------------------------------------------------
Opening Cash Balance               -       801        828    1,126        579    5,402    6,557       8,560    3,786      9.966   17,036   20,477    25,289   38,260   51,721   57,551   70,993             91,252  111,441  123,848
IDA Credit                    25,547     7,250    9,894         -     10,755        -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -          -         -
Grant                          3,250        990    1,650        -       2,049       -         -       1,649        -         -         -       1,473       _          _      1,649        -         -         -        1,473
Long-term Local Credit         5,000    5,000    5,000    2,500                                                              -                   -                         -                   -                         -
Operating Revenue                287   4,643   10,605   19.831   36,766   45.297   53,359   5733    61,049   61,0 1-0                   49   61D49   61,049    61.049   6L~49   61.049   61 ,049    61,049   61.049   61, 049
Total               34.084   18,684   27.977   23.457   5o.149   50,699   59,916   67547   641835   71,015   78,085   82,99)   86,338   99,309  114,419  118,600  132,042   152,301  173,963  184,897
OUTFLOW
Capital Investment            28,797     8,240   11,544         -      12,794       -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -         -
Capital Replacement              -          -         -         -         -       6,927       -      10,307        -         -       6,927     9,204       -          -     10,307      6,927       -          -      '9,204       -
Operating Expenditure          4,486    6,561   11,027   17,109   25,934   30,120   33,408   35,567   37,285   37,285   37,285   37,285   37,285   37,285   37,285   37,285   37,285    37,285   37.285   37,285
Income Tax                       -        -           -       -           -       -           853    1,792    2,489    2.599    2.801    2,876    3.048            3.158     3,285     3.395      3,505      3.575    3.626   3.,626
Total                283   14,801   22,571   17.109   38,728   37,047   34,261   47,666   39.774   39.884   47.013   49.365   40.333   40-443   50,877   47.607   40.790    40.860   50.115   40. 911
Pre-Debt Servicing Balance         801    3.883    5.406    6.348   11,421   13.652   2.655   19,881   25,061   31,131   44J073   33,634   46,005   58,866    63,542   70,993   91,252   111,441   123,848  143,986
Debt Servicing
Loan Repayment                                             -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -               -         -         -         -          -
IDA                              -         -          -         -         -         -       6,000    6,000      6,000     6,000    6,000       6,000     6,000     6,000    5,446         -         -          -         -         -
Long-term Local                  -          -         -         -         -         -       4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    1,500            -         -          -         -
Interest Payment
IDA                              -       2,555     3,280    4,269    4,269    5,345    5,345    4,745    4,145            3,545    2,945       2,345    1,745      1,145       545        -         -         -          _         -
Long-term Local                  -         500     1.000    1.500    1,750             1     ,750    1750    1 350 _ 950     550       150       - _        _         _         -         -         _          _         _         _
Total Debt Servicing                -      3.055    4,280  5.769    6,019    7,095   17,095   16,0959  15,095   14909    10,595    8,345    7,745                    7 145    5 991
NET GASH INFLOW                    801        828    1,126        579    5,402    6,557       8,560    3,786      9,966    17,036   20,477    25,289   38,260   51,721   57,551   70,993    91,252   111,441   123,848  143,986
(cumulative)
August, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN
Afghan Seed Comoane
Fruit Rootstock and Seedling Production
Proiected Cash Flow
Year
1      2     3      4      5       6      7      8      9      10      11     12        13      14       15        16       17        18      19        20
:NNFLOW                     ------------------------------------------------------------------ AfstO00 -__----____--__________________________________________________________________
IDA Credit                 7,361    -       -       -      536    -      -       -      -      -                                                           -                  -
Grant                       1,241    -      -              107    -      -       486    -      -       -       102                       486                                   102
Long-term Local Credit      1,208  2,520  2,665  2,737  1,995  2,829    -        770    -      -                                                                                       -
Operating Revenue             -      -      750  1,520  2,800  3,760  5,520  6,960  8,960  9,200  9,200   9,200   9,200   9,200    9,200    9,200    9,200    9,200    9,200    9,200
Cash Balance                  -      -       -      -      -      -      -       207    -      141    521    -          -      -        -       1,395    5,007   10,039   14,996   19,422
Short-term Local Credit       -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -      483   1 706      682   1.112      -        --__                                 _
Total              9,810  2,520  3.415  4.257  5.438  6.589  5,520  8,423   8,960  9.341 10.204  11.008   9^882  10,312    9,686   10,595   14,207   19,239   24,298   28,62
)UTFLOM
Capital Investment          8,602    -      -       -      643    -      -       -      -      -      -       -        -       -        -        -         -        -         -        -
Capital Replacement           -      -      -       -      -    1,545    -    3,038    -       -    1,545      638     -       -       3,038    1,545      -        -          638     -
Operating Expenditure       1,208  1,663  2,306  2,882  3,146  3,141  3,128  3,200  3,230  3,240  3,240   3,240   3,240   3,240    3,240    3,240    3,240    3,240    3,240    3,240
Income Tax                    -      -      -                                            97    411    573      639     709     785       790      803       928    1 003       998      998
Total              9,810  1.663  2,306  2,882  3.789  4.686  3.128  6,238  3,327  3.651  5,358   4,517   3.949   4.025    7.068    5,588    4,168    4.243    4.876    4.238
're-debt Service Balance       -       857  1,109  1,375  1,649  1,903  2,392  2,185  5,633  5,690  4,846   6,491   5,933   6,287    2,618    5,007   10,039   14,996   19,422   24,384
)ebt Servicing
Loan Repayment
IDA                           -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -    1,615  1,615  1,615   3,052      -       -        -        -         -        -         -        -
Long-term Local Credit        -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -    1,615  1,615  1,615   1,615   3,230   5,034
Short-term Local Credit       -      -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -      -        483   1,706      682    1,112
Interest Payment
IDA                           -      736    736    736    736    790    790    790    790    628    467        305     -       -        -         -        -         -        -        -
Long-term Local Credit        -      121    373    639    913  1,113  1,395  1,395  1,472  1,311  1,149        988     826      503     -
Short-term Local Credit       -      -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -      _      _         48     171       68      111
Cotal Debt Servicing            -      857  1.109  1.375  1.649  1,903  2185  2,185  5.492  5.169  4.846   6,491   5,933   6,287    1,223
iET CASH INFLW                 _       _      _      _       _      _      207    -       141    521    -        -       -        -      1,395    5,007   10,039   14,996   19,422   24,384
(cumulative)              _=__=                         _    =                                                                                =
August, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN
AfRhan Vegetable Exoort Comnany
Projected Cash Flow,
Y e a r
1        2        -3        4        5         6        7        8          9       10        11       12        13        14       is        16        17       18       19         20
CASH FLC- -             -                                                                                                  0-------------_-- Af00  -------_----------
Cash of beginning of year      -        585    8,427   13,327   18,841   25,479   20,079   24,891   28,553   37,625   37,149   19,079   29,319   39,965   51,047   58,639   68,236   85,915  103,568   121,221
a) INLIJLOW
Capitali                   17,500
Investment Financing
-IDA Cdit                  26,363   18,748   10,737        -        -         -        -         -        _         _        _         _        _         _         _         _        _         _         _        _
.- Grant2,046    1,592                        956       -        _         _        _         615      -         -         -        -         -        -         615       -        -         -         -        -
- Gross Revenue             1,875   18,500   19,750   22,250   24,750   27,250   29,750   32,250   34,750   34,750   34,750   34,750   34,750   34,750   34,750   34,750   34,750   34,750    34,750   34,750
Total Inflow       47.784   39.425   39,870   35,577   43,591   52,729   49,829   57,756   63,303   62,373   71,899   53,829   64,069   74,715   86,412   93,389  102,986  120,665   138,318  155,971
b) OUTFLOW
Capital Investment         41,534   19,488   11,693        -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -
Capital Replacement           -         -        -         -        -      8,082       -       3,833       -        -      27,993      -         _        _       3,833    8,082        -        -         -         -
Operating Expenses          S,665   10,192   11.276   12,225   13.064   13.483   13.613   13.832   14,002   14.002   14,002   14.002   14.002   14.002   14.002   14.002   14.002   14.002    14.002   146002
47,199   29,680   22,969   12,225   13,064   21,565   13,613   17,665   14,002   14,002   41,995   14,002   14,002   14,002   17,835   22,084   14,002   14,002    14,002   14,002
Pre-Debt Servicing Balance      58t5    9.745   16 901   23,352   30.527   31.164   36.216   40 091   49.301   48_371   29.904   398827   50 067   60.713   68 577   71 305   88 984  106.663   124,316  141,969
DEBT SERVICING
- IDA Repayment               -        -         -         -        -      5,500    5,500    5,500    5,500    5,500    5,500    5,500    5,500    5,500    6,348             -        -         -         -        -
- IDA Interest                -      1.318    3.574    4,511    5.048    5.585    5.035    4.485   3.955    3.385    2-835    2,285    1.735    1.185               635
Debt Servicing Sub-Total      -       1,318    3,574    4,511    5,048   11,085   10,535    9,985    9,455    8,885    8,335    7,785    7,235    6,685    6,983
Income Tax                       -         -       -          -        -         -        790    1,553    2.223    2.337    2.490    2.723   2.867   2.981    2,955   3.069    3,069    3.095    3.095    3.095
-        -         -        -        -         -     11,325   11,538   11,678   11,222   10,825   10,508   10,102    9,666    9,938    3,069    3,069    3,095             3,095    3,095
NET CASH INFLOW                  585    8,427   13,327   18,841   25,479   20,079   24,891   28,553   37,623   37,149   19,079   29,319   39,965   51,047   58,639   68,236   85,915  103,568   121,221  138,874
(Cu?sulative)              =.....--  =           _                  -        -      ____    _             -      --          -         -      -.-- _   _   _  _                                 - _
1 GOA - 100 ha farmn valued at Afs 12.5 mill plus Afs 5 mill in cash.
FDPIL tax e.emaption.
August, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN
Fresh Fruit Packing and Cooling Plant
Projected Cash Flow
Year
1       2       3       4       5        6      .7        8       9      10        11      12      13       14      15       16      17      18      19      20
a) INFL(l- --                                                       -                                      Afs'000 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash                          -    3,460   7,130  10,800  14,470  18,140  18,260  18,633  19,259  20,138  16,470  17,855  19,493  21,384  23,528  25,925  31,105  36,285  41,465  46,645
Owner's CapitalLi           6,235                                                                                                                                                            -
IDA CVdit                 25,300                                                                                                                                                            -
Grant                       6,735     -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -                        -        -       -       -        -                                _                    l
Operating Revenue          5,100  10,200  10,200  10,200  10,200  10,200  10,200  10,200  10,200  10,200  10,200  10,200  10,200  10,200  10,200  10,200  10,200  10,200  10,200  10,200
Seasonal Credit               -      _        -       -       _       _        -        -   -        -                                                             -        -
Total Inflow       43,376  13,660  17,330  21,000  24,670  28.340  28,460  28,833  29,459  31,538  26.670  28,055  29,693  31,584  33,728  36,125  41,305  46,485  51,665  56,845
b) OUTFLOW
Capital Investment        37,910                  -            -       -        -       -       -                -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -
Replacement                   -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -     6,000      -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -
Operating Expenses          2,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000
Income Tax                    -       -       -       -        -     1.020   1,020   1,020   1.020   1.020   1 020   1.020   1.020   1.020   1.020   1.020   1.020   1,020   1 020  1.020
Sub-Total          39,910   4_000   4.000   4.000   4.000   5,020   5.020   5.020   5 020  11,020   5 020   5,020   5.020   5.020  5.020   5,020   5,020  5020   5.020   5,020
Pre-debt Servicing Balance    3,460   9_660  13.330  17.000  20Q670  23.320  23,440  23.813  24.439  20.518  21.650  23,035  24 673  26.564  28,708  31 105  36,285  41,465  46,645  51,825
Debt Servicing
IDA Loan Repayment            -       -       -       -        -     2,530   2,530   2,530   2,530   2,530   2,530   2,530   2,530   2,530   2,530         -        -       -       -        -
IDA Loan Interest (10%)       -     2,530   2,530   2,530   2,530   2,530   2,277   2,024   1,771   1,518   1,265   1,012        759      506     253      -        -       -
Seasonal Credit               -       -       -
Interest                      -
Sub-Total             -     2,530   2.530   2.530   2,530   5.060   4.807   4.554   4.301   4.048   3.795   3.542   3.289  3.036   2.783
NET CASH INFLOW               3,460   7,130  10,800  14,470  18,140  18,260  18,633  19,259  20,138  16,470  17,855  19,493  21,384  23,528  25,925  31,105  36,285  41,465  46,645  51,825
(Cunmaulative)             =.-
/1 20% of Capital Investment (net of grant).
2 FDPIL Tax Exemption.
August, 1977



ANNEX 2
Table 6
APPRAISAL OF
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN
Refrigerated Truck Transportation
Projected Cash Flow/l
Projection I                                            Projection II
Year                                                    Year
1       2        3        4        5                     1        2        3        4        5
--------------- Afs'000 ----------------                 ---------------  Afs 
INFLOW
Cash in hand                   -     1,651   2,748   1,997   1,430                      -      1,776   3,113   2,987   3,007
Gross Revenue /2            3,401   3,401   3,401   3,401   4,441                     3,401   3,401   3,401   3,401   4,441
Owners Capital73            1,386      -        -        -        -                   1,386      -        -        -        -
IDA Credit                  5,544      -        -        -        -                   4,389      -        -        _       _
Grant                          -        -                                             1,155      -        -        -        -
Long-term local Credit         -                - -
Total               10,331   5,052   6,149   5,398   5,871                   10,331   5,177   6,514   6,388   72448
OUTFLOW
Capital Investment          6,930      -        -        -        -                   6,930      -        -        -        -
Operating Expenditure       1,625   1,625   1,625   1,625   1,625                     1,625   1,625   1,625   1,625   1.625
Income Tax                    125      125      125      125      125                   -        -        -        -       -
Total               8,680   1,75    1,750   1,750   1,750                     8.555      6      1,625   1,625   1,625
Pre-Debt Servicing Balance  1,651   3,302   4,399   3,648   4,121                       1,776   3,552   4,889   4,763   5,823
Debt Servicing
Loan Repayment
IDA                         -        -      1,848   1,848   1,848                     _       _      1,463   1,463   1,463
Long-term local             -                 -           -     -                                       -        -        -
Interest Payment
IDA                         -        554      554      370      185                  -        439      439      293      146
Long-term local             -        -        -        -        -                              -        -        -        -
Total               _          554   2,402   2,218   2,033                      -        439   1,902   1.756   1.609
NET CASH INFLOW
(Cumulative)                1,651   2,748   1,997   1,430   2,088                     1,776   3,113   2,987   3,007   4,214
/1   Projection I assumes that the GOA will not grant FDPIL status to the investment, Projection II assumes it will.
/2   Includes 15% residual value in Year 5.
/3   20% of Capital Investment under Projection I and 25% under Projection II.
August, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN
Graue/Raisin Production
Existing 1 Jerib Vineyard Trellised in Year 9
Proiected Incremental Cash Flow
(Including Subsidy)
Year
9   10   11         12        13         14         15        16         17         18        19         20
---------------------------------------------------------Afs ---------------------------------------------- 
INFLOW
Operating Revenue             -   -   7,050    14,000    21,000    27,094    27,094    27,094    27,094    27,094            27,094    27,094
Farmers Contribution/l      72752  -      -          -         -          -          -         _          _-         -                -
Investment Subsi4y         11.100  -      -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -           -
Long-term Credit/Z(8%p.a.) 7,752  -       -          -         _     -         -               -          -          -
IDA Credit (8% p.a.)       12,156  -      -          -         -          -         -          -          -         _           _
Cash accumulated              -   _       -       7,825    15,589    30,353    51,211    72,069    99.938   127,807    155,676   183,545
Total              38, 760 -   7.050    21.825    36.589    544          78,305    99163   127032   154,901    182,770   210,639
OUTFLOW
Capital Investment         38,760  -      -          -         -          -         -          -          -          -          -
Capital Replacement           -   -       100        100       100        100       100        100        100        100        100        100
Operating Costs               -   -    (875)        (875)     (875)      (875)     (875)      (875)      (875)      (875)      (875)      (875)
Total              38,760  -    (775)      (775)      (775)      (775)     (775)      (775)      (775)     (775)       (775)      (775)
Pre Deht-Servicing Balance        -   -   7,825    22,600    37,364    58,222    79,080         99,938  127,807   155,676    183,545   211,414
DEBT SERVICING
Annuity                        -   -      -        7,011     7 011      7.011     7.011                   -          -           -       _  _
NET CASH INFLOW
Cummulative                   -   -   7,825    15,589-   30,353    51,211    72,069          99,938  127,807   155,676    183,545   214,414
/1  20% of Capital Investment.
/12 20% of Capital Investment.
August, 1977                                                                                                                                H 
_ x



APPRAISAL OF
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN
Grans/Risin Production
noe Jerib Trellised Vineyard - New and Renlacenent
Pro1ected Cash Flow
(including sbiy
1         2          3         4          5          6          7         8          9          IC      r            12        13         14         15                    17                   19
--------------------------------------------__--_._______-------------------------------------- Af ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INFLOW
Opersting Revenue              2,250     4,500      5,625      5,625    11,944    17,063    25,594    34,125    34,125    42,656    42,656    42,656    42,656    42,656    42,656    42,656    42,656    42,656    42,656    42,656
Farnlers Cuntributi  a       15,61i      1,200      1,300      1,500     4,299      2,600      2,600      3,000     3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000     3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000     3,000  /
invesonant'luhstd74          i.1,100       -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -
'Long-tarn Local Cre(vb3    l 13  40        -          -                  2,099
IDA Credit (8%;p ..)         29,104        -          -          -       6.297        -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Cash acc unlatnd                      -  2,3tO      3.310    -02.        7.020    5           12 524      20-776   37,359    53.642    75,331   100.145   124.959   162,493   200.027   234,436   2719710   309-sa4   1A7 nJg   3S47572
Total                7i467.    0231        10jQ55    12.200    31,659    32166    40.718         57.901   74,484    99,298   120,987   145,801   170-615   208.149   245.683   280.092   317_626   355,160   392.694   430.
Capita1 Invssteent           67,008        -          -          -      10,495        -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -
Capitrl RepIscenent              -         -          -          -       3,125        100        100        100       100      3,225        100        100        100        100     3,225        100        1t0        100        100     3,225
Operating Costs                2149      4.080      4,9        5.180     5,336      7,022      7.122      7.722    89022       8,022      8,022      8.022      8.022     8,022      8.022      8.022      8.022   8.022         8,022   8.022
Total                69117       4J80      4.980    50180    18.956         7.122     7,222      76822    86122    11 247    86122          8.122      8.122      8122    110247       8,122      8.122      8.122        .12     111247
PFt-Debt S.rvining Balance        2,310     3,13D      5,075      7,020    12,703    25,244    33,496    50,079    66,362    88,051   112,865   137,6i9   162,493   200,027   234,436   271,970   309,504   347,038   384,572   418,981
DEBT SERVICING
Annuity                             ..                                              12.720    12,720    12,720    12,720    42,720    12,720    12,720                      - -        -         -          -          -                -
FET CAB0 INFLOW
Ciaulative                    2,310      3,130      5,075      7.026    12.703    12.524    20,776    37,359    53.642    75.331   100.145   124.959   162.493   200,027   ?34,436   271,970   309,504   347,038   384,572   418t981
a  All the Operating Enpen.es. 20% of Cspital Inve-t-ent is included in Year 1.
Z  30* of the co.t of poles (r-inforced cucrnete) and wires.
20* of Capital Inveatent.
August, 1977



ANNEX 2
APPRAISAL OF                                   Table 9
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN
Onions- and Potato Production (Herat) - Contract Farmers
Operating Costs and Revenue for One Jerib
Onions                                                                 PotatoesL
Item                       Afs                                       Item                        Afs
Land Separation                   ,300                              Land  eparation                    300
Seeds      4                       800                               Seeds      3                     1,600
Irrigation  5                      280                               Irrigation 4                       140
Fertilizers                                                         Fertilizers
Manure                        1,200                                 Manure                           800
Chemical                      1,595                                  Chemical                      2,134
Pesti 'des                         600                               Pesticides                         600
Labor'                                                               Labor
Transplanting                   800                                  Planting                        400
Cultivation                     300                                  Cultivation                     300
Irrigation           7          400                                  Irrigation                      300
Harvesting, Topping             800                                  Harvesting                      800
Land Tax                            45                                  Land Tax                         45
Total Operating Costs            7,120                               Total Operating Costs            7,419
Revenue A                       12,000                              Revenue A                         9,000
.et Revenue
Net Revenue                                                             With project
With project                  4,880                                 A. 2 Potato crops              3,162
Without project               3,150                                  B. 1 Potato crop + 1 onion
crop     6,461
Incremental Net Revenue          1,730                                 Without project                3,150
Incremental Net Revenue
Incremental Operating Costs    4,090                                   A. 2 Potato crops                 12
B. 1 Potato crop + 1 onion
crop     3,311
Incremental Operating Costs
A. 2 Potato crops             8,778
B. 1 Potato crop + 1 onion
crop    11,389
LI  For production of dry onions to be contracted                     /I  Operating costs are for one crop.  Two crops/year
for vegetable export company.                                        could be planted in Herat using early maturing
/2  Plowing using oxens and one laborer for one day                       varieties.
or custom plowing using tractor at Afs 150/hr.                   /   400 kg/jerib at 4 Afs/kg.
/3  2 Kg/Jerib.  Some farmers may use up to 6 kg.                    L   In kind contribution to Mirab and others equivalent
Extra seedlings are sold as green onions.                             to 2 seers of wheat (14 kg/Afs 10).
/4  In kind contribution to Mirab (water master),                     A   Chemical fertilizer requirements 36 kg of urea at
Mulla and others equivalent to 4 seers of wheat                       Afs 10.04/kg, 100 kg DAP at Afs 11.44, and 55 kg
(28 kg at Afs 10/kg).                                                of potassium sulfate at Afs 11.44/kg.
/5  Assuming onion requirements 29 kg urea at                         /5  Yield estimated at 3,000 kg/jerib sold at Afs 3/kg.
Afs 10.04/kg, 59 kg of DAP at Afs 11.44/kg, and
55 kg of potassium sulfate at Afs 11.44/kg.
Manure is supplied from farmers own resources at
Afs 20/donkey load (and 100 donkey loads/j.).
/6  Assuming Afs 100/day for laborer and Afs 50/day
for children to do the cultivation.
/7  Topping i.e. cutting the leaves 1 inch above the
bulb neck and collecting in jute bags.
A  Yield is estimated at 4,000 kg/j at Afs 3.
August, 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Economic Analysis
General Considerations
CASH FLOW - Contained in Table 11 of Annex 2.
EXCHANGE RATE - Afs 55 per US$1. All prices of traded goods are converted to
Afs at this rate, as it is a more appropriate rate than the average 1976/77
free market rate of Afs 47.4 = US$1.0. The latter rate reflects the effect
of sizeable emigrants remittances on a rather thin foreign exchange market
and does not reflect the changes in the comparative costs of Afghanistan's
exports. Thus this shadow price of foreign exchange does take into account
the relative cost change of domestic and foreign produce.
OUTPUT PRICES - All prices are adjusted for border taxes and the exchange
rate. For vegetables and vegetable seed, prices are the same as used in the
financial analyses, since it is expected that they will be exempted from
export duties under the Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law.
Raisins - US$940 per ton minus US$255 per ton processing and
freight cost plus US$25 per ton processing industry taxes gives US$710 per
ton or Afs 39,050/ton. An increase of 17.5% in the base price is the pro-
jected return to the Quality Control Program of the Afghan Raisin Institute.
Grapes - $240 per ton.
NOTE: This gives a weighted economic price of fresh grapes of Afs 10.62 per
kg.
Potatoes and Onions - Winter Afs 8,000 per ton, Summer Afs 3,000
per ton.
Vegetable Seed - As quoted by international firms, adjusted for the
equilibrium exchange rate (55/48).
Rootstock - The financial and economic values are taken as identical
since there is relative freedom to import.
Alfalfa - Same as for rootstock.
INPUT PRICES
Gasoline and Electricity - Taxes on gasoline and subsidies on elec-
tricity are ignored for the reasons that they are both offsetting and minor.
Fertilizer - The Bank Commodity Division 1977 prices were adjusted
for freight and handling (US$110/ton) and the exchange rate (55/47.5) to give
DAB Ms 14,025 per ton and urea Afs 13,475 per ton, potash Afs 9,185 per ton.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Labor - The economic and financial rates are considered the same in
view of the mobility of labor.
Time Pericd - 20 years to permit development of revenue stream from
the final trellised vineyard investment.
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
sor.l,derations and Assumptions
GRAPE/RAISIN  cOT.L;Ir
QUantLLJL  Of Jrnpes/Raisins Produced - This is a function of the
area trellised tiYeS C'e yield or times the incremental yield where existing
vineyards a.-   £ 
AREA TRELLTSED
I    Treilising ci Existing Vineyards (East and Southeast Provinces).
25,000 hd of Dush type grapes now grown. These are suitable
for trellising in their present form or when replaced. Annual
replacement rate is estimated to be 4% or 1,000 ha.
a.   Trellising of Existing Vineyards.  Assuming trellising
of i.25Z of existing vineyards minus annual replacements
over 6 years yields a total area of 300 ha.
b.   Trellising of Replacement Vineyards (East and Southeast
Provincas). Assuming trellising of 5% of annual replace-
ments 4,000 ha) on average over 6 years gives a total
ar_a zf 300 na.
II    Trelli'Ls'h:_   New Vineyards Nationwide.  Present area is 700,000
ha and Lhe ,,.oji-cted growth rate 1% p.a.  Assuming that over 6
years aLoaz 7% on average of the annual increase in vineyards
wlij be creiLtsed gives an area of 294 ha.
It ;iulei U.- aoted that outside the bush type vineyards of the
and SounLi.>_.  ::;.nces trellising of existing or replacement vineyards
.: aci pOSSL^--i  ; X batantial investment in levelling the existing
aisve clay '-a;.;;.
.t- .to     .i-. .-.Sent - Because trellising is a radical innovation
a long disbu-saae.at ieziod will be necessary - 6 years - in which disburse-
mant will i)e.2 :        very slow.  The following phasing is assumed.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
PHASING OF INVESTMENT IN TRELLISING
--- --------Area (ha)
Disbursement          Existing          New and Replacement    Total
Year           %            Annual      Cumul.    Annual       Cumul.    Annual
1978           2               6           6       11.88        11.88      17.88
1979           5              15          21       29.70        41.58      44.70
1980          10              30          51       59.40       100.98      89.40
1981          20              60         111      118.80       219.78    178.80
1982         33               99         210      196.02       415.80    295.02
1983         30               90        300       178.20       594.00    268.20
Total        100             300                  594                     894
COSTS AND REVENUES
A.   New and Replacement Vineyards
Investment Cost - Trellising is in all cases considered an incre-
mental investment, i.e., the alternative being traditional grape production.
The GOA 7 Year Plan envisions substantial vineyard expansion and the farmers'
enthusiasm for such investment was confirmed by both the Horticultural Sub-
section Survey Mission and this Appraisal Mission. The investment cost
is incremental, amounting to Afs 39,709 per jerib in year 1 and Afs 950
per jerib in year 5. Incremental replacement costs are Afs 70 per jerib
from year 6 onwards. These costs apply to the Parwan System (East and
Southeast Provinces) only where bush grape growing is the system in use.
Elsewhere the traditional ditch/bank system is used and incremental costs
are greater.
The Parwan system is superior in terms of cash flow and returns
to the other systems and there is no discernable technological reason why
this could not be utilized nationwide. Consequently, comparison is restricted
to this system.
Operating Costs - Incremental operating costs for the East and
Southeast Provinces in Afs per jerib are:
Year 1.    1,241         Year 4.        (8)        Year 7.  (2,039)
Year 2.    2,109         Year 5.  (2,037)          Year 8.  (2,029)
Year 3.      (208)       Year 6.  (1,139)          Years 9-20  (1,039)
Revenue - The incremental yield valued at its economic prices gives
an incremental revenue stream in Afs per jerib as follows:
Year 1.       750        Year 4.   1,875           Year 7.  24,493
Year 2.    1,500         Year 5.  12,746           Year 8.  21,244
Year 3.    2,625         Year 6.  19,119           Year 9.  31,866
Years 10-20. 47,798



ANNEX 2
Page 8
B.   Existing Vineyards
Revenue - The incremental economic revenue stream in Afs per jerib,
after allowing for additional processing and marketing costs, accruing to
investments in trellising per jerib of existing vineyards is as follows: (The
incremental grape yield per jerib is in parentheses.)
Year 1.       -   (    0)               Year 4.  35,843 (3,375)
Year 2.   11,948 (1,125)                Years 5-20.  47,790 (4,500)
Year 3.   23,895 (2,250)
Operating Costs - Since year 1 on average represented year 9 in the
life of the vineyard, the relevant incremental operating cost stream of new
and replacement vineyards from years 10-20 minus the existing economic
operating cost gives a negative incremental operating cosL of Afs 1,039.
Investment Costs - These total Afs 33,495 per 4erib in year 1 on
an incremental basis as it is assumed that mats will be purchased at the
same time as the vineyard is trellised. Annual replacement cost is Afs 70
per jerib.
C.   Production Quality Control Program
It is estimated that at the national level there will be a 17.5%
increase phased in over 5 years in the average price received for raisins
due to quality improvement. This will accrue to the volume passing through
the Raisin Institute's rurally located stores for pre-cleaning and storage,
and subsequently graded and certified for export, having been processed in
existing plants. In addition there will be an increase in exports through
waste reduction. Investment and operating costs for this component are those
associated with the Raisin Institute's entire operation. The anticipated
17.5% average price increase is phased in over 6 years cumulative as follows:
%        Afs/ton                    %        Afs/ton
Year 1.         0           -           Year 4.  10.5          4,100
Year 2.        3.5         1,367        Year 5.  14            5,467
Year 3.        7.0        2,734         Year 6.  17.5          6,834
D.   Vegetable Export Component
The relevant investment cost is the adjusted financial investment
cost of AVEC. Incremental operating costs are the economic operating costs
of AVEC and contracted production minus the similar cost for wheat. Revenue
is the adjusted financial revenue of AVEC minus the similar revenue for wheat
over the cropped area (AVEC farm and contracted production area).
E.   Fresh Fruit Packing Storage and Transportation
The major economic benefit from this component will be the reduction
in spoilage of fruit. This is assumed to be the estimated average of 40%.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Grapes are taken as the numeraire as they are the most common fruit exported
as well as being highly perishable. Since there will be haulage of other
cargo, both exports and imports, which as yet cannot be identified, the true
economic value of this investment is understated. The saving in spoilage is
considered to be 40% of the throughput of the packing storage plants. This is
phased in over 2 years for each plant.
Table 10: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS SUMMARY
Economic             Sensitivity Analysis
Component               Rate of   Benefits   Capital Costs  Operating Costs
Return  +10%  -10%   +10%   -10%    +10%        -10%
---------------------- percent --------------------
ARI
Quality Control Program        58     63    53      54      63       57       59
ASC
Vegetable Seed
Multiplication                26     29    19       23     27       21       28
Fruit Rootstock Production   14        16    11      13     15       12        16
AVEC
Vegetable Export Program       26     32    20       24     29       23       29
Agroindustry Credit
Fresh Fruit Export
Investment                    46     53    40      42      51      44        48
On-Farm Credit
Trellised Vineyards
Investments
Existing                     86     93    79      79      94       85       87
New & Replacement            31     33    29      29      33       31       31
Total Project                    47      52    42      44     51       46        48
Total Project Including
Technical Assistance            38      43    34      35     41       37        39



APPRAIIs. 01-
A F,117 ANT) VEGETAbLE EXPORT PROJE-CT
AFGHANISTAN
TRELLISING OF EXISTING VINEYARDS
---As000---
In-stossot sod Replaceme.  Co.-s        205      2,514      5,031    10,067    16,619    15,2?47           105       105        105        105        1,15       105        105        1S0,       100        105        155        108        ICE        108
Operating Costs                         (23)       (82)      (199)      (433)      (819)   (5,170)    (1,170)   (1.170)   (1,170)   (1,170)   (1,170)   (1,171t)   (1,170)   (1,170)    1,1,70)   (1,170)   (1,170)   (1,170)   (1,170)   (1,170)
Gross R-evenu                           -          360      1,620     4,674    11,319    22,529        40,129    55,050    66,300    71,700    71,700    71,700    71,700    71,700    71,700    71,700    71,700    71,700    71,700    71,700
Economic Rats of Return   86%
TRELLISED ENLI AND REPIACEMEN VINEYARDS
----Afo 000----
Inveets-et sod Replsosmec: Costs   1,672         4,179      8,358    16,716    27,621    25,177            210       425        712        702        147        147        14'        Ii'        147        147        147        147        167        147
Opsrsting Costs                          55        219        474        942      1,615      1,893         548    (1,532)   (2,581)   (3,509)   (3,358)   (3,500)   (2,182)   (3,552           '1,552)   (1,552)   (1,552)   (1,552)   (1,552)   (1,552)
Geese Revenu                             iS        142        426        985     2,387      5,151        9,266    15,785    26,757    41,382    51,661    60,602    72,607    90,340   100,337   100,337   100,337   100,237   100,337   100,337
Econoic Rate of Return   31%
AFGHAN RAISIN INSTITUTE - EXPORT PRODUCTION QUALITY CONTROL PROGRAM
---Afs 000----
Inveote,et and Replacemet Costo 113,815          1,181   107,988       1,181    86,479       6,486       1,181     5,705      1181       8,106      6,486      1,181      5,705      1,181      8,106      6,486      1,181      5,705      1,181      8,106
Operating Costs                      -1,895    13,754    15,650    26,047    28,630    37,971           39,903    40,385    410,817    41,270    41,570    41,270    41,270    41,270    41,270    41,270    41,270    41,270    41,270    41,270
Gross Revonue                           -       27,340    68,350   164,000   218,610   307,530    307,530  ,341,700  -341,700 -375,870   410,040   410,040   410,040   410,040   410,040   410,D40   410,040   410,040   410,040   410,060
Eco-,it Rate of Return   58%
AFGHAN SEED COMPANY - VEGETABLE SEED MULTIPLSICATION AND EXPORT
-I-----Afs 000----
Investmet end Replacement Costs    -             8,109       -           -          -       6,508          -       9,6~84        -         -        8,508      8,647        -           -       9,684      6,508         -          -       8,647         -
Opertetig Costs        --4,486                   6,561    11,027    17,109    25,934    30,120          33,408    37,285    37,285    37,285    37,285    37,285    37,285    37,285    37,285    37,285    37,285    37,285    37, 285    37,285
Gross Revno .                           332      5,376    12,180    22,441    42,751    52,449          61,784    66,391    70,688    70,688    70,688    70,688    70,688    70,688    70,688    70,688    70,688    70,688    70,688    70;688
Ecooic Rate of Return= 25%
AFGHAN SEER COMPANY - FROIIT ROOTSTOCK PRODUCTION
----Afo 000----
Investuet end Replacemet Costo   8,232             -          -          -          621      1,503         -        2,955        -          -          -          621        -          -        2,955      1,503        -                     621 
Operating Costs                       1,208      1,663      2,306      2,887      3,146      3,141       3,128      3,200      3,230      3,040     3,240      3,240      3,240      3,240       3,240      3,240      3,240      3,240      3,240      3,280
Cross Revenue                           -          -          750      1,520      2,800      3,760       5,120      6,960      8,960      9,200      9,200     9,200       9,200      9,200      9,200      9,200      9,200      9,200      9,200      9,200
Economic Rats ef Return = 14%
AFGHAN VEGETABLE EXORT CONlPANY - CONTRACT PRODUCTION AND EXPORT OF POTATOES AND ONI0N0
---Afe 000----
Investment sod Replacement Costs  23,897    20,377    11,670             -          -        7,379         -       3,509         -          -      25,556         -          -          -        3,509      7,379        -          -          -          -
Operating Costs                       5,665    10,523    11,881    13,360    14,729    15,677           16,338    17,087    17,786    17,786    17,786    17,786    17,786    17,786    17,786    17,786    17,786    17,786    17,786    17,786
Gross Revenue                         2,171    21,421    22,868    55,763    28,658    31,553           34,459    37,342    40,237    40,237    40,237    40,237    40,237    40,237    40,237    40,237    40,237    40,237    40,237    40,237
Econo-ic Rate of Return    26%
FRESH FRUIT PACKING. COOLING AND TRANSPORTATION
Investment and Replacemen t Costs  16,048    60,170    36,097    36,097              -      16,048      24,073 ----  e00--  :-              -      16,048    31,020        6,947      6,947        -       16,048    24,073---
Operating Costs                       4,010      8,150    12,150    16,150    18,150    18,150          18,150    18,150    18,150    18,150    18,150    18,150    18,150    18,150    18,150    18,150    18,150    18,150    18,150    18,150
Gross Revenu                            -       15,840    47,520    79,200    95,040    95,040          95,040    95,040    95,040    95,040    95,040    95,040    95,040    95,040    95,040    95,040    95,040    95,040    95,040    95,040
Economic Rate of Retur-   46%
TOTAL, PROJECT
---Afe 000----
Invest,vent end Replacemet Costs 192,345    99,065   180,210    64,061   143,369    78,348              55,569    22,383       1,998      8,913    54,850    41,721    12,904         8,380   245,506    38,094    55,506         5,957    10,701       8,358
Operating Costs                      17,293    40,788    53,279    76,057    91,385   105,782    110,305   113,405   113,517   113,052   113,203   113,056   114,379   115,009   115,009   115,009   115,009   115,009   115,009   115,009
Gross Revenue                         2,535    70,479   153,814   288,583   401,635   519,012    553,728   618,268   649,682   7 04,117    748,566  757,507   769,512   787,245   797,282                      -         -           -          -          -
Econoic Rats of Return-  47%
loclodiog Technical Assistesc  - 38%
August, 1977



Tabl 1
APPFAISAL OF
A FnDIT AiD VEGETABLE MPORT PUO3ECT
APSM1SISTAN
Technical Assistance and Pellom;hips
Component                          No, of Units   Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5              TOTAL
(eaooths)              A       c'00
RAISIN _MARETIN0
Expatriates                                JS6
Viticulturelist                                     3,325      3,325      3,325      3,325
Processing & quality Contrel Special.               3,325      3,325      3,325      3,325*    3,325*
Marketing Specialist                                3-325      3.325      3.325      3.325
Subtotal                                       9,975      9,975      9,975      9,975      T.M         43,28
Local CPA (3 asuth/year)                    12           50         50         50         50                     200
Fello-ships/l                               78
Raisin Institute (5)/2                                         1,425        950
Agricultural Development Bank (5)                              1,425        950
Mintry of Agriculture (3)                                        950        475
Study Teors (3)L3                            9                   +1425
Subtot.l                                                  5,225      2,375                               7,600
VEGETABLE SEED AND R0OTSTOCK PR0WCTIOR
Expatriates                                168
Financial Manager                                   3,325      3,325      3,325      3,325
Technical Manager                                   3,325      3,325      3,325      3,325
Send  2rocoosiug Iechuici-n4                        2,138      2,138      2,138
Fo.ologist                                          3.325      3,325      3,325
Subtotal                                      12,113    12,113    12,113        6,650                  42,989
FellotahipasL                               30
Vegetable Seed Multiplfcotlcn (3)                              1.425
Rootstock (2)                                                    950
Subtotal                                                  2,375 5
VEGETABLE EXPORT COMPANY (HERAT)
PM E   -triates/                           169
Contracts asd Sales Manager                         3,325      3,325      3,325      3,325*    3,325*
Prod-ction Manager                                  3,325      3,325      3,323
Packing  1 Storage Manager                          3,325      3,325      3,325*
Mster Mechanic                                                 2 550      2 850      2.850
Subtotal                                       9,975    128,23    12,925        6,175      3,325       43,125
P.m Site Selection Studv                       2          475
Subtotal                                         473
EXPORT PROMOTION BANK
Expatriates                                132 1
Financial Manager                                   3,325      3,325     3,325       3,325     3,325
Credit Departoent MaHnger                           3,325      3,325     3,325      3,325
Internal Auditing Dept. Manager                               31325      3.325
Subtotal                                       6,650      9,975      9,975      6,650      3,325       36,575
Fellovships                                 42
Financial Managenent (2)                                                    950
Credit OpaterOius (3)                                            950       475
Audit Acrountirg (1)                                                        475
Conp.terised Accounting (1)                                                 475
950     2,375                            3,32g
Estehllsln,ent of C9eputerised
Accounting Sratee                            12        3.325
Subtotal                                       3,325                                                   3,325
molrratsit
Consultant Manger                         24        3,325      3,325
6,650
Total of Techsicel Asijstance        674 tt   42,563    56,813   49,689    32,825          9,975     191,864
Price C.ntings_ie/SL                            3.405      9,453   12,422    11,489        4,3j       43,089
GRAND TOTAL (AFS'000)                          45,968    66,267   62,110    44,313    14,656         234,953
(USS'000)/9                          967.75  1,395.08 1,307,57    932.92    308.0         4,946,35
71  Pellcv hipa (6  conths) for etch colp-oent are concentrated in second and third Pear to allow trainees bmefit frto
expatriates before and after training.
/2 One for narketing, one for laboratory training (Tear 2) nod three for production.
T3  Two for quality control and one for the President (Afs 142,500) each lasting 3 mootba,
7T  Tvice a year for three eotha each including travel (US$35,000).
7T  Contracts and Sales Managar at US$yOO00O/yeer; Production Manager and Packing, Cooling and Transportation Maer at
USS7S,000Syear; and Master Mechanic at US$60,00D/yrur.
/6 Si. moth contract for an international accounting fir (Research Departrent).
77  Equivalent to 59.2 n.y. escludiog 159  n.c  of   ellowships and Study Tours (if included the total is  857 n,m, or 71,4  m,y.)
78  81  p... in  asree'ent with curreat UND'P  usage.
79 Foreign SEchang cost is 901.
-  Indicates t  ptlenal extension of service.
NOTE,  If  cost  sharing  can be arranged vith  UNSP  for  this  Technical Assistance  it  Is  anticipated  Chat 7D  -auld         . as e.x  
Agency  for  the  Raisin  Marketiag Vegetable  Export  and  Export  Fronotion Bank  com,ponents   nd  if  necessary,  dependin  on
final  arrangements with  ADB  and the  international seed  fire,  for  the  Vegsetable  Seed  and  Rootstock  Production o rs nent
(but in any case for the poanlogdst in this conpon nt).
August, 1977



ANNEX 3
Chart 1
APPRAISAL OF
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN
Phasing of Technical Assistance and Training
Year and        Year 1             Year 2             Year 3             Year 4              Year 5
Component                                                                -    - _   _
Quarter   1   2   3   4   1    2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4
RAISIN MARKETING
EXPATRIATES
Viticulturalist                                 _   _   _         _         _   _    _   C    _   _   _                 -
Pocessing & Quality Control Specialist          _____                                                                __
Marketing Specialist                            _   =   _   _   _   =    _   _    _   _   _
LOCAL CPA
FELLOWSHIPS
Raisin Institute (51
Marketing
Laboratory Training
Production (2)
Production
Agricultural Development Bank (5)
Production
Production (2)
Proyduction (2)
Ministry of Agriculture (3)
Production
Production
Production
STUDY TOURS (31
General Manager
Quality Control (2)
VEGETABLE SEED & ROOTSTOCK PRODUCTION
EXPATRIATES
Financial Manager                               _             _   _              _    _   _    _
Technical Manager-- -- - -                                                                                         -
Seed Processing Technician                     _                                              ii _  iii_ 
Pomologist                                      _        -   -   _   _    _   _
FELLOWSHIPS
Vegetable Seed Multiplication
Vegetable Seed Multiplication
Vegetable Seed Multiplication
Rootstock Production
Rootstock Production
VEGETABLE EXPORT COMPANY
EXPATRIATES
Contracts and Sales Manager                                   =   =   =    =   =               _   _ -            r  T
Production Manager                                            _   _   _    _   _ m                  _                          I   I
Packing & Storage Manager                     -    -               -   -            -   *  -
Master Mechanic                                                    -   -    - _        _   _   _   _
EXPORT PROMOTION BANK
EXPATRIATES
Financial Manager                              -   -         - _  _                            - _ _
Credit Department Maeager                                     _             _   _              _   _
Internal Auditing Department Manager                                                 -
Establishment of Computerized
Accounting System
FELLOWSHIPS
Financial Management 1
Financial Management 2
Credit Operations I
Cnedit Operations 2
Credit Operations 3
Audit Accounting
Computerized Accounting
EXPORT PROMOTION UNIT
EXPATRIATES
Consultant Manager
Note: Dashed hne indicates optional extension of service.                                                                       World Bank - 17905



ANNEX 4
Ch.artt
AFGHAN VEGETABLE EXPORT COMPANY
OUTLINE ORGANIZATION CHART
P  SHAREHOLDEPRA
IEBOARD OF DIRECNANCI    DI ROR F SUPERVISORSI
I MANAGEMENT COMKITTEE|
l - | (Contacts & Sales)l
PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT||ACUT  DEPARTMENm      PFROCESSING, STORAGE AND|
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENATN
IMANAGER*|   [DIRECTOR|       |FINANCIAL DIRECTOR|IAAE.1                      IET!
AVEC         CONTRACT|                                                  -  MAINTENANCE|
A| PARMS|.I
|MASTER MECHANIC*j
* Denotes expatriate position,



ANNEX 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN
PROJECT FILE
A. Project Implementation File
Table of Contents
ANNEX 1:        Grapes and Raisins Marketing
Appendix 1:   The U.K. Market for Raisins
ANNEX 2:         Seed Multiplication Project - Market Strategy
Appendix 1:   Vegetable Seed Production
Processing, Storage and Trade in Vegetable Seed
ANNEX 3:        Potato and Onion Processing and Export
ANNEX 4:        Fresh Fruit and Vegetables Storage and Transportation
ANNEX 5:        Afghanistan - Overland Transportation
ANNEX 6:         Selected Market Data
ANNEX 7:        Afghan Raisin Institute Component:  Background Functions,
Organization, Charter, Recommendations, Government-Industry
Relationships, Recommended Qualifications of the President,
Raisin Store Specifications, Technical Assistance and Training.
Raisin Marketing Credit Program.
Financial Analysis--Investment and Operating Costs.
ANNEX 8:        Afghan Seed Company:  Functions, Organizational Chart, Capital
Ownership, Charter Recommendations, Technical Assistance,
Financial Statements, Financial Analysis - Investment and
Operating Costs for Vegetable Seed Multiplication and Fruit
Rootstock and Seedling Production.
ANNEX 9:        Afghan Vegetable Export Company:  Overview, Ownership, Func-
tions, Organization Chart, Financial Analysis - Investment and
Operating Costs, Onion and Potato Crop Seasons Chart.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEX 5
Page 2
ANNEX 10:        Agroindustries credit.
Fresh Fruit Packing, Cooling and Transportation, Overview -
Financial Analysis--Investment and Operating Costs.
ANNEX 11:        On-Farm Credit.
Trellised Vineyards and Vegetable Production, Financial
Analysis - Investment and Operating Costs.
ANNEX 12:        Fertilizer Requirements.
Appraisal Mission Estimates for Vegetable Crops.
Afghan Fertilizer Company Recommendations.
B. Project Background File
1. Horticultural Subsector Survey - Afghanistan Vols. I and II - World Bank
Report No. 1324-AF, May 5, 1977.
2. Republic of Afghanistan - Feasibility Study for an Integrated Fruit and
Vegetable Project - Booz Allen and Hamilton International, April 25,
1977 - Final Report, Responses to World Bank and GOA Steering Committee
Comments, List of Companies Contacted and Resource File.
3. Afghanistan, Opportunities for Agricultural and Rural Development Sector
Report Vols. I and II - World Bank Report No. 848a-AF, Nov. 20, 1975.
4. Afghanistan - Field Visit Report of Transport Training Consultant to
Survey, Kabul - Islam Quala road route.
5. Transbar Corp. Afghanistan - Survey Report of Transport Needs and
Problems between Kabul and the Gulf States.
6. Prospects for the Development of Grape Production and Marketing in
Afghanistan - Abdul Ghafoor, Nov. 1974.
7. John Perry - Report of ITC Export Marketing Adviser in Dried Fruit
and Nuts to the Export Promotion Department, Ministry of Commerce
Kabul, July 1973.
8. Draft Working Paper - Horticultural Production in Afghanistan (as
input to item #1 by P.L. Gallagher, Consultant).
9. Draft Working Paper - Horticultural Processing Opportunities in
Afghanistan-(as input to item #1 by W.P. Mott, Consultant).
10. Developing a Packaging Industry in Afghanistan, Thomas Miner and
Associates, Chicago, April, 1965.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEX 5
Page 3
11. Report to the Government of Afghanistan - The Improvement and Development
of Marketing of Table Grapes and Raisins in Afghanistan.
12. Raisins - Ministry of Commerce, Export Promotion Department, Kabul -
Export Potential Studies No. 2 by M.E. Aslamy, President, Afghan
Raisin Export Promotion Institute, June 1977 - data therein updated by
project appraisal mission. Also contains original charter of AREPI.
13. The Market for Afghanistan's Dried Fruit and Nuts in the Federal Republic
of Germany and the UK - ITC Export Promotion Course for Afghanistan -
Kabul and Geneva, Jan. 10-March 3, 1972.
14. Report on a Follow-up Survey on Edible Tree Nuts and Dried Fruits - ITC,
Geneva, March 1975.
15. Assistance to GOA in Export Promotion - Initial Report of the Adviser in
Agricultural Products, Kurt Stadler - Ministry of Commerce Kabul, Jan. 12,
1976.
16. ITC, Assistance to the Republic of Afghanistan in Export Promotion.
First Periodic Report of the Marketing Adviser in Agricultural
Products, Kurt Stadler, Ministry of Commerce Kabul, March 11, 1976.
17. Export Marketing Field Research in Agricultural and Agroindustrial
Products - Gulf States, April 1976, Messrs. K. Stadler, N. Shah
and S. Hussain, Ministry of Commerce Kabul.
18. Field Research Concerning Agricultural and Agroindustrial Products
in the Kabul Area, 1976, Messrs. K. Stadler, S. Hussain and N. Shah,
Ministry of Commerce Kabul.
19. Field Research Concerning Agricultural and Agroindustrial Products
in the Kandahar and Herat Areas, 1976, Messrs. K. Stadler, S. Hussain
and N. Shah, Ministry of Commerce Kabul.
20. Field Research Concerning Agricultural and Agroindustrial Products
in the Jalalab Area, 1976, Messrs. K. Stadler, N. Shah and S. Hussain,
Ministry of Commerce Kabul.
21. A Study of the Marketing Possibilities for Afghan Pomegranate and Grape
Juice with Considerations of some Production Alternatives, ITC, Geneva,
March 1977.
22. The Saudi Arabian Market for Fresh Fruit and Vegetables. Flash Market
Information Series No. 1, ITC/Export Promotion Department, Ministry of
Commerce Kabul, April 1977.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEX 5
Page 4
23. The Market of Fresh Fruit and Vegetables in Kuwait and the UAR. Flash
Market Information Series No. 2, ITC/Export Promotion Department,
Ministry of Commerce Kabul, April 1977.
24. A Review of Tarnak Mechanized Farm, Kandahar Province. Fruit and
Vegetable Production and Marketing Project, Ministry of Commerce Kabul,
March/April 1977.
25. Fruit and Vegetables of Kandahar Province, Fruit and Vegetable Production
and Marketing Project, Ministry of Commerce Kabul, April 1977.
26. Fruit and Vegetables Potential Study of Herat Province. Fruit and Vege-
tables Production and Export Marketing Project, Ministry of Commerce
Kabul, May 1977.
27. The Ghazni and Jilga Valleys - a soil survey.
28. Sardeh Project - Ghazni Province.
29. UNDP Viticulture Production and Marketing Project No. AFG/74/015/A/01/12.
Preparatory Assistance Mission Report. H.P. Olmo, Consultant, Davis
California, Nov. 1975.
30. Plan of Layout and the Cost of Investment for establishing Trellising
and Maintaining the Vineyard at Mir Abdul Rahman's farm in Qala-i-Shekan.
Marcel Jelaska C.Sc Dip. Ing. Expert in Viticulture FAO/PACCO Kohdaman
Development Centre, Mir bacha kot, March 1972.
31. UNDP Viticulture Production and Marketing Project Document
No. AFG/74/015/B/01/12.
32. A Descriptive Study of Grapes in Afghanistan, A Kroehmal and A.A. Nawabi,
Vitis, March 1961.
33. Report to GOA on A Study of Red Raisin Production in Afghanistan with
Recommendations for Improvement, based on work by Leighton Smith,
Consultant, on Grape Harvesting FAO/SIDA Trust Fund Project TF.AFG.6,
Rome 1976.
34. Report to GOA on the Establishment and Implementation of Standards for
the Export of Raisins from Afghanistan, based on the work of George
Kerridge, Consultant, in Raisin Processing. FAO/SIDA Trust Fund
Project TF.AFG.6, Rome 1976.
35. Standards and Grades - Afghan Raisin Institute.
36. Sample Inspection Grading Certificate for Export Raisin Shipments,
Afghan Raisin Institute.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANINEX 5
Page 5
37. USSR Raisin Inspection and Grading Criteria and Standards for Afghan
Raisins.
38. Dried Fruit Specifications.
39. Hygienic Standards for the Raisin Processing Plants and Personnel -
Afghan Raisin Institute.
40. Afghanistan - Imports and Exports to Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, Volume
and Value 1351-53, plus Market Report from Afghan Embassy in Kuwait.
41. Afghanistan - Fruit Exports by Month to Delhi and Quetta, 1352-54.
42. Kuwait - Fruit and Vegetable Imports and Exports.
43. Extracts from Major Markets for Edible Tree Nuts and Dried Fruit. ITC,
Geneva, 1973 plus up-date of data through 1975.
44.  Report of the Afghanistan Seeds Industry Project, Preparation Mission,
Vols. I and II, FAO/Asian Development Bank (ADB) Joint Programme FAO
Investment Centre. FAO Rome, Feb. 1976.
45. Appraisal of a Seeds Project in Afghanistan, Appraisal Report, Loan
Agreement and Side Letters, Asian Development Bank Manila, Sept-Nov.
1976.
46. Afghan Domestic and Export Price Data for Fruit and Vegetables,
various years, months and seasons.
47. Afghanistan-USSR Transit Agreement 1975.
48. Afghanistan-Iran Transit Agreement 1975.






IBRD 13175
I648  8  ,     74  DECFRBFR 1977
04                           66'                           ER'                           IT'                            7?'74
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~38° 9 
U.S. S. R.
44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
-66Se,gh.n  /     Maora z -606
/   3"6t'o~~ j0  Of blatabJ A N I                  8          A L';TA KHAR
a   %        t                 )   \         /  t  v       u  - '--         E      7   ;       \'      ' ~~~~~~~O-  AKH       ,      ,  NY5dg-
'I- O..                  S=                                                                                                                                                                     W       R
---   -.      I AGHNA[ A,b-    -  PRVNCA   UR
<t \   l                                           2   ,4 )              4   Q   Oarrba F / ]XS A K 1 ,<)  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-43A-  /- -g9 A  ,A006 PAT                                       _   SRARNOOSL O
'NIMR'OL    /               ,r,?/&S           K A N D A\A AFR G-HA I S
:- .  /XS1   N I M R   OZ                                            *
3D    |    / '                                     j:;s ,,                            1 1 1i/ A  5- SR                       9S    2t 26 
/                                                                 /                    9                        lED                         A          V                     E      O         PROJECT
30   /  -AR                                                                   ' |  j0N5     PAVER AONDS
.  >,  e    _f7      1                      >                                      KILOMETERS                                                     \     >      sE  PAKISTAN S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GFAIN, N  TORGEPLNT
-32-                                                                                                                                                         G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAVEL4 RORD
02                                                                  66' - .. _ _. . * w . b t . .  . RE' -70,Q' &N 70E R N AT '                                                                      N  N D A
\  620  6ro                        E3°                               66°                              70'                               77°          (8>1 AWtrMArSE4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~300PRVICIL  -DR .



