Document of
FILE COpy                              The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2248-AF
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
XECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
FOR A
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
March 9, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and msy be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not stherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977                             December 1977
Currency Unit = Afghani (Af.)
US$1          = Afs. 46.1                           Afs.  43.0
Af. 1         = US$ 0.02169                         US$ 0.02326
FISCAL YEAR
M[arch 21 to March 20
Note: A depreciated exchange rate (Afs. 47.5 : US$ 1) has been used in
calculating project costs. See paragraph 46 for detailed explanation.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AgBank         -         Agricultural Development Bank of Afghanistan
AMSCO          -         Agricultural Machines and Services Company
ARI            -         Afghan Raisin Institute
ASC            -         Afghan Seed Company
AVEC           -         Afghan Vegetable Export Company
EPB            -         Export Promotion Bank
EPU            -         Ministry of Commerce Agro-industries Export
Promotion Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AFGHANISTAN
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Afghanistan.
Beneficiaries:      The Export Promotion Bank (EPB), The Agricultural Devel-
opment Bank of Afghanistan (AgBank), The Afghan Raisin
Institute (ARI), The Afghan Seed Company, (ASC) and
The Afghan Vegetable Export Company (AVEC).
Amount:             US$18 million.
Terms:              Standard IDA Terms.
Relending Terms:    The Government would on-lend to EPB the equivalent of
$10.5 million at 4 percent interest repayable over 17
years including 5 years grace for relending to ARI, ASC,
AVEC and private agroindustry investors. The Government
would also on-lend to AgBank the equivalent of $2.7 mil-
lion at 4.5 percent interest repayable over 16 years
including 8 years of grace for relending to farmers
contracted with AVEC and farmers investing in vineyard
trellising.
Project
Description:      The proposed project aims to expand market access for
horticultural exports such as raisins, vegetable seeds,
potatoes, onions and fresh fruit through the provision
of cleaning, packing and trucking equipment, grading and
export certification systems and marketing and on-farm
credits. The project would be executed through two
financial intermediaries, three entities and other sub-
borrowers. The project would benefit a total of over
one million farm families mostly through improved raisin
quality and raisin storage yielding higher producer prices.
Increased earnings for small farmers, who are the major
producers of labor intensive fruits and vegetables would
be achieved by developing improved market access for
horticultural crops. The project faces a risk in that
the project entities, except for AgBank, are lacking in
competent managerial and technical staff and are at present
inexperienced in the fields of operations envisaged under
the project. A large technical assistance component and
a special contractual arrangement with an internationally
recognized seed company would be included in the project
to tackle this problem.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
-------(US$ million)-------
I.  Afghan Raisin Institute                        1.9         2.8         4.7
II. Afghan Seed Company
(a) Vegetable Seed Multiplication              0.1         0.9         1.0
(b) Fruit Rootstock Production                 0.1         0.1         0.2
III.  Afghan Vegetable Export Company                0.5         0.9         1.4
IV. Credit
(a) Agroindustries                             0.4         2.2         2.6
(b) On-farm                                    3.6         2.3        5.9
(c) Raisin Marketing                           3.5         0.1         3.6
V.  Technical Assistance                           0.8         3.2         4.0
Base Cost                                     10.9        12.5        23.4
Physical Contingencies                         0.3         0.5         0.8
Price Contingencies                            1.4         2.0         3.4
Total                                         12.6        15.0        27.6
Financing Plan:
Government                                     $5.23 million
Export Promotion Bank                          $1.23 million
AgBank                                         $1.24 million
Sub-borrowers                                  $1.90 million
IDA                                           $18.00 million
Total                                       $27.60 million
Estimated Disbursement:
$ millions
IDA FY                             79      80     81     82      83     84
Annual                            2.8    3.8    4.5    2.8    3.2    0.9
Cumulative                        2.8    6.6   11.1   13.9   17.1   18.0
Rate of Return:      38 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 1782a-AF dated February 21, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
FOR A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Afghanistan for the equivalent of US$18
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a fruit and vegetable export
project. The equivalent of US$2.7 million of the proposed development credit
would be relent to the Agricultural Development Bank of Afghanistan (AgBank)
for 16 years, including 8 years of grace, with interest at 4.5 percent per
annum, and the equivalent of US$10.5 million of the proposed development
credit would be relent to the Export Promotion Bank of Afghanistan (EPB) for
17 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 4 percent per annum.
The balance of $4.8 million would be used by the Government to finance tech-
nical assistance to strengthen institutions benefiting from the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
General
2.        A report entitled "Afghanistan:  Economic Memorandum (1030-AF)"
dated June 7, 1976 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A basic
economic mission visited Afghanistan in April-May 1977 and a draft report was
discussed with the Government in December 1977. The final version of the
report is currently under preparation. The conclusions of the report are
reflected in the following analysis. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Economic Structure
3.        Afghanistan is an extremely poor, landlocked economy with severe
structural problems. With a population estimated at about 14 million and a
per capita income of around US$160 in 1976, it is one of the largest countries
designated as "least developed" by the United Nations. The country's prospects
for development are limited by a rugged physical terrain, arid conditions and
a paucity of physical and skilled human resources. The adult literacy rate is
only about 14 percent and the availability of physicians and hospital beds are
one per 12,900 and 5,200 persons, respectively. Agriculture accounts for
about half of GNP and engages about 54 percent of the labor force. Nomads
constitute an estimated 11 percent of the population, and an estimated 14 per-
cent of the total population live in the cities. Other structural features
of the economy are: the low degree of monetization, a low share of government
1/   Identical to the corresponding section of the President's Report distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 9, 1978 for the Second Khanabad Irriga-
tion Project.



-2-
revenues in national income, heavy dependence on foreign assistance for financ-
ing the public investment program and the relatively heavy burden of servicing
foreign debts.
4.        Since the establishment of the Republican Government in July 1973,
Afghanistan has made significant economic progress. This has also been accom-
panied by a degree of political stability which has permitted the Government
to initiate major socio-economic changes such as land reform and a graduated
land tax aimed at agricultural incomes which have been hitherto untaxed.
Indicative of the Government's determination to pursue land reforms has been
the recent law on survey, settlement, and registration of land which provides
for land registration and settlement of disputes and checks tax declaration
data. The cadastral survey is continuing and a new department of land reform
has been established in the Ministry of Finance.
5.        There has been some improvement in public administration partic-
ularly in relation to development planning and project implementation (e.g.
reorganization of the Ministry of Planning, creation of the semi-autonomous
Water and Power Authority which has recently been upgraded as the Ministry of
Water and Power). Attempts are also being made to improve the institutional
support for the country's export trade. An Export Promotion Bank has been
recently established and two international trucking companies established for
efficient transport of goods to USSR and continental Europe have also started
operations. Some promotional efforts have also been aimed at encouraging
private industrial investment (e.g. 1974 General Customs Tariff and 1976
Investment Tariff, small scale industry credit facility at the Industrial
Development Bank and improved procedures for approval of such industries).
A Seven-Year Development Plan (1976/77 to 1982/83) is currently in the third
year of its implementation (see para. 15).
Recent Economic Performance
6.        Afghanistan's economy suffered a major setback from the droughts in
1970 and 1971 followed by the severe winter of 1971/72 which caused declines
in wheat, fruit and livestock production, and especially heavy losses in the
livestock population. Since then agricultural output has recovered rapidly
due to improved weather conditions and increased use of farm inputs. Agri-
cultural output during the fiscal year 1975/76, particularly wheat and
cotton, was at a record level with an estimated increase of 7 percent over
1974/75 which in itself was already a very good crop year. Poor weather
conditions, however, resulted in a slowdown in agricultural production in
1976/77.  The increase in the food grains crop, the bulk of the agricultural
produce, was at a lower rate than in 1975/76 while production of seed cotton,
the main cash crop, was the same as in 1975/76. The slowdown in output growth
illustrates the continued dependence on variable precipitation and the need
for investment in irrigation. The performance in large scale manufacturing
in 1976/77 compared to 1975/76 has been mixed. Production of urea has hardly
increased, constrained by large factory stocks from 1975/76. Ginned cotton,
however, has performed quite well, the estimated rate of increase being about



-3-
20 percent. 1/ Although production of cement and sugar have hardly increased,
their production levels were at the limit of their current utilizable capaci-
ties. 2/ Production of cotton textiles, however, is estimated to have declined
by about 22 percent; there are demand constraints facing cotton textiles, an
export ban and high level of imports encouraged by exchange rate appreciation
(see para. 12) have dampened the demand for the domestic textiles.
7.        The Bank Group in 1976 conducted a sector survey on industry which
reviewed its problems and prospects. 3/ The modern sector is dominated by the
public sector with very little private sector participation. The problems of
the public sector are, briefly, over-centralization of the management struc-
ture, lack of proper financial control, and inadequately trained management
personnel. The private sector, which consists almost entirely of import-
substituting consumer goods industries, is currently stagnating and is con-
strained by various practices such as export restrictions on textiles and
strict application of income tax regulations without an adequate appeals pro-
cedure and a statute of limitations on past liabilities. It is also being
hampered by the lack of a clear Government policy on the role of the private
sector in industrial development. The findings of the Bank study, including
various recommendations of possible policy measures to deal with these prob-
lems, have been submitted to the Government. Of late, the Government has
shown a greater awareness of the large potential 4/ for private sector indus-
trial investment (see para. 5).
8.        Afghanistan during 1976/77 successfully continued its efforts to
mobilize domestic resources. Public revenue increased by about 13 percent
over the previous year while current surplus increased by about 9 percent
over 1975/76, roughly as projected in the budget. Development expenditures,
although falling short by about 18 percent over the budgetary estimate of
Afs. 14.0 billion, increased no less than 90 percent over the previous year.
This reflects the steady improvement in Afghanistan's absorptive capacity.
The shortfall in development expenditures did not, however, result in a fall
in the budgetary deficit because of a large shortfall in the inflow of foreign
aid due to a slowdown in commitments from major donors. 5/   Contrary to the
1/   Although production of seed cotton in 1976/77 remained static at the
1975/76 level, this did not impede ginning operations because of a
large backlog of unginned cotton from 1975/76.
2/   Some of the machinery is very old and sometimes inoperable; machine-
rated capacities thus often exceed their utilisable limits.
3/   Industrial Sector Review of Afghanistan, IBRD Report No. 1245-AF.
4/   The forthcoming basic economic report will elaborate on this.
5/   Despite recent improvements, Afghanistan's low absorptive capacity
remains a continued concern (see paragraph 14). The slowdown in aid
commitments in 1976/77 was not, however, due to a lack of project prep-
aration, rather due to delays on the part of the donors. The Government
has partially compensated for it by committing its own resources.



-4-
budgetary estimate of about Afs. 9.3 billion of gross foreign aid inflow,
actual receipts were about Afs. 5.4 billion. Part of the shortfall in aid
receipts was, however, made up through deficit finance of about Afs. 2.9
billion, compared with debt retirement by the Government of about Afs. 0.8
billion during the previous year.
9.        Although gross aid receipts in 1976/77 were only 58 percent of the
budgeted figures, they still increased by about 16 percent over the previous
year's total. This however contrasts sharply with the 40 percent annual
growth rate projected in the seven year development plan. Commitments by
major aid donors have been very limited in 1976/77 and considerable shortfall
in the plan's projections of such commitments is likely. Foreign aid receipts
can be expected to be a major constraint on achieving the investment targets
of the plan. Additionally, there is evidence that the newer donors are lend-
ing on less concessional terms so that the debt service burden may again
emerge as a serious problem.
10.       The rate of increase in money supply 1/ during 1976/77 has been sub-
stantial, about 33 percent; this reflects the effect of a large budgetary
deficit (see para. 8) and the increase in foreign assets (see para. 11). There
has been, however, no corresponding increase in the prices which are estimated
to have increased by only about 3 percent. While significant exchange rate
appreciation (see para. 12) helped to keep the prices of imported consumer
goods down, the main restraint on prices may have come from a massive volume
of hoarding of the domestic currency as pure asset accumulation. It is likely
that the effect of the large increase in money supply was not fully reflected
in the 1976/77 prices because of both lags and cash hoarding. As lags work
through and cash hoardings are run down because of anticipated crop losses,
inflationary pressures could emerge and will need to be closely monitored.
11.       With regard to foreign trade, export earnings during 1976/77
increased by about 32 percent over 1975/76, compared to only about 2 percent
during 1975/76. While export prices increased by about 22 percent, the
increase in export volume was 8 percent. About 90 percent of the increase in
export earnings came from fruits and nuts and ginned cotton which benefitted
from high prices.   Simultaneously, imports in 1976/77 also marked a consid-
erable increase over their 1975/76 level due to the rising volume of develop-
ment expenditures and the effect of continued exchange rate appreciation (see
para. 12) on private imports. However, the rate of growth (about 24 percent)
was less than the rate for exports so that the trade deficit was reduced from
$42 million to $33 million in 1976/77. Of the other current account items,
interest payments were about $9 million compared to about $5 million in
1975/76. The 1976/77 interest payments were, however, still less than their
1974/75 level, reflecting the 1975 rescheduling of the USSR debt. Net foreign
aid flows were about $112 million, compared to about $94 million in 1975/76
and foreign exchange reserves increased by about $68 million. Current foreign
exchange reserves are about $241 million, equivalent to about two-thirds of
the current annual import flows. Apart from the improving export performance
1/   Including quasi-money (i.e. time deposits and foreign currency deposits).



- 5 -
and increasing net aid flows in recent years, the continued rise in foreign
exchange reserves also reflect an additional factor - central bank purchases
of foreign currency from the "bazaar" (i.e. free foreign exchange market).
This has helped to moderate the appreciation of the Afghani resulting largely
from sizable remittances by Afghans working abroad.
12.       During the first half of 1976, the central bank had suspended its
buying activities in the "bazaar" and this led to a resumption of the appre-
ciaton of the Afghani 1/ during the six months ending September 1976 from
Afs. 55: US$1 to Afs. 40: US$1. Exports were, however, insulated from this
appreciation through export earnings being converted at the rate which pre-
vailed in February 1976, Afs. 56: US$1. Since September 1976, the central
bank has resumed its buying activity in the "bazaar" and by end-March 1977
the "bazaar" rate has increased to Afs. 47: US$1, as a consequence of purchase
of about $16 million. Simultaneously, however, the central bank has reduced
the export exchange rate first to Afs. 50: US$1, and then in June 1977 to
Afs. 48: US$1. These actions to reduce the spread between the "bazaar" rate
(i.e. at which the central bank sells foreign exchange to the private sector)
and export exchange rate (i.e. at which it purchases foreign exchange from
the private sector), will substantially reduce the budgetary burden which is
incurred on this account. Besides the impact on the Government budget, the
appreciation of the export exchange rate by about 17 percent could affect
export incentives in the longer-term. The IMF is reviewing this question with
the Government. There is, however, no evidence yet of any slack in exports.
Demand for fruits and nuts and raw cotton constituting more than half of
the exports has been particularly buoyant in 1976/77. Recovery of production
by competing foreign suppliers and thereby a reversal of the recent high
export prices should be anticipated in the near future and a depreciated
exchange rate could then become a necessity.
Development Prospects and Constraints
13.       The large undeveloped human, agricultural and mineral resources
of Afghanistan provide the basis for a favorable assessment of the country's
long-term development potential. The commitment of the Government to develop-
ment and economic and social reforms gives rise to hope that this potential
can be realized. Recent offers of aid, notably from the Islamic oil producing
countries, are likely to increase further the external capital flow into the
country in the near future. Although foreign aid receipts during the seven
year development plan (see para. 15) may fall short of the target, a substan-
tial acceleration over the levels achieved in recent years may reasonably be
anticipated.
14.       To realize the development potential of the country, however,
requires timely and vigorous action to remove a number of obstacles that
1/   The average bazaar exchange rate for Afghanis to US dollars has in-
creased from Afs. 80.5: US$1 in 1972/73 to Afs. 47.4: US$1 in 1976/77.



severely inhibited the country's economic and social development in the
past. Included among these are:
(a) Inadequacies in project preparation and the resulting shortage
of projects to absorb the external economic assistance which
was potentially available; and
(b) inadequacies in public administration and manpower development
which have led to inefficient implementation of policies and
projects.
The Government is well aware of these problems and has begun to take action
to solve them. Particular attention is being given to improving the taxation
system. The organizational changes as mentioned in paragraph 5 also indicate
this awareness. Much, however, remains to be done and will be focused on in
the forthcoming basic economic report.
15.       The Government has begun implementing a seven-year development plan
(1976/77-1982/83). The plan has an estimated expenditure total of about Afs.
174 billion ($3.7 billion) 1/ thus envisaging a more than three-fold rise in
the average annual development expenditure as compared to 1975/76. The plan
aims at an annual rate of growth in GNP of about 6 percent. With population
expected to grow at about 2 percent per annum, the per capita income growth
is expected to be around 4 percent. However, in its present form the plan
is better viewed as a shopping list of projects providing a range of choice
to donors than as a feasible program with a well-defined framework for the
examination and coordination of policies. Thus the plan probably contains
more projects than the country can prepare and implement. Moreover, the
projected foreign aid inflow of about $2.8 billion may be more than can be
expected from the major aid donors. The shortfall in external aid cannot
be met from domestic resources given the need to increase current expendi-
tures on social services in the plan period.
External Debt
16.       During the period between 1972/73 and 1976/77 about two-thirds of
public investments in Afghanistan have been externally financed with gross
aid inflows ranging from about $60 to $130 million annually. As of March 31,
1977 Afghanistan's external debt amounted to $1,748.5 million of which $911.2
million was disbursed. The major creditors are USSR (62 percent of the total
outstanding debt), USA (6 percent), IDA (6 percent), and the Federal Republic
of Germany (5 percent). The People's Republic of China and Saudi Arabia, both
relatively new creditors, hold 4 percent and 3 percent respectively of the
total outstanding debt. Loans from governments account for about 92 percent
of all disbursed external public debt. Afghanistan concluded, in July 1972,
an agreement with USSR to reschedule $30.2 million of some $152.4 million in
1/   At the March 1977 exchange rate of Afs. 47.5 to I US dollar which
remained the same until June 1977 (see para. 46 below).



-7-
debt service obligations that were due during 1972/73-1976/77. In addition,
in early 1973, USSR agreed to convert some $16.5 million of loan commitments
to grants. In February 1975, an agreement was concluded for the rescheduling
of another $136 million of debt obligation due during 1975/80.
17.       With the past emphasis on long-gestation infrastructure projects with
little export-generating or import-saving impact, the growth of Afghanistan's
debt servicing capacity has been outstripped by the debt-servicing obligations.
Thus, although most of the borrowing over the past 20 years was on quite soft
terms, the impact of debt service has become heavy and in the recent past
had to be mitigated by substantial rescheduling. The debt-service ratio in
1976/77 was 8.3 percent, as against 17 percent in 1974/75, but the decline was
entirely the effect of the 1975 rescheduling of the debt-service payments to
USSR, the principal lender. Given the country's debt burden, its poverty
and its development stage, Afghanistan does not have the capacity to service
additional external borrowing on conventional terms. It is also probable that
the terms of aid committed and disbursed during the seven year plan period
will be less concessionary than earlier anticipated. Accordingly, it is esti-
mated that the debt service ratio would climb to about 21 percent in 1982/83.
This raises the probable need for a further rescheduling of debt as happened
in 1975. Afghanistan also requires special consideration from external
lenders, including IDA, in financing the local costs of development projects,
in view of its relatively narrow tax-base and low domestic savings capacity.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN 1/
18.       IDA has provided fourteen development credits totalling US$115 mil-
lion (net of cancellations) to Afghanistan. IFC invested $0.3 million in the
Industrial Development Bank of Afghanistan (IDBA) in July 1973. However, IDBA
has been nationalized and IFC has been fully paid back its investment by the
Government. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC
investments as of January 31, 1978, and notes on the execution of the ongoing
projects.
19.       Bank Group lending in Afghanistan began in 1964 with a $3.5 million
credit (Cr. 68-AF) for an education project, but in July 1970, before any con-
struction took place, a major portion of the credit was cancelled at the
request of the Government following education policy changes. A resident
mission was established in Kabul in 1969 and since that time, with a consider-
able input of staff time and effort on project preparation, the Bank Group
has provided financial assistance to Afghanistan at an average level of about
$13 million annually. IDA has made six credits totalling $69 million in the
1/   Identical to the corresponding section of the President's Report dis-
tributed to the Executive Director on March 9, 1978 for the Second
Khanabad Irrigation Project.



agricultural sector, three credits totalling $19 million in the transportation
sector, one credit of $2 million for an industrial development bank project,
one credit of $9 million for a water supply project, one credit of $?0 million
for a thermal power project and one credit of $6 million for a second educa-
tion project. The proposed credit would be the seventh for the agricultural
sector.
20.       Difficulties have been experienced in disbursing the proceeds of
the IDA credits made since 1971. The main reasons were substantial delays
in fulfilling effectiveness conditions, slow progress with the selection of
consultants, minor project changes and, in the case of the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank (IDBA) Project, a lack of sub-projecits. These problems have now
been corrected satisfactorily, with the assistance of the Bank's resident
mission in Afghanistan, but in the case of the irrigation and livestock proj-
ects, the delays incurred aggravated the effect of very heavy inflation on
the project costs. Disbursements are now proceeding on a normal schedule. In
close cooperation with IDA staff, the Government is trying to remove obstacles
to satisfactory project implementation for those projects which are currently
being prepared or whose implementation has just: started. For instance, a proj-
ect implementation unit for the Second Education Project was fully established
soon after the negotiations, and a project unit has already been established
in preparation for the fruit and vegetable export project.
21.       The Bank Group's lending strategy recognizes that special efforts
are required to help Afghanistan which is among the 29 least developed coun-
tries designated by the United Nations. Its landlocked position, its extreme
poverty and difficult economic problems, the structure of its political and
economic system, the underdeveloped state of physical resources and shortage
of trained manpower impose severe limitations on the country's absorptive
capacity and thus inhibit its development. Considerable staff time is
required, therefore, to help identify, prepare and implement future projects.
During the forthcoming years, we expect to establish a basis for financing
an average of three projects each year, which would assist in institution
building, expand production, increase the foreign exchange earning capacity,
improve absorptive capacity and enlarge government resources for development.
To that end, technical assistance will continue to be an important feature
of most future projects.
22.       An appraisal report is being prepared for a water supply and sewer-
age project. The Government is preparing the preinvestment studies for a
third education project by utilizing the expertise available within the
Government and limiting outside help to the minimum. A grain storage project
is ready for appraisal on the basis of a study financed by the British Gov-
ernment. After completion of an FAO/IBRD CP preparation report on a rural
development project, the Government is taking further preparation steps in
consultation with IDA. The project should be ready for appraisal by June
1978. Preparation of the third irrigation project is also well advanced.
Preparation of a second Industrial Development Bank project will depend on
further development of overall industrial investment policies by the Govern-
ment, particularly for the private sector, and the initial experience of the
program to support small and medium scale industry (see para. 5).



- 9 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN AFGHANISTAN 1/
23.       Agriculture is the key sector in the economy of Afghanistan.  It
employs about 54 percent of labor force and accounts for about 50 percent of
GDP and about 60 percent of total exports by value. About 85 percent of the
total land area of 63 million hectares is comprised of mountains, desert and
forests, unsuitable for cultivation. Afghanistan has an extreme continental
climate, with its hot, dry summers and severe, cold winters. Afghanistan is
very poorly endowed with surface water. High evapo-transpiration rates in
summer make the Afghan economy vulnerable to climatic changes. The drought
between 1970 and 1971 followed by a severe winter in 1971/72 caused a more
than 20 percent drop in agricultural production. Climatic and topographical
factors together with inefficient traditional irrigation systems and the
institutional problems as described below act as severe constraints to the
improvement of agricultural productivity and consequently to the development
of the country.
24.       Grain crops, of which 75 percent consist of wheat, are grown on 80
to 90 percent of the cropped land. About 30 to 40 percent of the unarable
land is used for livestock grazing, mostly for sheep. During the past three
years, Afghanistan achieved a long-standing Government objective of self-
sufficiency in foodgrains particularly in wheat. About 2.9 million tons of
wheat are estimated to have been produced in 1976/77 as compared to 2.4 mil-
lion tons in the pre-drought year of 1969/70. Rice production has also in-
creased from 407,000 tons in 1969/70 to 450,000 tons in 1976/77. Production
of the two major cash crops, sugarbeet and cotton, almost doubled between
1969/70 and 1976/77. The value of agricultural exports increased by over 100
percent for the period 1971/72 to 1975/76, due to a 50 percent price increase
and a similar increase in volume. However, the year 1977/78 may again require
imports of about 200,000 tons of wheat due to low rainfall.
25.       The average size of land holdings is estimated at around 3.5 hec-
tares of cultivable land, but the distribution of land ownership varies
considerably among the regions. The majority of the estimated 1.5 million
agricultural households have less than 0.5 hectare, and rely on sharecropping
arrangements with landlords. Fragmentation and multiple ownership, resulting
from the traditional inheritance law, discourages investment in mechanization
and improvements including the introduction of fertilizers and other inputs.
The landlord may invest little or nothing in his land but often acquires a
substantial part of any production increase achieved by the tenant. In an
effort to break through these socio-custom constraints, the Government has
recently introduced a land reform law and a graduated land tax system and,
under the current seven year development plan, proposes to expand greatly its
program for the settlement of landless farmers. As the first step to support
1/   Paragraphs 23-27 are identical to the corresponding paragraphs of the
President's Report distributed to the Executive Directors on March 9,
1978 for the Second Khanabad Irrigation Project.



- 10 -
the Government efforts in this area, the Third Agricultural Credit Project
for which an IDA credit of $12 million was approved in June 1977, includes
credit facilities for farmers resettling under the Government land settlement
program.
26.       The agricultural sector in Afghanistan still faces a number of
institutional constraints including insufficient credit facilities, cumbersome
administrative regulations, inadequate domestic financial resources, a short-
age of trained staff, inadequate extension services and above all, cultural
and social constraints including the fact that about 90 percent of the popula-
tion is illiterate. Although harsh topographic and traditional socio-economic
customs restrain optimism in the Government's efforts in solving these prob-
lems, there have been some encouraging signs of improvement in these fields
particularly during the past few years. The previous IDA credits for the
agricultural sector have started to address, on a project basis, several of
these constraints. In addition to their main objectives for production
increases, the irrigation, livestock and agricultural credit projects are
contributing to streamlining administrative arrangements, strengthening
institutions connected with these projects and training staff in these fields.
Furthermore, the recent second education project is designed to increase the
number of middle level agricultural extension agents and to improve general
teacher training.
27.       The Ministry of Agriculture is the main administrator of agricultural
development in Afghanistan, but its achievement and influence in agricultural
development has been rather limited due to a shortage of trained and expe-
rienced staff, limited budgetary allocations and an unsatisfactory administra-
tive framework including overcentralization of authority. The transfer in 1975
of the responsibility for irrigation development from the then Ministry of
Agriculture and Irrigation to the Ministry of Water and Power and the creation
of Department of Rural Development in the Prime Minister's office has improved
efficiency in irrigation development, but these two Ministries and the Depart-
ment of the Rural Development continue to face the same major constraints as
listed above for the Ministry of Agriculture. With the three IDA credits
amounting to $30 million as the main financial support, the Agricultural
Development Bank of Afghanistan (AgBank) has developed a financially and
institutionally strong basis and established itself firmly as the leading
agricultural development institution in the country. Its reorganization and
strengthening in 1969 with assistance from UNDP and IDA were the first major
steps to make institutional credit facilities available to farmers. The first
agricultural credit project has been successfully completed and a completion
report for the project has been finalized. The second agricultural credit
project is being implemented successfully and is shortly to be phased into the
third agricultural credit project which became effective in September 1977.
Since its establishment in October 1973, the Afghan Fertilizer Company has
contributed greatly to increasing the use of agriculture and improving the
supply and distribution network of fertilizers with strong support from the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID). The Afghan Seed
Company, a recently organized Government organization, is expected to increase
production and contribute to multiplying and distributing improved crop seeds
particularly of wheat and cotton. The company is being assisted by a $14
million loan from the Asian Development Bank. The Herat Livestock Development



- 11 -
Company organized under the First Livestock Development Project, for which an
IDA credit of $9 million was made in 1973, has been expanding its activities
into an extensive animal health program under the Second Livestock Development
Project, for which an IDA credit of $15 million was made in July 1976. Since
lack of an efficient extension service system has hindered the agricultural
development in Afghanistan, IDA has recently made a US$6 million credit for a
second education project which mainly aims at producing middle level extension
agents. Although there are about 2,600 extension agents in Afghanistan their
quality is low and additional extension agents are needed to provide adequate
services to farmers.
Horticulture Subsector
28.       Fruit and vegetables account for about 6 percent of the total culti-
vated area, 10 percent of seasonally irrigated land and about 10 to 15 percent
of permanently irrigated land. About 100,000 farmers are directly engaged in
horticultural production, mostly vegetables, while nearly the whole agricul-
tural labor force engages in some seasonal work in horticulture. For the past
two years, Afghanistan produced about 900,000 tons of fruits and 720,000 tons
of vegetables. Fresh and dried fruits, nuts and medical herbs make up about
35 to 40 percent of total exports. The Afghan yields in the horticulture
sector are substantially below those of other major horticultural producers
for virtually all crops. The main reasons for the far lower yields are insuf-
ficient inputs and poor quality combined with inadequate farming and management
skills. Given the scope for improvements on both these fronts, the potential
for increasing yield in this sector is very large and the proposed project
would make a significant contribution to that effect.
29.       The targets in the seven-year development plan call for a 4.2 per-
cent annual increase in fruit production and a 2.9 percent yield growth which
compare with a 0.8 percent and 0.25 percent, respectively, annual growth during
the previous seven-year period. The high export growth of 9 percent p.a. over
the past seven years was at the expense of a decline in domestic per capita
consumption as the area cultivated was almost unchanged. Substantial efforts
to increase fruit production will be necessary to maintain and increase exports
in the face of rising domestic consumption. The plan's targets for vegetables,
calling for increases of 3.9 percent p.a. in area, 2.1 percent p.a. in yield
and 7.0 percent p.a. in total output are also ambitious. Domestic consumption
is unlikely to rise fast enough to absorb such an increase in output. However,
there is a potential for exports if the necessary investment and effort is
made, an exporting system is rapidly developed and access to export markets
is permitted by lifting the ban imposed on vegetable exports because of the
scarcities caused by the drought of 1970 and 1971. The proposed project is
designed to help Afghanistan to realize its production and export potential
for both fruits and vegetables, and to develop further its export markets
especially in Iran and USSR.
30.       The horticulture subsector faces a number of constraints among which
low yields, slow growth in productivity, farmers' preoccupation with wheat
production, difficulty in obtaining institutional credit and no incentive for
private investment are conspicuous. The lack of market access, particularly
for fresh produce, negates the potentially high returns to horticultural pro-
duction, causing actual returns to be lower than those of alternative crops.



- 12 -
Since no refrigerated transport or storage now exists, the volume and quality
of fresh produce exports is restricted and the ability to manage the market
is almost non-existent.  As the first step to improve this situation, the
Government is actively involved in establishing joint ventures with interna-
tional firms to provide improved truck transport for exporters, incorporating
protocols to avoid the tax difficulties which have been discouraging private
investment in this field. Less important, but still significant constraints
to growth in productivity and yields are share cropper and tenant farmer
access to irrigated land, unequal distribution of water rights and uncertain
availability of irrigation water during the dry summer season.  Farmers con-
tinue to be preoccupied with wheat production due to the need of the individual
to ensure personally that adequate quantities of storable food are available
for themselves over the lengthy harsh winter period.  The Government is now
working to expand and improve the public food storage and distribution system
to reduce this burden on individual farmers. IDA is currently assisting the
Afghan Government in preparing a grain storage project in collaboration with
the British Government (para. 22). A major reason for the low level of inputs
and thus low productivity in horticulture is the difficulty in obtaining
credits from the Agricultural Development Bank which may legally accept col-
lateral principally in the form of land titles or joint liabilities through
a cooperative or group. The Government and AgBank are aware of this problem
and are currently working on improved arrangements for individual farmers to
obtain credits through less rigid collateral requirements.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
31.       In early 1976, Afghanistan requested IDA to assist financing a fruit
and vegetable export project to improve horticultural production and yields,
and provide established markets for fruits and vegetables. This would be the
seventh IDA credit for the agricultural sector in Afghanistan excluding a sup-
plementary credit for the Khanabad irrigation project. The proposed project
was identified by an IDA horticulture subsector survey mission in May 1976,
and prepared by a US consulting firm funded by' UNDP for which the Bank served
as executing agency. During the preparation phase and copntinuing during the
post appraisal phase, IDA has sought out and supplied information to firms who
might be interested in participating in a joint venture or technical assis-
tance arrangement in carrying out the project. The project was appraised in
June 1977 and negotiations were held in December 1977 in Washington. The
Afghan delegation was headed by H.E. Abdul W. Karim, the Ambassador to USA and
included representatives of Ministries of Planning and Commerce, the Export
Promotion Bank and the Afghan Seed Company.
The Project
32.       The main objectives of the project are to:  (a) provide aew, and
improve and expand existing marketing channels for export of raisins, vegetable
seeds and fresh vegetables; (b) increase production of grapes and vegetables,



- 13 -
and raise labor productivity; and (c) develop and strengthen the institutions
related to the project. The project would help achieve the objectives of the
seven-year developnment plan, and would provide outlets for high-value labor
intensive crops. The Credit and Project Summary describes the major features
of the proposed project. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 1783-AF) entitled
"Afghanistan Fruit and Vegetable Export Project" is being distributed sepa-
rately to the Executive Directors.
33.       The project would consist of seven components:
(i) Raisin Marketing - to expand and reorganize the Afghan Raisin
Institute (ARI) to equip it to implement a comprehensive quality
control program through investment in eight rural stores with
cleaning equipment, through demonstration trellised vineyards,
and through developing grading and certification and market
information schemes at the farm and export processing levels.
About 60,000 tons of raisins could be processed annually at
full development. No raisins go through such a comprehensive
quality control program at present;
(ii) Vegetable Seed Multiplication and Fruit Rootstock Production -
to provide the Afghan Seed Company (ASC) with facilities, equip-
ment and technology to multiply vegetable seeds for export
under contract to an international seed firm and to produce
fruit rootstock, principally grapevine seedlings, to meet
domestic needs;
(iii) Vegetable Exports - to establish the Afghan Vegetable Export
Company (AVEC) and equip it to export about 8,500 tons of vege-
tables annually, produced under contract with local farmers and
on its own farm;
(iv) Agroindustries Credit - to provide, through the Export Promo-
tion Bank (EPB), investment financing for development of horiti-
culturally based agro-industries, such as small fresh-fruit
packing and precooling plants and refrigerated trucks;
(v) On-Farm Credit - to provide through AgBank medium- and long-
term credit for on-farm investment, primarily for trellising
about 900 ha of vineyards for raisin and grape production;
(vi) Raisin Marketing Credit - to provide through EPB a line of
short-term credit to farmers to enable them to phase their
raisin marketing over a longer period and participate in the
ARI quality control program;
(vii) Technical Assistance - to provide the necessary experts to
assist in implementing the project and train local personnel
in managerial and technical skills.



- 14 -
34.       The project is specifically designed to realize the considerable
potential of the horticulture subsector as identified in IDA's Horticulture
Subsector Survey which was distributed to the Executive Directors in May 1977.
The survey shows, inter alia, that Afghanistan is very well placed to in-
crease its production of fruits and vegetables, in particular raisins.
Afghanistan's extremely competitive position in raisins, fresh grapes and
some other horticultural crops would be greatly enhanced by a better quality
control program, and better supporting services for farmers including provi-
sion of market information, institutional credits and improved storage and
transport facilities. The high economic return on the project demonstrates
its importance to Afghanistan.
35.       Any project designed to realize the potential of the horticultural
subsector is bound to be complicated because it involves a large range of
activities related to different fruits and vegetables which require different
production techniques and marketing arrangements. This inevitable complexity
is reflected in the lending arrangements for this project elaborated in
paragraphs below.
36.       The development of trellised vineyards is an important innovative
component of the project. Afghan farmers follow traditional non-trellised
systems, except in some part of the Parwan regions in the north of Kabul where
the recent introduction of trellising resulted in 200 to 400 percent yield
increase. In order to promote interest in trellising investment, the Govern-
ment would subsidize 30 percent of the cost of poles and wires for trellising
investments under the proposed project (Section 3.10, Development Credit
Agreement). This would total 14 percent of investment cost for a trellised
vineyard. Coupled with an active demonstration and promotion program to be
carried out under the project by ARI, AgBank and the Ministry of Agriculture,
this investment grant is expected to create a sufficient incentive for farmers
to introduce the new technique.
Organization and Execution
37.       Investment financing for sub-borrowers under the project would be
channeled through two specialized banks; the Export Promotion Bank to private
investments in agro-industries and raisin marketing and AgBank for on-farm
credit. The funds for the components to be implemented by ARI, ASC and AVEC
would also be channeled through EPB. Monitoring and evaluation would be
carried out by a small Ministry of Commerce Agro-Industries Export Promotion
Unit. All project entities are operationally independent of each other and
their activities are quite specialized. Since three of the project entities
are of recent origin while one has been just established, and virtually all
of the project activities would involve significant technical innovation in
Afghanistan, a sizeable volume of technical assistance, 69 man-years, would
be included in the project with emphasis on training of local staff. To
enable ARI and ASC to perform operations proposed under the project, the
existing charters of ARI and ASC have been revised, and a new charter has
been ratified for the establishment of AVEC.



- 15 -
Export Promotion Bank (EPB)
38.       EPB was established in 1976 to extend financial assistance to
exporters and exporting industries. Like all other banks in Afghanistan, it
is fully owned by the Government and is under the supervision of Da Afghanistan
Bank (the Central Bank). EPB extends short-term credit for up to 75 percent of
the invoiced value of the export goods, for which it charge 11 percent fixed
interest rate. The terms of its operations appear to provide adequate protec-
tion against losses, and the experience to date has been satisfactory.
39.       Under the project, EPB would establish a Financial Planning Depart-
ment and an Internal Audit Department, and its Credit Department would be
reorganized and strengthened. The establishment of the first two departments
would be a condition of effectiveness. Three experienced expatriates would be
employed initially to head these departments and later to phase into advisory
roles. Qualified local counterpart staff would also be employed. The employ-
ment of these experts and staff would be a condition of effectiveness (Section
5.01, Development Credit Agreement). By December 31, 1978, EPB would retain
an accounting firm to establish a computerized accounting system, develop with
ARI a system of implementing the raisin marketing credit program and a train-
ing program to be financed under the project, and submit the programs for
IDA's approval (Section 2.06, First Project Agreement). The Government would
allocate necessary capital to EPB to ensure that EPB's debt/equity does not
exceed 5:1 and that EPB has sufficient operating funds at all times (Section
2.11, First Project Agreement).
Agricultural Development Bank of Afghanistan (AgBank)
40.       Since its reorganization in 1969 under a UN Special Fund technical
assistance project for which the Bank continues to be the executing agency,
AgBank has achieved a remarkable transformation from an inefficient and small-
funding channel into the leading agricultural development institution in the
country with a professionally competent staff and the ability to generate
revenues. The proposed IDA credit would be the sixth to be wholly or partly
channeled through AgBank. AgBank continues to make generally satisfactory
progress in its agricultural development operations, but the recent poor per-
formance of its Supply Department could have an adverse effect on its progress.
It is expected, however, that with the recent appointment of a qualified
president of AgBank, the situation will improve in the near future.
41.       AgBank would, with AVEC, develop a scheme and submit it by September
30, 1978 for IDA's approval, for restricting seasonal credits to farmers con-
tracted with AVEC and channeling contract payments through AgBank (Section
2.06, Second Project Agreement). AgBank would also provide on-farm develop-
ment credit for vineyard trellising purposes and procure and distribute
necessary tools and materials for trellising and raisin production.
The Afghan Raisin Institute (ARI)
42.       ARI was established in 1975 by the Ministry of Commerce as a non-
profit service institute for the purpose of increasing production, carrying



- 16 -
out trade promotion and storing raisins. Mainly due to the shortage of
capital and technical expertise, at present, ARI can touch only a small
portion of the problems affecting the raisin prodnction andl ex--rt -;>-d"tr '
Since the immediate need is to upgrade the quality of export raisins, ARI is
working on a mandatory export grading and certification scheme for raisins and
must submit such a scheme by December 31, 1978 for iDA's approval CSec-iGri
3.04, First Project Agreement). To strengthen] ARI's management and technical
expertise and to train its staff, a viticulturalist, a processing and trans-
portation specialist and a marketing specialist, would be employed by September
30, 1978 for a period of five years and a training program for local staff
would be submitted by December 31, 1978 for IDA's approval (Sections 3.03 and
3.04, First Project Agreement). A qualified local accountant would be retained
for four months annually over a four-year period to develop an acccunt::n. and
auditing system in ARI (Section 3.03, First Project Agreement).
The Afghan Seed Company (ASC)
43.       ASC was established in August 1976 by the Government to produce cer-
tified seed. At present its scope is restricted to the production of cotton
and wheat seeds under a project financed by a $14 million credit from the
Asian Development Bank. ASC's current capital assets, valued at $6.9 million,
mainly consist of land and consequently ASC is short of liquid assets-  This
problem is exacerbated by a lack of financial management expertise.  To
improve the situation, ASC would employ by June 30, 1978 an expatriate finan-
cial manager together with an Afghan counterpart for the entire company. It
would also employ a pomologist for its fruit rootstock and seedling production
operations, a technical manager and a seed-processing technician to assist in
the development of the vegetable multiplication division (Section 4.02, First
Project Agreement). The latter two positions could be filled by staff pro-
vided by an international seed company who would contract for the vegetable
multiplication and export marketing of seed. As a result of IDA's efforts
to arouse interest in the project among internationally established seed com-
panies, a satisfactory number of companies have responded very positively.
ASC is likely to begin negotiations shortly with one of these companies. No
disbursement would be made to ASC for vegetable seed multiplication until ASC
has completed contractual arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, with an estab-
lished internationally recognized seed company for multiplication and exnort
marketing of vegetable seed (para. 4, Schedule 2, Development Credit Agree-
ment). By September 30, 1978 ASC would establish a separate accounting
system, approved by EPB and IDA, and separate operational divisions, for
its activities under the project (Section 4.03, First Project Agreement).
ASC would submit a training program by December 30, 1978 for IDA's approval
(Section 4.05, First Project Agreement).  Experts from the contracted Thter-
national seed company are expected to carry out the major part 5f the tratning
of local staff.
The Afghan Vegetable Export Company (AVEC)
44.       AVEC has recently been established to export vegetables produced
under contract with local farmers and on its olwn farms. It is a Joint stock
company with a capital stock of Afs. 20 million or $420,000 in which the Gov-
ernment owns and subscribes to a minimum of 51 percent of the capital stock.



- 17 -
Initially the Government takes up 100 percent of the capital stock but will
release up to 49 percent of its stock as demand by non-Government sources
rises. A fully qualified president of AVEC has been recently nominated.
The Government would provide AVEC with a farm of about 500 ha at Herat to
ensure AVEC of a minimum level of supplies to meet export contracts and to
permit continuous operations year round. Initially production would be
restricted to potatoes and onions in view of their lower perishability and
lower wastage. About two-thirds of the vegetables would be produced by con-
tracted local farmers who would obtain credit for working capital through
AgBank under the project's on-farm credit component. AVEC would employ five
management and technical experts by June 30, 1978 (Section 5.02, First Project
Agreement). Since the most likely market for AVEC's vegetables would be Iran
and the USSR, AVEC would be located in Herat. A recent market survey on the
Iranian markets financed by UNDP and executed by IDA has shown promising
prospects for vegetable exports to Iran.
Ministry of Commerce Agro-Industries Export Promotion Unit (EPU)
45.       This Unit would be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of
activities and would send a proposed system for these purposes by June 30,
1978 for IDA's approval (Section 3.07, Development Credit Agreement).
Quarterly reports would be submitted to IDA by the Unit on financial and
physical progress of the project. EPU would also review procurement actions
on behalf of the Government, prior to such references to IDA, and would assist
EPB and AgBank in identifying potential subborrowers. Promptly after the
completion of the project, it would furnish to IDA a project completion report
in a satisfactory manner to IDA (Section 3.08, Development Credit Agreement).
By May 30, 1978, EPU would employ an expatriate general advisor (Section 3.07,
First Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
46.       The estimated total cost of the proposed project is $27.6 million
equivalent, of which the foreign exchange component would be $15 million or
54 percent. A total of about 670 man-months of consulting services would be
provided under the project at an average cost of about $6,800 per man-month
including contingencies.   Since no customs duties are levied on IDA-financed
imports, and other local taxes are insignificant, the cost estimate is net of
duties and taxes. Details of the costs are given in the Credit and Project
Summary. The exchange rate used in the staff appraisal report for the calcu-
lation of project costs - US$1:Afs. 47.5 - dates from March - June 1977 as
compared to the December 1977 exchange rate of US$1:Afs. 43.0. The exchange
rate in Afghanistan is highly volatile, responsive to seasonally variable but
significant flows of workers' remittances as well as capital flight from
neighboring countries, and intervention by the central bank. It is therefore,
preferable to use an exchange rate which reflects more stable trends. The
proposed IDA credit of $18 million would finance the full foreign exchange
costs and $3 million equivalent of the local costs, and would amount to 65
percent of the total project costs. IDA's financing of local costs in
Afghanistan is justified for the reasons given in para. 17 of this report.



- 18 -
The Government would be the borrower and would bear the exchange risk for all
project entities except ASC and AVEC which receive their revenues in the form
of foreign exchange, and are therefore able to bear the exchange risk and
repay their loans from EPB in foreign exchange. The remaining local funds
needed to finance the project would come from the Government ($5.2 million),
EPB ($1.2 million), AgBank ($1.3 million) and subborrowers ($1.9 million).
47.       The Government would on-lend to EPB the equivalent of $10.5 million
of the credit proceeds for agroindustry investments at 4 percent interest with
a repayment period of 17 years including 5 years of grace. EPB would relend
these funds to ARI for its raisin marketing activities, ASC for its vegetable
seed multiplication and fruit rootstock production, AVEC for its vegetable pro-
duction and export and private investors for their investments in fresh fruit
packing plants with cold stores and refrigerated trucks. EPB's subloans would
be made at 10 percent interest with a repayment period of up to 17 years
including a grace period of up to 5 years. A gross interest spread of 6 per-
cent between the Government's 4 percent and EPB's 10 percent lending term
would leave to EPB a net spread of 1.9 percent on the IDA credit proceeds
after deducting operating costs, provision for loan losses and profit taxes.
The 1.9 percent net spread is considered to be a reasonable return to EPB and
would be sufficient to provide a possible special promotion fund. The Govern-
ment would also on-lend to AgBank the equivalent of $2.7 million of the credit
proceeds for on-farm investments at 4.5 percent interest with a repayment
period of 16 years including 8 years of grace. From these funds AgBank would
provide to farmers long-term loans for investments in new and replacement
trellised vineyards. These loans would be for up to 12 years including a
maximum of 5 years grace period at 8 percent interest. Medium-term loans for
trellising existing vineyards would be made for up to 6 years including a
maximum of 2 years of grace period with an 8 percent interest rate. The
recent inflation rate has been fairly low (about 3 percent in 1976/77) and
this provides a positive real margin. AgBank would also make short-term
seasonal loans for vegetable producers contracted with AVEC at 10 percent
interest. The Government would make available a total of $4.8 million of the
credit proceeds to EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC for technical assistance including
fellowships for local staff.
Procurement
48.       Project procurement for loans through EPB would be arranged by the
subborrowers with the assistance and supervision of EPU. AgBank would be
responsible for procurement of poles and wire for trellising. Equipment and
materials which may be subjected to international competitive bidding would
consist of vehicles, farm machinery, cold storage plants, refrigerated
trucks, greenhouse equipment, grading and packing equipment, poles, rein-
forcing rods and wires for trellising. The estimated total cost of these
is about US$7.0 million. In addition technical assistance totalling about
US$5.0 million would be procured internationally. To facilitate speedy
implementation, in view of the lengthy investment period the number and
variety of independent subborrowers with relatively small annual investments
requiring continuity in after sales service and the relatively large volume
of specialized equipment (for raisin and vegetable seed processing), addi-
tional procurement procedures are provided. The purchase of equipment and



- 19 -
materials costing less than $5,000 may be made on the basis of at least three
independent price quotations and in accordance with procedures acceptable to
IDA. The total amount of such purchases shall not exceed $55,000. The
purchase of common items, including vehicles and farm machinery, costing less
than $150,000 may be made on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally with procedures acceptable to IDA including, for purchases greater
than $25,000, timely notification to IDA member countries which have diplo-
matic representation in Afghanistan. The total amount of such purchase shall
not exceed $4,500,000. The purchase of specialized items, including raisin
drying mats, and greenhouse and laboratory equipment, may be made on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally with procedures acceptable to IDA
including timely notification to IDA member countries which have diplomatic
representation in Afghanistan, and, additionally, international shopping if
so desired. Contracts for small civil works may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures accept-
able to IDA. The total amount of such contracts shall not exceed $5,000,000.
Disbursement
49.       Disbursement of IDA credit allocated to the agroindustries compo-
nents and the raisin marketing credit program would be made through EPB,
while disbursement of IDA credit allocated to on-farm credit would be made
through AgBank. IDA disbursements through EPB would be over a period of 5
years, but disbursements through the AgBank would extend over a 6 year period,
although the on-farm investments would extend over a 10 year period. All IDA
funds disbursed through AgBank would be completely committed by the sixth year
at the latest. In order to restrict the disbursement period to 6 years, dis-
bursements to AgBank have been proportionately increased. Disbursements would
be made as follows: (a) vehicles and equipment - 100% of foreign expenditures
if imported and 70% of local expenditures if procured locally, (b) buildings,
furniture, stores and deep wells - 17% of expenditures, (c) trellising - 40%
of amounts disbursed for existing vineyards and 65% for new vineyards, (d)
subloans to farmers for vegetable production - 80% of amounts disbursed, and
(e) technical assistance and training - 100% of foreign expenditures. Disburse-
ments for (c) and (d) above will be made against statements of expenditures
and AgBank will retain the supporting documents for review by supervision
missions.
50.       The estimated annual disursement schedule for the credit is given
in the Credit and Project Summary.
Environmental Impact
51.       The project would have no adverse effects on the environment.
Reduction of waste in fruit and vegetables and other improved horticultural
practices would contribute in the environmental improvement.
Benefits
52.       The project would benefit a total of over 1 million farm families or
about 6.5 million people. Of these, 900,000 families would benefit through



- 20 -
improved raisin quality and raisin storage yielding higher prodzn7er prices.
About 100,000 families would benefit from the rootstock production program,
600 families from the vegetable export component and about 1.500 fo.riJie from
investment in trellised vineyards. Of the families benefitting from thie proj-
ect, about 420,000 belong to the target group, defined as families below the
absolute poverty level of $546 per family compared to a GNP pC: .ami1; ,
about $1,040 per annum. The average annual income of all families benefitting
from the project would increase from $512 to $720 per family, while the aver-
age annual income of the families in the target group benefitting from the
project would increase from $450 to $512 per family.  At full development in
1993, the project would result in annual incremental production of (a) about
5,000 tons of fresh grapes; (b) about 3,800 tons of raisins; (c) about 500
tons of vegetable seeds; (d) about 300,000 fruit tree rootstock and vine seed-
lings; and (e) about 4,500 tons of potatoes and 3,750 tons of onlonE   Th-le
annual incremental foreign exchange earnings for Afghanistan as a result of
the project would be about $7.1 million at full development. The financiai
rates of return from the agro-industry investments range from 12 percent to
16 percent, and financial rates of return are 35 percent for trellising exist-
ing vineyards and 18 percent for new trellised vineyards. On-farm vegetable
production gives a financial rate of return to the farmer of 29 percent for
potatoes and 42 percent for onions. The short-term raisin marketing credit
and storage program yields the farmer very high financial rates of return
ranging from 87 percent by merely achieving the average market price and
without quality improvements to 434 percent, including the moderate price
increase due to quality improvements.
53.       The economic rate of return is estimated at 58 percent for the
raisin quality control program, the cost of which is $4.7 million, 26 percent
for the vegetable seed multiplication, the cost of which is  A1,3 -zillion, 14
percent for the fruit rootstock production, the cost of which is $0.2 million,
26 percent for the vegetable export program, the cost of which is $0.2 million,
86 percent for the on-farm credits for existing vineyards, the cost of which
is $1.2 million and 31 percent for the on-farm credits for new and replacement
vineyards, the cost of which is $4.6 million.  The overall economic rate ot
return is 38 percent based on the total project cost.  The economic rate was
calculated on an exchange rate of Afs 55:$1.00.  This is a more appropriate
rate than the average 1976/77 free market exchange rate of abo-ut kMs 47-5-$ . .0
The latter reflects the effect of sizeable remittances on a rather thin free
foreign exchange market and does not reflect changes in the comparative costs
of Afghanistan's exports. The depreciated exchange rate used in projecL
appraisal reflects the relative cost changes of Afghanistan's exnortse Un-
quantifiable benefits of the project include institution building for the
project entities and the development of emphasis on quality and cost effi-
ciency among Afghan fruit exporters particularly through waste reduction.
Risks
54.       The principal risk under the project would be that the project
entities, except for AgBank, are inexperienced in the fields of operatices
envisaged under the project.  EPB was established only in 1975, and its
financial policies and loan appraisal ability have not been tested. AR! and



- 21 -
ASC were also established recently, and have no experience in the fields of
operation proposed under the project. AVEC is still to be established.
However, following the successful pattern of the AgBank, the large technical
assistance component included in the project with special emphasis on institu-
tion building and training of local personnel, is expected to reduce consider-
ably the risks arising from inexperience. The benefits arising from this
institution-building effort in Afghanistan outweighs the risks arising from a
complex project in a country with little experience in project implementation.
Emphasis would also be given to training local experts in production, quality
control, transfer of seed production technology, and marketing. ASC would
also be assisted by operating experience of a well-established international
seed company.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Afghanistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and AgBank, the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
56.       Features of the Project of special interest are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
57.       Special conditions of the effectiveness of the IDA credit are as
follows:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreements on behalf of
AgBank, EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC has occurred after having
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and government action;
(b)  the execution of the Subsidiary Agreements on behalf of the
Borrower and AgBank, and of a Subsidiary Agreement between
the Borrower and EPB, has occurred after having been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and govern-
ment action;
(c) the execution of Subsidiary Agreements between EPB on the one
hand and AVEC, ARI and ASC on the other hand, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and government
action;
(d) the Government has granted AVEC effective export quotas for
vegetables adequate to meet AVEC's anticipated scale of
operations;
(e) the Financial Planning Department and the Internal Auditing
Department of EPB have been established; and



- 22 -
(f) contracts of employment have been executed between EPB and the
three counterparts and between EPB and three experts in the
disciplines of bank credit, financial planning and accounting.
58.       A special condition of disbursement of that portion of the IDA
credit allocated to ASC's vegetable seed multiplication program would be that
ASG has completed contractual arrangements satisfactory to IDA with an estab-
lished internationally recognized seed company.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed devel-
opment credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 9, 1978
Washington, D.C.



ANNE  I
TABLE 3A                                      Page 1 of 4 pages
AFGHANISTAN         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                   --------------------------------------
-----------_,-                          AFGHANISTAN                         REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL -     35.O                                       MOST RECENT
*AGRIC.    144. 3                      1960       1970   ESTIMATE           NEPAL          SUDAN         SYRIAN ARAB REP.***
------- ------  -
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     80.0*   100.0*    160.0* A               70.0*      160.0*     450.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            9.9*      12.3*     14.0* a             11.3        14.0        6.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       15.0       19.0      22.0/&             80.0         6 0        34.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        71.0      87.0       97.0ja            285.0        46.0        56.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         49.0      48.7       51.4/b c                       48.9        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          34.1       27.6      30  X ,C            24.6       20.2        16.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ..                269..4-             2 400.0      0.         13.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       32.8      37.8       34 .,              40.6        46.1        53.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..        3.4       3.4                 3.0        3.4         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)                 **
TOTAL                                 2.2       2.2        2.2                2.0         2.2/a       3.3
URBAN                                 5.2        5.2       7.2 /k              3.1         5.5        S.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           8.0       10.7      14.3 /a              4.0        11.8       43.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)                                     44.6/b
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.9      43.2         .6/b                         45.0        46.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                       54.8      54.2       51.1                  ..       4 52.0      50.8
65 YEARS ANO OVER                     3.3        2.6       4.376                          3.0         3.2
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8        0.8       1.0                             0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                ..         ..       1. 9/ad               .          . b       1.
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)           ..         ..     30.0 2              86.5
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)                        .          OE&,e
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)             ..        ..   3700.0 /af                ..     4S00.0      1500.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X -          ..         ..      54.0 Ia f             .        80.0        49.0 /a
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)            ..         ..       4.0                  ..         ..          .4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
___________________
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                  ..       49.2 IC
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                  ..        5.1.
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..         ..                  ..       14.5 7w       ,
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10- Or UWNERS             ..         ..        ..            *
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
==  ___________________                                                                  :
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           22450.0ol.14900.0  12900.0 /a            49770.0 L  14200.0       3880.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      23210.qLb21080.0  11700.0 /a             35600.0 lab 1740.0       2730.0 /b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         5950-0a         ..   5200.0 7E            6750.0 -     930.0 /d  1010.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REOUIREMENTS)         86.0       80.0      83.0                93.0       91.0       102.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              63.0      58.0       58 0.0             52.0        63.0        70 0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..       11.0        ..               11.0.       24.0 /e    16:0 /C
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..      24.1Lb                ..          ..        4.1
EDUCATION
ADoUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRSMARY SCHOOL                        g0o/C    21.0 /a         3. h          26 0        33.0        89.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     i1o7-    6.0 oT    ?11.0,                            70         3
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                                    8-                           7.0        39.o
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0      12.0       12.0               10.0        12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
,(X OF SECONDARY)                     i1.0        4.0       3 0                 6.0         1.0 /f     3.0 /d
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 8.0       10.0       14.0/b             14.0        15.0       40.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..         ..         ..                 ..        25
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        .       97.0/b    91.0/1.                         38.0 /e.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                    *-      _913                                             e
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..                  ...                          26.0 /0.
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     ..         ..         ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          2.0       21.0         ..                5.0          ..      224.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           0.5        3.0       3.0 /1              0.4         2.0        5.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           13.0       32.0      59.0 /a              6.0 .               151.o
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                          0.1       0.1 .                           02         0.2
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Paeg 2 of 4 pases
NOTES
Ulei.. otherwise noted, data for 1960 rotor to coy year betwee  1959 and 1961, for 1970 becose  1968  and 1970, .nd for Moat Ra6.nt Estimate batwee
1973 an,d 1975.
GNP per capits dota for all -outries are he....d on W-1lA Borb Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis); GNP and population data for 4fShanistan r.l.t*
to the fiscal year which starts or 21 March.
o Difference b.etwe  LIN rats of neturslI- ....us  ..d IBRD p?pul.ti.n groth ro.t  due to different population estimates.
sCSyria'. siilarity It total population, its acid c1iceta with it. heavy reliance on rainfall for agriculture production, the importance of
Cotton asamjor export crop, and finally the do,minant role of the g-vromant in the economy, all provide useful point, of copa"rison with
Afgha.i.tan. It. higher literacy rate and hetter h..ith f-cilit-e are objacti... to h.e imed at by Afghanistan in the nent decade.
APFGiANISTAN        i960    1s 962;    /h  Nursing personnel in madical institutions only;    /c  Pubiic education only.
i970    Iapblic ed,.cotin only;    lb  Percentage of population without safe uster supply.
MOST RECENTI ESTfIKATE,    Ia  1976;    /h  1972:    Ic  UN8 5-year avrages for birth and death rates and for life expectancy at birth
are 49.2, 23.8 sod 40.3  -epsctiv-lyi          d  Rtiio  of Population under 15 and 65 end over to total labor
force;    /.  As percentage of  -oue  of child-bearing age;    If  Aged 8 years and ower, out of settled
population of 12.5 million;        /&  1969-71 --arag;    /h  Public education only;    1i  Percetage of
population without s.f. .eeter supply;    L(1971i    /k  1970-76.
NEPAL               1970    IsPrsonnel In gov.so,.et serices only:    Lb  including nidei-e..
SUDAN               1970    IaDue to migration, population growth rate is lowr th-n rate of natural Incresse;    lb  Ratio of population uder 15 and
_____      ____    __ ~~65 and over to total labor force;    Ic  1967-68;    /d  Coveromesnt hospital es tablishmanets;               /e  1964-66;    /f  begin-
inig 1970, the duration of gan.rs1 .acondsry education  asreduced fro  8 to 6 years;    La  Urban only.
SYRIAN ARAB REP.  1970    IsSyriac populatio  only;    lb  Including nidrivas, assistease  nidwi-o  nd ...sia tat nurses;    Li  1964-66;   LId  Including
UNRfW9 -chnols.
RlD, September 8, 1977
DRThITION OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lend Areso (thou ke2)                                                                        Population pat nursing pes-  - Population divided by numsber Of practicing
Tot&l -Total surfce area comprising loand area ad island waters,                               male and fa1. graduate nuns., "trsined' or  ce.rtified'- es       -s*ad
Asrci. - Mot r.eet estimate of agricultur1al rea uasd tomporrily on Pere-                     asoiliery personnel with training or vaperianca.
nently for crops, pus uca..  earkt & kitchen gardens or to lie f.llon.                     Population Par hoasital bed - Population dilided by n. ber Of haspit.1 beds
available io public sod prilete general and apecialised hospital and
Gfl Pat canits (US$)   G NP per capita astimaes occu .rrent markat price,                      rabhbilitation centers; enlodes n-urig tms  end esnabliui.amts far
calculatad by .-   -unaiot me thod as World Bask Atlas (1973-75 basis);                      custdial snd pr.vatie cars.
1960; 1970 and 1975 dote.                                                                  Per casitauni of olri   ftOf -4reairMent   - Computed fran saegy
equivalnt ofi at faad suppies- -vailble in cotanny Pen caPit. per day;
Population and vital statistic.                                                                aailable supplies comprise domestic production, imports loss  -ep-rt, and
Population  Wmd-year million)     A. of July first: if not  -vilabla, overage                  ch.gaa in stock; at supplies  -lcide animal feed, seeds, quantitta. need
of tw  .od-yasr e.tl..tss; 1'60, 1970 sod 1975 data.                                         in faod processing and lanses in distribution; requireata  -rcc scimat.d
by PA0 based on physiolsglcal need  for anI-I aCtivity and health  Moaid-
population deaity - per square be - Rid-ye-  pepultiom  per square kilar                       acing enirormantal temperature, body omights, age and Man ditribetione. of
(100 be tara   of  tota  area,                                                               Population, and  m151ig l0Z for sate at boMeabeld le,el.
Popultiondensty - n   sqare he of antic, loand - Computed as aboe for                   Per canita supply of protein (areas per diSj - proteim cotcant sf Par- capita
agri-lturs1 loand only.                                                                      'et suPPly of food put day; eat suPPly af feed is dafiad an ahoy; require-
ants for .ll .o,tni.. established by USDA Economic geasa-h  aie
ital   t  tisi                                                                             provide for a misimum sllmanc  of 60 gree of total protein peday, en
Crude  it   asa    husd   vcs  - Annual Iiva bicthe Psr thousand of                            20 grms, of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 Srces should be enimal
mid-year population; ten-year .citheatic  maseag ending in 1960 and 1970,                    protein; thase standards are lonr tban nhsee ot 75 slam of total protein
and fiv-year average ending in 1975 for mos t recet estima te,                               and 23 area  of animal protein a  an average for the menld, proposeed by PA0
Crude deatb rate par thousand. are.- Annua datha par th-.ead sf mid-yea                        in the Third World Pond Survy.
Population; ta-year arithmetic   -.agS.  ending In 1960 and 1970 and fie-                  Per eait  orta         .1,ol  from anima  and pwls. - PrOtais supply of feed
pear average ending in 1975 for most recan.t eottimata.                                      deie   rma       -ased Pulses in gcew par day.
Infant martality rate (/tboul - A-nu.I deathe Of Infants under one year of  go               Detb rate  I/thou) se.s 1-4  A-1Ana deaths per thousand in age group 1-h
Lper t ouad live births.                                                                      years, to children in dh1. age group; suggested as en indicato  of
Lie  snet_ne  at birth (yr.) - Average  uber of years of lifa remaising at                    malntrition.
birth; usually fiv-yea.r average  ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing tmc-trie'                                                                               ducation
Gross ranrodution rate -    rvecg  eumber Of live daughtersa  wono   il bear                 AdTusted enco           thantrati  -            Enr sho      eroweat of all ag.es Papr-
inher norma  rerductive period if sh.  naine  pros at sgs-p-ciftc                          -etase of Primary schol-ag  _oulT.o            Inclde  childre  age  6-11 years
farti LTy  r.te; usually fiv-year avrages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                      but adjuatd far different lengths of primary edwactio; far countries nith
fsr de alin  countries.                                                                      univereal education, aurOllewnt may emceed 1101 simm. sam  pupils are below
psoultion  rand,rota  7.) -tota   - oPound annua  groth rat- sf mid-year             orhr  the official school age.
peuain 6o 90-AS, 196-70 end 1970-75.                                              Adjusted enrol11ment ratio - secondry school - Compmuted a  ah_r; secondary
popeletion arethrae  7.   urb.o - Computed like growth rota of tet.1                           eduction require. at lea.st f-Touryer  af epprevad primary  mt_teni_o;
population;cdifferent definitions of urban area  may affect onpscability of                  provide  genera,  -octional or teacher training inaratr,ci    far peIl.
dat.amosng teatries.                                                                         of 12 to 17 years of age; correepond-nc  course are generally aecleded.
Orben popul.tion Ct of total) - Ratio Of urban to total population; different                Year of schoolitut p-ido4 (first end secMd level) - Total1 year  of
deinitions of urban areas may affct  -oparability Of dote smang conrisschooling; at secondary lael1, vactional instruCtion may be pertlelly or
copletely seluded.
Aff.d ttrciturer (percent) - Children (0-14 yasra) ,  -kring-ago (15-64 years),              Voainlerlmn   to   eodr)-Voattional institations include
an feie   (65 yer. and Ove) so Porceotsgea of eid-year population                      tehis,idsralo   te   rge    hich operate independently or as
Ag. depend...cy ratio -R.i.ci  of Population uoder 15 end A5 and ovr to those                  d.puraut. of secondary institutiosn.
of gesi d1.1 throughr.4                                                                     Adult literacY rat. (7. - Literate adults (able no red and -vit.) as per--
Econmicdepedeny rtio - Ratio of population order 13 and 65 and ovr co.. etage of tsts1 adult Poplto   gd1   er   n   er
the labor force in ag  group of .10-6  pesra.                                                                                     ge  1    -    d    r
Peilyplanins -accetors' (ceLaiv   thou) - Cunlati-n number of acce ptos                Hou. in
ofbirth-control d-vfts under auspice  of national tfnily plannig prancam                 Person  optaroo  fu     ) -LAarag  eumbeb  of persons per raem in _ePiad
since inePio.son tional dwsllina  in urban area; dwelings  _meld.oem-peoamemnt
yeAh nanoins- ussr  ft ofmrried woe -Percentages of married             n of            atructursa and unecupied parts.
child-bearing ag. o1r6yer)ab   .  bilth-toncrrl d-vi... to all earnd                       0Stunted du:is  wtotpind waeL7     eped covetional1 deelliagn
nese ia, see age group.                                              ~~~~~~~ ~~~~in uranad ru~ ralaeas wihut aieorotide piped weter facilities
us percentaga ef all occupied d-selinga.
Emaplovomuc                                                          Access~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.  is  l"tricit  ftf all dvellines  -Conwentisnal dwelling  with
Ttllbrforce (thousand) - iconoicJiy active Persons, ircluding sono                      slectricilty in livHingqusrtere as percent of total deellinge in urban and
(spreeiand usePlayed but ..eoloding housasiee-  atudeots, Ottc.; definitions                 rural ara.
in vroscountries er  not unpur.ble.                                                       Rural dullinna c-nettd na electrici, (,L) - Computed as abovfrrua
Labor froc insericulture (7) -tAgricultural labovfou  (in famming, foretry,                    dwellings only.farul
ftmaployad  fto  lb r!rrc) - o_ployad ar  o-uly defined as Person  who                       Conunptiuo
are able and wligto tabk.   job, out of a job opa  g Ive  day. romind out                  Radiu  -vivars (net thou POP) - All type of reoeivera fr radio broadcuts
sf a job, and saaking  -kc fore specififed nInio   pericd tot  -c-sding en                  toS genra  public per th-usnd of pupultica; .al,dee  -1moeicmed reeivers
eak; may out be comparble betee-       ootre  dun to different dafinitione                  in conre   ud In Y-r  when ragis"tranon of radio seats  -e. ineffect;
of  n-ploynd end source of data, e.g. , omploynan  office sta,tistic        maspIa           dots fo r recent years may out be comparable siecs moat coustries absliahed
survYs, compulsory unapiyneat insurance.                                                     ILi-n ian.
Intone di.tribti                                                    ~       ~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~Pass  h-- cr  (e   iboPOP) - Pa...engar oars comprise melon care seating
Iscr  disribuion- Percantage of Plivete  oineon  (both in cash end bind)                  I    than eigh  perona; ...cJudas mhblance, he.rse  an  military
re-i-d by rich.st35%. richest 201, Poorest 2OT, sod Poores  407. or hones-                  vehiclss.
holds.                                                                                     El-ctricIty ibkhlyr par cap) - Annual coneemPtion of indmsstrlal, o---rcIl,
public and private elecrricity in kciloacat beers Par capita, genrally
Diatributioofln  oweai- Perc...ago. of 1acd ownd by onalthi.et lD%                             ba..ed on production dets,.withou _Ialloance far losac  be grids bst allo-
e poro  0.of land  _ rs.                                                             ior  cdprsadnpot   feeciiy
H..Ith and Ntritioa  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ geN-print (ha/yr per caP) - Per capita soua   assummption in kilsge
POnaliti an.uciic.timat.d from domestic praduton pine- ma t import. of newprint.
Ponistonnerphsican- Ppulation divlded by tmber of practicing
phytoima   ualfid from a medical school ut unl-rrity i-v..



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1/
GNP in 1975/76 (At 1975/76 Constant Prices)             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH.
(%, Constant Prices)
US$ Million   %                  1969/70 - 1975/76
GNP at Market Prices       1/ 1976    100.0                          3
Gross Domestic Investment       -        -                           -
Gross National Savings l/       -        -
Current Account Balance        -54      -3                           1
Exports of Goods               236      12                         19
Imports of Goods               278      14                         14
2/
LABOR FORCE (197 5/76)                    Thousands          % of Total
Agriculture and Livestock                  1947.8                53.8
Industry and Mining                          40.7                 1.1
Handicrafts                                 353.1                 9.8
Construction                                 44.7                 1.2
Transport and Communications                 56.6                 1.6
Commerce                                    202.8                 5.6
Services                                    692.6                19.1
Other                                       282.7                 7.8
Total                                      3620.0               100.0
GOVERMIMENT FINANCE                                    (Afs. million)
Rev. Est.
1973/74       1974/75         1975/76       1976/77
Current Receipts                      7,017         10,250         12,025         13,600
Current Expenditures                  5,799          6,244          9,081         10,377
Current Surplus (Deficit)             1,218          4,oo6          2,944          3,223
Capital Expenditures                  3,672          4,648          6,065         11,500
External Assistance (gross)  3/    2,308             2,958          4,644           5,400
14/
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
(Million Afs. Outstanding End of Period)
1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77
Money and Quasi Money                      13,901       15,195       17,822       23,784
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)         10,269       11,118       12,423       13,679
Bank Credit to Private Sector               4,259        5,253        5,585        6,774
Annual Percentage Change in                                                             5/
Domestic Prices                           -1.6         13.9          6.5          3.4
j IBRD estimates.  The historical figures are based on crude approximations and as
such the growth rates reported are mere orders of magnitude.  On the GIIP breakdown,
the available figures are very crude and as such1 the Gross Domestic Investment
and Gross National Savings figures have not been reported.
2/ Refers only to the settled labor force.
3/ Portion of development expenditure financed by foreign aid. To find its US dollar
equivalent an official exchange rate of 45 Afghanis to 1 SDR and the respective
annuia) average SDR/US$ ratio should be used on a number of Government transactions.
4/ Year ending March 20.
5/ Estimated.                                                      January 24, 1978



ANNEX I
Page   of 4 pages
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS  (uS$ million)
1974/75   Percent   1975/76   Percent
Dry Fruits and Nuts              58.2       25.2      54.7       23.2
Fresh Fruits                     31.5       13.7      20.1        8.5
Karakul                          12.7        5.5      10.4        4.4
Cotton                           34.7       15.0      35.3       15.1
Carpets and Rugs                 19.9        8.6      16.1        6.8
Natural Gas                      32.1       13.9      46.3       19.7
All Other Commodities            41.5       18.1      52.6       22.3
Total                      230.6     100.0      235.5     100.0
BALANCE OF PAYI.ENTS
(us$ million)
Est.
1975/76     1976/77
Exports of Goods                       235.5        310.0
Imports of Goods                       277.5        343.4
Balance of Trade                       -42.0        -33.4
Other Current Account (net)            -12.4        -16.2
Balance on Current Account             -54.4        -49.6
Net Loans and Grants                    93.6        111.8
(Disbursements)                      111.6       129.5
(Amortization)                      - 18.o        -17.7
Other Items n.i.e.                      13.6          5.7
Increase in Reserves                    52.8         67.9
RATE OF EXCHANGE
(Free Rate)
1972/73        -       1JS$  1.00 = Afs. 80.50
Afs. 1.00 = US$ .0125
1973/74        -        US$  1.00 = Afs. 60.72
Afs. 1.00 = us$ .0165
1974/75        -        US$  1.00 = Afs. 56.58
Afs. 1.00 = Us$ .0177
1975/76        -        US$  1.00 = Afs. 55.04
Afs. 1.00 = US$ .0182
1976/77        -        us$  1.00 = Afs. 47.38
Afs. 1.00 = US$ .0211
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT, March 20, 1977          Us$ million
Outstanding and Disbursed                        1,748.5
Disbursed                                        911.2
Undisbursed                                      837.2
Service Payments (1976/77)                         26.9
Interest                                          9.2
Amortization                                     17.7
Debt Service Ratio (1976/77)                        8.3%
January 24, 1978



ANNFX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN AFOHANISTAI
A.  STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1977)
Credit                                                               US$ Million
Number    Year       Borrower                Purpose         Amount IDA       Undisbursed
158         1969      Afghanisten       Highvay Maintenance        5.0         fully disbursed
202         1970      Afghanistan       Agricultural Credit I    5.0           fully disbursed
68S/       1964      Afghanistan       Education                  3.5
248.0       19T7       Afghanistan      Irrigation                 5.0             1.2
28. 1       1976      Afghanistan       Irrigation               10.0              9.8
374         1973      Afghanistan       Aviation Communications  2.5               1.3
3T5         1973      Afghanistan       Livestock                 9.0              3.0
360         1973      Afghanistan       IDBA                      2.0              1.7
"49         1973      Afghanistan       Highvay Maintenance      11.5              4.1
539         1975      Afghanistan       Agricultural Credit II  13.0               2.3
563         1975      Afghanistan       Kabul Water Supply
and Sanitation          9.0             8.7
62T         1976      Afghanistan       Thermal Power            10.0              0.1
619         1976      Afghanistan       Livestock                15.0             14.3
6T0         1976      Afgbanisten       Education II              6.o              5.9
7n1         1977      Afghanistan       Agricultural Credit III 12.0              12.0
TOTAL                             B   r
of vhich has been cancelled       3.5
Total nov outstanding and
held by IDA              115.0
Total undisbursed                                  64.4
D. STATEMENT OF IFC ISVNSTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1977)
Investment
unber    Year                Institutions                Loan    Equity       Total
243         1973      Industrial Development Bank of
Afghanistan                       -         0.3        0.3
Total gross commitments, less
cancellations, terminations,
repym'ents and sales.             -         0.3        0.3
Total undisbursed
/ Credit No. 68 for an Education Project in 1964 was cancelled at the Government's
request in 1970. $0.3 million which hnd been disbursed for the project was
consolidated under Credit 248.
NOTE: Exchange adjustment not included.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Cr. No. 248 - Khanabad Irrigation Project: US$5 million Credit of June 11,
1971; Effective Date: December 22, 1972; and $10 million Supplementary
Credit of January 12, 1976; Effective Date: April 19, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Project consultants have been in the field since 1973. The project
implementation was delayed by 18 months because of the Afghan government's
preoccupation with internal political matters and subsequent change in the
government. The project remained justifiable economically and appropriate
in the context of the Government's development strategies in the north.
The Government has awarded the major civil works contract to a local public.
corporation after international competitive bidding. The corporation has
autonomous power in recruiting expatriate staff, purchase of foreign equipment,
payment of salaries to local staff, etc. The construction works at the barrage
site have been making satisfactory progress, and are expected to be completed
by December 1978 with the final disbursements made by June 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 374 - Aviation Project: US$2.5 million: Credit of May 2, 1973;
Effective Date: November 26, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The contractors engaged to construct and equip the new Flight
Information Center (FIC) in Kabul began work in July 1975 and construction
works have almost been completed. The cost overrun of $2.5 million caused by
the delay has been financed through a bilateral agreement with the Iranian
Government. The engineering consultants financed under the project provided
the final Logar Airport Master Plan in May 1975 and the plan was accepted in
principle by the Cabinet in September 1975. However, final engineering and
construction of the Airport is being delayed until suitable financing can be
found. The institutional improvements required under the Credit Agreement
have been initiated but lack the final Government approval. Therefore, they
have not yet been put into effect.
Cr. No. 375 - Livestock Development Project: US$9.0 million Credit of May 2,
1973; Effectiveness Date: March 21, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
The project provides credit through the Agricultural Development
Bank to the Herat Livestock Development Company to increase sheep production
for export, mainly to Iran.  Inputs financed include groundwater development
for fodder production on about 1,200 farms, a slaughterhouse, a demonstration
farm, an experimental range improvement center and infrastructure develop-
ment.  The slaughter house was completed in October 1977; the running-in
period ended on January 4, 1978, and the plant is fully operational. The
project is now at a crucial stage. The initial sales contract is being
negotiated; however, the volume of sheep processed is low, and measures are
being taken to increase the supply of sheep. Progress of the on-farm develop-
ment component of the project has been generally satisfactory following the
implementation of a set of modified loan security requirements in late 1975.
The Herat Livestock Development Company sent its first group of technicians
abroad for training in May 1977. An outstanding project feature is the



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
success of the Experimental Range Improvement Centre in conducting surveys
which have resulted in the accumulation of a wealth of information on range
productivity, movement of nomadic flocks, and flock production data which will
be of value in formulating future livestock range management projects. The
credit is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 380 - Industrial Development Bank of Afghanistan IDBA Project:
US$2.0 million, Credit of May 15, 1973; Effective Date: November 20, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
In September 1976, the Board approved that the entire $2 million
credit originally made for several sub-project could be used for one public
sector project, namely the Badghis Cotton Ginning. Inaction by the Govern-
ment, partly because of the promulgation of the new constitution in February
1977, has delayed the project. A supervision mission visited Afghanistan in
June 1977, and soon after that visit, the Minister of Mines and Industries
took action to begin project implementation. As a result, positive develop-
ments have taken place, and the equipment has been contracted. Twenty percent
of the credit has been disbursed as a downpayment for the equipment contracted,
and the remainder is expected to be fully disbursed by early 1979. Despite
the delay, project cost overruns are expected to be minimal.
Cr. No. 449 - Second Road Improvement and Maintenance Project; US$11.5
million Credit of December 21, 1973; Effective Date: June 10, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project includes improvement and maintenance of roads, purchase
of equipment and materials, construction of a highway maintenance center, and
technical assistance. Equipment and spare parts for highway maintenance and
improvement are being delivered. Construction of the Kabul maintenance center
has begun. A new president of the project executing department was appointed
in January 1978.
Cr. No. 539 - Second Agricultural Development Bank Credit: US$13.0 million
Credit of April 25, 1975; Effective Date: July 24, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The credit is proceeding in a generally satisfactory way with dis-
bursements and commitments now ahead of schedule. Final disbursement is
expected by end March 1978. There had been delays in appointments to key
senior and middle management positions, but now all of these except for the
Vice President for Finance have been filled. The operation and management
of the Bank has not been unduly affected by these delays. The Supply Depart-
ment of AgBank is being separated from AgBank to form the Agricultural Machines
and Services Company (AMSCO) which will be responsible for providing mechanical
services for tractors and agricultural machinery. The Charter of AMSCO is
under consideration by the Board of Directors of AgBank and is expected to be
approved soon. The rundown in Supply Department activities involving inter
alia unsatisfactory after sales service for credit financed for machinery, and
unnecessary procurement delays is causing some concern. The Afghan Fertilizer
Company has now acquired legal title to all 69 sites for warehouses, and has
completed 22 warehouses, with a further 22 now under construction.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Cr. No. 563 - Kabul Water Supply and Sanitation Project: US$9.0 million
Credit of June 23, 1975; Effective Date: December 23, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Project progress remains satisfactory and major contracts for pipe
supply and pumping equipment have been awarded; 10,000 water meters purchased
under the credit have been delivered. Civil works bid documents have been
completed and bidding is now in progress. The water and sewerage authority
continues to expand and consolidate its management capability with help from
Consultants and a financial advisor. Revised billing and collection procedures
have been defined and are being considered for early implementation. The
associated Afshar project financed by Germany is using pipes with the same
specifications as under the IDA project, thus benefitting from the bidding
results of the IDA project.
Cr. No. 627 - Thermal Power Project, US$10.0 million, Credit of May 17, 1976;
Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project consists of construction of a gas turbine station to
supply electric power for Kabul. The project entity has taken vigorous
actions to reduce its energy loss and improve its financial position by
disconnecting illegal consumers and non-paying customers, discharging some
inefficient employees, relocating some staff and changing billing methods.
After some initial difficulties, the physical progress is now satisfactory.
However, the Government approval of a revised charter of the project entity,
a work program for consultants' studies and a five year program for further
reduction of energy losses has been delayed about one year. A new president
of the project entity has recently been appointed.
Cr. No. 649 - Second Livestock Development Project, US$15.0 million, Credit
of June 28, 1976; Effective Date: September 27, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The project aims at increasing sheep production, mainly for export,
and improving the flocks and incomes of village, semi-nomadic, and nomadic
flockowners through the provision of improved animal health services and
credit for groundwater development and forage production. Financing is pro-
vided to establish about 14 Sheep Improvement Centers, a Heavy Equipment and
Water Supply Division, 2 range field stations, consultant services and train-
ing, and a wool scouring plant study. A promising start has been made on
projectIimplementation, and 4 sites for the Sheep Improvement Centers have
been identified. The consultants have been appointed and mobilized. Tenders
have been received and evaluated for the supply of 42 project vehicles and
contracts have since been awarded; contracts for the supply of drilling
machinery, road maintenance equipment and vehicles have also been awarded;
and field surveys of the project area are being continued by HLDC in an at-
tempt to select the most appropriate sites for establishing the Sheep Improve-
ment Centers and the 2 range field stations.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
Cr. No. 674 - Second Education Project, US$6.0 million, Credit of January 7,
1977: Effectiveness Date: March 31, 1977; Closing Date: April 30, 1982.
The project will help to meet the urgent need for middle-level
agricultural extension agents and introduce a more practical agricultural
curriculum and field training facilities. Four new agricultural secondary
schools will be constructed and three existing ones will be expanded under
the project. It will also finance pre-investment designs for a possible
follow-up project. The agricultural teacher training program is making good
progress. The consultants have completed the detailed designs for the proj-
ect schools. Bid documents have been finalized and expected to be ready by
April 1978. Final steps are being taken to recruit an architect and an
engineer for the project unit which is functioning satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 721 - Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$12.0 million, Credit
of June 20, 1977; Effectiveness Date: September 20, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
The project will continue the program begun under the 1st and 2nd
Agricultural Credit projects of providing credit assistance to farmers for a
wide range of short, medium and long term productive investments. A special
feature, introduced on a pilot basis is a component providing for 'package
loans' to previously landless farmers settled on Government developed land.
As part of the credit AgBank has begun to vigorously implement an agreed
program for upgrading the status and standard of branch offices and staff,
and to delegate more authority to both lower echelon headquarters staff and
branch directors. Steps are also being implemented to further improve the
'fertilizer program' by which AgBank makes about 60,000 short term loans
annually for fertilizer and productive inputs to farmers, including large
number of smaller land owners.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
AFGHANISTAN
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
SUPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project first identified by IDA:              May 1976
(b)  Time taken to prepare the project:            Six months (from October
1976 to April 1977)
(c)  Agency which has prepared the project:        IDA, with contractual
assistance of Booz Allen
and Hamilton Int'l (US)
(d) Date of the first IDA mission to
consider the project:                       May 1976
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:    June 3, 1977
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:           December 30, 1977
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                May 22, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
During the preparation phase and continuing during the post-appraisal
phase, IDA has sought out and supplied information to firms who might be in-
terested in participating in a joint venture or technical assistance arrange-
ment in carrying out the project.
An IDA mission consisting of a project officer and two lawyers
discussed draft revised and new charters of the project entities in November
1977.
These and other project matters will be closely monitored by the
Resident Representative in Kabul and through frequent issue-oriented missions.
Section III:  Special Conditions
1.        Special conditions of the effectiveness of the IDA credit are as
follows (para 57):



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
(a)  the execution of the Project Agreements on behalf of
the Agricultural Development Bank (AgBank), the Export
Promotion Bank (EPB), the Afghan Raisins Institute (ARI),
the Afghan Seed Company (ASC) and the Afghan Vegetable
Export Company (AVEC) has occurred after having been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
government action;
(b)  the execution of the Subsidiary Agreements on behalf of the
Borrower and AgBank, and of a Subsidiary Agreement between
the Borrower and EPB, has occurred after having been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and govern-
ment action;
(c)  the execution of Subsidiary Agreements between EPB on the one
hand and AVEC, ARI and ASC on the other hand, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and government
action;
(d)  the Government has granted AVEC effective export quotas for
vegetables adequate to meet AVEC's anticipated scale of
operations;
(e)  the Financial Planning Department and the Internal Auditing
Department of EPB have been established; and
(f)  contracts of employment have been executed between EPB and the
three counterparts and between EPB and three experts in the
disciplines of bank credit, financial planning and accounting.
2.        A special condition of disbursement of that portion of the IDA credit
allocated to ASC's vegetable seed multiplication program would be that ASC has
completed contractual arrangements satisfactory to IDA with an established
internationally recognized seed company (para 58).
3.        Other special conditions are:
(a)  EPB should develop, in cooperation with ARI, a suitable
system for implementing the raisin marketing credit program
by December 31, 1978 for IDA's approval, and a training pro-
gram for its staff, also by that date, for IDA's approval
(para 39).
(b)  EPB should retain a qualified accounting firm by December 31,
1978, for about 6 months, to establish a computerized account-
ing system in EPB (para 39).
(c)  The Government should allocate necessary capital to EPB that
EPB's debt/equity does not exceed 5:1 (para 39).



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
(d) The Ministry of Commerce Agro-Industries Export Promotion Unit
should develop a proposed monitoring and evaluation system by
June 30, 1978, send regular reports to IDA and upon completion
of the project, prepare a project completion report (para 45).
(e) AgBank should develop, with AVEC, a scheme for restricting
seasonal credit only to contracted vegetable growers for AVEC
and submit the scheme to IDA by September 30, 1978 for its
approval (para 41).
(f) ARI should employ, by September 30, 1978, three expatriate
experts to strengthen its management and technical expertise
for a period of 5 years and develop, by December 31, 1978, a
training program for its staff for IDA's approval (para 42).
(g) ARI should develop, by December 31, 1978, plans for implement-
ing a grading and certification program for approval from IDA
(para 42).
(h) ASC should employ expert technical assistance in a timely manner
and develop a training program for its staff, by December 31,
1978, for IDA's approval. It should employ an expatriate finan-
cial manager by June 30, 1978, and develop separate accounts and
operating divisions for the project by September 30, 1978 (para
43).
(i) AVEC would employ five experts by June 30, 1978 to strengthen
mainly its management and technical expertise (para 44).



I BR D 13175
62'    66.                                                                              II      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DECEMBER 1977
38~~~~~~~~~9                        499                                     Q7                           ~7
U. S. S. R.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 00                                    .-1.7R4T0A OR 79
~~~< /                                          B   9  199             99  RRD                           IRA\ I <C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W2
I    I              ______________                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K 
JA N                        M  94R
4~~~  i~~~~E.R~~~~  ] 
~~2~R ~~1RR9         -~
f'r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ARF9HRNRRSRAN



