CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 779 AF
Second Project Agreement
(Fruit and Vegetable Export Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF AFGHANISTAN
Dated September 27, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 779 AF
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF AFGHANISTAN (hereinafter called
AGBANK).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan (herein-
after called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eighteen million dollars ($18,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that AGBANK agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and AGBANK (the Second Subsidiary Loan
Agreement), part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to AGBANK
on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS AGBANK, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the term "subsidiary" means any company or entity of which a
majority of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary
interest is owned, or which is controlled, by AGBANK or by any one
or more subsidiaries of AGBANK or by AGBANK and one or more of its
subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part F of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AGBANK shall carry out Part F of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with


﻿-2-
appropriate administrative, agricultural and financial practices
and shall provide, as and when needed, all funds, facilities,
services and other resources necessary or appropriate for the
purposes.
(b) Without limitation or restriction on the generality of
the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, AGBANK shall
provide out of its own resources an amount of not less than
Af57,681,000 for the carrying out of Part F of the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) AGBANK undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by AGBANK to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, AGBANK
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.03. (a) AGBANK shall, through EPU, furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the facilities to be financed by AGBANK under Part F
of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) AGBANK shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part F of the
Project (including the cost and the benefits to be derived there-
from), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (ii) without limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in Part F of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the aforesaid proceeds of the
Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish
to EPU at regular intervals all such information as EPU or the
Association shall reasonably request concerning Part F of the
Project, the costs and, where appropriate, the benefits to be


﻿-3-
derived therefrom, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) AGBANK shall enable the Association's accredited repre-
sentatives to examine all installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of AGBANK and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.04. AGBANK shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Borrower
and the Association shall otherwise agree, AGBANK shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Second Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) AGBANK shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part F of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Second Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) AGBANK shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of Part F of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by AGBANK of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Second Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. By December 31, 1978 or such other date as
may be agreeable to the Association, AGBANK shall submit to the
Association, for its approval, a program, prepared by AGBANK with
the cooperation of AVEC under Section 5.10 of the First Project
Agreement: (i) to restrict seasonal credit AGBANK sub-loans
exclusively to those farmers producing vegetables under contract
with AVEC under Part F (b) of the Project; and (ii) to channel
payments pursuant to such contracts through AGBANK.
Section 2.07. AGBANK undertakes: (a) to procure, in accor-
dance with procedures acceptable to the Association, and to
distribute, in cooperation with ARI, the necessary tools and
materials (including, inter alia, pruning shears, crop dusters and
trellising poles and wires) for investments in trellising and
raisin production; and


﻿(b) to cooperate with ARI in the distribution of drying mats
to raisin producers.
Section 2.08. (a) By December 31, 1978 or such other date as
may be acceptable to the Association, AGBANK shall, on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association, develop a training
program in connection with its viticulture training fellowships
and submit such program to the Association for its approval.
(b) AGBANK shall select its trainees and arrange for the
training of such trainees in accordance with the program as
approved by the Association pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
Section.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AGBANK
Section 3.01. AGBANK shall at all times manage its affairs
and conduct its business in an efficient manner under capable
management and with competent staff and in accordance with appro-
priate administrative, financial and agricultural credit prac-
tices.
Section 3.02. The operating policies of AGBANK in respect
of Part F of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower, the Association and AGBANK, and,
AGBANK's appraisal procedures for sub-loans included in Part
F shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. AGBANK shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. (a) AGBANK shall not establish, acquire or take
over any subsidiary except on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association.
(b) AGBANK shall cause each of its subsidiaries, if any,
and each of the subsidiaries established, acquired or taken over,
after the date of this Agreement, if any, to observe and perform,
as appropriate, the obligations of AGBANK under this Agreement to


﻿the extent to which such obligations shall be applicable to such
subsidiary, as though such obligations were binding upon each of
such subsidiaries.
Section 3.05. (a) AGBANK shall at all times operate and
maintain its equipment and property and promptly make all neces-
sary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with appropriate
engineering and agricultural practices.
(b) Except in the normal course of its business, AGBANK
shall not, without the agreement of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. AGBANK shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. AGBANK shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) two certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) two copies of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of AGBANK and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. AGBANK shall not make any repayment in advance
of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of AGBANK which, in
the judgment of the Association, would materially affect AGBANK's
ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.04. AGBANK shall take such steps satisfactory to
the Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against


﻿-6-
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including Afghanis) used in its opera-
tions.
Section 4.05. The Association and AGBANK shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of AGBANK and its subsidiaries, and
AGBANK shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the adminis-
tration, operations and financial condition of AGBANK and its
subsidiaries.
Section 4.06. AGBANK shall at all times charge interest
on all of its loans at rates sufficient to enable it: (a) to cover
all operating expenditures and charges including taxes (if any)
and interest payments on borrowings; (b) to maintain adequate
provisions for bad and doubtful debts; and (c) to maintain ade-
quate general reserves.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of AGBANK thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
AGBANK of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For AGBANK:
Agricultural Development Bank
of Afghanistan
P.O. Box 414
Kabul, Afghanistan
Cable address:
AGBANK
Kabul, Afghanistan
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of AGBANK may be taken or executed
by the President or Vice President of AGBANK or such other person
or persons as the President or Vice President shall designate in
writing.


﻿-8-
Section 6.03. AGBANK shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of
AGBANK, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by AGBANK pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Munir P. Benjank
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF AFGHANISTAN
By /s/ Abdul Wahab Assefi
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Operating Policies of AGBANK
under Part F of the Project
1.   General:
AGBANK sub-loans under Part F of the Project shall be made
in accordance with the Charter and its Policy Statement and Loan
Regulations dated October 18, 1970, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Association.
2.   Security Requirements:
(a) AGBANK will continue to take security for its sub-loans
under Part F of the Project in accordance with the said Policy
Statement and Loan Regulations.
(b) AGBANK will employ its best efforts to modify, in con-
sultation with the Association, its security requirements in order
to expand its lending operations to farmers with small holdings.
3.   Conditions Precedent to Making Sub-Loans:
AGBANK will prepare and adopt lending terms (including
security arrangements) satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association relating to Part F of the Project, including short
term (12 months) sub-loans, prior to making any sub-loan there-
under.
4.   Appraisal:
Before granting a medium- or long-term sub-loan, AGBANK shall
evaluate the subborrower's credit worthiness for such sub-loan,
its ability to execute the project to be financed out of the
proceeds of such sub-loan and its ability to meet the repayment of
such sub-loan in accordance with its amortization schedule.
Seasonal credit sub-loans shall be restricted to farmers who
produce vegetables under contract with AVEC.
5.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans:
(a) The minimum annual interest rate and contribution of
farmers and the maximum permissible grace period and the period of
repayment for AGBANK sub-loans are set forth below:


﻿- 10 -
Minimum
Interest   Sub-borrowers' Maximum    Maximum
Rate      Contribution Repayment    Grace
Category of    (Percen-   (% of Invest-    Period   Period
Sub-loan        tage)      ment Cost)    (Years)   (Years)
(A) Investment in new     8            20           12       5
and replacement
trellising vine-
yards
(B) Investment in         8            20            6       2
trellising of
existing vine-
yards
(C) Vegetable            10      (not applic-        1       0
production                  able)
(b) It is understood that AGBANK may allow rebates to
cooperatives not exceeding one percentage point of the applicable
interest rates.
(c) AGBANK sub-loans under Categories (A) and (B) above
shall not, on an average, exceed 80% of the estimated cost of each
investment plan and, under Category (C) above, shall not exceed
100% of the estimated cash operating costs.
(d) Sub-loans for seasonal credit for vegetable production
shall be repayable to AGBANK upon payment to the sub-borrower for
contracted production.
6.   Loan Recovery:
AGBANK shall take all such measures as shall be necessary on
its part to minimize losses in its lending operations. To this
end, AGBANK shall, in collaboration with appropriate authorities
of the Borrower, strengthen its loan recovery procedures.
7.   AGBANK shall take appropriate steps to supervise adequately
the execution of the sub-projects financed out of the proceeds of
sub-loans.


