CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 779 AF
First Project Agreement
(Fruit and Vegetable Export Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
EXPORT PROMOTION BANK OF AFGHANISTAN
and
AFGHAN RAISIN INSTITUTE
and
AFGHAN SEEDS COMPANY
and
AFGHAN VEGETABLE EXPORT COMPANY
Dated September 27, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 779-AF
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
EXPORT PROMOTION BANK OF AFGHANISTAN (hereinafter called EPB) and
AFGHAN RAISIN INSTITUTE (hereinafter called ARI) and AFGHAN SEEDS
COMPANY (hereinafter called ASC) and AFGHAN VEGETABLE EXPORT
COMPANY (hereinafter called AVEC), EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC each
existing as separate legal entities under the laws of the Democra-
tic Republic of Afghanistan.
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan (herein-
after called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eighteen million dollars ($18,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as herein-
after set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EPB (the First Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment), part of the proceeds of the credit (hereinafter called the
Credit) provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will
be made available to EPB on the terms and conditions therein set
forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between EPB and ARI (the Third Subsidiary Loan Agreement), part of
the proceeds of the Credit made available to EPB will, in turn, be
made available to ARI on the terms and conditions therein set
forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between EPB and ASC (the Fourth Subsidiary Loan Agreement), part
of the proceeds of the Credit made available to EPB will, in turn,
be made available to ASC on the terms and conditions therein set
forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between EPB and AVEC (the Fifth Subsidiary Loan Agreement), part
of the proceeds of the Credit made available to EPB will, in turn,
be made available to AVEC on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "EPB subsidiary" means any company or entity of which a
majority of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary
interest is owned, or which is effectively controlled, (i) by EPB
or (ii) by any one or more subsidiaries of EPB or (iii) by EPB and
one or more of its subsidiaries;
(b) "ARI subsidiary" means any company or entity of which a
majority of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary
interest is owned, or which is effectively controlled, (i) by ARI
or (ii) by any one or more subsidiaries of ARI or (iii) by ARI and
one or more of its subsidiaries;
(c) "ASC subsidiary" means any company or entity of which a
majority of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary
interest is owned, or which is effectively controlled, (i) by ASC
or (ii) by any one or more subsidiaries of ASC or (iii) by ASC and
one or more of its subsidiaries;
(d) "AVEC subsidiary" means any company or entity of which
a majority of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary
interest is owned, or which is effectively controlled, (i) by
AVEC or (ii) by any one or more subsidiaries of AVEC or (iii) by
AVEC and one or more of its subsidiaries;
(e) "the Raisin Marketing Credit Program" means the pro-
vision of Credit by EPB, in cooperation with ARI, to raisin
producers whose raisins have been pre-cleaned and graded by
ARI and are stored in ARI owned and operated stores. Such credit


﻿-3-
in each and every case shall be limited to not more than 75% of
the farmgate value of the raisins in store or such other amount
as may be agreed upon between EPB and the Association, shall be
secured by a lien on such raisins and shall be repaid in full,
including all service charges, within twelve months or prior to
removal of the raisins from the ARI store, whichever occurs first;
and
(f) "subsidiary" means any company or entity of which a
majority of the outstanding, voting stock or other proprietary
interest is owned, or which is effectively controlled, (i) by
another company or other business entity or (ii) by any one or
more subsidiaries of such other company or business entity or
(iii) by another company or other business entity and one or more
subsidiaries of such other company or business entity.
ARTICLE II
EPB's Obligations as to Parts A through E
and Part G of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) EPB shall carry out Parts B and E of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative and financial practices.
(b) Without limitation or restriction on the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, EPB shall provide out of its own
resources, by way of loan to ARI, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Association, an amount of not less
than Af 58,600,000 for the establishment and initial operation of
ARI under the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) EPB shall on-lend to ARI not less than the
equivalent of 4,000,000 dollars out of the proceeds of the Credit
received by EPB from the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement under terms and conditions of an
agreement between EPB and ARI (the Third Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment) satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
(b) EPB shall on-lend to ASC not less than the equivalent of
1,160,000 dollars out of the proceeds of the Credit received by
EPB from the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement under terms and conditions of an agreement
between EPB and ASC (the Fourth Subsidiary Loan Agreement) satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Association.


﻿(c) EPB shall on-lend to AVEC not less than the equivalent
of 1,000,000 dollars out of the proceeds of the Credit received by
EPB from the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement under terms and conditions of an agreement
between EPB and AVEC (the Fifth Subsidiary Agreement) satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association.
(d) Whenever in connection with the foregoing provisions of
this Section it shall become necessary to value the proceeds of
the CrediL in terms of Afghanis, the provisions of Section 3.04 of
the Development Credit Agreement shall apply.
Section 2.03. (a) EPB shall, through EPU, furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the credit program and facilities to be financed by
EPB under Parts B and E of the Project, respectively, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) EPB shall: (i) maintain records and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association to record and monitor the progress of
Parts B and E of the Project (including their costs and the
benefits to be derived ther-efrom), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it
by the Borrower, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section, enable the Association's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to EPU at regular intervals all such information as EPU or
the Association shall reasonably request concerning Parts B and E
of the Project, their costs and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived therefrom, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) EPB shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to examine all installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of EPB and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 2.04. EPB shall ensure that the obligations of ARI
pursuant to Sections 3.05, 3.08 and 3.09 of this Agreement, the


﻿-5-
obligations of ASC pursuant to Sections 4.05, 4.08 and 4.09 of
this Agreement and the obligations of AVEC pursuant to Sections
5.03, 5.06 and 5.07 are complied with.
Section 2.05. EPB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, EPB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) EPB shall employ not less than three
suitably qualified and experienced Afghans to work as counterparts
to the experts whose services are utilized pursuant to paragraph
(b) (ii) of this Section.
(b) EPB shall on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association:
(i) establish and maintain a Financial Planning Depart-
ment and an Internal Auditing Department; and
(ii) utilize the services of three expatriate experts
employed pursuant to the terms of the UNDP Project
Document in the disciplines of bank credit, finan-
cial planning and accounting, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association and who
shall serve as comanagers of the Cr2dit, Financial
Planning and Internal Audit Departments of EPB,
respectively.
(c) By June 30, 1979 or such other date as may be acceptable
to the Association, EPB shall on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association:
(i) retain a qualified acc.unting firm to establish a
computerized accounting system in EPB;
(ii) develop, in cooperation with ARI, a suitable system
and timetable for implementing the Raisin Marketing
Credit Program and submit these to the Association
for approval; and
(iii) develop a training program in connection with its
training fellowships and a timetable for the
implementation thereof, submit such program and
timetable to the Association for its approval and


﻿-6-
carry out such program in accordance with such
timetable immediately after the Association's
approval thereof.
(d) EPB shall select its trainees in consultation with the
Association and wiLth the experts employed by EPB and shall arrange
for the training of such trainees in accordance with the program
as approved by the Association in accordance with paragraph (c)
(iii) of this Section.
Section 2.07. EPB shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 2.08. EPB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associ-
ation; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
in any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (A) two certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) two copies of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of EPB and the audit thereof as the Associ-
ation shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 2.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EPB shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 2.11 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
EPB's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio
within such limit.
Section 2.10. EPB shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of EPB which, in the
judgment of the Association, would materially affect EPB's ability
to meet its financial obligations.
Section 2.11. Except as may otherwise be agreed between
the Association and EPB, EPB shall not incur or permit any sub-
sidiary of it to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such


﻿-7-
debt, the consolidated debt of EPB and all its subsidiaries then
incurred and outstanding would be greater than five times the
consolidated capital and surplus of EPB and all its subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by EPB or any subsidiary
thereof maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the First Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment) on the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is
drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or
agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into but
only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Afghanis debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by EPB for the purposes of servicing
such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of EPB and all its subsidaries" means
the total amount of debt of EPB and its subsidiaries, excluding
any debt owed by EPB to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the
Borrower or to any other subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of EPB and all its
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus and free reserves of EPB and its subsidiaries
after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity
interests of EPB in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in EPB or
any other subsidiary.
Section 2.12. EPB shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including Afghanis) used in its lending
and borrowing operationsv
Section 2.13. The Association and EPB shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations


﻿- 8 -
and financial condition of EPB and its subsidiaries, and EPB shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations
and financial condition of EPB and its subsidiaries.
Section 2.14. The operating policies and procedures of EPB
in respect of Parts A through E of the Project shall be as set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the Associa-
tion and EPB.
Section 2.15. EPB shall not establish, acquire or take
over any EPB subsidiary except on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE III
Obligations of ARI as to the
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 3.01. ARI shall carry out Part A of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, agricultural, financial and engineering practices.
Section 3.02. (a) By December 31, 1978 or such other date
as may be acceptable to the Association, ARI shall utilize the
services of an expatriate viticulturalist, an expatriate raisin
processing and quality control specialist and an expatriate raisin
marketing specialist, each of whom shall be employed pursuant to
the terms of the UNDP Project Document and each of whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) Starting on January 1, 1979 or such other date as the
Association may agree, ARI shall, each year during four consecu-
tive years for a period of three months, utilize the services
of an accountant employed pursuant to the terms of the UNDP Proj-
ect Document to develop an accounting and auditing system and to
train ARI's staff in this field; the qualification, experience and
terms and conditions of employment of such accountant shall be
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 9 -
Section 3.03. (a) By March 31, 1979 or such other date as
may be acceptable to the Association, ARI shall submit to the
Association for its approval:
(i) a training program for Afghan personnel and a
timetable for implementation thereof in connection
with the ARI study tours and fellowships funded
under Part G (iii) of the Project; and
(ii) a program, including a timetable, for implementing
raisin grading and certification programs at the
farmgate and at the time of export.
(b) Following notification to ARI of approval of the train-
ing program and timetable under paragraph (a) (i) of this Section,
ARI shall, in accordance with such timetable and in consultation
with the Association, select the requisite number of trainees and
place them abroad.
Section 3.04. ARI undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provisior. for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by EPB
pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by ARI to
replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.05. ARI shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Third Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Associ-
ation shall otherwise agree, ARI shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Third Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.06. ARI shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 3.07. ARI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to EPB and the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
two certified copies of its financial statements for such year as


﻿- 10 -
so audited and (B) two copies of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associ-
ation such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of ARI and the audit thereof as tne Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.08. (a) ARI shall, through EPU, furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for Part A of the Project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) ARI shall: (i) maintain records and procedures satisfac-
tory to EPB and the Association to record and monitor the progress
of Part A of the Project (including the cost and the benefits to
be derived therefrom), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by EPB
pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) without limitation upon the provi-
sions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in Part A of the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the aforesaid proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to EPU at
regular intervals all such information as EPU or the Association
shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project, the
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived therefrom,
the expenditure of the aforesaid proceeds of the Credit made
available to ARI and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) ARI shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to examine all installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of ARI and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 3.09. ARI shall not establish, acquire or takeover
any ARI subsidiary except on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.10. The Association and ARI shall, from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of ARI and its subsidiaries, if any, and ARI
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the


﻿- 11 -
Association shall reasonably request concerning the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of ARI and its subsid-
iaries, if any.
Section 3.11. ARI shall cooperate with AGBANK in the carrying
out of its obligations under Section 2.07 of the Second Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Obligations of ASC as to the
Execution of Part C of the Project
Section 4.01. ASC shall carry out Part C of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, agricultural, financial and engineering practices.
Section 4.02. (a) ASC shall utilize the services of an expa-
triate Technical Manager and an expatriate Seed Processing Techni-
cian for ASC's Vegetable Seed Multiplication Division and an
expatriate Pomologist for ASC's Fruit Rootstock and Seedling Divi-
sion, each of whom shall be employed pursuant to the terms of the
UNDP Project Document and each of whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
ASC and the Association.
(b) By December 31, 1978 or such other date as may be
acceptable to the Association, ASC shall: (i) utilize the services
of an expatriate Financial Manager for ASC who shall be employed
pursuant to the terms of the UNDP Project Document and whose qual-
ifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to ASC and the Association; and (ii) employ
a suitably qualified and experienced Afghan counterpart thereto.
Section 4.03. By March 20, 1979 or such other date as
may be acceptable to the Association, ASC shall:
(a) establish an accounting system, acceptable to EPB and
the Association, of separate accounts for ASC's activities in the
following areas: (i) field seed; (ii) vegetable seed multiplica-
tion; (iii) fruit rootstock and seedling production and marketing;
and
(b) establish separate operating divisions for (i) field
seed, (ii) vegetable seed multiplication, (iii) fruit rootstock
and seedling production, and (iv) marketing.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.04. (a) By March 31, 1979 or such other date as
may be acceptable to the Association, ASC shall submit to the
Association, for its approval, a training program for Afghan
personnel together with a timetable of implementation thereof in
connection with the ASC fellowships funded under Part G (iii) of
the Project.
(b) Following notification to ASC of approval of the train-
ing program under paragraph (a) of this Section, ASC shall, in
accordance with such timetable as approved by the Association,
select the requisite number of trainees and place them abroad in
consultation with the Association.
Section 4.05. ASC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by EPB
pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by ASC to
replace or repair such goods.
Section 4.06. ASC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Fourth Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Associ-
ation shall otherwise agree, ASC shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Fourth Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 4.07. ASC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.08. ASC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) two certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) two copies of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associ-
ation such other information concerning the accounts and financial


﻿- 13 -
statements of ASC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.09. (a) ASC shall, through EPU, furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for Part C of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) ASC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures satisfac-
tory to EPB und the Association to record and monitor the progress
of Part C of the Project (including the costs and the benefits to
be derived therefrom), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by EPB
pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) without limitation upon the pro-
visions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's
accredited represencatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in Part C of the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the aforesaid proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to EPU at
regular intervals all such information as EPU or the Association
shall reasonably request concerning Part C of the Project, the
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived therefrom,
the expenditure of the aforesaid proceeds of the Credit made
available to ASC and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) ASC shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to examine all installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of ASC and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 4.10. ASC shall not establish, acquire or takeover
any ASC subsidiary except on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.11. The -Association and ASC shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of ASC and its subsidiaries, if any, and ASC
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the


﻿- 14 -
Association shall reasonably request concerning the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of ASC and its subsid-
iaries, if any.
ARTICLE V
Obligations of AVEC as to the
Execution of Part D of the Project
Section 5.01. AVEC shall carry out Part D of the rroject
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, agricultural, financial and engineering
practices.
Section 5.02. AVEC shall utilize the services of an expa-
triate Contracts and Sales Manager, an expatriate Production
Manager, an expatriate Packing and Storage Manager, an expatriate
Master Mechanic and an expatriate Hydrologist, each of whom shall
be employed pursuant to the terms of the UNDP Project Document and
each of whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.03. AVEC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by EPB
pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by AVEC to
replace or repair such goods.
Section 5.04. AVEC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Fifth Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, AVEC shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Fifth Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 5.05. AVEC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.06. AVEC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance


﻿- 15 -
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon hs available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) two certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) two copies of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of AVEC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.07. (a) AVEC shall, through EPU, furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, rep(,rts, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for Part D of the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request.
(b) AVEC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures satis-
factory to EPB and the Association to record and monitor the
progress of Part D of the Project (including the cost and the
benefits to be derived therefrom), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available
to it by EPB pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) without limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in Part D of the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the aforesaid proceeds of the
Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish
to EPU at regular intervals all such information as EPU or the
Association shall reasonably request concerning Part D of the
Project, the cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived therefrom, the expenditure of the aforesaid proceeds of
the Credit made available to AVEC and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) AVEC shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to examine all installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of AVEC and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 5.08. AVEC shall not establish, acquire or takeover
any AVEC subsidiary except on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association.


﻿- 16 -
Section 5.09. The Association and AVEC shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of AVEC and its subsidiaries, if any, and AVEC
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of AVEC and its subsid-
iaries, if any.
Section 5.10. AVEC shall cooperate fully with AGBANK for the
purposes of preparing the program mentioned in Section 2.06 of the
Se,ond Project Agreement.
Section 5.11. AVEC shall not assign, transfer, lease or
otherwise dispose of the land or of any part thereof made avail-
able to it by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.09 of the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Obligations of EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC
Section 6.01. EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 6.02. (a) The Association, EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC
shall from time to time, at the request of any party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the progress of
Parts A through E and Part G of the Project, the performance of
their respective obligations under this Agreement, the performance
by EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC of their respective obligations under
the Subsidiary Agreements and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b) EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC shall promptly inform the Asso-
ciation, through EPU, of any condition which interferes or
threatens to interfere with, the progress of Parts A through E and
Part G of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsid-
iary Agreements.


﻿- 17 -
Section 6.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 6.04. EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC shall take all such
action as may be required to assist and cooperate with EPU in
the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 7.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 7.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC thereunder shall termi-
nate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify EPB,
ARI, ASC and AVEC of this event.
Section 7.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 8.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,


﻿- 18 -
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For EPB:
Export Promotion Bank
of Afghanistan
Kabul
Afghanistan
Cable address:
Export Promotion Bank
of Afghanistan
Kabul
For ARI:
Afghan Raisin Institute
Kabul
Afghanistan
Cable address:
Afghan Raisin Institute
Kabul


﻿- 19 -
For ASC:
Afghan Seeds Company
Kabul
Afghanistan
Cable address:
Afghan Seeds Company
Kabul
For AVEC:
Afghan Vegetable Export Company
Herat
Afghanistan
Cable address:
Afghan Vegetable Export Company
Herat
Section 8.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of EPB may be taken or executed by the
President of EPB or such other person or persons as the said
President shall designate in writing.
Section 8.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ARI may be taken or executed by the Pr%si-
dent of ARI or such other person or persons as the said President
shall designate in writing.
Section 8.04. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ASC may be taken or executed by the Presi-
dent of ASC or such other person or persons as the said President
shall designate in writing.
Section 8.05. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of AVEC may be taken or executed by the


﻿- 20 -
President of AVEC or such other person or persons as the said
President shall designate in writing.
Section 8.06. EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of the person or persons who will, on
behalf of EPB, ARI, ASC and AVEC, take any action or execute any
documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by EPB,
ARI, ASC and AVEC pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 8.07. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
EXPORT PROMOTION BANK OF AFGHANISTAN
By /s/ Abdul Wahab Assefi
Authorized Representative
AFGHAN RAISIN INSTITUTE
By Is/ Abdul Wahab Assefi
Authorized Representative


﻿- 21 -
AFGHAN SEEDS COMPANY
By /s/ Abdul Wahab Assefi
Authorized Representative
AFGHAN VEGETABLE EXPORT COMPANY
By /s/ Abdul Wahab Assefi
Authorized Representative


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE I
Operating Policies of EPB
Under Parts A through E of the Project
1.   General:
Sub-loans to be made under Parts A, B, C, D and E of the
Project by EPB shall be made in accordance with the EPB Charter as
the same may be amended from time to time with the prior consul-
tation of the Association.
2.   Appraisal:
Before granting a sub-loan, EPB shall evaluate the sub-
borrower's credit worthiness for such sub-loan, its ability to
execute the project to be financed out of the proceeds of such
sub-loan and its ability to meet the repayment of such sub-loan
in accordance with its amortization schedule. For sub-loans under
Parts B and E of the Project exceeding $20,000 equivalent, EPB
shall submit to the Association prior to approving such sub-loans
a copy of the sub-borrower application to EPB for such a sub-loan,
a copy of EPB's appraisal of the sub-borrower and of the project
to be financed out of the proceeds of such sub-loan and a report
of the sub-borrower's credit worthiness, all to be in such detail
as the Association may reasonably request. Each appraisal shall
further contain a financing plan for working capital to be made
available by EPB to all agroindustry sub-borrowers as and when
required.
3.   Security Requirements:
(a) For its sub-loans under Parts C, D and E of the Project,
EPB shall take as security either (i) mortgages on real estate the
market value of which is equivalent to not less than 133% of the
principal amount of each sub-loan to be made or (ii) other
security on assets the market value of which is equivalent to not
less than 133% of the principal amount of each sub-loan to be
made.
(b) For its sub-loans under Part A of the Project, EPB may
accept security similar to the one described in subparagraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule or alternatively such security referred to in
Section 3.11 (1) of the Development Credit Agreement provided such
security is acceptab2e to EPB and the Association.


﻿- 23 -
4.   Conditions Precedent to Making Sub-loans:
EPB will prepare and adopt detailed lending terms (including
security arrangements) satisfactory to the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation relating to Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project.
5.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans:
(a) The minimum annual interest rate, the contribution of
each sub-borrower, the maximum permissible grace period and the
period of repayment for sub-loans made by EPB are set forth
below:
Interest Sub-borrowers'
Rate     Contribution Repayment Grace
Category of       (Percen-  (% of Invest-    Period   Period
Sub-loans         tage)     ment Cost)     (Years)   (Years)
Sub-loans
under Parts:
(i) Part A of
the Project    10%           0             17        5
(ii) Part B of
the Project    10            0              1       0
(iii) Part C of
the Project    10            0             15       8
(iv) Part D of
the Project    10           20             15        6
(v) Part E of
the Project    10           20            15        5
(b) It is understood that EPB may allow rebates to coopera-
tives not exceeding one percentage point of the applicable inter-
est rates.
(c) Unless the Borrower guarantees the repayment to EPB of
any loan (including any sub-loan) by EPB on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, EPB's loans (including sub-loans)
shall not exceed 20% of its net worth when made to any business


﻿- 24 -
entity or 10% of . its net worth when made to any business entity
which has a subsidiary or subsidiaries or which is a subsidiary
of a business entity.
6.   EPB shall enter into a written agreement with each of its
sub-borrowers whereby, in addition to defining the terms of
the sub-loan, EPB shall receive from each of its sub-borrowers
under Part E of the Project an annual     progress report on the
financial and physical progress of the Project financed out of the
proceeds of said sub-loan.
7.   EPB shall take appropriate steps to supervise adequately
the execution of the sub-projects financed out of the proceeds
of sub-loans.


