Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7374-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONNA
GOVERNANCE PROMOTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$90 MILLION
TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
May 19, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 18, 2000)
Currency Unit = Kina (K)
$1.00 = K2.48
K1.00 = $0.403
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB             - Asian Development Bank
AusAID          - Australian Agency for International Development
CAS             - Country Assistance Strategy
CACC            - Central Agencies Coordinating Committee
BPNG            - Bank of Papua New Guinea
DOH             - Department of Health
ICAC            - Independent Commission Against Corruption
IMF             - International Monetary Fund
JBIC            - Japan Bank for International Cooperation
JDPBPC          - Joint District Planning and Budget Priorities Committee
LLG             - Local Level Government
MRSF            - Mineral Resources Stabilization Fund
NEC             - National Executive Council
NPC             - National Planning Committee
NPF             - National Provident Fund
NGOs            - Non-Governmental Organizations
ORD             - Office of Rural Development
ODA             - Official Development Assistance
PNGBC           - Papua New Guinea Banking Corporation
POSF            - Public Officers' Superannuation Fund
PSC             - Public Service Commission
RDP             - Rural Development Program
SBA             - Stand-By Arrangement
SPPF            - South Pacific Project Facility
SRDG            - Social and Rural Development Grant
Vice-President:              Jemal-ud-din-Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:            Klaus Rohland, EACNI
Sector Manager:              Homi Kharas, EASPR
Task Manager:                Cyrus Talati, EASPR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
GOVERNANCE PROMOTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ............................................         iii
I. ECONOMIC CONTEXT   .                             .
A. THE INHERITED LEGACY                         .I
B. MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND POLICY                  .3
IL. GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM                           .6
A. STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK FOR REFORM                     .6
B. STRENGTHENING ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT                    .9
C(. IMPROVING GOVERNANCE .13
IIl. BANK GROUP STRATEGY AND DONOR]
STAKEHOLDER COLLABORATION   . .21
A. THE BANK .21
B. INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION (IFC) AND MULTILATERAL
INVESTMENT GUARANTEE AGENCY (MIGA) .22
C. COORDINATION WITH IMF, ADB, AND BILATERAL DONORS .23
IV. T'HE PROPOSED LOAN ...................       ..       ....................... 24
A. LOAN DESCRIPTION, CONDITIONS AND TRANCHING .................................................. 24
B. LOAN ADMINISTRATION ....................................................  26
C. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING .27
D. BENEFITS AND RISKS .27
V. RECOMMENDATION .29
ANNEXES:
ANNEX 1:  Letter of Development Policy
Attachment A: Matrix of Policy Actions
Attachment B: The New Rural Development Program
ANNEX 2:  Loan Performance Indicators
ANNEX 3:  Key Economic Indicators
ANNEX 4:  Bank Group Operations
ANNEX 5:  Papua New Guinea at a Glance
This loan was prepared by a team led by Cyrus Talati and includes contributions from Daniel Weise,
Mark Dorfman, James Douglas, Rekha Menon, Peter Osei, Bilal Rahill, and Esen Ulgenerk. The
operation was prepared under the guidance of Sanjay Dhar, Lead Economist. Lily Tsang assisted with
document processing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






-111-
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
GOVERNANCE PROMOTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:               Independent State of Papua New Guinea.
Amount and terms:       A $90 million fixed-spread loan in US Dollars for 20 years,
including a 5-year grace period at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate and commitment fee for fixed-spread loans with an
expected disbursement period of less than three years.
Description:           Papua New Guinea (PNG) is beginning to recover from a serious
crisis of governance which decimated public sector management
and capacities and shook private confidence. The proposed loan
would support the Government's ongoing efforts to redress past
policy and governance shortcomings in a sustainable manner.
Hence the loan includes components to improve: fiscal and debt
management; governance and civil service effectiveness; delivery
of health and education services; forestry management; the quality
and efficiency of financial services, including through privatization;
and the operating environment for business. A pervading theme is
to strengthen governance in public institutions through enhanced
transparency and accountability.
Benefits and risks::    The benefits include improved public sector management capacity
to provide core government services, enhanced governance through
greater transparency in public sector decisions and programs, a
reduced public sector role in commercial activities, an improved
climate for private sector development, and improved management
of natural resources. This is expected to allow higher and more
effectively delivered resources to priority areas such as rural
development, health, education, and fighting crime. A sustained
implementation of the reform program is expected to improve
private sector confidence and hence improve growth prospects for
the non-mineral economy.
The risks to attaining the objectives of the loan stem from a number
of factors: political opposition could compromise the reform
program; sustaining the wide ranging reform  effort may be
constrained by weaknesses in implementation capacity; PNG's
vulnerability to commodity price fluctuations and natural disasters
could undermine gains from improved policy; and high crime rates
could weaken the supply response from ongoing reforms.



-iv-
Poverty Category:      N.A.
Disbursement Schedule:  In accordance with conditions noted in the Matrix of Policy Actions
(Annex 1, Attachment A), the loan would disburse in two tranches
of $35 million each, and a floating tranche of $20 million. The first
tranche would be disbursed upon effectiveness. Estimated
disbursement time is about 14 months; loan closure would be
December 31, 2001.
Project ID Number:      P069771



INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
GOVERNANCE PROMOTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
adjustment loan of U.S. $90 million to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea to support a
program of structural reforms to strengthen economic management and governance in public
institutions and the financial sector.
I. ECONOMIC CONTEXT
A. THE INHERITED LEGACY
2.    The present Government assumed office in July 1999, having inherited a severely
deteriorating policy environment, characterized by an undermining of the basic institutions of
government and poor budget management.' Repercussions from the regional financial crisis and
a severe drought in 1997-both of which resulted in substantial deterioration in the balance of
payments and a collapse of international reserves to low levels-added to the legacy of
problems.
3. The deterioration in governance was marked by increased political intrusion into all aspects
of public policy. One feature of this was a marked increased in the turnover of public sector
managers-between mid-1997 and mid-1999, 2 central bank governors, 15 department heads,
21 ministers, and 38 heads of statutory and constitutional bodies were dismissed-with
concomitant effects on public sector performance, morale and public confidence in government.
Another stemmed from poor appointments, perceived as patronage based, to the boards and
management of public and quasi-public entities in the financial sector. Combined with
politically directed. imperatives, the result was a severe deterioration in financial performance of
the affected institutions. Consequently, a number of these institutions are severely exposed and
at risk of insolvency.
4.    The new government has had to contend with a significant overhang of public sector debt
and arrears; the latter masked the extent of fiscal deterioration that had previously occurred.
Taking account of arrears and off-budget transactions, the 1998 deficit exceeded 5 percent of
GDP, versus the reported deficit of 2.1 percent (Annex 3, Tables 1 & 3). Reflecting a lack of
confidence, interest rates on government debt rose to 25-30 percent in 1997-98-above the cost
of borrowing for major firms, and domestic interest payments had risen to nearly 20 percent of
recurrent expenditures by 1999-up from 7 percent in 1990. The magnitude of the fiscal legacy
has thus constrained the new Government's ability to improve the delivery of public services.
For details, see Papua New Guinea: Improving Governance and Performance, Report No. 19388-PNG, World
Bank, October 1999.



INDEPENDENTSTATE OF PAPUA NEW GUIINEA: GOVERNANCE PROMOTIONADJUSTMENT LOAN
A Poor Reform Record through mid-1999
5.   Aside from undermining state institutions, the prior government which was in office
between mid-1997 to mid-1999, was unable to advance the agenda of structural reforms that had
2
been initiated through a program supported by the Bank's Economic Recovery Program Loan.
6.   In 1998, the government passed long-delayed legislation on tariff reformns and the value
added tax, but implementation was delayed until mid-1999. This was due to a lack of adequate
preparation and follow up in respect of the provincial revenue sharing arrangements. At the
same time, the readiness of the Internal Revenue Commission to handle the new value added tax
was compromised due to the non-provision of required resources, costs associated with
establishment of provincial treasury capabilities were not well thought through, and provisions
for a royalty tax levied on the natural resource sector involving a defacto 4 percent royalty tax,
all contributed to the delay in implementing the indirect tax reform.
7.    In the course of numerous delays leading to implementation of the tariff reform, a
number of features of the original proposal were changed. First, the reduction in import tariffs is
now slated to take place over five years, compared with the three years originally agreed upon.3
Given delays in the commencement of the program, final rates/bands would now be achieved in
2006. Second, it appears that specific protection was accorded to certain industries within broad
tariff classifications, violating the premise of the tariff reform.
8.    Repeal of the Industrial Development (Incentives to Pioneer Industries) Act in 1998 was
a positive step in the direction of reducing ad hoc extension of income tax incentives. However,
only weeks after the Act was repealed, the government granted pioneer status to three companies
in apparent violation of the law. Fisheries sector reforms which had been underway for some
time proceeded with passage in 1998 of new legislation for fisheries. This provided a modern
incentive framework for fisheries exploitation and set the stage for required institutional reforms.
The implementation of the latter, however, did not proceed well due to political intrusion in the
granting of access licenses for fisheries and attempts to undermine the legitimate role of the
Fisheries Board.
9.    Legislation was passed which corporatized the State Bank group of companies, but this
and subsequent decisions regarding the State Bank were non transparent, excluded the regulator
(central bank), and appeared not to follow any established due process. Moreover, many
important issues were not addressed, including the new holding company structure, corporale
governance, the capital structure of entities, and supervisory arrangements.
10. With respect to a number of other commitments made for 1998, the Government was
unable to make any progress. These included: (a) a pledge to review the structure of the public
service to rationalize functions and responsibilities, adjust retrenchment payments downward,
and reduce the wage bill; (b) a review of tax and tariff exemptions did not transpire, neither was
further liberalization of price-controlled items achieved, nor was a public sector salary and wage
2 OED's evaluation of the ERP Loan confirms that reversals during the implementation period despite initially
satisfactory results undermined the impact of the loan.
3Commitments during this period were to the Bank in the context of preparation of a policy-based loan which
ultimately was not processed to completion.
-2-



INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA: GOVERWVANCE PROMOTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
freeze attained; (c) financial sector reforms relating to better supervision of the sector,
liberalization of the superannuation industry, and strengthening debt management were also not
advanced.
11.   Most of the bold package of structural policy reforms announced in the 1999 budget was
also not achieved due to a lack of institutional capacity, planning, funding, and weak governance
which ultimately undermined the implementation and sustainability of these reforms. In
particular the 6,500-7,000 person civil service redundancy program, due to commence on
January 1, 1999, was delayed from the beginning while expected costs increased several-fold.
The failure to imp[ement may be regarded positively in this case, as the prescribed reductions in
the 1999 budget diid not arise from a thorough review of government functions and priorities, nor
from a, strategic planning exercise.
12.   Ihe forestry sector experienced a number of reversals with respect to important initiatives
that had been intrcduced in 1995-97. These events raised the specter of a deterioration in sector
governance that had the potential to lead to unsustainable logging. First, in an apparent bid to
improve the balance of payments, the government made changes to the structure of log export
taxes which resulted in almost no taxes being paid by logging firms, with potential for far-
reaching repercussions on the sustainability of logging resources. At the same time, the
government appeared to undermine the tendering processes and scrutiny under the Forestry Act
and related regulations through the granting of extensions to existing timber areas, and through a
proposal to facilitate rapid approval of new logging operations, which would have circumvented
the established processes for approving new projects and weakened the National Forest
Authority by largely bypassing it. Government also made numerous attempts to terminate the
established program of external pre-shipment inspection of log exports. Finally, withdrawal of
financial support to the National Forest Authority and a reduction of its staff undermined the
ability of this independent agency to effectively carry out its mandate.
13. A broader legacy is that of a stagnating standard of living and poor social indicators for
much of the population notwithstanding rising average per capita incomes over the past decades.
Poverty data collected in 1996 revealed that 37.5 percent of the population fell below the poverty
line. There was a significant disparity in consumption levels among the various income
groups--the richest quartile of the population account for nearly 60 percent of consumption,
while the poorest 50 percent account for only 20 percent. More striking, the situation for the
poorest segment of the population has hardly improved since 1984, and developments since 1996
may have worsened these disparities. The 1996 survey revealed that 18 percent of the poor were
unemployed, 44 percent were tree crop farmers, and 18 percent were subsistence farmers. Low
education levels, poor service delivery particularly to rural areas, limited employment
opportunities, and inadequate institutional/infrastructure support account for this growing
disparity in income and standards of living.
B. MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND POLICY
14.   Compounding the governance and policy problems, a series of exogenous shocks beset
PNG, beginning in mid-1997: the emergence of a severe El Nifio induced drought; repercussions
from the Asian crisis; and a severe tsunami in 1998. The prolonged drought disrupted both
mining and agricultural production, resulting in sharp reductions in domestic availability of food
-3-



I,NDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA: GOVERNANCE PROMOTIONADJUSTMEN TLOAN
in the short run, and of exports as well. Substantial declines in the world prices of PNG's
principle export commodities-gold, copper, oil, coffee and logs-resulted from the regional
crisis. The crisis also adversely affected the demand for logs in Japan and Korea (which
together accounted for 85 percent of PNG's log export market). PNG's terns of trade
consequently declined sharply; and private capital outflows accelerated, hastening the decline in
the kina and foreign exchange reserves. An inappropriate policy response-characterized
initially by a monetary policy that was subordinated to financing the budget deficit-exacerbated
the macroeconomic impact of these shocks. Non-mineral GDP fell by 2.7 percent in 1998 aLnd
stagnated in 1999.
15.   With the reduction of tax revenue from the contraction in the mineral and logging sectors,
the budgetary position deteriorated from approximate balance in 1997 to a deficit of 2.1 percent
of GDP in 1998. This deterioration occurred despite ad hoc measures to contain recurrent
expenditure. The extent of the decline in overall budgetary management and governance is
masked in these estimates due to the accumulation of substantial arrears, which are believed to
have been generated largely in 1998. Including arrears, the underlying budget deficit in 1998 is
estimated at 5 percent of GDP, and this too, is an understatement of the true fiscal position as
there were a number of other large off-budget transactions that year. The 1999 Budget was
designed to rectify this situation, but failed to do so as it was based on unrealistic
macroeconomic and sectoral assumptions. In particular, the large, poorly planned, unsequenced
and under-costed public sector retrenchment exercise-upon which so much expenditure
redirection was based-was largely unimplemented. Accompanied by further deterioration in
the governance of public institutions and unanticipated expenditure increases, the budget deficit
widened at mid-1999 to an annualized rate of about 3.5 percent of GDP.
16.   Monetary policy was solely directed to financing the budget deficit and hence aggravated
inflation and balance of payrnents pressures. The budget deficit was financed almost entirely
through extension of Central Bank credit. In 1998, this credit extension breached statutory
ceilings, which continued into 1999. During this period, monetary policy was erratic and marked
by frequent changes in instruments, which further undermined confidence. A combination of
moral suasion, higher interest rates, and higher reserve requirements were resorted to, in order to
maintain commercial bank participation in the thin market for government securities.
17.   The exchange rate was subjected to strong downward pressure, notwithstanding
significant intervention by the central bank during this period, reflecting declining export prices,
loss of export markets and loss of confidence in government. Gross official reserves
consequently fellfrom US$548 million in mid-1997 to US$89 million by mid-1999, the latter
representing less than three weeks of imports. During this two year period, the kina lost
45 percent of its value in terms of the U.S. dollar, and year end inflation rose from 5 percenl. in
1997 peaking at 22 percent in 1998, and remained at about 20 percent through the first three
quarters of 1999 before declining.
18.   The breakdown in governance described above was accompanied by a breakdown irn
relations with external development partners, including bilateral donors and the international
financial institutions. As the fiscal deficit widened and balance of payments deteriorated,
government efforts were increasingly directed towards obtaining external financing (from
-4-



INDEPENDENT STATE OFPAPUA NEW GUINEA: GOVERNANCE PROMOTIONAD]JUSTMENT LOAN
conventional and unconventional sources), without due regard for the financial or reputational
consequences. These efforts were interrupted with the arrival of the new government.
19.   A, new government was formed in July 1999 with a mandate to stabilize
macroeconomic conditions, improve the transparency and governance of public institutions, and
restore relations with international financial institutions and bilateral partners. Less than four
weeks after assuming office, this government passed a supplementary budget which undertook
fiscal tightening. Tax increases on gaming machines, beer, wine, tobacco and luxurv car excises,
and log export taxes raised nearly 0.5 percent of GDP over the remainder of the year. On the
expenditure side, unissued warrants of national departments were cut significantly, reductions
were also made to counterpart funds for the development budget, reflecting the slow pace of
implementation during the first half of 1999, and the large retrenchment exercise was halted.
20.   Despite having inherited a difficult situation-characterized by a loss of control over
budgetary management and expenditure-the new Government succeeded in reducing the
overall deficit to 1.3 percent of GDP in 1999, aided by the nascent recovery in export prices and
production. The discovery of additional pre-1999 arrears after the budget was formulated
reflects well on the outcome, which, net of arrears clearance, would have resulted in a balanced
budget. A broad ranging program of structural reforms was also announced and a constructive
and cooperative policy dialogue was entered into with the Bank, IMF and other multilateral and
bilateral partners.
21.   T'he fiscal turnaround, recovery in international commodity prices for PNG's principle
exports, and a USS80 million loan from Australia enabled the central bank to recoup a significant
amount of international reserves by end-1999-reserves had increased to about US$230 million
by early May 2000-and net central bank credit to government was reduced significantly in the
second half of 1999.
22.   Despite these achievements the situation remains fragile. PNG remains vulnerable to
exogeno-us shocks-due to its heavy reliance on commodity exports; but also because it was
unable to sustain appropriate policy reforms. Thus the further rebuilding of external reserves as
a cushion against exogenous shocks remains a priority. In the longer term, economic
diversification facilitated by investor confidence and a more favorable policy environment will
be needed to reduce vulnerability.
23.   I'he scenario on which the program is predicated, is based on a rebound in non-rrmineral
activity irn 2000 and a more modest contribution from the mineral sector due to sector and proj ect
specific factors. Overall GDP growth is forecast to increase by 4.5 percent in 2000, led by a
5.6 percent increase in the non-mineral economy. The external current account is expected to
move from an estimated surplus of 1.4 percent of GDP in 1999 to a deficit of about 0.4 percent
of GDP in 2000, which would widen further in 2001. This reflects slower projected growth in
export volumes and prices, and an increase in imports arising from the start-up of two new large
minerals sector projects-the Ramu nickel project and the gas development project and pipeline
to Australia-which are expected to benefit the economy and balance of payments in the longer
term.
-5-



INDEPENDENT STATE OFPAPUA NEW GUINEA: GOVERNANCE PROMOTIONADJUSTMfENTLOAN
24.   The projected rise in current account deficits and accumulation of international reserves
is expected to be financed by higher levels of foreign direct investment (particularly for the
nickel and gas projects), lower private capital outflows, and US$180 million in exceptional
foreign financing. The latter financing incorporates pledges by a number of donors at the
Consultative Group meeting held in Port Moresby in November 1999 to co-finance the proposed
Bank loan, and assumes that the 14-month IMF Stand-By Arrangement (SBA), approved on.
March 29, 2000 remains on track. The program targets an overall balance of payments surplus
of US$126 million, which would raise net international reserves from US$181 million in 1999
(equivalent to 1.8 months of non mineral imports), to US$307 million in 2000 (2.9 months of
non mineral imports). Gross reserves under this scenario would rise from US$204 million in
1999 to US$379 million at end-2000.
Papua New Guinea: External Financing Requirements and Sources, 1996-2001
(USS million)
1996     1997      1998     1999      2000      2001
(est.)    (proj.)   (proj.)
Requirements           499       378       153       473      434       417
Current account deficit    -289  263       -23      -55        18       112
Principal repayments   406       319       365       486      290       252
Changeinreserves       382      -204      -189       42       126        53
Sources                499       378       153      473       434       417
Foreign direct investnent   226   23       121       268      142       171
Public MLT loans        90        68        53        52       36        43
Private MLT capital     120      441       127        21       75        79
Commercial banks (net)    -12    -10        15       -2         0         0
Short term (inc. E&O)   60      -169      -163       25        66        59
Exceptional fnancing    15        25         0       109      115        65
Source: IMF and Bank staff estimates.
II. GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
A. STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK FOR REFORM
25.   The new Government recognizes that the root cause of the long-run decline in PNG's
economic performance-as evidenced by low and variable growth, lack of private sector
confidence, stagnant social indicators and a relatively high incidence of poverty and income
inequality-can be traced to the decline of governance, characterized by a lack of transparency
in policy making, a decline in public institutions, and increased government intrusion into
economic activity; this recognition has been the main driving force behind its reform program.
These internal weaknesses and excesses in the economy are being addressed in a comprehensive
fashion through an ambitious and far reaching reform program.
26.   Hence, to complement its financial program aimed at fiscal sustainability and reserve
accumulation, the structural reform program's objectives are to: strengthen the integrity of the
-6-



INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA: GOvERNANCE PROMOTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
civil senrice and public institutions; improve the quality and efficiency of public sector delivery
in core areas; and, through privatization, reduce the scope of the public sector where its financial
performance has been poor, and where the private sector can improve service delivery.
27.  IThe current Government's first act was to pass a Supplementary Budget for 1999 which
sought to restore rmacroeconomic stability by bringing the true budget deficit under control. That
budget also saw passage of the Privatization Act as the first step of an announced policy to
reduce the role of the state in economic affairs, thereby allowing the government to focus on
improving the efficiency and quality of basic public services. The Prime Minister has
highlighted this large scale asset divestiture program as the centerpiece of government's
blueprint for economic recovery and structural reform. Despite some difficulty in moving
forward--the Government is a multi-party coalition with competing vested interests-
Governnent has demonstrated its commitment to privatization by continuing to make necessary
changes to the program in a pragmatic manner to move it forward.
28.   In recognition of the erosion of the integrity of public institutions, the Government has
focused much of its attention on a broad program to strengthen the civil service, improve public
sector performance, and combat fraud and corruption. This has included among other areas,
budget reform, reviews of the Cabinet secretariat, the Office of the Prime Minister and the Public
Service 'Commission (PSC) and pursuit of high level corruption cases. The accomplishments to
date already constitute a sharp break with the past.
29.   A number of parameters of the proposed reform program are unique and lend strength
and credibility to Government's commitment. First, PNG will not undertake any commercial
borrowing during the program period. This will ensure that all externally sourced assistance is
carefully directed within the confines of a World Bank-IMF program. This policy is simply an
extension of agreements that have been in place since the 1995 program. It is worth noting that
PNG has not undertaken any external commercial borrowing since that time, other than some
short-term trade credits.
30.   The 2000 Budget has been constrained by Government. (Budgetary expenditures in
recent years have averaged about 26 percent of GDP, and actual public spending would be
considerably higher if off-budget and quasi-fiscal transactions were taken account of). The main
feature of this budget is an underlying fiscal balance, net of a modest expenditure appropriation
of about 1 percent of GDP for structural reforms, and excluding repayment of arrears. The
Governnent has identified health, education, law and order, agriculture, infrastructure
maintenance and revenue raising as priority sectors for 2000, and these sectors are the only ones
to receive increased resources in 2000, within the balanced budget.
31.   PNG has had a substantial overhang of short-term domestic debt in relation to investors'
desire to hold government paper-the overall level of domestic public debt was until recently
(1998-99), around K2.5 billion (about 25 percent of GDP). In recent years, high interest rates on
domestic debt-significantly higher than on prime corporate bonds-has constrained public
spending on vital government services. The Government managed to retire a significant portion
(about one-quarter), of this at end-1999 by writing down the entire balance of the Mineral
Resources Fund (MRSF) against an equivalent amount of central bank holdings of treasury bills.
Under the proposed program, government will retire a more significant portion of domestic debt
-7-



INDEPENDENTSTATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA: GOVERNANCE PROMOTIONVADJUSTMENTLOAN
through conversion of domestic short-term debt into long-term concessional foreign debt. In
addition to freeing-up budgetary resources in future years, this will facilitate the needed
monetary easing and re-flow of credit to the private sector which has been constrained in PNG
for a number of years.
32.   Government has committed to redrawing the role of the Central Bank and confining ilts
take-up of government securities only for liquidity management purposes. In this respect, the
impact of the new Central Banking Act (passed in March 2000) which proscribes Central Bank
financing of the budget deficit should be to impose greater fiscal discipline by in effect creating a
hard budget constraint.
33.   Because of the weak governance framework underlying public expenditures and the
uncertainty regarding the efficiency of public expenditures, government spending on structural
reforms will be designed to support "one-off' expenditures. This is critical to ensure that these
expenditures do not contribute to recurrent expenditure in the current or future years. Some
examples of such one-off expenditures would be retrenchment payments, expenses related to the
privatization process and the Privatization Commission in particular during its first year, and
support for financial management systems. These areas are being carefully selected to ensure
that they contribute to a sustained increase in public sector productivity.
34.   Finally, the proposed reform program aims to get the government to withdraw from the
financial sector as well as a number of other activities currently pursued through state-owned
enterprises which are to be privatized. Such a redefinition of the role of government should
greatly assist the Government to focus itself on improved delivery of primary services and on a
much narrower and more basic set of fundamental objectives.
35.   Details of the specific actions that form part of the structural reform program to be
supported by this loan are set out in the Matrix of Policy Actions attached to Government's
Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1, Attachment A). The key elements of this reform
program are:
Strengthening Economic Management
* improve fiscal management to enhance macroeconomic stability;
* improve debt management;
*  improve the operating environment for business, including through privatization.
Improving Governance
* improve governance;
*  improve civil service efficiency and effectiveness;
*  improve delivery of health and education services;
*  improve forestry management through strengthening the institutional framework;
*  improve efficiency of financial services and reduce systemic risk through reform of the
pension industry and privatization of the state bank group.
36.   Beyond the recent deterioration in governance, PNG's poor economic performance is
based on a number of factors. Extractive rents are channeled to a relatively modem and well-
paid public sector that expanded significantly in the decade prior to 1994 without improving
-8-



INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEw GUINEA: GOVERNANCE PROMOTIONADJUSTMENT LOAN
public services. This is one of the main causes of the income gap. At the same time, there is a
great disparity in education levels, worker productivity, and access to health services. Finally, a
lack of infrastructure to physically integrate the rugged terrain of PNG remains a major
impediment. The insecurity and high costs generated by extensive criminal activity amplify
these problems. The development of the country and its population will be a task for
generations; any medium-term program can only begin to address the longer-term problems of
PNG.
37.   PNG's key development challenge is to raise its poor social indicators and significantly
improve living standards for its population. This can be done only by strengthening governance,
restoring the integrity of public institutions, improving civil service efficiency and performance,
and broadening and sharing the effects of economic growth, particularly the rent stemming from
extractive industries. But this is a process that will require a much greater lapse time than that
associated with this operation.
B. STRENGTHENING ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
38.   Since assuming office, the Government has demonstrated its resolve to maintain fiscal
prudence through substantial tightening of fiscal policy and adhering to its stated targets. The
functioning of the exchange rate market, interest rate policies and liquidity management are now
guided by market forces and are relatively free from intervention. Yet much remains to be done
to consolidate these gains and place them on a sustainable footing. Recognizing this, the
Government's program targets improvement in three main areas-fiscal management, debt
management and the business environment.
39.   Improving Fiscal Management. Considerable effort has been expended to raise
standards of fiscal management with special emphasis on increasing transparency and re-
establishing processes. In that connection, the preparation of the 1999 budget outturn relied on
prompt and early cut off dates for 1999 budget transactions, allowing a preliminary outturn to be
prepared by January 2000. The 1999 accounts are to be closed and fully reconciled by mid-year.
40.   Special emphasis has been placed on improving expenditure control and management. A
new monthly warrant control system has been established over recurrent expenditure for goods
and services, resulting from efforts to rationalize and streamline fiscal programming and
financial management. This allows some integration of national and provincial budget data.
During 2000, the expenditure control and monitoring system will be further strengthened by
requiring all departments and agencies to report spending commitments and integrating the
warrant issues for the development budget with the central warrant issue system. Monthly cash
flow reports are being produced as part of the rejuvenation of budget management and financial
programming processes. The Government is committed to issuing full cash warrants to
departments for recurrent and development budgets in a timely fashion, with particular emphasis
on priority areas to ensure adequate and timely funding availability.
41.   To allow for the clearance of substantial arrears, considerable effort has been expended to
identify all government arrears. This has now been done and has incorporated an important
fiscal contingency, namely that of potential liabilities arising from court judgements that might
be rendered against the State. A quarterly arrears monitoring system has also been established
-9-



INDEPENDENT STATE OFPAPUA NEW GUINEA: GOVERNANCE PROMOTIONADJUSTMENT LOAN
by the Department of Finance and Treasury which allows much improved monitoring of arrears.
This will allow potential arrears to be identified early, and to be addressed adequately. In 2000,
Government will clear the balance of pre-1999 arrears identified to date, equivalent to more than
1 percent of GDP as well as any previously unidentified arrears.
42.   Expenditure control efforts and cash flow planning and management will receive a boost
through measures to be taken with respect to trust accounts, the proliferation of which in recent
years, has made cash flow management problematic. The large trust accounts for recurrent
expenditures-for Plant and Transport Board and Works Transferable Account-were abolished
in early 2000.
43.   A public sector wide hiring freeze was instituted in November 1999 which will continue
in place through 2000, with some exceptions for priority areas such as health, education and law
enforcement. At the same time, the Government established an improved manual system that
allowed production of monthly reports on payroll data and employment numbers. This will be
further refined during the course of 2000 with the establishment of an integrated payroll and
personnel management system, that would allow automatic generation of these reports with
improved provisioning for costing and forecasting. This will be an essential tool for monitoring
budget ceilings on payroll and will be needed for any future retrenchment program to be
effective.
44.   The Government is also strengthening the fiscal base through a taxation review exercise
that was launched in late 1999. The main purposes of the review are to ensure that PNG's
personal and corporate taxes are (regionally) competitive and meet the needs of fiscal
requirements for the future. Mineral sector taxation will be an area of particular focus.
Recommendations from this exercise are expected to be available to feed into the preparation of
the 2001 budget.
45.   The overall effects of these policies to improve fiscal management when combined with
other reinforcing elements of the operation will be an improvement in the structure of the budget
and a redirection of resources to the provinces. In the short term, the share of wages in GDP is
expected to decline in 2000-01, while the share in GDP of conditional transfers to provinces
should increase by two-thirds in 2001, and that of expenditures on operations and maintenance
by about 7.5 percent. This will be accommodated in part by an easing in the share of interest
payments.
46.   Improving Debt Management. The expansion of the Government's domestic debt and
debt service obligations during the 1990s-the bulk of which comprised treasury bills of 180 day
or lesser maturity-has highlighted the urgency of the current situation. Treasury bill yields
increased from below 9 percent in 1997 to 28 percent by mid-1999, the servicing of which has
accounted for a progressively larger share of recurrent expenditure. The increase in treasury bill
yields at times reached over 500 basis points above prime domestic corporate rates and have
consistently remained above these rates for two years, indicating over-reliance on this instrument
that was targeted at a few commercial banks with sovereign debt limits. Large underutilized
cash balances in government accounts added to the pressure to issue so much expensive domestic
debt. The external debt burden has also risen, primarily due to valuation effects from the
significant depreciation of the kina against major currencies in the 1990s. The lack of debt
-10-



INDEPENDENTSTA TE OFPAPUA NEW GUINEA:, GOVERNANCE PROMOTIONADJUSTMENTLOAN
management capabilities has thus been costly to the Government. A strengthening of the
institutional arrangements for the issue and management of government debt and financial assets
and for an enhancement of the flow of information and analysis between the Treasury and the
Central Bank are expected to generate significant savings.
47.  IThe first steps in this process have already been taken, with the transfer early in 2000 of
the responsibility :for debt management and issuance of government securities from the Central
Bank to the Department of Finance and Treasury. In keeping with the dictates of transparency,
Government has committed to terminate the process of paying an administered interest rate to the
Central Bank on its holdings of government securities, which had provided considerable scope
for inappropriate budgetary practices and manipulation in the past. Instead, market determined
interest rates will be paid on all government securities, including on any temporary overdraft
facilities at the Central Bank. Under the new Central Banking Act, the Central Bank is
prohibited from financing fiscal deficits and this will facilitate a more orderly reconstruction
over time of the Government's debt portfolio.
48.   During 2000, Government will undertake a comprehensive review to strengthen debt
management policy, with a view to introduce improved instruments, portfolio restructuring and
exposure management. These actions should facilitate the lengthening of the duration of the
domestic portfolio through issue of longer-term domestic securities, foreign currency hedging
strategies and the establishment of optimal benchmarks. The Government has requested technical
assistance from the Bank in this respect and will investigate twinning arrangements with a
reputable overseas public sector liability manager to overcome capacity constraints. To improve
market functioning and lift private sector confidence, government cash flow requirements will be
made public and released to the market in a timely fashion in 2000. Government is also
committed to utilizing privatization receipts to retire public debt, possibly including pension
scheme liabilities.
49.   The MRSF was established to protect PNG from the revenue volatility that emanates
from the minerals sector. For the past decade the MRSF has failed to perform this function; its
payments to the budget have generally tracked inflows with the modest accumulation in balances
achieved through an even greater buildup in domestic debt, and resources from this fund have
allegedly been subjected to considerable diversion and abuse. Thus in recent years, the MRSF
has accumulated balances effectively through deficit financing and the issue of additional
treasury bills, which has defeated the purpose for which it was established. By the end of 1999,
balances in the MRSF totaled some K720 million. The MRSF has not been able to smooth
Government revenues over economic cycles, such as in 1998. Consequently, the Government
has decided to close the MRSF in an orderly manner. The first step in this direction was taken at
the end of 1999 with the decision to offset the balance of the MRSF deposit against treasury bills
held by the Central Bank and commit to the pass-through of new revenue flows in 2000 to
consolidated revenues-effectively freezing use of MRSF resources in 2000. The next step will
be to repeal the MRSF Act and establish in its place alternative means to manage volatility of
mineral revenues--primarily relying on improved fiscal rules and reserve accumulation.
50.   Improving the Operating Environment for Business. Government recognizes the
private sector as the engine of growth for the economic development of PNG. In that vein, the
government intends to reduce its role in those areas where the private sector can perform more
-11-



INDEPENDENT STA TE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA: GO VERNANCE PROMOTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
effectively. Concurrently government is building on recent initiatives such as the improved
customs clearance procedures and repeal of legislation conferring pioneer status on industries as
a way to provide concessions. In 2000, Government expects to commence major initiatives to
improve the operating environment for business.
51.   The first objective is to improve personal and public safety. The Government
commenced a functional review of defense and internal security (see below) which will, inter
alia, address issues relating to resolution of back-pay and unpaid allowances, will result in the
establishment of a system of allowances for the defense force and is envisaged to result in a
major rationalization of the force releasing substantial resources that will be used to both
enhance the force and improve police and correctional institutions. This is expected to
strengthen the Government's ability to address the serious crime situation, which is a major
impediment to economic activity.
52.   Second, the ongoing taxation review will examine the issue of the import tariff reduc tion
program with a view to accelerating this process from the envisioned 7 years to a 5 year period.
That review will also look at the granting of import duty exemptions, in the first instance to
eliminate these and in the second to eliminate the authority to grant these altogether, or
alternatively to submit such discretion to a transparent and open process. The review will also
report on improved forestry export tax arrangements that should form the basis of a more
efficient tax regime for forestry. The results of these reviews will be implemented in time for the
2001 budget deliberations, after consultation with the Bank.
53.   Thirdly, the Government intends to complete a review in 2000 to assess further measures
to enhance private sector led growth and development in the non-mineral economy. The review
will examine a number of competition policy issues including formal or informal barriers to
entry, including with respect to informal sector activity and the reserved activities list. The
review will also examine the feasibility of removing price controls for all goods, except where
competition is inadequate, wherein an improved regulatory structure will be established. The
results and recommendations of the review will be discussed and agreed to with the Bank, and
implemented prior to the second tranche.
54.   Finally, the Government has embarked on a significant (though phased) privatization
program aimed at improving service delivery and efficiency, facilitating an enhanced focus by
government on a narrower set of core activities, reducing government debt and reducing the
scope for corruption in the state-owned enterprise sector. The Government has established a legal
and institutional foundation for privatization in the form of a Privatization Act and a
Privatization Commission, and has enlisted a group of eminent experts-the international
advisory group-to provide strategic advice. On the basis of much preparatory work and a
conference held in January 2000, an action plan for privatization was formulated, and approved
by Cabinet in February. The strategy calls for strengthening the institutional, legal and
regulatory frameworks in a number of ways. A managing director of the Commission has been
appointed and a number of expert project management teams are being established within the
Privatization Commission. A review of all laws impacting on privatization will be commenced
as a priority, and legal impediments to privatization, if any, will be rectified. It is recognized that
particularly in the case of the utilities (telecommunications and electricity) privatization will
have to be preceded by reviews and strengthening of the regulatory frameworks, and a central
-12-



INDEPENvDENT STATE OFPAPUA NEW GUINEA: GOvERNANcE PROMOTIONADJUSTMENTLOAN
agencies working group has been formed to this effect. The central agencies working group will
also address how specific community services may be adversely impacted by privatization and
will identify efficient ways of protecting community interests, including options to incorporate
community service obligations into specific sales documents. Establishment of a sectoral and
regulatory review unit in the Department of Finance and Treasury to oversee and advise on
industry structural arrangements, regulation, tariffs, and issues of competition is also a
government priority and staff have been assigned to this new unit.
55.   Entities targeted for privatization include the state bank group, national airline, the
telephone, electricity and harbors monopolies, the postal corporation and a host of smaller equity
interests. The state bank group and Air Niugini have been targeted as first priorities with sales
targeted for the first half of 2001. The form of privatization of the major entities is expected to
be through majority interest trade sales to reputable international buyers with minority interests
being sold subsequently through initial public offerings on the Port Moresby Stock Exchange.
The form of sale of the Government's smaller equity interests is be evaluated with a view to the
establishment of a unit trust. For all entities nominated, work will commence shortly on
initiating the process to obtain up-to-date financial statements based on internationally
recognized accounting standards, evaluating efficient industry structures, identifying community
service obligations, and strengthening respective regulatory frameworks. This work will be a
prerequisite to preparatory work such as asset restructuring and the commencement of due
diligence exercises. In this process the Government is committed to establishing a high level of
accountability, transparency, credibility and professionalism.
C. IMPROVING GOVERNANCE
56.   Improve Governance. Government recognizes that poor governance and high levels of
corruption lie at the heart of PNG's problems. Governance issues can be related to the
deterioration in public institutions and public sector outcomes. Specific areas of difficulty have
included unpredictability of government policies, inappropriate utilization of official discretion
and application of the law, poor credibility of policy announcements, frequent changes and
reversals in rules, poor public and private safety and high crime levels, and inadequate access to
efficient public services. Both within and outside PNG there is a perception that the situation
with regard to corruption has deteriorated considerably over the past decade, and that the law and
order situation has also deteriorated. Government's strategy to improve governance takes
explicit account of these elements.
57.   In this regard, the emphasis on addressing fundamental problems-of macroeconomic
instability and personal and property insecurity-is appropriate given the severity of these
problems. Actions to move away from special concessions, preferential tax breaks and
investment treatment etc., and develop non-distortionary policies are also appropriate, as is the
effort to increase investment in basic social services and infrastructure. Government emphasis
on invigorating public institutions, restoring their integrity and independence through making
rules and restraints more effective, and exposing state institutions to greater competition will also
help to strengthen governance. The determined pursuit of high level corruption cases, such as
the Cairns Conservatory and National Provident Fund cases, is indicative of the Government's
commitment in this area. These governance problems have been long in the making, and, despite
-13-



INDEPENDENTSTATE OF PAPUA NEWGUrNEA: GOVERNANCEPROMOTIONADJUSTMENTLOAN
renewed government action and commitment, will take considerable time and investment to
address effectively.
58.   PNG possesses adequate legislation and accompanying regulations prescribing
procedures for the raising of public monies, their spending and accountability, and reporting of
Government operations-and also provides for sanctions for impropriety. But compliance with
legislation is weak, partly because of poor technical capacity in line departments, statutory
bodies and local-level governments, and under-staffing of key divisions of the Department of
Finance and Treasury-namely, the Budget, Financial Inspection Services and Public
Accounts-and the Auditor General's Office. The Government has begun to strengthen
compliance and oversight and the institutions responsible for it. Reporting and monitoring of
provincial budgets will also be upgraded. Furthermore, it intends to re-constitute the
Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee to oversee improved agency performance and
accountability, particularly compliance with the Public Finances (Management) Act. The
Government's strategy to promote good governance and combat corruption comprises three
major elements: (i) actions to foster increased fiscal transparency; (ii) comprehensive reform of
the Rural Development Program to combat fraud and corruption and improve public service
delivery at district and local levels; and (iii) institutional and policy initiatives to promote good
governance and combat corruption more directly.
59.   Measures to improve fiscal transparency. As a first step, the Government maintained
strict fiscal management throughout 1999, and in January 2000 produced a detailed unaudited
report on the budget outcome for 1999, ahead of its commitment in this respect. In doing so it
followed strict adherence to the Act with regard to posting of transactions to prior years and the
like. As a follow up step, it will ensure that the Auditor General's report on the public accounts
for 1999 is produced as prescribed by law. In other related areas the Government has undertaken
to reduce the considerable backlog of outstanding annual reports of departments and agency
accounts and to release these in a timely manner. To further strengthen budget management anad
improve fiscal transparency, regulations and legislation relating to revenue retention by
government departments and major statutory bodies have been rescinded and repealed,
respectively ending inappropriate budget practices. To improve budget control and formulation,
Government is committed to reinstating a formal budget cycle. The practice of conducting a
mid-term budget review will be introduced in 2000, both to improve transparency of decision
making and to improve budget management.
60.  In late 1999, Government suspended all future disbursement of monies to the
controversial Rural Development Program (RDP) until a new accountability framework could be
designed and implemented. The Bank assisted the Government in the redesign of a new
framework and Cabinet has approved it for implementation. Under the RDP a grant of
KI million per open electorate was appropriated for district and local level development, in
apparent frustration at the slow and ineffective pace of decentralization reforms and the failure of
the central government to provide public services in this rugged and physically fragmented
country. Unfortunately, these programs were tainted by a failure to achieve their objectives and
by the perception that these grants only benefited the close supporters of the respective members
of parliament. This perception was reinforced by the central role accorded members of
parliament in these programs and by constant scandals concerning misuse of these funds, fraud.,
and corruption.
-14-



INDEPENDENTSTATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA. GOvERNANCE PROMOTIONADJUSTMENTLOAN
61.   The current effort to revitalize the program is anchored in strong principles of ex-ante and
ex-post accountability, a healthy public disclosure regime, punitive sanctions for breach of
process and fraud, separation of various stages of the project cycle and the public agencies that
would deal with each step, an appropriate reduction in the role of members of parliament and an
ongoing program of monitoring and training to ensure compliance. To ensure that the current
limited capacities of the central public service do not hinder successful program implementation,
Government has agreed to appoint an external managing agent to assist with the monitoring
arrangements. Compliance with the new accountability framework will be an ongoing condition
under the proposed operation. Successful implementation of this new program, named the Social
and Rural Development Grant (SRDG) will go a long way towards strengthening governance
and making government more responsive to its citizens. A summary of the SRDG program is
attached to the Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1, Attachment B).
62.  Increasing transparency to improve accountability and governance is an integral element
of this operation. All the new management systems, reduced import tariffs and simplified
customs procedures, and increased fiscal disclosure will help to increase transparency and reduce
corruption. While the previous government undertook to establish an Independent Commission
Against Corruption (ICAC) in 1997, modeled after a similar agency in Hong Kong, the current
government intends to pursue this effort by obtaining parliamentary passage of legislation to
provide a legal mandate to operationalize the ICAC.
63.   A number of other initiatives will be taken in 2000 and beyond to further the direct
agenda relating to increased accountability, the combating of fraud, waste and corruption and
the realignment of incentives with these dictums. First, Government is proceeding to take legal
action in high profile governance cases involving public figures and alleged corruption. This is
designed to send a strong message that use of public office and influence to direct or obtain
special financial advantage will not be tolerated and will result in heavy sanctions. Other
measures in this direction include the formal consideration by the CACC of investigative reports
of malfeasance in public sector entities and establishment of a formal process to address these
issues. Government also intends to supplement the resources of the Fraud Squad in 2000 and to
improve its effectiveness in combating white collar crime, which has seriously undermined the
viability of a number of financial sector entities.
64.   The Central Supply and Tenders Board and associated provincial tenders boards will be
reviewed in 2000 with a view to improving tendering processes, and reducing waste and
corruption. Government will also take a number of measures to re-establish the PSC as an
essential component of an effective civil service. Particular effort is being expended to return
authority over civil service appointment, dismissal and remuneration decisions to the PSC.
These efforts will be extended and consolidated in 2000 under the program.
65.   Improving Civil Service Efficiency and Effectiveness. The quality of PNG's public
sector management and provision of public services have been declining over the past decade.
This deterioration has been the subject of much debate by successive governments, civil society
and the donor community. These issues are all the more acute because of the vast unmet needs
of the majority of the population in terms of access to social services, infrastructure and
employment opportunities. A new national determination is emerging that rightly recognizes
this situation as unsustainable.
-15-



INDEPENDENT STATE OFPAPUA NEW GUINEA: GOVERNANCE PROMOTIONADJUSTMENTLOAN
66.   Accordingly, the Government's program addresses some key issues of public sector
management, including those relating to improving the integrity of the civil service.
Government has established a Central Agencies Coordinating Committee (CACC) to oversee
and coordinate the overall reform program and in particular civil service reform. The CACC
comprises heads of the major departments-namely Prime Minister and Cabinet, Finance and
Treasury, Planning and Monitoring, Personnel Management and the Attorney General. It holds
regular and structured meetings. In early 2000, the CACC established a government-wide forum
for all department heads to meet, in order to improve planning, coordination, policy making and
implementation of Government's structural reform agenda.
67.   Other recent initiatives include a review of the functioning of the Cabinet secretariat.
This was conducted in early 2000 and resulted in a major overhaul of cabinet processes. Given
the considerable degradation that had occurred in this respect in recent years, this is an essential
and critical reform. Proper roles have been accorded to the Cabinet, its secretariat, line
departments and others. Procedures regarding tabling and vetting of submissions have been re-
established and the frequency of cabinet meetings has been adjusted. Transparency has also
been greatly improved by a directive that the results of cabinet meetings be disclosed publicly,
subject to national security considerations.
68.   The Prime Minister's Department has undergone a staffing review to improve its
functioning and ensure that it possesses the capacity to provide policy advice. Resultant staffing
changes have been made to enable the CACC, which is chaired by the head of the Prime
Minister's Department, to carry out its mandate with respect to preparation, planning and
implementation of a coordinated public sector reform programn. Additional ongoing work has
also been undertaken to prepare detailed work plans for the department, with respect to the
administrative and financial operations of the department.
69.  In 2000, Govenmment will undertake an array of institutional reforms that encompass both
civil service reform and provincial and local goveniment reform, directed at the public service.
The need for civil service reform is clearly understood, given the structural rigidity of the cunrent
budget that claims 35-40 percent of recurrent outlays (net of transfers to statutory authorities) for
wages and salaries and almost another 20 percent for interest payments on debt. During 200C,
the Government will complete preparation of a comprehensive civil service reform program that
will be implemented beginning in 200 1.
70.   An essential part of that exercise will be undertaken in 2000, through a functional and
expenditure review of selective government departments and agencies. These key spending and
revenue departments are likely to comprise Health, Education, Defense, Foreign Affairs, Police,
Works, Fisheries and Forestry. The Defense and Foreign Affairs departmental reviews have
already commenced. The purpose of these reviews is evaluate and implement improved
operational performance of these agencies and to identify specific areas for rationalization,
strengthening, or contracting out-as ways to reduce waste and fraud and improve perfonmance
and accountability. These reviews are expected to be completed in time for inclusion of
recommendations in the preparation of the 2001 budget, which will inter alia, kick-off
Government's medium-term civil service strategy. In the meantime, to maintain the momentum,
the Government will pursue a number of complementary actions of a short-term nature with
respect to budget control over 2000 and improved interim appointment and dismissal controls.
-16-



INDEPENDENTTSTATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA. GOVERNANCE PROMOTIONADJUSTMENT LOAN
71.   Improving the Delivery of Health and Education Services. Provision of health and
education services remains problematic in PNG, not least because of its widely dispersed and
fragmented population and acute lack of physical infrastructure. Nonetheless the long-term
failure to make inroads in this area is reflected in the striking social indicator statistics which
suggest the profile of a low income country. The Government has reaffirmed its commitment to
these two areas by declaring them priorities. Among others, it regularized resource flows
through the budget to these two areas upon assuming office, has improved resource allocation to
these sectors in the 2000 budget, and will exclude them from the public sector wide hiring freeze
subject to adequate justification.
72.   H[ealth. Inadequate and ineffective government spending on priority health services over
the past few years has resulted in a deterioration of the health care delivery system particularly in
rural areas where the number of aid posts (the first level of contact) have almost halved. The
fifth National Health Plan 2001-2010, recently approved by Cabinet, places greater emphasis on
the improvement of rural health services. Key policy directions of the plan include
establishment of minimum standards for rural and hospital services, strengthening of health
promotion, and the immediate provision of medical supplies and drugs. A key component is a
human resource development plan. The national Department of Health (DOH) is currently
costing the overall resource requirements to establish achievable benchmarks and ensure that
planned priorities are matched with available resources. Furthermore government has pledged
that budgetary allocations for health will be made available to the DOH on a timely basis, so as
to prevent disruption of key health services and programs. At the same time, government has
developed a number of key performance indicators for the sector. These will enable effective
monitoring and management of public expenditures in critical areas, particularly by allowing
operational data (such as for inputs) to be verified.
73.   With the decentralization of budgetary and spending authority to each level of
governrment employing different budget structures, it has become difficult for the national DOH
to monitor allocation of health resources to priority programs. The national DOH has developed
a standard health budget format to be used at district, provincial and national levels comprising
10 programs, reflecting the national health policies and the nation's priorities to improve rural
health services and to shift resources from curative services to preventive health care and health
education. In 2000 Government has undertaken to develop and introduce program budget charts
of accounts into both national and provincial budget systems. This initiative will enable the
monitoring of decentralized health functions and their efficiency.
74.   The Pharmaceuticals Services and Supplies Tender Board processes about 60-190 tenders
annually and is responsible for about 25-30 percent of the procurement of drugs and supplies in
PNG. Given the long leads and lags in procurement and the relatively small quantities of drugs
required by a dispersed rurally based population, this arrangement has led to costly rigidities in
the provision of health services. Delays in the delivery from suppliers, delays between
submission of orders at the periphery and actual delivery, and poorly maintained stock records
have ledL to perennial shortages of supplies and equipment at all levels of care. To address this
problem, the national DOH has developed and piloted pre-packed medical supply kits for aid
posts and is in the process of preparing these for health centers. This facilitates easy stock-taking
and simplifies procurement processes. Reliable suppliers such as UN organizations like
UNICEF already deliver such pre-packed packages in many countries and offer a number of
-17-



INDEPENDENTSTATE OF PAPUA NEWGUINEA: GOvERNANCEPROMOTIONADJUSTMENTLOAN
additional advantages-including quality control, experience in coping with complex orders, a
global distribution network, low administrative costs and non-profit status which further reduces
costs, and are large volume purchasers. In 2000, Government has undertaken to implement this
important initiative to institutionalize the procurement of pre-packed medical supply kits for aid
posts.
75.   Education. While the pace of education development in PNG lags behind that of other
middle income countries, recent progress in the sector is encouraging. This has seen the
establishment of an elementary sub sector based on community support and vernacular education
and secondary schools established in all provinces. The unmet needs nonetheless remain
substantial. In 2000, the Government will continue to extend the subsidy in respect of school,
fees that was initiated in 1998 in response to the drought. In addition, to reduce costs and
improve operational efficiencies, the national payroll database of teachers-the largest of the
five public payrolls with some 34,000 employees-will be reviewed to identify and remove
fictitious workers and overpayment of wages and allowances, thereby freeing up additional
resources.
76.   Improving Forestry Management. PNG has one of the world's four remaining great
tropical rainforest estates. The biodiversity values of these forests are immense and their
potential carbon storing capacity equally so-some 77 percent of the entire land area of the
country is occupied by these forests and consequently their environmental influence on all
aspects of life in PNG is substantial. Significant losses of forested areas, in an exploitative and
uncontrolled fashion, will have maj or consequences for downstream agriculture and other
activities and there have been some localized examples of this already.
77.   Forests provide a major element of livelihood and cultural life to the 80 percent of the
population which lives in rural communities. It is extremely unusual, outside the Melanesian
nations, for local communities to own the forest resources in which they reside, but in PNG
virtually all forested land is owned under customary title by local clans. Clan ownership of the
resource presents both a major challenge, but also a significant opportunity, for the forests of
PNG to be used as a basis for sustainable economic growth and environmental protection. The
system has been exploited in the past by firms which have essentially expropriated forest
resources through fraudulent deals with local individuals who have misrepresented the wishes
and intentions of clan groups. Rectifying this situation is the challenge. Government regards the
survival of the clan based system of land and resource ownership as a major element in social
cohesion and cultural development, and is committed to developing approaches to the
management and protection of the resource which serve these ends-the central importance of
forests in the life of most people is the basis of the opportunity to maintain and improve
livelihoods in the country.
78.   Government has taken a number of measures since assuming office in support of these
ideals. These include the reinstatement of the previous export tax regime for logs, provision of
adequate resources in 2000 to enable the independent pre-shipment inspection service for logs to
be continued, and the declaration of a moratorium on all new timber permits, extensions, and
forestry conversions. Government will undertake a review of the forestry revenue system, in
particular the export tax regime, to ensure adequate capture of economic rents and equitable and
consistent rent-sharing with landowners. The moratorium was declared in response to concerns
-18-



INDEPENDENT STATE OFPAPuA NEWGGUINEA: GOVERNANCEPROMOTIONADJUSTMENTLOAN
about apparent avoidance of tendering processes and scrutiny under the Forestry Act and related
regulations in the granting of large extensions to existing timber areas. It will remain in place
until a review is carried out of these projects to ensure their compliance with the Forestry Act
and regulations. The moratorium is to be supported through this operation.
79.   To strengthen sector governance in the short run, Cabinet will approve regulations that
would require disclosure by the Forestry Board of its non-commercial deliberations and
decisions. Following this, government will prepare and propose comprehensive amendments to
the Forestry Act and related regulations to enshrine the requirements for non-commercial
disclosure by the Board in the legislation. Other amendments to the Forestry Act will provide an
improved regulatory framework for the clearance of forested land for agricultural and
infrastructure projects. The purpose of this change is to prevent inappropriate and exploitative
clearance of forests which has occurred in the past under such pretext. Finally, the legislation
will be amended to clarify the role of the Board. In this respect, both appointment criteria to
ensure suitably qualified individuals are selected, and the composition of the Board, will be
reviewed to ensure that the Board is able to discharge its duties.
80.   These legislative changes which are designed to provide the legal and institutional
framework for improved sector governance and set the stage for less environmentally
exploitative logging are only one part of the requirements for successful transformation of this
sector. Efficient functioning of these frameworks will require that there be broad based demands
for greater accountability. Such a response can only come from the grass roots levels-at the
community level-but is not amenable to direction through an operation such as this. It should,
however, be noted that there is complementarity here with other Bank operations in the lending
pipeline, in this instance the proposed Forestry and Conservation Project, which has important
components relating to community level participation and decision making with regard to forest
exploitation.
81.   Improving Efficiency of Financial Services and Reduction of Systemic Risk. The
financial sector in PNG, while reasonably diverse, is dominated by government-owned or
controlled institutions that account for around half of financial sector activity. Capital levels of
these institutions have declined over the past decade and their corporate governance is a major
concern. That concern was underscored by events during 1997-99 that witnessed increased
political intrusion into this area and resulted in an erosion in the independence of the Central
Bank, which breached statutory lending limits. Asset values of other entities were run down
because of inappropriate or directed investment and/or credit. New entrants to the financial
sector have been few over the past decade. With a stock market only recently established and a
lack of venture capital institutions, there has been limited access to equity capital. The large
pension funds remain government controlled, lack accountability and effective prudential
supervision, and have performed poorly. This has culminated in a crisis in the National
Provident Fund (NPF)-the large mandatory fund for private sector employees.
82.   Access to credit, capital and financial services for the vast majority of the rural
population and indigenous small businesses is quite limited. Indeed, it has probably deteriorated
in the 1990s, as a result of the closure of branch representation points due to increased criminal
activity, the adverse effects of the agricultural debt overhang from the early 1 990s, losses from
the ailing savings and loan industry, and ponzi type schemes which expanded in the late 1 990s.
-19-



INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA. GOVERNANCE PROMOTION ADJUSITMENT LOAN
Large government borrowing requirements have also crowded out credit to the private sector.
The development of the financial sector has also been adversely affected by substantial volatil]ity
in interest rates and the widening of interest rate spreads. This has resulted in a focus on short-
term lending and has stifled development of a long-term securities and capital market.
83.   The Government recognizes the critical role that can be played by the financial sector in
underpinning economic activity, mobilizing and intermediating savings, pooling risk and
effective investment appraisal. In response, it has initiated a substantial program of financial
sector reforms. Government aims to facilitate greater access to credit and equity financing by
PNG consumers and businesses, lower the costs of financial intermediation and capital raisings,
encourage savings and improve returns, enhance the safety and security of the financial systern,
and reduce funding costs to the budget.
84.   To improve the pension industry the Government has embarked on a number of
significant reforms. Concerns about the performance of the pension industry resulted in
Government commissioning of special audits of the two major funds-Public Officers'
Superannuation Fund (POSF) and NPF. These audits revealed a deterioration in governance and
performance and highlighted potential illegalities, which has necessitated the establishment by
Government of a Commission of Inquiry. To provide confidence to ensure continuing
contributions, the Government has established a separate account at the Central Bank and is
proceeding to independently evaluate the portfolio with a view to enhancing value and
recommending a work out strategy. The Government has also established a task force to review
the pension fund inidustry, which will include the life insurance and unit trust industry, and which
will lead to the establishment of an appropriate regulatory and supervisory structure under the
Central Bank. The Governnent is committed to drafting the necessary legislation by August
2000 and has requested technical support from the Bank.
85.   Central Bank independence has been substantially strengthened through the passage of
the new Central Banking Act in March 2000. Central features of this new Act include much
greater independence for the Governor and the prohibition of central bank credit to government
for budget financing purposes. The Act provides for a through-the-year temporary advance or
overdraft facility which is limited to K100 million (less than 1 percent of GDP) and is subject to
payment of interest at market rates-a break with past practice that involved non-transparent
administered arrangements and payment of below market rates.
86.   To reduce systemic risk, the Central Bank is in the process of upgrading its prudential
supervisory capacity and to that end has been obtaining the necessary expertise over the recent
past. To improve the institutional framework and enhance respective supervisory powers, newv
banks and financial institutions legislation was passed by Parliament in April 2000. The new
Banks and Financial Institutions Act will also enable the Central Bank to take speedy action
against pyramid type financial schemes. In 1999, these schemes became a serious problem in
PNG, having been licensed in many instances by the previous government. Despite lack of
provision in the previous banking legislation regarding such schemes, beginning in late 1999, the
Central Bank moved to progressively liquidate these schemes and seek recoveries from the
promoters.
-20-



INDEPENDENTSTATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA: GOVERNANCEPROMOTIONADJUSTMENTLLOAN
87.   The Government recognizes that liberalization cannot proceed without an appropriate
regulatory structure being established. New legislation had recently been enacted covering
companies and securities matters, and a Securities Commission has been established. This
provides the necessary regulatory underpinning and safeguards for the Port Moresby Stock
Exchange, also recently established.
88.   The final major element of the Government's financial sector reform program involves
the Cabinet direction to the Privatization Commission to privatize the Finance Pacific group as
its first priority. This group comprises the large state bank, Papua New Guinea Banking
Corporation (PNGBC) with some 40 percent of bank deposits, the Rural Development Bank,
Nambawan Finance, and property and insurance interests. This decision reflects considerable
urgency to strengthen management and governance within this group, whose financial
performance has suffered in the 1990s. The availability of updated financial accounts audited to
international standards and lesser concerns regarding regulatory framework (as a number of
banks already operate profitably in the financial system), also influenced the decision to accord
PNGiBC group as a privatization priority.
89.   The project team to manage the privatization of the banking group will be established as
a priority by the Privatization Commission. The form of privatization has been set by the
Government and is to be through a majority interest trade sale of the bank to a reputable foreign
bank, with the minority shareholding offered for sale subsequently through an IPO on the Port
Moresby Stock Exchange. As a priority the Commission will need to restructure the group and
detennine an appropriate disposal strategy for the remaining assets in the group. The proposed
regulatory unit in Treasury will also need to evaluate any proposed community service
obligations.
90.   The major commnunity service obligation arising from the privatization of PNGBC is
expected to be the maintenance of the rural branch network, which may not be attractive to a
potential buyer, because of crime and related security costs or due to uneconomic location.
There are a number of options to deal with these issues, including an incentive program to
encourage banks to maintain the rural branch network (such as by lowering licensing fees for
branches with low profitability or granting a direct subsidy for certain services). Another option
would be to not require the new owner to maintain the branch network, and instead undertake
auctions to establish benchmarked banking services in problem locations, with successful bidders
paid a fee for provision of services.
III. BANK GROUP STRATEGY AND
DONOR/STAKEHOLDER COLLABORATION
A. THE BANK
91.   The Bank's CAS for PNG, which was discussed by the Board on December 9, 1999
(R99-197), noted that the Bank has been a relatively small player in providing development
assistance to PNG. The country has the largest ratio of ODA to GNP of any middle income
country, and it receives substantial grant funds from Australia, the EU, Japan, New Zealand, and
the UNDP. As other donors shift from program to project lending, the Bank has been
-21-



INDEPENDENTSTATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA: GOVERNANCE PROMOTIONADJUSTMENTLOAN
increasingly perceived as having a comparative advantage to assist with economic and structural
reforms. The CAS outlines the proposed strategy to apply this comparative advantage.
92. The Bank's approach consists of a focused and performance-based lending program
supported by a wider program of analytical and advisory services. While PNG's development
needs are substantial and the fiscal situation is difficult, the Bank's strategy recognizes (on the
basis of first-hand experience) the inherent risks in implementing adjustment and investmentl
operations in PNG. At the same time, the CAS recognizes that the leadership of Prime Minister
Morauta has presented an opportunity to support a far reaching reform program through which
social and human development efforts can be pursued in a sustainable manner. The Bank's
strategy is therefore to reengage progressively, based on tangible demonstrations of government
commitment to its development agenda and reform program. Progress on the CAS has been
closely monitored by the Bank: of note, the portfolio has improved, allowing a transition to ihe
Base Case.
93.   This assistance strategy is being pursued through operations that emphasize
improvements in the governance framework for sustainable development and enhanced rural
development-which in turn reinforce many of the elements of the proposed structural
adjustment loan. Thus, for example, while the proposed new framework for the RDP addresses
some issues of capacity and participation at the provincial and district levels, effective
implementation of the decentralization agenda is essential to improving service delivery to an
acceptable level. In this context, ongoing work to develop a rural development strategy with a
focus on participation and sustainability of development outcomes complements the proposed
operation. Additionally, modest technical assistance operations in the minerals sector will
support improvement of the regulatory environment for mining, encouraging increased
participation on the part of local communities and promoting environmental management.
94.   The proposed loan exemplifies this strategy. It is grounded upon a series of policy
analyses-on economic policy and governance, public sector management, the financial sector,
and forestry-undertaken by the Bank and discussed with the Government, NGOs, researchers,
and donors over the past few years. To oversee and coordinate the reform agenda, in late 1999
the Government established an inter-departmental committee, the CACC. The Bank has
coordinated its activities through this committee which has also enhanced ownership of the
reform program.
B. IFC AND MIGA
95.   Currently, IFC has an equity investment in one PNG business involving a total
investment of US$950,000. IFC's activities in PNG have focused on providing support to small-
scale private sector projects through the South Pacific Project Facility (SPPF) and the Pacific
Islands Investment Facility. SPPF continues to assist in the development of small-scale PNG
business ventures while expanding and encouraging the transfer of business analysis and project
development skills to PNG citizens. On the investment front, IFC has been approached by
businesses operating in the oil, gas and mining sectors, but there are no advanced projects presently
under preparation.
-22-



INDEPENDENT STATE OFPPAPU  NEW GUINEA.: GOVERNANCE PROMOTIONADJUSTMENTLOAN
96.    PNG joined MIGA in October 1991. As of December 31, 1999, MIGA had issued two
guarantees in the mining sector for a total maximum aggregate liability of US$75 million.
C. COORDINATION WITH IMF, ADB, AND BILATERAL DONORS
97.    The proposed loan was developed in close collaboration with the IMF, and the two
programs are closely linked. The IMF's SDR85.5 million SBA was approved by its Board on
March 29, 2000.
98.    Coordination with the ADB has been maintained in the preparation of the loan, especially
with respect to public sector reforms. In that area, ADB is preparing a substantial program of
assistance to follow the first phase of reforms to be implemented in the context of the Bank's
proposed loan.
99.    The Governments of Australia and Japan have assisted the Bank and PNG Government in
loan preparation. An Australian trust fumd facility has financed much of the preparatory work
and studies, and it will continue to finance the technical assistance required for implementation.
In addition, Australia is directly providing technical assistance across a range of areas. A Japan
PHRD grant has greatly assisted both the Government and the logging industry as they
considered logging sector reforms. The technical assistance associated with this operation has
been wide ranging, and mitigates the weak implementation capacity in PNG.
Box: Recent and Ongoing Technical Assistance
Area                                            Agency'
Reform Coordination                             World bank
Public sector reform
Public Sector reform, strategy and policy       ADB
Cabinet review and processes                    World Bank
Role of public services commission              World Bank
Central agencies coordinating committee         World bank
Departmental functional reviews                  ADB, FAO, World Bank
Budget and Financial Management
Assessment of technical assistance needs        Australia
Macroeconomic forecasting                       Australia
Debt management assessment                      Australia
Budget process                                  World Bank
Payroll and human resource IT systems           World Bank
Central Supply and Tenders Board                World Bank
Strengthening oversight entities                World Bank
Financial sector
Central bank legislation                        IMF, World Bank, Australia
Banking legislation                              IMF, World Bank
Prudential regulation                           IMF
Bank supervision                                World Bank
Supervision of non-bank financial institutions  World Bank
Pension reform issues                           World Bank
Other
Privatization strategy and policy               Intemational Advisory Group
Privatization Commission secretariat             World Bank
Forestry                                         Australia, Japan.
TA indicated as provided by the World Bank, is related to a World Bank executed Australian grant facility.
-23-



INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA VEW GUINEA: GOVERNANCE PROMOTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
100. The Governments of Australia and Japan are proposing to co-finance or tie their
assistance to the Bank's operation. The European Union is planning to provide a structural
adjustment grant, also linked to the Bank's loan. In aggregate these donor commitments result in
quick disbursing assistance of about US$180 million.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. LOAN DESCRIPTION, CONDITIONS AND TRANCHING
101.  Loan Justification. The Bank and IMF have collaborated closely with the PNG
Government in developing the reform program described in Part II. The provision of external
financing by these institutions and associated donor cofinancing (much of it conditional on the
Bank's loan) is essential to the success of the reform objectives, in particular to rebuild reseives
and permit one-off structural reform expenditures in the context of an austere budget. Support
by the Bank is also considered important to enhance private investor confidence, and to enable
the Bank to maintain a close advisory capacity during the course of implementation of the
proposed loan.
102.    A fast-disbursing fixed spread loan in US Dollars in the amount of $90 million is
proposed. The first tranche of US$35 million would be disbursed on effectiveness. A second
tranche of US$35 million and the floating tranche of US$20 million would be disbursed upcn
completion of further actions as specified in the loan document. The interest rate and
commitment fee are the standard for fixed-spread loans.
103.  Loan Conditions. The Government has already undertaken a major part of the reform
program. The Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1) was signed on May 15, 2000.
Government has passed new legislation to ensure an independent central bank, and supporting
banking legislation which extends the reach of the Central Bank's prudential supervisory powers,
and is currently taking steps to strengthen that capacity. Moreover, the new Central Banking Act
is a radical departure from many, as it proscribes central bank financing of the budget deficit. It
has effectively abolished the MRSF for 2000 and has taken a number of other steps to improve
transparency and strengthen debt management practices. It has frozen public sector employment,
and made a decisive break with the past in terms of its commitment to fiscal transparency and
adherence to due process. It has taken decisive steps to reform the RDP and adopted a
comprehensive accountability framework to increase its effectiveness. It has identified and
cleared pre-1999 arrears equivalent to 1.5 percent of GDP, hitherto met its fiscal targets agreed
to with the IMF, while providing adequate budgetary allocation to undertake critical structural
reforms agreed to with the Bank. It has taken difficult public actions on high profile governance
cases involving potential corruption, strengthened the Fraud Squad, announced its commitnent
and resolve to combat corruption and waste. The Office of the Auditor General, Ombudsman
Commission and Parliamentary Accounts Committee are all receiving special attention and have
been targeted for strengthening. Equally important, institutional changes have proceeded apace.
The review of the Cabinet secretariat has resulted in re-establishment of cabinet processes, with
positive benefits for public policy; the overhaul of the Prime Minister's Department,
establishment of the CACC, and reinvigoration of the PSC are all important means of restoring
integrity to public institutions. Actions to stimulate private sector development are also
-24-



INDEPENDENTSTATE OFPAPUA NEWGUINEA: GOVERNANCEPROMOTIONADJUSTMENT LOAN
underway. The financial reforms are among the most advanced covering banking, pensions and
life insurance. The largest state-owned bank is being prepared for sale; as are a number of other
state-owned enterprises. Forest protection policies are being reviewed and strengthened and a
moratorium has been declared on issuance of new permits.
104.  The specific actions expected prior to second tranche disbursement would be:
Strengthening Economic Management
* Full cash warrants to be released on a timely basis for the development budget as projected
and for identified government priorities in the recurrent budget for 2000.
* Integrated payroll and human resources records management information system established.
* Expenditure on the government's structural reform program to be consistent with approved
targets in the 2000 Budget.
* Fully functioning debt management office, established within Treasury, and portfolio
restructuring commenced, as necessary.
-  MRSF Act repealed.
- Completion of up to date audits for Telikom, Elcom, Harbours Board and Air Niugini to
internationally accepted accounting standards, Cabinet approval of industry structural
arrangements, community service obligations, form of privatization, and commencement of
due diligence exercises for these entities.
- Implementation of Taxation Review recommendations (with respect to personal and
corporate taxes, tariff rates and tariff exemptions) in the 2001 Budget.
e Competition policy review completed and agreed recommendations of review implemented.
Improving Governance
* Publish budget reconciliations and projections according to a schedule agreed to with the
Bank and take additional measures to improve fiscal transparency and accountability, also
agreed with the Bank.
* Secure funding for the RDP and its managing agent for 2001, and appoint the managing
agent.
* Strengthen the Auditor General's Office, Ombudsman Commission, and the Parliamentary
Public Accounts Committee, through an implementation plan reflected in the 2001 budget.
* Strengthen central government procurement system in accordance with an implementation
plan agreed with the Bank.
* Incorporate recommendations of functional reviews in 2001 Budget.
-25-



INDEPENDENTSTATEOF PAPUA NEWGUINEA: GOvERNANCEPROMOTIONADJUSTMENTLOAN
* National Health Plan approved by Cabinet for implementation in 2001 Budget.
*  Standardize the procurement of pre-packed medical supply kits for aid posts.
*  Satisfactory implementation of reforms to forestry revenue and royalty regime.
*  Complete independent review of all FMAs, timber permits and geographic extensions to
timber permits.
*  Amendments to the Forestry Act covering: (a) the regulatory framework for the clearance of
forested land; (b) non-commercial disclosure by the Forestry Board; (c) delegation of the
powers of the Board to an individual; and (d) composition of the Forestry Board, agreed with
the Bank and passed.
*  Implement recommendations to Government of the Commission of Inquiry into the NPF, as
agreed with the Bank.
*  Enact legislation on the regulation and supervision of the pension industry, acceptable to the
Bank.
These actions are listed in more detail, in the Matrix of Policy Actions, (Annex 1,
Attachment A).
105. The floating tranche would be released upon completion of actions to bring the PNGBC
group to the point of sale, as agreed with the Bank and disposal of the remaining assets in the
Finance Pacific group.
106.  Release of any tranche would be conditioned on the continued maintenance of a
satisfactory macroeconomic framework, consistent with the objectives of the Program outlined in
the Letter of Development Policy.
107.  Inclusion of a floating tranche reflects the difficult-to-predict timeframe for privatization
of the PNGBC group, which is consequently de-linked from the fulfillment of other second
tranche conditions.
B. LOAN ADMINISTRATION
108. Disbursement. The Government will open and maintain a deposit account with the
BPNG. Upon effectiveness, the Government will submit a simplified withdrawal application to
the Bank, against which the Bank will disburse the first tranche into the Deposit Account.
Disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases, and supporting evidence for
disbursements is therefore not required. The proceeds of the loan will not be used to finance
expenditures typically excluded under the Loan Agreement (military, drugs, nuclear, etc.). The
disbursement period will likely be over a period of 12-14 months; and the Closing Date would be
December 31, 2001.
109. Accounts and Audit. The BPNG will maintain the loan account for the Government.
The loan account will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and they will
-26-



INDEPENDENT STATE OFPAPUA NEw GUiNEA: GOVERNANCE PROMOTIONADJUSTMENTLOAN
furnish to the Bank a certified copy of the audit no later than four months after the closing date
of the loan.
C.   IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
110.  Loan Implementation. The Government has established an interdepartmental panel, the
CACC, headed by the Chief Secretary, Department of the Prime Minister and National Executive
Council (NEC). The panel will closely monitor and coordinate timely implementation of the
Government's reform program and economic performance, reporting on this to the NEC
(Cabinet), the Bank, and other donors on a monthly basis. The Banking Operations Department
in the BPNG will manage the details of disbursement of the proposed loan.
111.  Monitoring. The Letter of Development Policy includes an undertaking to provide the
Bank with relevant information on a timely basis, covering all areas under the proposed loan
program to facilitate monitoring of progress. The anticipated establishment by the Bank of a
regional office in the near future would also facilitate effective program monitoring. (Refer to
Annex 2 for loan performance indicators).
D. BENEFITS AND RISKS
112. Benefits. The Government has moved decisively to redress the governance and policy
deficiencies that it inherited in July 1999. The proposed loan is intended to strengthen the
prospects for sustained reform in this direction, by: (i) improving economic management and
establishing a stronger system of transparency and accountability in the conduct of public affairs;
(ii) improving the Government's public sector management capacity, particularly its
management of public finances and its ability to deliver essential services more efficiently;
(iii) creating an improved environment for private sector development; and (iv) improving
natural resource management. These policy thrusts, together with a narrower focus of public
activity through privatization, and a redirection of resources from defense is expected to allow
higher and more efficiently delivered resources to priority areas such as rural development,
health, education and fighting crime.
113.  By assisting with the design and implementation of the reform program, the Bank can
contribute to the objective of restoring public confidence. This in turn would enhance private
sector led growth of the non-mineral economy and contribute to social development and poverty
alleviation. Finally, the proceeds from the loan (together with donor cofinancing) would
facilitate government expenditure on critical structural reforms within the confines of an austere
budget, while also rebuilding international reserves.
114.  Risks. The proposed loan is risky due to factors ranging from political risk, concerns
regarding sustainability, weak implementation capacity, economic vulnerability, and a law and
order environment ill-suited to private investment. The strong reform program that has been
initiated-and the proposed loan to support it-are hence only initial steps in a long development
process. Despite the comprehensive nature of the reform program, it is not all-encompassing and
there remains a risk that some issues, such as those associated with the Ok Tedi Mine, could rise
to the forefront and impede the reform program.
-27-



INDEPENDENT ST4TE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA. GOVERNANCE PROMOTIONADJUSTMENT LOAN
115. Although the political traumas of 1997-99 have receded, the governing coalition is still
fragile. This poses two important risks: the possibility of slippage in the course of political
compromise; and the possibility of weak commitment or even policy reversals due to vested
interest pressures or a change in Government. The lengthy consultative process that preceded
program design should strengthen program ownership not just by the Government, but also
within PNG civil society. There has been a noticeable shift in attitude over the past four years.
Many previously antagonistic leaders have moved from hostility to dialogue and even support
for reform proposals. Nonetheless, recent political history in PNG indicates that reforms
implemented may be undermined by successive governments. To mitigate this risk, loan
presentation has awaited the enactment of a significant share of the reform program; and the
second and floating tranches-contingent on enactment of further measures and adequate
implementation-are designed to maintain the reform incentive.
116.  Sustaining the momentum of reforms nevertheless remains a concern, particularly given
the poor record of sustaining previous reforms in the 1 990s. The government and donors are
tackling this issue from several angles. First, the design of the reform program is itself intended
to enhance sustainability: for example, through a privatization program that would be difficult to
reverse once implemented; and by strengthening the constituency demanding greater
accountability from government. The long lead time devoted to debating and preparing various
reform components has enabled stronger ownership to be built and a track record of reform to be
established. In discussions with the Bank, government officials have reiterated their
commitment to establish a long-term relationship with the IFIs to take advantage of a
coordinated program of technical assistance in order to enhance sustainability prospects. Finally,
the Bank has initiated a dialogue with civil society on the rationale and key objectives of the
reform program during loan preparation, and intends to deepen this interaction during the
implementation phase of the proposed loan.
117.  Capacity constraints in key agencies make implementation problems a distinct
possibility. Monitoring and supervision mechanisms in the public sector remain weak despite
considerable efforts to strengthen them, while lines of responsibility/authority remain vague.
Accordingly, a number of donors have made available grant funds to prepare and implement the
loan. These grants have not only provided the Government with specific analyses on request,
they have also financed the presence of expert advisors who work closely with the PNG
Government as they implement specific programs and policies. Close cooperation between the
Government, civil society, the Bank, the IMF and the donors over the next years will be crucial
to address implementation risks stemming from weak capacity. Furthermore, the Bank intends
to support complementary reforms in forestry and finance with future loans.
118.  PNG remains particularly vulnerable to commodity price swings (copper, gold, oil, logs)
and natural disasters (earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanoes, drought). Hence, even with satisfactory
implementation of the reforms supported by the proposed loan, the economy could be adversely
impacted by such external shocks which could undermine the sustainability of policy gains.
Counter-cyclical fiscal policy and accumulation of international reserves-which are promoted
in the context of the IMF SBA and the proposed loan-appear to be the most appropriate means
of countering such shocks in the medium term.
-28-



INDEPENDENTSTATE OFPAPUA NEWGUINEA: GOVERNANCEPROMOTIONADJUSTMENTLOAN
119.  Finally, the climate of insecurity caused by high crime rates deters the potential private
sector supply response from implementation of a strong reform program. The Australian
Government has committed major resources to assist the PNG authorities in their efforts to
reduce the level of crime, but the pattern of criminal activity present in PNG society will likely
take years to change. These uncertainties highlight the risks of the proposed program and loan.
But the absence of a Bank loan to support the reform program would render the program's
objectives more difficult to attain, and add to the risks facing the PNG economy.
V. RECOMMENDATION
120.  I am satisfied that the Proposed Loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Sven Sandstr6m
Washington, D.C.
May 19, 2000.
-29-






Annex 1
Page 1 of 18
May 15, 2000
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
My Dear Mr. President,
Letter of Development Policy
1.   It is now ten months since the current Government assumed office. The Government
inherited an economy in tatters, one that had been buffeted by the effects of the regional
economic crisis and a series of natural disasters and was then plunged into deepening crisis due
to a deterioration in governance and pursuit of poor policies. That deterioration adversely
affected public institutions with wide scale dismissals and political interventions and a rising and
serious incidence of corruption. This eroded public confidence to levels not seen before in Papua
New Guinea. Poor economic management was accompanied by lax fiscal policy until mid-1999
which saw increasing resort to non-transparent fiscal transactions such as a large build up in
arrears to around 3 percent of GDP and an erosion of asset values particularly in state owned
enterprises. These events were reflected in worsening macroeconomic indicators-dwindling
external reserves, a declining currency, record domestic interest rates, high and sustained
inflation, and an underlying lack of investment and growth manifesting itself in rising
unemployment and crime-as well as in the shattered morale and serious loss of skills in the
public service, low levels of confidence in the community, and poor relations with our external
development partners.
2.    With considerable urgency the Government set about addressing these challenges, to
restore confidence, accountability, services and investment. With the budget deficit at mid-year
running at an annualized rate in excess of 3.5 percent of GDP, the Government realized that the
first priority was to regain control of fiscal and financial management. Within four weeks, the
Government prepared and passed a Supplementary Budget for the remainder of 1999 which
sought to reverse the fiscal deterioration. At that time, the Government made commitments to
five key objectives: restoration of the integrity of public institutions, stabilization of the
currency, containment of inflation, privatization of state owned entities, and improvement in the
environment for business.
3.    Despite the enormous task ahead the Government's achievements thus far have
exceeded expectations. First with considerable urgency the Government restored its relations
with the international financial institutions and with Papua New Guinea's bilateral partners. The
latter established the Friends of Papua New Guinea at the APEC meeting in Auckland as a forum
to support the Government in its endeavors. The Government achieved and exceeded the fiscal
targets set in the Supplementary Budget despite formidable difficulties. The repayment of
arrears was accelerated and is targeted be completed in 2000. In 2000 repayment of arrears is
running ahead of schedule with K40 million being repaid in the March quarter. Legislation to
support a program of privatization was drawn up and a privatization program covering all major
state assets has been approved by Cabinet and released publicly. A number of major policy
changes have commenced to restore the integrity of the processes of government and a number
of independent reviews have commenced into previous mismanagement of state assets. In



Annex 1
Page 2 of 18
March 2000, Parliament passed the new Central Banking Act which will ensure independence of
the Central Bank and a complete prohibition on Central Bank financing of the budget deficit, and
in April 2000 the Banks and Financial Institutions Act was passed to strengthen supervision of
financial institutions. Essential technical assistance has been requested from our external
development partners and it has been forthcoming. Macroeconomic stability is beginning to be
restored and along with it public confidence has improved, but the situation remains fragile and
the task of rebuilding will take considerable time.
4.    The Government is pleased that the reform program has been framed in consultation with
the staff of the World Bank and the IMF.
The Reform Program
5.    The Government's structural reform program, the main elements of which were first put
forward at the Consultative Group Meeting in late 1999 then introduced to Parliament in the
context of the 2000 Budget, recognizes that fundamental issues of governance must be addressed
if inroads are to be made into the problems of providing essential services to the vast bulk of the
population and to reduce poverty. With an estimated 37.5 percent of the population falling
below the poverty line, of which 93.5 percent are located in rural areas this will be a long task. It
will require a concerted attempt to restore economic management, and the institutions of
government. It will require that Government re-orient itself and focus on fewer core activities
releasing functions to those in the private sector with the requisite entrepreneurial skills and
access to capital, technology and markets. Given our shortage of skilled human resources we
must maintain a sharp emphasis on improved provision of basic services-such as health,
education, and law and order-if we are to make progress.
6.    The Government's structural adjustment program for which World Bank support is being
sought covers two broad areas of reform: strengthening economic management and improving
governance. Within these two areas there are a number of specific programs all of which
together will strengthen accountability, governance and performance. The details of the
Government's reform program and the specific actions that will be taken to achieve it are set out
in the attached Matrix of Policy Actions, which together with this letter form the basis of thc
Government's structural adjustment program. Our expectation is that the key actions specified in
the program will be carried out in 12-14 months. The remainder of this letter reports on recent
progress and highlights the main areas of the program for which World Bank support is sought.
Economic Management
7.    Poor and deteriorating economic management, reflected in an overall deterioration irL the
net worth of public assets and in private sector performance, has been the proximate cause of
increased macroeconomic instability that has confronted Papua New Guinea in the 1990s. Re-
establishing macroeconomic stability is a critical priority, but if this is to be sustained, then it
must be accompanied by a robust structural reform program if economic management is to be
improved and private sector confidence restored. Integral to this, in Papua New Guinea's case, is
a need to strengthen and improve fiscal management. At the same time there are important
complementary areas, such as improved portfolio and monetary management that will need lo be
implemented to derive maximum benefits from the structural adjustment program. Finally, good
economic management requires a strong focus on providing a more conducive environment :for
business to operate and flourish.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 18
8.   Improving fiscal management to enhance macroeconomic stability. After achieving a
budget balance in 1997, fiscal conditions deteriorated in 1998 in part reflecting a decline in tax
revenues due to low world commodity prices but also because of significant growth in
expenditure. The fiscal deficit exceeded 2 percent of GDP in 1998. However, if the build up in
arrears was taken into account as well as other unbudgeted and off budget transactions, then the
deficit would have exceeded 5 percent of GDP in 1998. Despite severe difficulties and several
attempts to obtain external deficit financing in 1998 and over the first half of 1999, the
Government continued to increase expenditure and, by mid 1999, the deficit was running at an
annualized rate of 3.5 percent of GDP. Deficits in 1998 and up to mid 1999 continued to be
financed by the Central Bank which, with monetary policy slackening in early 1999, resulted in
an inevitable run down in foreign exchange reserves and continuing downward pressure on the
kina. Poor debt management has exacerbated public debt interest costs.
9.   lTo address these problems, the new Government tightened fiscal policy in the 1999
Supplementary Budget through selective tax increases on gaming, fuel, alcohol, tobacco, luxury
cars and log exports and expenditure reductions across national departments' operations and
maintenance expenses, counterpart funds for development projects and immediate suspension of
the large, unplanned and poorly executed retrenchment program. The budget deficit following
these measures was targeted to be brought down to 1.6 percent of GDP and be funded
completely from offshore concessional financing. The expenditure reductions were significant
and included anticipated repayment of K74 million in arrears that had been discovered since mid
1999. To establish greater budget control over expenditure and cash flow management, which
had been weakened substantially over the preceding two years, the Government made strong
commitments to adhere to the legislative requirements regarding budget management and re-
established a manual monitoring system, although control of payroll costs remained problematic
due to the lack of an integrated personnel-payroll management system and the existence of a
number of separate government payrolls. The Government adhered to its commitment regarding
fiscal transparency and compliance with legislative requirements, closed the accounts as
scheduled, and produced a set of accounts by the third week in January 2000. This has never
been done before in Papua New Guinea.
10.   Overall, in 1999, the Government achieved a better than targeted outturn, with a budget
deficit of 1.3 percent of GDP with some unexpected payroll growth offsetting improved revenue
collections. Importantly, the introduction of a VAT from mid 1999 was successful, although
receipts were down somewhat on expectations. Further, substantial additional arrears from 1998
were discovered and additional repayments were made, taking total arrears repayments to
K148 million in 1999. Extraordinary financing amounting to US$80 million was obtained from
the Reserve Bank of Australia following IMF mission agreement on a draft letter of intent in late
1999. This financing allowed some reduction in the exposure of commercial banks to
government securities and, coupled with the removal of inefficient monetary control instruments,
facilitated some lowering and flattening of the treasury bill yield curve. However, monetary
conditions have been maintained relatively finn in support of the kina, despite the continuing
depressed economic conditions.
11.   The 2000 Budget aims to maintain very tight fiscal conditions, thereby cementing recent
gains in macroeconomic stabilization. In real terms expenditure has been held constant and as a
proportion of GDP has been reduced. Expected improved revenue collections will allow the
achievement of a small surplus balance in 2000 (on a commitment basis and excluding one-off
expenditures associated with the Government's structural reform program). Including these



Annex 1
Page 4 of 18
aspects, the deficit is budgeted at just under 2 percent of GDP. Despite the fiscal stringency, the
Government has been able to redirect expenditure towards priority areas, which has been
achieved by holding all non-priority appropriations constant in nominal terms. Key priority
areas which will receive additional expenditure allocations are health, non-tertiary education, law
and order, agriculture, and the Internal Revenue Commission. Furthermore, to control payroll
costs, the Government has instituted a hiring freeze across the public sector with exceptions only
in priority areas, and only budgeted for a small public sector pay rise despite inflation in 1999-
2000 expected to average about 15 percent. The Government has also identified additional
arrears from prior to 1999 amounting to K109 million and has budgeted to repay all these
outstanding arrears in 2000. An arrears management system has been established in Treasury
which should see arrears management improved greatly. Should additional arrears be uncovered
in 2000, the Government is committed to repay these from budget savings in other areas.
12.   To facilitate implementation of structural adjustment policy reforms, without weakening
the overall fiscal stance of the budget framework, an allocation of K101 million has been
established to fund the Government's structural reform program. To prevent these funds leaking
into recurrent budget expenditures, a separate appropriation was made which will also facilitate
improved accountability for reform expenditures. To ameliorate any ongoing cost implications,
expenditure on structural reform program items must be generally one-off expenditures not
expected to be of a recurrent nature. These include payment for costs associated with
privatization, retrenchments, the census operation, financial management systems etc. Structural
reform program expenditures will be financed ultimately through extraordinary financing and
World Bank prior concurrence on these expenditures will be obtained. This should provide a
high level of confidence that should structural reform program initiatives be slowed for some
reason, then donor loan funds for structural adjustment will not be utilized for some other
purpose, but remain in foreign exchange reserves. To provide added security, the new Central
Banking Act prohibits the Central Bank from financing domestic budget deficits, which will
prevent the Central Bank from, in effect, using its donor-supplied foreign exchange reserves to
fund any fiscal excess. These mechanisms should provide considerable security to the Bank.
13.  Important as the overall parameters of the 2000 budget are, it is the resurrection and
reform of processes and principles that the Government is undertaking in parallel that will
decisively change the direction for the future. First, resources for both the recurrent and
development budgets will be provided on a timely basis in line with agency cash flow estimates,
although adjustments may need to be made to non-priority recurrent budget areas in the second
half if revenue performance is off track. This regularization in resources will allow departments
and agencies to manage resources more efficiently, ending budget uncertainty that has
progressively worsened over the past few years. The Government is also addressing a number of
other problems that have reduced fiscal accountability, including the increase in the use of trust
accounts, particularly those used for recurrent expenditure and revenue purposes, that have been
used to bypass principles of cash budgeting.
14.   To improve transparency and promote accountability, the Government is committed to
improved budget monitoring and disclosure. Commitments have been provided to the IMF Io
comply with its code of fiscal transparency. The speedy closure of the accounting period for
1999 and the production of preliminary accounts for 1999 by the third week in January 2000 is
an indication of the Government's commitment to improved management and disclosure.
Furthermore, the Government published a 1999 budget outturn report by the end of March 2000



Annex 1
Page 5 of 18
with an assessment of performance against budget. In 2000 a mid-term budget review will be
conducted and published by August 2000, allowing budget performance to be assessed and mid-
course corrections to be made. If revenues fall significantly below the budget, the Government
will maintain expenditures for priority areas as budgeted and will seek savings in other areas as
well as resort to new tax measures as necessary.
15.  I)ebt Management. Debt management is an important area for reform because of the
potential gains to the budget through debt service savings, and because of the important role that
sovereign debt instruments play in capital market development and monetary management.
Addressing the various issues in this area in a comprehensive and professional manner will
contribute to enhancing macroeconomic fundamentals and lower risk premia for Papua New
Guinea.
16.   Management of domestic debt and payment of debt service obligations have been
problematic in Papua New Guinea. In particular, financing of the budget deficit in the 1990s
has relied overwhelmingly on the narrow treasury bill instrument aimed at a few commercial
banks that have imposed sovereign exposure limits, resulting in treasury bill yields remaining
above 20 percent in recent years. This over reliance has distorted the sovereign debt market
resulting at times in government paying up to 500 basis points above prime corporate bank
lending rates. This, combined with poor cash management has resulted in large cash deposits at
commercial banks earning little return, which has increased Government's net cost of funds to
well above private sector benchmarks. Consequently, the potential budgetary savings are
significant. In addition, the discontinuation of longer term inscribed stock issues in the 1990s in
preference to short term treasury bills has shortened the duration of the Government's debt
portfolio, which is likely to be well short of an efficient duration. This has been costly to the
budget. It has also placated the development of the debt market generally and, in the absence of
a benchmark yield curve, is likely to have raised risk premia for corporate debt issues. The
financing of a substantial proportion of budget deficits in the 1990s using treasury bills held by
the Central Bank has also encouraged non-transparent fiscal practices such as the shifting of
expenditure between years, utilizing negotiated interest payments. This, has also blunted
monetary policy actions through reductions in the impact of higher interest rates on government
spending.
17.   To overcome these problems, beginning in 2000, the Government has transferred debt
management functions from the Central Bank to the Treasury, with the Central Bank now only
acting as an issuance and stock registration agent. Market interest rates will now be paid on all
government securities regardless of holder. In recognition of the exacting technical requirements
for a professional approach to liability management, that could also include cash management,
and the lack of technical and financial skills in the public sector in Papua New Guinea, the
Government has secured technical assistance to undertake a review of debt management policy
and adrninistration. Because of the resource implications, this review will be undertaken as part
of the functional review of the Department of Finance and Treasury which will begin in May
2000 and be completed by end-June 2000. This work will cover, among other things, a review of
the net exposures of government, an efficient duration evaluation, potential for market
development and options for outsourcing the debt management function altogether.
18.  In late 1999, in recognition of the imprudence associated with fiscal manipulation
through utilization of treasury bill issuance merely to build mineral resource stabilization fund
(MRSF) balances, and the generally poor performance of this stabilization fund in meeting its



Annex 1
Page 6 of 18
legislative objectives, the Government decided to abolish use of this fund. In December 1999
the Government extinguished the balance in the MRSF and redeemed the equivalent stock cf
treasurv bills held by the Central Bank. All mineral revenues received in 2000 will be deposited
directly into the public account and the MRSF Act will be repealed as soon as practicable. l'his
one-off action has significantly reduced the domestic debt burden while adding to fiscal
transparency and management, as well as removing an important temptation to lock-in higher
recurrent spending using MRSF balances and overly optimistic projections of future mineral
revenues. As an offset to the MRSF, during 2000 the Government has committed to utilizing
any significant unexpected increased revenue flows from the mineral sector over that budgeted,
to build-up foreign exchange reserves. These changes will strengthen the balance sheet of the
Central Bank and lower gross public debt, which should have a favorable impact on sovereign
risk limits.
19.   Improving the Operating Environment for Business. The ultimate objective of the
Government's overall reform efforts is to establish a business environment more conducive to
supporting a vibrant private sector, higher investment levels and labor absorption levels, and
ultimately higher economic growth. The difficulty in addressing this issue should not be
underestimated given Papua New Guinea's predicament characterized by low capital and labor
productivity, high security costs, and poor infrastructure which have inhibited private sector
growth and domestic and international integration of the private sector. Strengthening policy
credibility, as reflected in every aspect of the Government's structural reform program, is th,e
first and most important challenge. Secondly the Government is committed to achieving
macroeconomic stability and enhancing the financial sector in ways that will lower the cost of
capital, improve access to financial services and reduce uncertainty and risk. Thirdly the
Government will lower the cost of doing business by facilitating the provision of more efficient
infrastructure services. This is a major focus of the Government's privatization program.
Finally the Government is acutely aware of the need to improve the apparatus for maintaining
law and order, because without a guarantee of basic physical safety and reinforcement of
property rights, no amount of incentives and reduction in barriers to business can be effective.
20.   Divestiture of state assets in a systematic manner over the next several years is a
cornerstone of the Government's economic strategy to improve the public sector's net worth.
The objective of the program is to use the proceeds of privatization to retire public debt, improve
the quality of services to the private sector, rationalize government resource demands allow a
refocusing on essential public sector priorities, improve governance by removing governmenllt
from direct influence in areas that can be better managed by the private sector.
21.   Soon after assuming office, the Government prepared and passed a Privatization Act
which established the overall institutional framework for the process including a privatization
commission. Entities can be transferred to the Commission which then manages the
privatization process. The Government appointed an international advisory panel to provide
high level advice. In January 2000 a privatization conference was held which brought together
these advisors and a number of multilateral and bilateral partners to establish a privatization
strategy, process and timeframe. In February 2000, the Government adopted the
recommendations of the advisors and issued a public statement outlining its planned approach.
To strengthen the organization and structure for implementing the program, the existing National
Planning Committee (NPC) will be the Ministerial sub-committee that will advise the Cabinet on
privatization matters. A managing director position has been established in the Privatization
Commission with powers broadly those of a CEO in a private company, reporting to the



Annex 1
Page 7 of 18
Executive Chairman, the Privatization Commission and the NPC. Amendments to the
Privatization Act were recently passed to accommodate these changes. A Project Management
Team will be established in the Commission comprising three project managers with clear terms
of reference and who are experienced professionals in the relevant area. They will be
empowered to implement the agreed action plan, which would be approved and monitored by the
Commission and the NPC. The Commission is to conduct a public awareness campaign, review
redundancy arrangements, and develop a program for training and retraining staff retrenched
through privatization.
22.   A regulatory framework is to be established to ensure fair pricing of services that are sold
by privatized enterprises. In this respect, Cabinet has approved the establishment of a Central
Agencies Working Group (CAWG) comprising the Departments of Finance and Treasury
(chair), Planning and Monitoring, and Trade and Industry, to develop a regulatory framework for
the public monopolies identified for privatization. All relevant regulatory bodies have been
directed to provide information to the working group. Cabinet noted that there will be a need for
a substarntial amount of work in this respect to be outsourced to experienced advisors, and that
privatization of the public monopolies cannot proceed until this work is completed. The CAWG
will need to identify essential community service obligations and these should be clearly defined
as a condition of sale where this is demonstrated to be an efficient way of ensuring community
interests.
23.   The major non-bank assets that are to be sold, include Air Niugini, Telikom, Elcom, and
Harbours Board and the Privatization Commission has been directed to start preparing these
entities for sale, with Air Niugini expected to be offered in the first quarter of 2001. The
Government is aiming to complete up to date external audits for these entities in line with
international accounting standards and to obtain the Auditor General's certification of these. The
Government will then proceed with making progress on the issues of industry structural
arrangements, identification and resolution of commrunity service obligations and progress on
form of privatization. In parallel to these activities, the Government will establish a sectoral and
regulatory review unit in Treasury to assist with industry structural arrangements, competition
policy, regulation and issues of community service obligations.
24.   The Government has initiated a major review of the tax system, which will be carried out
over the course of 2000. The Taxation Review will aim at:
* Enhancing the fairness of the tax system by ensuring that all tax payers are treated in an
equitable fashion;
*  Improving the competitiveness and efficiency of the tax system thereby encouraging the
expansion of investment, employment and economic development; and
*  Simplifying and enhancing the transparency of the tax system to reduce the cost of
compliance.
The Taxation Review's report will be presented to Cabinet by the end of September 2000, in
time for the recommendations to be considered in the 2001 Budget. This review will examine all
major tax areas, including mineral sector taxes and personal and corporate tax regimes.



Annex 1
Page 8 of 18
25.   In addition, the Government has directed the Taxation Review to look at some specific
issues pertaining to competitiveness in Papua New Guinea. The first of these will be to review
the timetable for the tariff reform program that went into effect in 1999 and is expected to be
completed in January 2006, with a view to accelerating it. Tariff reduction and rationalization
are essential elements to increase the productivity of domestic enterprises while providing
opportunities for new entrants to invest, employ and produce. Previous governments have been
making commitments in this respect for the past five years, but implementation of the program
has been delayed and the duration for implementation has been lengthened. The Government
implement the recommendations of the Taxation Review in respect of accelerating the program.
Secondly, the Taxation Review will consider the appropriateness of the issuance of concessions,
particularly for import duty. All recent and significant concessions will be examined, in the first
instance to determine their legality with a view to reversing those considered inappropriately
obtained. In addition to eliminating or minimizing the granting of such concessions, the
Government will centralize the authority to grant them, through an appropriate and transparent
process. The recommendations of the review of concessions will be implemented in 2000.
26.   Recent policy initiatives that have been taken include a review of small business
development policy and repeal of pioneer industry legislation. The latter has eliminated recourse
to case-by-case approval of investment incentives which are all to be enshrined in the new tax
code. As part of its competition policy reforms, the Government will pursue in 2000 a reviewv
which identifies important barriers to entry that inhibit investment (such as in the informal sector
and through the reserved activities list) and the reduction or removal of price controls. The
recommendations of this review will then be implemented. From a previous review the
Government has identified a number of important areas where price regulation will need to be
assessed. Many of these pertain to pricing of major utilities and will be considered as part of the
Government's privatization program under which improved regulation is proposed (and
addressed elsewhere in this letter). The Government's program of divestiture should significantly
improve the efficiency and coverage of basic infrastructure services, thereby making significant
progress in overcoming this important impediment to private sector development.
Improving Governance
27.   The integrity and efficiency of public institutions have been eroded substantially over the
1990s particularly in recent years. This deterioration has manifested itself in the demise of
senior civil service positions with widespread dismissals, an absence of due process and the
politicization of appointments through inappropriate contracts, a breakdown in decision-making
and regulatory processes, a lack of transparency and accountability which has underpinned a
growing incidence of corruption, poor policy interventions with little planning and evaluation,
gross negligence regarding the management of state owned enterprises, and a move to replace
accountable administrative systems with political, non-transparent, allocative processes such as
the Rural Development Program. Since assuming office in mid 1999, the Government has
committed itself to restoring the integrity of institutions, particularly public institutions. The
Government sees the restoration of predictable and open policy making, supported by a civil
service bureaucracy imbued with professionalism, and an accountable executive, all operating
under the rule of law as critical priorities under its structural reform program. In this regard, the
major elements of the Government's strategy are to improve governance and civil service
effectiveness and efficiency particularly as a first priority in the central agencies and oversight
agencies, establish an anti-corruption strategy and pursue high level corruption cases, and to



Annex 1
Page 9 of 18
strengthen the policy and management framework in key sectoral areas covering provision of
social services (health and education) and protection of forest resources and to improve the
efficiency of financial services and reduce systemic risk.
28.   Improving Governance. To improve governance, the Government has identified a
multi-pronged strategy. This involves improving the functioning of the Cabinet as a policy and
decision making body and restoring the role of the Public Service Comnission as an
administrative and oversight body for the public service, making fiscal and financial
management transparent and accountable, reforming major budgetary programs to eliminate
fraud and waste in the delivery of decentralized services, strengthening and supporting oversight
entities and upholding the law in pursuing difficult corruption cases.
29.   Cabinet processes in the recent past were subordinated to expediency and decisions were
made without due regard to broader implications. The process was characterized by an ad hoc
approach and a lack of appropriate rigor in analysis and debate, while the policy preparation role
of the bureaucracy was increasingly displaced. Following a careful review of the functioning of
the Cabinet secretariat and Cabinet processes, the Government recently passed comprehensive
measures that re-establish proper Cabinet processes and define an important vetting and policy
input role for the bureaucracy through a Central Agencies Coordinating Committee (CACC).
This Committee is established and functioning well. It comprises the heads of the Departments
of Prime Minister and Cabinet, Finance and Treasury, Planning and Monitoring, Personnel
Management and the Attorney General. This reform should go a long way towards beginning to
establish the principles of due process. It includes, among other things, standard waiting periods
for submission of issues to Cabinet, establishes an appropriate frequency for Cabinet meetings,
formalizes a policy review and appropriate coordination process, and provides for public
disclosure of the results of most Cabinet meetings.
30.   Contractual arrangements for senior civil servants, such as department heads and their
deputies, and middle management are an important issue for good governance of the civil service
who enjoy standard terrns and conditions without any reference to performance bench marks.
Papua New Guinea began to utilize such contracts several years ago, citing international best
practice as justification, but the practice has been subjected to gross abuse and waste. These
contracts are supposed to be based on performance, but there is little perfornance measurement
with no departments and agencies up to date with their required annual reports. Such contracts
have been very costly for the country, particularly given the high tumover in management. The
Govermnent is committed to eliminating these practices under the civil service reform program.
31.  ][n order to attain these goals, the Government has commenced a review that will lead to
strengthening of the role of the Public Services Commission, bringing appointment decisions
back more directly within the ambit of the public service and reducing political discretion in
these areas. In this respect the Prime Minister's Department has prepared an action plan of
measures to strengthen the Public Service Commission along these lines, and Cabinet will
implement the recommendations as a priority in 2000. This will require, inter alia, important
complementary changes to the Department of Personnel Management and to the Salaries and
Monitoring Committee.
32.   Fiscal and financial management are to be addressed through building on measures the
Government has already commenced that provide adequate and timely disclosure of budget
outcomes in a transparent fashion and within prescribed periods. Thus in addition to disallowing



Anniex 1
Page 10 of 18
revenue retention by most statutory bodies and departments, the Government will establish a
system of providing early information on budgetary outcomes each year beginning this year. In
order to ensure that such commitments are met, the Government has re-established early cut-off
dates for budget transactions from previous years and has ended the practice of recent times of
keeping the accounts open for up to six months which provided scope for manipulation of entries
between years. By April 2000, Treasury prepared a detailed, independent, unaudited report on
the fiscal outturn for the previous year which showed clearly the performance of the government
in meeting budgeted appropriations and targets and this should assist in ensuring that statutory
reports on the public accounts are prepared and produced by the Auditor General as prescribed
by the law.
33.   As part of building a measure of accountability and performance into the budget process,
the Government will re-establish a formal budget cycle to process the various budget milestones,
including program reviews, evaluation of new initiatives, a mid term review, budget preparation,
and monitoring and control aspects. The mid-term budget review exercise will allow the
performance of the current budget to be assessed early enough to allow necessary corrections and
policy adjustments, and to improve accountability through increased public disclosure.
34.   A major area that the Government has targeted for reform relates to the Rural
Development Program, which allocates funds for district and local level development projects
through the respective members of Parliament. This and earlier related programs have long been
tainted with scandal and allegations of fraud and waste with negative consequences for the
intended beneficiaries and long-term development goals. As a demonstration of the
Government's commitment to improve accountability, the disbursement of funds to this program
was halted until a thorough review and redesign was undertaken and implemented. This has
been accomplished with technical advice from the World Bank, and approved by Cabinet. The
new program is being implemented and will be operational from the end of May 2000.
35.   The revamped Rural Development Program is based on a number of solid accountability
principles including, project and applicable entity restrictions, a heavy emphasis on pre- and
post-accountabilities, a secure tendering and payments process, reinforcement of the Public
Finances Management Act and subsidiary Treasury Instructions, clarification of administrative
and review roles, and utilization of an external accounting firm to assist in the development of a
management information system, approvals, monitoring, reporting, audit, fraud control and
training. Additional resources have been approved for the Office of Rural Development to
ensure the performance of the program and timely reports will be issued, as well as a much
improved disclosure regime to the respective electorates to encourage greater participation.
36.   The eligible projects initially chosen will be amenable to easy verification and monitoring
and meet certain minimum cost thresholds. Thus in the early stages it is envisioned that
priorities such as teacher housing, aid posts and feeder roads will form the core of major
allowable investments. A more complete description of this program is attached as Attachment B
to this letter. The Government is confident that the new program will bring much needed change
and a strong dose of accountability to district allocative processes, and sees this as an opportunity
to provide a model for local level development initiatives which have so far eluded governments
in Papua New Guinea.
37.   In recognition of the critical role that oversight entities such as the Auditor General's
Office, Ombudsman Commission and Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee play in



Annex 1
Page 11 of 18
combating fraud, waste and corruption, the Government intends to strengthen this area under an
overall accountability and anti corruption strategy which is being formulated. Although it would
be desirable to eventually require the Auditor General to conduct performance audits, the
Government believes that, given current capacities and requirements, that it would be most
useful to focus early efforts on increased compliance audits of large expenditure departments and
development of internal audit programs. Although these issues will require some time and much
effort to bear fruit, the Government will begin by conducting operational audits of these entities
to gain a measure of their performance. This will guide efforts to strengthen and support theses
agencies.
38.  In keeping with the Government's focus on improving public accountability and
strengthening governance, the Government has commenced a review of the Central Supply and
Tenders Board which has long been a source of perceived corruption and waste in the
procurement field. This follows on from the Government's earlier initiative whereby most board
members were replaced with persons of reputable character. This review will necessarily
encompass the other smaller provincial supply and tender boards as well as a number of small
sectoral boards. That review will focus on issues pertaining to the institutional arrangements
including the criteria for the selection of board members and conflicts of interest, and the need to
revise ceilings and floors for the various tender boards. The Government will implement the
recommendations of the review and remains committed to monitor this important area on an
ongoing basis to ensure its performance.
39.   The Government's commitment to address issues of fraud, waste and corruption creates
many dilemmas but is a road that will be traveled. In addition to drafting and tabling legislation
in Parliament for establishment of an independent commission against corruption, the
Govermment will undertake a program to strengthen and support the Fraud Squad in its
endeavors in this area. This is viewed as a good operational strategy and a bridge to a future
anti-corruption body. The program for the Fraud Squad will need to consider the predominantly
white-collar nature of the crimes being committed and the concentration of these in the financial
sector and state-owned enterprise areas. Thus it will require establishment of new skills within
the Fraud Squad if they are to be effective in this task. Such investigations are now solidly
established as agenda items for the CACC to consider on a regular and ongoing basis. The
Government will also continue to pursue high level corruption cases. In this regard the
proceeding of the Cairns property case by the Public Officers' Superannuation Fund (POSF) and
the National Provident Fund (NPF) Commission of Inquiry are two recent examples.
40.   Improving Civil Service Efficiency and Effectiveness. Civil service morale has been
crushed by the events of recent years, characterized by weak accountability within the ranks,
high turnover in management and a general loss of independence. The Government has begun to
address this in a systematic way through initiatives in three key areas-improving coordination
within the civil service, strengthening the policy role and capacity of the Prime Minister's
Department to direct the civil service reform agenda, and redefining the role of the Government
while reflecting this in policies for the public sector.
41.   The CACC has a mandate to prepare, plan and coordinate the Government's reform
agenda in general and the public sector reform program in particular, in addition to serving as the
Cabinet secretariat. The CACC has established a structured work program. To facilitate
improved coordination and sharing of information and data, the information technology systems
of all the central agencies have been inter connected. In addition, the CACC meets regularly to



An;nex 1
Page 12 of 18
coordinate and direct elements of the reform program including its support to the Cabinet.
Finally to improve and facilitate communication across the entire range of government activities,
the CACC has initiated an inter-departmental meeting system. Such a forum is important in
terms of building an understanding of the need for, and requirements of, the structural reforrm
program. The CACC has also begun to establish a technical secretariat to service its needs in
terms of program design and implementation. Assistance in this area is being provided by the
World Bank.
42.   A major focus of the Government's efforts has been to restore the Department of the
Prime Minister to its role as a premier agency with the appropriate skills and professional ethos
required to direct the reform program. As a preliminary step, the department has been
restructured through staffing changes, identification of quality staff throughout the civil service
for this assignment, and established arrangements with the Department of Personnel
Management to allow increased inter-departmental mobility of policy advisors. This would
enable the Department to call on appropriate resources on the basis of need and would be
extremely important in the impending functional review process.
43.   Global experience with civil service reform confirms that downsizing, if it is to be
sustainable and lead to productivity improvements, should be part of a broader effort to re-orient
the role of government, combining reviews of departmental policies and programs with a re-
examination of the most effective way of implementing them. It is in this vein that the
Government will commence a functional and expenditure review that will cover key expenditure
and revenue departments. This will cover, among other things, the Departments of Health,
Education, Defense, Foreign Affairs, Police and Works. The aim will be to identify the full range
of options to improve efficiency, service delivery and contain costs. It will entail an examination
of the alternatives to continuing certain departmental functions, transferring them to agencies or
subordinate tiers of government, or contracting them out for private sector or NGO delivery.
The full range of decisions that government should consider on intervention and delivery
mechanisms will be considered. Given the mistakes of the recent past brought on by undue haste
and a lack of planning, the Government will ensure that careful attention is paid to severance
arrangements, taking due account of legal requirements, equity for separated staff, the risks cif
adverse selection, and the dangers of re-entry. Stakeholders within and outside the civil service
will be involved, in order to develop a change management strategy that minimizes resistance
and maintains the morale of those remaining within the civil service.
44.   Improving resources and delivery of health and education services. In recognition of
the poor status of health and education within Papua New Guinea, the Government has
highlighted these for priority attention. In this regard, special efforts have been made to ensure
that provision of budgetary resources to these areas was regularized and not subjected to the
volatility that has been the norm for most government agencies and departments.
45.   In the health sector, recognition that cost-effective preventive care accrues important
benefits to society is reflected in the Government's health policy with an emphasis being placed
on improving services to rural communities and expanding health promotion and preventive
services. The national health system is being restructured in line with the Government's reforms.
A National Health Administration Act was passed in 1997 which delineates the roles and
responsibilities of each level of government (national, provincial and local), provides legislative
authority to health service implementers, defines a framework of collaboration between



Annex 1
Page 13 of 18
churches, NGOs and government, and provides legislation to assist in regulating the private
sector.
46.   A standard health budget format has been developed to guide and monitor resource
allocation to priority programs and a National Health Information System was implemented to
identify local health priorities and monitor service delivery. This year the Government will take
the necessary measures to ensure that the standard health budget format is implemented by all
provinces. The Government will reaffirm an earlier decision in this respect (NEC decisions no.
251/98), which will be followed up through workshops with provincial treasuries to gain
agreement on a standard set of activities for the health sector. Final steps include the inclusion
by Treasury of the chart of accounts into provincial and national government accounting
systems. This should formn the basis to allow planning for the 2001 budget to incorporate
program budgeting needs in the health sector at provincial levels and the subsequent allocation of
resources to follow suit. Implementation of this will greatly enhance the Government's ability to
monitor health sector performance in the provinces.
47.   To complement the above approach, a number of key performance indicators will be
developed that will allow a more aggressive approach to monitoring overall performance and to
verify operational data. Once developed, these will form the basis of regular reports to the
CACC on various aspects of sectoral performance.
48.   Despite these achievements, the drought and depreciation of the kina have hindered
progress as reflected in an upsurge in malaria cases, widespread shortage of drugs in health
facilities, decline in routine immunization coverage and an escalation of HIV/AIDS cases.
Inadequate and ineffective government spending on priority health services over a number of
years is now reflected in a substantial deterioration in the health care delivery system especially
in rural areas. To address these issues and to consolidate achievements in the sector, the
Government has successfully redirected resources to the sector in the 2000 budget. As a result,
the health sector now receives nearly 7 percent of the recurrent budget allocation and 10 percent
of the development budget (equivalent in total to about 7.6 percent of budgetary expenditures).
Within the sector, there have been increased allocations in the following priority areas-
allocations for pre- and in-service training of health workers and hospital operations have
increased by nearly 70 percent over the past year and for medical supplies and equipment by
over 20 percent. In addition, to ensure that service delivery to rural areas is sustained, grants to
provincial governments have been maintained at 1999 levels. Church health services, which are
responsible for nearly 50 percent of rural health service delivery, saw an increase in their
allocation of 27 percent compared to the 1999 budget.
49.   Priority program areas-family health services, health promotion and education, disease
control, water and sanitation, facility upgrading and maintenance-have been identified to
improve quality and access to services especially in rural villages. These will form the basis of
the National Health Plan 2001-2010, currently under preparation which will be finalized in mid
to late 2000. A National Aids Council and Secretariat has also been established to respond to the
HIV emergency.
50.   Provision of medicines and medical supplies to our large decentralized network of rural
health care facilities is to be given a positive boost in 2000 through a program to institutionalize
procurement of pre-packed medical supply kits for aid posts. The first step in this process-to



Annex 1
Page 14 of 18
develop standard health kits for aid posts-has already been completed. Subsequent steps will
require establishment of needs and a process with a supplier, submission of the proposal to
Cabinet for approval and eventually provision of funds to the supplier. The gains from this
initiative are that it would significantly lower the administrative burden on national Department
of Health staff while facilitating an accelerated provision of medical supplies to rural aid posts.
51.  In the education sector, the Government's policy emphasizes primary and secondary
education with high priority being given to increasing access to education for girls and those in
rural communities. Several reforms of the education sector have been initiated and much
progress has been achieved in the four years since the implementation of the Education Reform
Agenda in all provinces. An elementary sub-sector has been introduced with an emphasis on
community-based support and vernacular education. The latter program, supported by the W'orld
Bank, has resulted in instruction being offered in over 200 languages at this point. Grades have
been reallocated within the various levels-elementary, primary, secondary and post-
secondary-and secondary schools have been located in all provinces. As a consequence, drop-
out rates between the various levels have declined. Female participation in basic education has
improved markedly and is relatively high, accounting for 47 percent of total enrollments. In
grade 9 and above (secondary education), female participation has increased from 35 percent in
1985 to 41 percent in 1998. However, sustaining the momentum of these reforms will require
long-term financial support and strong management of resources by the implementing agencies.
Measures need to be developed to increase equitable access to education programs for females
and the disadvantaged.
52.   To reflect the Government's pledge to achieve universal primary education and improve
skills for life among our population, in 2000, 7 percent of total recurrent expenditures and
14 percent of the development budget have been allocated to education (equivalent in total to
about 8.8 percent of budgetary expenditures). These resources have been allocated within the
sector to primary, secondary, vocational and teacher education. In addition, education subsidies
to provincial governments, which provide direct support to schools, have been maintained at
their 1999 budget levels.
53.   In 2000, as part of the Government's overall initiative to integrate the payroll and human
resource information systems, a thorough review is planned of the education payroll, which is
the largest of the five public sector payrolls. In this regard, the system will be upgraded, as it is
antiquated in terms of its hardware platform and software. In carrying out this exercise a
principal aim is to identify "ghost" workers and to remove them from the payroll. This should in
turn lead to budgetary savings on account of salary payments and allowances.
54.   Improving Forestry Management. The Government recognizes the importance of
forestry to Papua New Guinea, and acknowledges that unless some major measures are taken to
develop efficiency, alter some perverse short-term incentives which have become prevalent in
the sector, and build a culture of sustainable management and environmental sensitivity with
regard to Papua New Guinea forests, major costs and losses to the nation and its people will
occur. Accordingly, the Government will take measures to ensure that major problems of
governance, inefficiency and social dislocation, which have emerged in the forest sector in recent
years, are addressed.



Annex 1
Page 15 of 18
55.   Legislation will be prepared and submitted to Parliament which will prevent the clearance
of forested land ostensibly for agricultural or infrastructural purposes, but which is in fact based
largely on the financial attractiveness of clear-felling large areas of natural forest at very low per
unit log prices. A careful process for environmental assessment of any clearing proposal will be
applied through the Office of Environment and Conservation, which will be provided with the
capacity to undertake such reviews. A transparent system of review, through the Forestry Board,
will then be required prior to issue of any licenses to clear significant areas of forest for any
purpose.
56.   The composition and working of the Forestry Board itself will be reviewed and
improved. The Government will give consideration to the selection criteria and procedures
which apply to the appointment of Board members, especially to ensure that independent and
capable membership is guaranteed. All deliberations of the Forestry Board which are not of a
sensitive commercial nature will be made public, and major resource decisions taken by the
Board will be eligible for public hearings within a specified time frame, so that any objections or
other claims can be lodged and heard.
57.  In respect of the moratorium declared in late 1999, a review of all recent major forest
resource license application and approval processes will be carried out, and all projects included
in this process will be placed on hold until the results of that review are known and have been
evaluated by Government.
57.   The Government will also address major questions of efficiency and equity which have
arisen in the sector. The pricing system for logs which applies in the country will be reviewed
and revised, so that actual revenues collected from logging operations are close to the full
economic rent which applies, and also to ensure that landholders receive a fair and consistent
share of the overall return for their resources. The capacity of the relevant government agencies
to carry out monitoring and enforcement of all regulations and codes in forest operations and in
the exporting of forest output will be improved, in a manner which relies on inputs from
independent experts or firms. This will enhance transparency and accountability in the system
and, in this way, reduce the potential for governance issues and corruption to disrupt sustainable
and environmentally responsible forestry operations in Papua New Guinea. The Government
will upgrade the processes by which landowners are involved in the early decisions on resource
based projects in the forestry sector, to ensure that they are adequately represented, and also
properly inforned as to the implications of the proposed project in their areas.
59.   Improving Efficiency of Financial Services and Reducing Systemic Risk. The
financial sector in Papua New Guinea can contribute more significantly to broad based economic
growth and capital market development, but reforms need to be tackled in a comprehensive
manner if they are to be effective. The first critical element, to re-assert macroeconomic
stability, is already advancing as indicated. Moreover, it has become clear that the Government
must reduce its ownership and direct involvement in the sector, and instead establish a
competitive framework while upgrading regulation and supervision. Important steps in that
direction have already begun with announcements pertaining to the privatization of the Finance
Pacific group, improvements to financial sector supervision, and the reform of the pension
industry including the inclusion of prudential supervision of the pension fund industry under the
Central Bank. New central banking and financial institutions legislation has been recently
enacted which will enhance the supervisory framework for financial institutions. The



Annex 1
Page 16 of 18
establishment of the Port Moresby Stock Exchange in 1999 was a very positive initiative that
will support capital market development and accountability generally. Reform in this sector will
require a coordinated approach to ensure that access and quality of financial services are
enhanced, systemic risk is managed and even reduced, and that any privatizations improve the
Government's net worth. The reform of the financial sector is an integral component of the
wider privatization program because of the inter connections between this sector and the capital
market.
60.   This component of the reform agenda encompasses measures to strengthen the regulatory
and institutional framework for the sector, restructure and liberalize the contractual savings
institutions, enhance capital market development, and improve the prospects for rural financial
intermediation services A number of important initiatives have been commenced over the past
few months in this respect which will be consolidated under the structural reform program and
which support the Government's commitment to restore the integrity of institutions and provide
an environment conducive to private sector development.
61.   Reflecting concerns about events of the recent past that saw the independence of the
Central Bank considerably eroded and which resulted in breaches of statutory lending limits to
government, the Government prepared a new Central Banking Act (in consultation with our
major development partners), which was passed by Parliament in March 2000. The new Act
aims to considerably strengthen the independence of this institution, clarify monetary policy
objectives, and proscribe Central Bank financing of the Government's budget deficit. The
Central Bank will participate in the regular auctions of government securities along with the
other market participants, but will do so only for the purposes of liquidity and monetary
management. The Central Bank will still have a limited Kl 00 million through-the-year overdraft
facility which it can extend to government for cash flow management purposes, but which must
be repaid by year end. Furthernore, the Government has discontinued the previous practice of
paying below market interest rates to the Central Bank on its holdings of government securities
and this principle will extend to the temporary advance facility as well.
62.   To improve financial sector supervision, a new Banks and Financial Institutions Act was
enacted by Parliament in April 2000. This Act addresses a number of shortcomings in the
current legislation pertaining to clarifying and strengthening licensing, regulation and prudential
supervision of financial institutions, and extends coverage to pyramid financial schemes. The
preparation and review work that this entailed, benefited from consultation with the World Bank.
63.   An ongoing priority at the Central Bank in recent times has been to upgrade its capacity
to undertake prudential supervision and regulation of deposit taking institutions. A number of
positive steps have been achieved in this process in terms of issuance and clarification of
guidelines for large exposures, asset quality and provisioning, and capital adequacy
requirements. The Central Bank has instituted a number of reviews of the publicly owned Papua
New Guinea Banking Corporation (PNGBC) in conjunction with an external accountancy fimi,
and is developing a clarified position on the supervision of financial conglomerates such as the
Finance Pacific group (of which PNGBC is now a part). Technical assistance is being provided
by the Reserve Bank of Australia and the World Bank. The Central Bank has prepared an action
plan outlining its strategy to substantially upgrade prudential supervision and regulation both ifor
banks and non-bank financial institutions. That action plan will be subsequently implemented to
strengthen the Supervision Department.



Annex 1
Page 17 of 18
64.   One recent development concerns the proliferation of ponzi type pyramid schemes which
took root under the previous government and which received licensing exemptions from the then
Minister of Finance. These exemptions, coupled with a lack of clarity over what legislation
pertained to such schemes, made it difficult to pursue the promoters of these schemes. However,
recognizing the potential financial damage that such schemes could inflict, the Government has
taken a more aggressive stance against these schemes in recent months. License exemptions
have been revoked and legal action has been taken against the promoters to close the schemes
and seek recoveries. The Government remains committed to outlining these schemes, but will
not accede to demands for public compensation. The new Banks and Financial Institutions Act
will provide the Central Bank with an improved legal framework within which to respond to
such schemes in the future.
65.   The Government is concerned about the administration and management of the life
insurance and pension industry. Reform to the industry was foreshadowed by the Government in
the 2000 budget, including establishing a new regulatory and supervisory framework under the
Central Bank. However, heightened concerns over the activities and performance of the pension
industry resulted in the Government undertaking special performance audits of the two main
funds-POSF and NPF. These reports revealed numerous weaknesses in corporate governance,
internal controls, portfolio management and disclosure and reporting. They highlighted a
number of potential illegal activities and inappropriate political intervention. In particular, in
response to a 50 percent recommended write down in NPF member's funds, the Government
established a Commission of Inquiry which has been directed to report by end July 2000. The
Government is committed to acting on the findings of this public inquiry.
66.   To overcome the deterioration in confidence by employees and employers, the
Government has directed that a special account be established at the Central Bank and for the
fund to be frozen and professionally evaluated. With significant corporate governance and
management concerns being highlighted in the POSF report, and reports of inappropriate
activities surrounding the Defense Force Retirement Fund, the Cabinet approved a review of the
pension fund industry with a view to establishing a well regulated private sector funds
management and administration industry in Papua New Guinea with minimal govermnent
involvement, other than the regulator which will be established in the Central Bank. In this
respect, the Government has directed the Central Bank to draft legislation covering this industry
by end August 2000. To assist in this review and legislative arrangements, the government has
established a task force chaired by the Central Bank. The World Bank has been requested to
assist with technical support of this initiative.
67.   Finance Pacific is to be privatized and the sale undertaken in two stages-a trade sale of a
controlling interest through competitive auction with bidding documents issued by end 2000,
closure of the arrangements in the first quarter of 2001, and a public offering of the balance of
shares within a 12-18 month timeframe after the closing of the trade sale, with the latter designed
to achieve wide national participation, including employees.
68.   A number of reviews of the bank and its entities have already been undertaken by
reputable firms and the Central Bank, and the accounts have been brought up to date, with the
1998 accounts in compliance with international accounting standards for the first time. Draft
1999 accounts for the PNGBC and its related entities have been completed and are being
considered by management. These are expected to be endorsed by the Auditor General by end
June 2000. Following a strategic review of the Finance Pacific group, it is expected that the



Annex 1
Page 18 of 18
PNGBC and related entities will be privatized and the other non core assets of Finance Pacific
will be disposed off separately. Central banking supervision is in the process of being improved
substantially and the legal framework in Papua New Guinea is conducive to a bank
privatization. As a precaution, the Commission will conduct an early legal review to evaluate
any possible impediments to the privatization process and to ensure that existing laws are
consistent with the Privatization Act. The Commission is in the process of contracting a project
management team for the sale of the group which is targeted to be in place by end June 2000.
Reporting to World Bank
69.   The Government will work closely with the World Bank in implementing its structural
reform program. In this regard, the Government will continue to provide periodic reporting oni
key indicators in the areas covered by the program. To facilitate monitoring of progress with the
structural reforms, the World Bank will be provided with relevant and timely information on the
implementation of policies in all areas covered by the structural reform program and which are
summarized in the attached Matrix of Policy Actions (Attachment A).
Conclusion
70.   Papua New Guinea is at a crossroads in its development history. The new Governmenit
has seized the opportunity to try and make a meaningful difference. As outlined in this letter, the
reform program that has been commenced is ambitious but essential-it is a whole of
government type reform, broad in its scope and detailed in its intent. The country's
acknowledged capacity limitations makes the challenge all the more daunting. But the
Government does not intend to shirk from its responsibilities in this regard. The Government wvill
utilize all the technical assistance that has been offered by our many external development
partners and capitalize on the goodwill that the same community has shown us. The gravity of
the situation is realized fully, as too is the need to re-establish credibility and restore
macroeconomic stability while broadening and deepening the structural reform agenda. The
Government believes that it has already made significant strides in this respect and intends to
complete this round of reforms in order to reverse the decline of institutions and erosion of the
human capital base witnessed in recent years.
Yours sincerely,
Mekere Morauta, Kt, MP
Prime Minister and Minister for Finance and Treasury
Government of Papua New Guinea



Annex 1-Attachment A
Page 1 of 5
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Objective                 Actions Taken/Outcomes Achieved                       Second Tranche
I. STRENGTHEN ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
A. To improve      Passed Supplementary Budget in August 1999 to limit fiscal
fiscal management  deficit-target exceeded and deficit reduced to 1.3 percent of
and enhance       GDP.
macroeconomic
stability          Enforced a cut-off date of end January 2000 on budget
transactions for 1999 and published a preliminary report on fiscal
outcomes.
Established control over budget expenditures in 1999 through  Integrated payroll and human resources
public sector hiring freeze, development of a monthly warrant    records management information
control system for goods and services, statutory authorities and    system established.
provinces, and an improved monitoring system including for
payroll and employment.
Strengthened the expenditure control and monitoring system in    Full cash warrants to be released on a
2000: (by requiring spending agencies to report all spending  timely basis for the development budget
conunitments, integrating warrant issuance for the development   as projected and for identified
budget, including non-cash warrants, into the central warrant  government priorities in the recurrent
system and issuing monthly reports, and warranting in advance    budget for 2000.
all debt related payments).
Abolished trust/suspense accounts for recurrent expenditure
purposes for Plant and Transport Board and Works Transferable
Account.
Cabinet approved a public sector hiring freeze effective January
2000.
Settled K148 million in arrears accrued prior to 1999 in FY1999.
Budgeted a further KIOO million for 2000.
Provided a full and transparent accounting of the existing stock
of domestic arrears and adopted a time-bound schedule for their
elimination by end-2000.
Introduced a VAT in July 1999 and conunenced a 7 year tariff
reduction and rationalization program.
Commissioned an independent review of taxation (mining and
improvements in VAT operations).
Passed a 2000 budget targeting a surplus (0.4 percent of GDP)    Expenditure on the government's
net of arrears, and financing for "one-off' expenditures  structural reform program to be
associated with structural reforms.                    consistent with approved targets in the
2000 Budget.
Established a framework for Central Bank transactions of
govermment securities.
B. To improve debt Debt management function transferred to Treasury from the  Fully functioning debt management
management         Central Bank.                                           office, established within Treasury, and
portfolio restructuring commenced, as
Initiated an action plan, with TOR agreed with the Bank, on the   necessary.
review of debt management as a component of the announced
functional review of Treasury.



Annex 1-Attachment A
Page 2 of 5
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Objective                  Actions Taken/Outcomes Achieved                        Second Tranche
Proscribed central bank financing of the budget deficit through
new Central Bank Act and limited through-the-year temporary
advance facility to K100 million.
Government commitment to pay market interest rates on all
government securities and temporary advances.
Balance of the Mineral Resources Stabilization Fund (MRSF)  Repeal the MRSF Act.
deposit offset against treasury bills held by the Central Bank at
end 1999.
Committed the retirement of public debt with privatization
receipts.
C. To improve the   Passed legislation to establish a Privatization Commission, and    Completion of audits (up to and
operating          appointed an international advisory group. Amended Act to  including 1999) of Telikom, Elcom,
environment for    clarify the role of the managing director, enhance the role of  Harbours Board and Air Niugini by
business           Cabinet and clarify the legal framework.                 recognized external auditors according
to internationally accepted accounting
Cabinet endorsed privatization strategy and institutional structure  standards; Cabinet approval of industry
for implementation:                                      structural arrangements, community
. National Planning Committee appointed as responsible   service obligation arrangements and
Cabinet sub committee;                                form of privatization for these entities;
. Establishment of a regulatory framework through an     and commencement of the due diligence
interdepartmental working group under the chairmanship of    exercise for these entities with TORs
Treasury.                                              agreed with the Bank.
Appointed the Managing Director to the Privatization
Commission.
Established the Privatization Commission secretariat under the
managing director and assigned the budget for the Commission.
Commission is preparing Air Niugini, Telikom, Elcom, Post
PNG, Harbours Board and the water assets for privatization.
Established regulatory review unit in Treasury to support the
Central Agencies Working Group.
Undertook a review of small business development policy.  Implementation of Taxation Review
recommendations (with respect to
Streamlined custorns clearance procedures and aligned them with  personal and corporate taxes, tariff rates
the new simplified tariff structure.                     and tariff exemptions) in the 2001
Budget, as agreed with the Bank.
Repealed the Pioneer Industries Act to eliminate case by case
approval of investment incentives.                       Complete competition policy review
and implement recommendations of
review acceptable to the Bank.



Annex 1-Attachment A
Page 3 of 5
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Objective                  Actions Taken/Outcomes Achieved                        Second Tranche
II. IMPROVE GOVERNANCE
D. To improve      Announced policy commitments to build the integrity of public    Publish budget reconciliations and
governance         institutions, restore the role and independence of the civil  projections according to a schedule
service, and reduce the scope for corruption.            agreed to with the Bank and take
additional measures to improve fiscal
Re-established proper Cabinet procedures following review of    transparency and accountability, as
Cabinet Secretariat.                                     agreed with the Bank.
Re-established National Planning Conunittee, and with the
addition of Minister for Privatization, to ensure delivery of
cabinet decisions on key policy issues and privatizations.
Established a central agencies coordinating committee (CACC)
to formulate and implement policies, and coordinate the reform
process.
Rescinded previous Cabinet decisions allowing for retention of
revenues by major statutory bodies and departments.
Cabinet decision not to disburse funds to the Rural Development  Funding secured for the RDP and its
Program (RDP) until IBRD endorses new accountability and  managing agent for 2001 and
transparency framework.                                  appointment of the managing agent
agreed with Bank.
Cabinet approved the revised framework and guidelines
governing the use of RDP fimds, as agreed with the Bank
Finalized restructuring arrangements for Office of Rural
Development, approved funding and new staffing structure and
tendered for the managing agent with TOR agreed with the Bank.
Drafted legislation on the establishment of an Independent  In collaboration with the affected
Commission Against Corruption. Instituted legal action on high   institutions, strengthen the Auditor
profile corruption cases, including seeking recoveries from the    General's Office, Ombudsman
Caimrs property transactions cited in a report by the Ombudsman.  Commission, and the Parliamentary
Public Accounts Committee, through an
CACC placed outstanding issues of malfeasance cited in recent   implementation plan agreed with the
reports by the Attomey General on its formal agenda.     Bank and reflected in the 2001 budget.
Initiated a review of the administrative framework of the Central  Strengthen central govemment
Supplies and Tenders Board with TOR agreed with the Bank.  procurement system in accordance with
an implementation plan agreed with the
Bank.
E. To improve the   CACC to direct and coordinate civil service reform program.
efficiency and     Established a system to ensure regular meetings of CACC with
effectiveness of the  all departmental heads to secure implementation.
civil service
Strengthened Department of Prime Minister & Cabinet, and
establish the CACC Secretariat.
Cabinet approved recommendations with respect to Department
of Personnel Management and PSC, (covering civil service
appointments and termination decisions and terms and conditions
of senior executives and the Salaries and Monitoring
Committee).



Annex 1-Affachment A
Page 4 of 5
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Objective                  Actions Taken/Outcomes Achieved                         Second Tranche
Commenced functional reviews focusing on key spending and  Incorporate recommendations of
revenue departments.                                      functional reviews in 2001 Budget, as
agreed with the Bank.
Inter-connected all central agencies information technology
systems to improve data and infornation flows.
F. To improve the   Health and education declared as priorities in 2000 Budget.  National Health Plan acceptable to the
resources and      Allocations increased for health 33.4 % increase, and education    Bank approved by Cabinet for
delivery of health   37.8 % increase.                                         implementation in 2001 Budget.
and education
services.          Provided timely warrant allocations as appropriated under the  Standardize the procurement of pre-
2000 Budget for National Department of Health.            packed medical supply kits for aid posts
as agreed with the Bank.
National Health Information System developed and implemented
to identify local health priorities and monitor service delivery.
Developed health budget format to conform to priority programs
and monitor resource allocation. Department of Health
restructured in line with system of govermment reforms and
public service administration.
Elementary level sub-sector introduced with emphasis on
community-based support and vernacular education. Extended
reach of pre-primary, primary and secondary schools.
Upgraded database of teachers gainfully employed to rectify
anomalies that allowed regular overpayment of allowances and
salaries.
G. To improve      Reinstated the previous forestry export tax regime in the August   Satisfactory implementation of reforms
forestry           1999 Supplementary Budget.                                to forestry revenue and royalty regime.
management
Provided resources in 2000 to enable the independent inspection
service for pre-shipment inspection of log exports to be
contracted.
Moratorium declared on all new Forest Management Agreements
(FMA), timber permits and geographic extensions to timber
permits,
Cabinet clarified legal status of the moratorium and directed the   Complete independent review of all
Minister to implement that decision in accordance with the  FMAs, timber permits and geographic
requirements of the Forestry Act (1991; as amended 1993), as  extensions to timber permits.
agreed with the Bank.
Rescinded Cabinet Decision No. 59/97 regarding agricultural  Amendments to the Forestry Act
conversion and roading projects in forested areas and gazetted in  covering: (a) the regulatory framework
its place new regulations to unambiguously establish the forest   for the clearance of forested land;
protection policies as contained in the previous Cabinet Decision  (b) non-commercial disclosure by the
No's: 113/96 and 15/97, and in accordance with the Timber  Forestry Board; (c) delegation of the
Authority Guidelines 1995.                                powers of the Board to an individual;
and (d) composition of the Forestry
Cabinet approved regulations to require non-commercial    Board, agreed with the Bank and
disclosure by the Forestry Board in respect of its deliberations.    passed.



Annex 1-Attachment A
Page 5 of 5
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Objective                 Actions Taken/Outcomes Achieved                       Second Tranche
H. To improve      Passed a new Central Banking Act (3/00) to strengthen Central
efficiency of     Bank independence and proscribe deficit financing.
financial services,
and reduce        Passed a new Banks and Financial Institutions Act, (4/00) to
systemic risk     strengthen and clarify licensing, regulation and prudential
supervision of financial institutions.
Shut-down and prosecuted pyramid-type financial schemes.
Prepared action plan to enhance prudential supervision and
regulation relating to banks, and non-bank financial institutions,
in consultation with the Bank.
Announced plans for new legislation to cover insurance and  Enact legislation on the regulation and
superannuation and bring these industries under the regulatory    supervision of the pension industry
and supervisory framework of the Central Bank.         acceptable to the Bank.
Undertook independent financial and performance audits of the
National Provident Fund (NPF) and the Public Officers
Superannuation Fund (POSF).
Appointed a commission of inquiry and took short term measures  Implement recommendations to
to stabilize NPF following completion of audits.       Government of the Commission of
Inquiry into the NPF, as agreed with the
Cabinet passed an action plan to commence the reforn of the  Bank.
pension fund industry with a view to maintaining a broad
mandatory scheme, licensed private sector funds management
and administration industry with minimal government
involvement other than regulation and supervision by the Central
Bank.
Floating Tranche
Cabinet directed privatization of Finance Pacific, to be  Bring the PNGBC group to the point of
undertaken in two stages-a trade sale of a controlling interest   sale, as agreed with the Bank and
through competitive auction by end 2000 with financial closure   dispose of the remaining assets in the
in the first quarter of 2001, and a public offering of the balance    Finance Pacific group.
of shares within 12-18 months.
Completed the 1999 audited accounts of the PNGBC group in
compliance with international accounting standards to the
satisfaction of the Bank.






Annex 1-Attachment B
Page 1 of 7
The New Rural Development Program
Background
1.    The Rural Development Program (RDP) was initiated by the previous Government in an
attempt to remedy poor service delivery to districts, which was perceived to result from the slow
implementation of the provincial and local level government (LLG) reforms that commenced
1995. The principal objectives of these reforms were to improve service delivery to the rural
population, as well as to more actively involve the target population in the development of their
respective areas. However, due to limited resources made available to finance the reform
processes, and due to the lack of qualified technical people within the local level government
areas, the planned reform schedules were too optimistic and the target dates could not be met.
2.    Accordingly, the government initiated the RDP which involved using the Joint District
Planning and Budget Priorities Committee (JDPBPC) in each electorate to directly fund projects
submitted by constituents which were consistent with the relevant district development plan.
The main objective of the program was to enable rural district centers to develop and find
worthwhile life improvement projects at the local level, with an emphasis on maintenance and
infrastructure including buildings for schools, aid posts, district administration, water supplies,
communications and transport. An emphasis of the successor program, the Social and Rural
Development Grant (SRDG) is that projects funded should be of a larger magnitude which would
facilitate more transparent monitoring.
3.    A feature of the RDP was the encouragement of members of parliament to become
actively involved in identifying, formulating, designing, selecting and finding projects within
their respective electorates. As a result, the program was criticized by citizens as another form of
'slush fund' for MPs. The criticisms arose due to the nature of the amended local level
govenument arrangements which provided for the MP to chair the JDPBPC in his or her
electorate, and to appoint up to three members of this committee.
4.    The concerns expressed related to the lack of transparency in the disbursement of funds,
the lack of coordination with district, provincial and national development plans, and the issue of
sustainability of assets created without approved or fuinded operational budgets. The government
at the time assured the public that strict guidelines would be applied to the operations of the
program, and that fuinds would only be payable to district committees or to the approved projects
and not to the MPs themselves.
5.   In response to public pressures about the inadequacies of the program in delivering
meaningful development outcomes into the district and local levels, the new Government
decided that it would undertake a complete overhaul of the RDP with a view to improving the
accountability regime, transparency and, most importantly, achieving meaningful development
outcomes. The Government also agreed not to disburse FY2000 SRDG funds until the new
framework was finalized and endorsed by the Government, World Bank and IMF.



Annex 1-Attachment B
Page 2 of 7
Principles Pertaining to the Guidelines
6.    These Guidelines provide the requirements for the administration, management and
control of expenditure of the SRDG funds appropriated annually under the Office of Rural
Development (ORD). The guidelines detail the steps and procedures involved in:
* project selection criteria;
* funding levels and distribution processes;
* financial accountability;
* monitoring and evaluation of projects; and
* the overall reporting responsibilities of the main participants involved in implementing the
program, including the post evaluation requirements.
7.    Project Impact. As the SRDG program is focused on impact oriented activities, in term
of the communities that are served, there are guideline restrictions on the minimum size of
projects eligible for funding under the program.
8.    Leader Involvement. An important objective of the program is to encourage members of
parliament, and their counterparts at provincial and local levels of government to assist in
identifying, formulating, designing and implementing impact-related development projects in
rural areas where they are most needed. However, because of the links between the political and
administrative arms of government envisaged under the Organic Law, the guidelines include
provisions for ensuring that projects are selected and implemented based upon technical
assessments once the political/administrative consultative process has been completed.
9.    Community Involvement. The focus of this program, therefore, is to encourage
participation of leaders in development of their own communities with emphasis on establishing
a process wherein rural people can identify their needs and formulate projects which address
these needs. The framework encourages full participation of the community in implementation,
ownership, sustainability and, importantly, accountability at the local level. The guidelines
facilitate this process by requiring evidence that selected projects have been duly endorsed by
constituted meetings of the respective JDPBPC and Joint Provincial Planning and Budget
Priorities Committee before submission to ORD for funding approval, and by providing for
transparency and disclosure of information.
10.   Planning. As part of the community consultative process, while taking into account the
wider perspectives of the provincial and national development agendas, the guidelines require
projects to be selected based upon the five year rolling district and provincial plans as stipulLted
by the Organic Law. However, due to slow progress in the development of these plans, the
guidelines include transitional arrangements whereby reference to plans will cascade upward[s to
provincial and national government levels where no plans are in place at the district level.
11.   Given the lack of development plans and the need for a robust accountability system, the
guidelines provide a short list of eligible project types for FY2000. In subsequent years, as
district plans become established, greater reliance on these plans will form the basis for project



Annex 1-Attachment B
Page 3 of 7
selection. The sanction of cessation of funding will be imposed on districts which do not
produce such plans by FY 2001.
12.   Sustainability. The injection of K89 million each year into rural areas of the nation for
infrastructure projects needs to be controlled to ensure that infrastructure created will have the
operating and maintenance budgets to allow proper functioning and delivery of needed services
by the electorate. Accordingly, the guidelines require project proposals to include details of
sources of funds for operating and maintaining the infrastructure that result from the projects.
13.   Feasibility. The guidelines address the issue of ensuring that project designs are
technically feasible, in two ways. One is to require standardized designs for items such as
education and health buildings and staff housing. Well developed, costed and tested standard
Department of Works designs exist which should optimize the successful completion of
buildings of suitable standard.
14.   The second way deals with non-standard items such as new road works which require
considerable design inputs. The guidelines in these instances require project proposals to be
accompanied by sufficiently detailed specifications, costings and work plans to enable ORD to
make judgments on the viability of proposed projects.
15.   Equity. Some MPs directly represent less than 10 percent of their respective electorate
due to the 'first past the post' voting system. There have been instances where such members'
public spending is biased towards narrow interest groups within the electorate at the cost of
district wide needs. The guidelines address this problem by requiring SRDG funds to be
distributed across wards, and dispersion aspects based on equity grounds will figure prominently
in project appraisal.
16.   Accountability. The guidelines aim to build on the existing accountability regime which
is generally regarded as adequate. Consequently, the guidelines require strict adherence to the
Public Finances (Management) Act 1995 and subsidiary Finance Instructions. The Instructions
are to be reissued with amendments to incorporate the SRDG within Part 18 of the Instructions.
17.   Current practices such as avoidance of proper tendering procedures or utilization of
unregistered firms to provide goods and services are prohibited and the Public Finances
(Management) Act 1995 will be rigorously enforced. Continued provision of funds through
SRDG during the year will be dependent upon timely furnishing of monthly financial statements
as required under the Public Finances (Management) Act 1995.
18.   Districts are required to furnish quarterly project progress reports which include
photographic evidence of construction works undertaken. Districts which fail to provide such
reports will cease to be able to access funds until the reports are received by the ORD.
19.   Probity and Propriety. To counter the instances of misappropriation and fraud that have
occurred in the past, the guidelines prohibit payments to ary entity other than the firm providing
the goods and services to the project. No advance payments will be made for works not yet
undertaken except in special cases in districts where there are no large firms qualified to compete
for the works, in which case a mobilization advance may be made and clawed back through



Annex 1-Attachmnent B
Page 4 of 7
subsequent progress payments. The advance will not exceed the lesser of ten percent of conlract
value or K10,000.
20.   Funds not utilized during the course of the year will no longer be made available to
provincial trust accounts to avoid the provisions of the Public Finances (Management) Act 1995.
Any unexpended funds at the end of year will be returned to the consolidated revenue fund.
However, a provision will be made for monies required to settle claims arising from contracts
entered into before the end of the year. In this instance committed moneys equivalent to
outstanding contract values existing at year end will be re-appropriated and transferred to an
ORD special trust account to ensure that the commitments are able to be met. The total of these
re-appropriated funds for each district cannot, however, exceed the remaining respective
unexpended funds for the current budget year, and projects must have been approved by OR1D,
tendered and have a contract in place by end October in time for budget estimates preparation.
Projects approved but not at a contract stage by this date will need to be funded out of the
subsequent year's SRDG appropriation.
21.   Transparency. Aside from those provisions of the Public Finances (Management) Act
1995 which promote transparency such as tendering procedures, the guidelines also require the
district to publicize the projects approved and implemented, the location and the names of
suppliers of the goods and services to the projects in a timely manner. Project submissions and
approvals will also need to be published and broadcast through quarterly progress reports via
public notices in prominent places in the district, newspapers and rural radio.
22.   In addition, the public will have the right to request details from the ORD about payments
made under individual projects, and have their requests responded to in a timely manner.
Projects Eligible for Funding
23.   The program is focused upon providing basic social and infrastructure services whic h are
lacking in rural areas. To ensure that the SRDG fund is used for such purposes, the following
categories of project are eligible for funding. The range of type is deliberately restricted in order
to address the constraints of minimum size, standardization of design, and existing planning and
accountability structures:
24.   Eligible Projects encompass four main infrastructure areas-transport (feeder roads,
roads, bridges, airstrips and wharves with total cost of each project not exceeding K300,000),
district administration (to include housing for key staff, including treasurer, administrator and
planner as well police, Correctional Institutions Services and other related extension personnel),
health (aid-posts, clinics, health worker housing and rural water supply), and education
(elementary and primary school classroom construction, and teacher housing).
25.   Ineligible Projects include payment for any goods that will be privately used and/or
owned; illegal or immoral activities and such related purposes; payment of bride price, funeral
costs and such similar transactions; travel expenses which are of a personal nature and
procurements of equipment for own use; investments in businesses or equity purchases;
securities or collateral for loans purposes; political party expenses; and other activities and such
purposes which are not in line with the government's development policies or contravene



Annex 1-Attachment B
Page 5 of 7
existing government policies and regulations. Additionally, for FY2000, because the SRDG
monies are to be devoted to physical infrastructure development, the following projects are also
ineligible: (a) social capital formation (training courses, technical consultancies, study tours, etc);
(b) transport, agricultural or construction equipment; and (c) office and computer equipment.
26.   Equity Test. Projects will need to be well dispersed throughout wards within the district,
unless otherwise justified on district wide benefit grounds. Project approval will need to look at
equity considerations. As a general rule, all LLGs in the district are to benefit from projects
funded from the SRDG within a two-year cycle and no LLG is to gain more than 25 percent of
the funds in any one year. The exceptions to this rule are: (a) in districts where there are less
than four LLGs; or (b) in special circumstances where a province-wide benefit involves
constructing infrastructure in a small number of LLGs (such as an important feeder road between
two major centers for instance), or (c) no acceptable project proposals are received from an LLG.
27.   Applications. Within the eligible project categories, proposed projects must be carefully
selected based on the needs and aspirations of the target population. Where necessary, a quick
but well calculated survey of local community needs should be conducted before initiating a
project proposal.
28.   Project applications and submissions, including eventual selections, must comply with
national, provincial and district level planning priorities. Provincial planning authorities, in
consultation with the ORD and the national Department of Finance and Treasury, and the
Department of Planning and Monitoring, should be actively involved in the processing of
projects, including selection procedures and actual monitoring of approved projects.
29.   Documentation. The application form must be complete and have sufficient
accompanying documentation to include all the details of the proposal. It should cover such
information as the name or title of the project, scope, estimated cost and location, sustainability
implications and scheduled start date and completion period.
30.   If the project is approved by the JDPBPC, Joint Provincial Planning and Budget Priorities
Committee and ORD, it will be necessary to arrange for a competitive tender in accordance with
the Public Finances (Management) Act 1995. All projects are required to be tendered given the
minimum value of the project has been set at K100,000. This will limit the number of projects
processed, administrative costs and ensure projects carry sufficient impact and are of a size
whereby accountability arrangements can be established in a cost effective manner.
31.   Project Budget. A budget covering the total (estimated) cost of the proposed project
should be completed using the standard itemized system of budgeting used by the Department of
Finance and Treasury and Department of Planning and Monitoring. Costing of all components
must be set out clearly to identify capital cost from operational costs of the projects. This means
that all related details of the project proposal need to be set out clearly and cover: manpower
costs, equipment, materials and supplies and the capital cost, including reflection of sweat equity
and related contributions from the community.
32.   Joint Funding. Projects under the SRDG program can also be jointly funded with
national, provincial and local level governments, as well as donors. Where there is a joint



Annex 1-Attachment B
Page 16 of 7
funding proposal, full discussions with those concerned should be presented, so that
commitments on resources and cost sharing arrangements are identified clearly, especially any
counterpart funding requirements.
33.   Technical Documentation. It is important to provide all related data as per the details of
the submission including any survey results or feasibility studies or reports done on the project
proposal. In addition, the work schedule, implementation plan, design and feasibility study
reports etc supporting the proposals should be provided.
Implementation of Projects
34.   The implementation of S&RDP funded projects will be performed by the district or
provincial administrator. An ongoing review process will be established to ensure progress
reports are submitted to ORD.
35.   Quarterly progress reports. District or provincial administrators are to submit to the
ORD quarterly progress reports on the status of each project. The reports are to disclose both
physical progress and expenditure data to date. Physical progress is to include photographic
evidence of progress of the project and are to include details of the suppliers contracted to
undertake the project.
36.   The district or provincial administrator is to ensure that the quarterly reports are
displayed prominently on public notice boards within the district and at the provincial
government headquarters. The ORD will be responsible for disseminating this information
through newspapers and via rural radio broadcasts. Failure to provide such reports will result in
the discontinuation of the SRDG monies to the relevant district.
37.   Site inspections and fraud control. To assist in this process and provide an independent
review, project site visits will be made by the ORD regional officers with assistance from other
agencies at the national and provincial level. During year of start-up (FY 2000) the managing
agent supporting the ORD will assist in the monitoring process at no cost to the project.
38.   Any instances of irregularities or fraud detected in the implementation of the project will
result in immediate suspension of funding for the relevant project. Where the irregularities are
found to be systemic rather than confined to one particular project, funding will cease for all
projects within the district. The ORD will be applying a fraud prevention test program to control
such risks.
39.   Completion of Project. At the completion of the project, the district or provincial
administrators will be required to submit an end-of-project implementation report to the ORD.
Where projects require technical certification, it will be necessary for appropriate authorities to
provide a clearance certificate to ensure technical requirements are complied with and to ensure
national standards are maintained (e.g. certificate of occupancy for completed houses or storage
building etc). The certifying officer will be held accountable if he or she fails to exercise a duty
of care in issuing such certificates.



Annex 1-Attachment B
Page 7 of 7
40.   Training of implementing agencies staff in procedures. In order to assist district and
provincial administrations in understanding the guidelines pertaining to the SRDG funding of
projects under the program, the ORD will be arranging workshops for the training of staff in the
procedures described in these guidelines. The ORD will be publicizing the nature of the program
through the media as well as all open members of the National Parliament.
41.  In addition, the managing agent and an engineering and an architectural firm will be
employed by the ORD to assist in answering technical queries and undertaking technical
specifications of projects which can be justified as being of sufficient social importance to be
undertaken outside of standard designs. All requests for such assistance are to be directed to the
ORD and not to the managing agent or specialist firms directly. In subsequent years, the services
would be provided on a cost-recovery basis.
Financial Accountability and Management of Funds
42.   Financial records and reporting responsibility. Section 102 of the Organic Law
requires both levels of government to maintain proper accounts and records of their transactions
and affairs in accordance with the Public Finances (Management) Act 1995 and the Finance
Instructions.
43.   The ORD and the district or provincial administrator implementing a project funded
under the SRDG program should therefore maintain such accounts and records and furnish
monthly financial reports to the Department of Finance and Treasury. These will be
consolidated and checked against the records in ORD and against the general ledger records.
These reports must also be made available to the Department of Planning and Monitoring each
month and to the Auditor General's Office, Ombudsman Commission and Attorney General as
and when required. Failure to furnish the reports will result in the cessation of the flow of funds
to the district until the reports are received and payments reconciled.
44.   Annual Report. ORD will compile an annual report for NEC and Parliament on total
expenditure on this program and a number of performance indicators relating to the criteria in
these guidelines such as projects approved and rejected, results of audit inspections, breaches of
the Public Finances (Management) Act 1995 and matters subsequently addressed and/or
forwarded to other authorities, timeliness of district reports, sanctions applied etc. It is therefore
important that all reports on the implementation and progress of the entire program are submitted
to ORD and the Departments of Finance and Treasury and Planning and Monitoring on time.
Copies of these reports shall be furnished to other relevant authorities such as Office of the
Auditor General, Ombudsman Commission, Attorney General, the Prime Minister's Office, and
the Office of the Chairman of the National Monitoring Authority.






Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
Papua New Guinea:
Governance Promotion Adjustment Loan
Performance Indicators
The data available in PNG limit the number of indicators to judge the performance of the
program.
A.  Macroeconomic performance:
* The Bank will utilize the IMF's regular assessments of macroeconomic policy in the context
of its ongoing Stand-By Arrangement.
* Growth of the non-mineral economy is expected to average 5% in 2000/2001 versus -2.7% in
1998 and an estimated 0.9% in 1999.
* Year end inflation is expected to decline below 10% in 2000 and decline further in 2001
versus an estimated 20% in 1999.
B.  To indicate the effect of fiscal and administrative reforms on expenditure priorities
and budget management, the following would be monitored:
*  The ratio of actual budgetary outlays to the approved budget would rise by 10% in 2000
relative to 1999.
* The number of departments and agencies covered under the integrated payroll and human
resource system would be progressively expanded, and a number of fictitious workers
eliminated as a result.
* Restructuring of departments and associated resource redirection, resulting from the
functional reviews.
C.  Poverty and Social Indicators
Rural Development
A substantially improved and functioning Rural Development Program at provincial and
district levels that delivers local level services.
Health
* Expenditures allocated to priority program areas in health will increase in 2001 consistent
with achieving the National Health Plan target change by the end of the plan period.
* 90 percent of all open and staffed health aid posts will be adequately stocked with vital drugs
in 2000-01.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
The number of operational aid posts will increase in both 2000 and 2001 over 1999, when
55 percent of all aid posts were operational.
Education
* Primary and secondary school enrollment rates, both male and female will rise.
* Number of ghost or bogus teachers reduced from payroll.
D.  The governance component's output would be measured by:
* The number of on-site inspections of RDP projects during 2000. There should be at least 50
such inspections and reports. (There are 89 districts in PNG.)
 The application of sanctions for breaches of the program framework for the RDP relative to
the total number of reported cases of breaches subject to sanctions, should be at least 80%/o.
* The openness of the process and outcomes under the Central Supply and Tenders Board.
In particular: (a)Tenders will be reviewed and either considered by the Board or returned to
the client department for correction within four weeks of lodgment of the submission; and. (b)
The number of client departments using Central Supply and Tenders Board services will
increase to 100% of those required to do so by law.
* Some early wins in the current campaign against corruption, which is being pursued by the
Attorney General's office in a public fashion.
* Improvements in overall governance, openness and transparency as indicated by the resulits
of a survey to be commissioned in 2001 on the institutional impediments to doing business,
similar to that conducted by the Institute of National Affairs in 1999. (That survey covered
relevant issues including the public policy environment, corruption, provision of public
services and infrastructure, and personal and public safety).
* Financial recovery of the National Provident Fund or its successor.
* Successful integration of a privatized PNGBC into the financial sector.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
Table 1: Papua New Guinea: Macroeconomic Framework, 1996-2000
1996     1997     1998      1999     2000
Est.    Proj.
Real GDP growth (percent change)           2.9     -2.4       1.4      3.8      4.5
Consumption                              -9.4     -0.5      3.8       4.3      4.3
Gross fixed investment                   41.3     -7.8     -4.2       2.6      5.0
Net exports                              34.4    -21.0     -4.8       0.5    -20.0
Saving and investment (% GDP)
Gross domestic investment                27.4     24.6     26.2      26.4     31.3
Gross national saving                    32.8     19.6     26.7      27.8     30.9
Current account balance                   5.4     -5.0.     0.5       1.4     -0.4
Prices (% change)
CPI inflation (avg.)                     11.6      3.9     13.6      17.8     14.6
CPI inflation (year-end)                  5.3      5.3     21.8      20.0      5.0
Exchange rate (US$/K) (avg.)            0.759    0.698    0.486    0.394    0.380
Government Budget (% GDP)
Revenue and Grants                       26.1     29.4     25.8      24.6     25.1
Expenditures                             26.5     29.2     27.9      25.9     26.6
Overall balance                          -0.3      0.1     -2.1      -1.3     -1.5
Money and credit (end period) (%)
Broad Money growth                       32.0      6.9       1.8      8.9      8.8
T-bill rate (182 days)                   9.19    14.50    23.94    20.44
Trade (% change)
Export volume (Goods & services)         14.7     -1.2     10.4       3.7      2.4
Import volume (Goods and services)       10.4      3.9     13.4       4.2     10.0
Balance of payments (millions of US$)
Exports, f.o.b.                         2603     2186      1849     1998      2234
Imports, c.i.f.                         1791      1972     1425     1505      1684
Current account balance (after grants)   289      -263       23       55       -18
Gross Reserve cover b/                    5.4      3.3      2.0       2.1      3.6
External debt (millions of US$)
Medium and Long-term                    1895     2133      1981     1829      1704
% GDP                                   35.5     40.8     45.8      43.8     39.1
a/ In months of nonmining imports, c.i.f.
Source: IMF, and Bank staff estimates.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
Table 2: Papua New Guinea: Balance of Payments, 1996-2001
(US$ million)
1996     1997     1998     1999     2000    2001
Est.    Proj.    Proj.
Current account balance                      289      -263       23       55      -18     -112
Mineral                                     736      311       564      708      639      558
Nonmineral                                  -447     -574     -540     -653     -657     -670
Trade balance                                813      213      424      492      549      348
Exports (f.o.b.)                          2603     2186      1849     1998     2234     2257
Mineral                                   1777     1328     1239     1444     1590     1562
Nonmineral                                827      857      610       553      644      696
Imports (c.i.f.)                         -1791    -1972    -1425    -1505    -1684    -1909
Mineral                                   -496     -573     -287     -322     -420     -574
Nonmineral                               -1294    -1399   -1138    -1184    -1264    -1335
Services balance                           -690      -673     -629     -611     -750     -637
Mineral (net)                             -544      -444     -389     -415     -531     -430
Nonmineral (net)                          -146      -229     -240     -196     -220     -207
Unrequited transfers (net)                   166      197     228       173      183      177
Official                                   219       229      215      181      170      172
Private                                    -53       -32       13       -8       13        5
Capital account balance                        68       53     -167     -104       29      100
Med- & Long-term loan disbursements        -196       189     -185     -413     -179     -130
Official (net)                               -5      -76      -46      -32      -70      -66
Gross disbursements                      90       68       53        52       36       43
Principal repayments                     -95     -144      -98      -84     -105     -109
Private capital flows (net)               -191      266      -139     -381     -109      -64
Gross disbursements                     120      441      127       21        75       79
Principal repayments                   -310      -175     -266     -402     -184     -143
Foreign direct investment (net)             226       23      121       268      142      171
Commercial banks                             -12      -10       15       -2        0        0
Other (net)                                   49     -149     -118       44       65       59
Exceptional financing                          15       25        0      109      115       65
Errors and omissions                           10      -19      -45      -17        0        0
Overall balance                               382     -204     -189       42      126       53
Change in net reserves (- increase)          -382      204      189      -42     -126      -53
Gross official reserves                     -318      206      194      -18     -175     -104
IMF (net)                                     3        0        -4      -23       49       50
Purchases                                    3        0         0        0       66       52
Repurchases                                  0        0        -4      -23      -16       -1
Other foreign liabilities                    -67       -1       -1       -2        0        0
Memorandum items:
Current account (in percent of GDP)           5.4     -5.0      0.5      1.4     -0.4      -2.2
Mineral                                     13.8      5.9     13.0     18.8     14.7      11.1
Nonmineral                                  -8.4    -11.0    -12.5    -17.3    -15.1    -13.3
Net reserves (US$ million)                   532      328       139      181      307      360
Gross reserves (US$ million)                 586      380       187      204      379      483
Gross reserves (mths. of non-mineral imports)  5.4     3.3      2.0      2.1      3.6      4.3
Debt service ratio (percent)                 17.7     17.0     22.5     27.3     16.9      14.2
Debt to GDP ratio (percent)                  35.5     40.8     45.8     43.8     39.1     32.4
Source: IMF.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
Table 3. Papua New Guinea: Summary of Central Government Operations, 1996-2000
1996     1997     1998     1999     2000
Est.    Proj.
(kina million)
Revenue                                       1837.5  2201.5   2299.8   2612.6   2884.1
Tax 1/                                       1526.4   1674.4   1595.4   1944.4   2124.6
Non-tax 2/3/                                  141.0    215.1    234.1    163.0    214.9
Grants 4/                                     170.1    312.0    470.3    505.2    544.7
Expenditure                                   1861.0   2192.4   2486.5   2739.5   3051.0
Recurrent                                    1608.2   1819.8   1927.4   1989.8   2046.6
Salaries and wages 5/                         604.2    655.4    690.2    762.7    814.2
Pre-1999 Arrears                                 ..       ..       ..   148.8    109.0
Interest                                      257.3    297.6    335.4    389.0    380.8
Domestic                                     174.5    206.3    228.0    260.7    233.3
Foreign                                       82.8     91.3    107.4    128.3    147.4
Development                                   252.8    372.6    559.1    749.7   1004.4
Project grants                                   ..       ..       ..   379.4    529.1
Concessional Loans                               ..       ..       ..    74.8       93.7
Domestic Funds                                   ..       ..       ..   295.5    280.6
Structural Adjustment Expenditures               ..       ..       ..       ..   101.0
Overall balance, public accounts               -23.5       9.1   -186.7   -126.9   -166.8
Residual deficit 6/                               ..        ..       ..  -130.8       0.0
Overall balance, including residual deficit    -23.5       9.1   -186.7   -257.7   -166.8
(in percent of GDP)
Revenue                                         26.1     29.4      25.8     24.6     25.1
Tax 1/                                         21.7     22.3      17.9     18.3     18.5
Non-tax 2/3/                                    2.0      2.9       2.6      1.5      1.9
Grants 4/                                       2.4      4.2       5.3      4.8      4.7
Expenditure                                     26.5      29.2     27.9     25.9     26.6
Recurrent                                      22.9     24.3      21.7     18.8     17.8
Salaries and wages 5/                           8.6      8.7      7.8      7.2       7.1
Pre-1999 Arrears                                 ..       ..       ..      1.4       1.0
Interest                                        3.7      4.0      3.8      3.7       3.3
Domestic                                       2.5      2.8       2.6      2.5      2.0
Foreign                                        1.2       1.2      1.2      1.2      1.3
Development                                     3.6       5.0      6.3      7.1      8.8
Project grants                                   ..       ..       ..      3.6       4.6
Concessional Loans                               ..       ..       ..      0.7       0.8
Domestic Funds                                   ..       ..       ..      2.8       2.4
Structural Adjustment Expenditures               ..       ..       ..       ..       0.9
Overall balance, public accounts                -0.3       0.1     -2.1     -1.3     -1.5
Residual deficit 6/                               ..        ..       ..    -1.2       0.0
Overall balance, including residual deficit     -0.3       0.1     -2.1     -2.5     -1.5
Source: IMF.
1/ In 1999 includes estimated K20 million in VAT revenue received into accrual trust account but not yet distributed.
2/ In 1999 includes estimated Kl 1 million in license fees received into accrual trust account.
3/ In 2000 K30.2 million of nontax revenue and expenditure, previously off-budget and now double counted, are consolidated.
4/ In 2000 all Australian grants are project grants.
5/ In 2000 and 2001 includes allowance for wage increase.
6/ The residual deficit is the difference between identified revenues and expenditures, and financing.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
Table 4. Papua New Guinea: Monetary Survey, 1994-2000
(kina million)
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998        1999    2000
Est.    Proj.
Foreign Assets (net)         109.4   291.5   845.5   780.9    462.5    666.0   981.0
Monetary Authority           -7.0   209.0   716.1    589.3    291.0   489.0   808.0
Commercial Banks            116.4    82.5   129.4   191.6    171.5    177.0   173.0
Domestic Credit             1750.7   1776.5   1891.3  2320.4  2716.4  2696.0  2657.0
Claims on Govt. (net)       488.1    574.6   684.9   840.2    969.3   1077.0   954.0
Claims on Private Sector 1/  1262.6   1201.9   1206.4  1480.2   1747.1   1619.0   1703.0
Other Items (net)           -195.4   -225.7   -305.2   -503.0   -533.0   -481.0  -502.0
TOTAL LIQUIDITY              1664.7   1842.3  2431.6  2598.3   2645.9  2882.0  3136.0
Narrow Money                 571.3   645.8   864.9   919.5   1021.3   1238.0  1287.0
Currency in circulation     166.2    180.5   208.1    225.0    276.9
Demand deposits             405.1    465.3    656.8   694.5    744.4
Quasi Money                 1093.4   1196.4  1566.7   1678.7   1624.5   1643.0  1849.0
Savings deposits            269.8   272.7   312.0   329.8    333.9
Time deposits               823.6   923.7   1254.7   1348.9   1290.6        ..
Memorandum item
Total Liquidity Growth (%)      2.4     10.7    32.0       6.9      1.8      8.9      8.8
1/ Includes credit to other nonfinancial public sector and financial institutions.
Source: Bank of Papua New Guinea and IMF.



Annex 4
Papua New Guinea: Status of Bank Group Operations /a
A. Operations Portfolio
Closed Projects: 48
Difference Between
Board   ----------------Active Projects ---------------  Last PSR                                                  Expected and Actual
Date                                                Supervision Rating       ----Original Amount in US$ Millions----   Disbursements /b
Fiscal                                          Development Implementation    IBRD         IDA   Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig. Frm Rev'd
Year                                             Objectives     Progress
1992    P004389 ORO SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM             S             S             27.0       0.0      0.0     13.5       13.5       0.0
1993    P004392 EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT                S             S             35.0       0.0      0.0     17.3       17.3       0.0
1993    P004399 POPULATION & FAMILY PLAN.            S             S              6.9       0.0      0.0      3.1        3.1       0.0
1994    P004391 PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT T              S             S             11.0       0.0      0.0      0.1       0.1        0.0
1998    P055446 EMERGENCY EL NINO                   U             U               5.0       0.0      0.0      4.3       3.0        0.0
2000    P054238 GAZELLE RESTORATION                  S             S             25.3       0.0      0.0     25.3        1.2       0.0
ia As of April 30, 2000.
lb Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
B. IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
(In US$ millions)
--------------------- -------Held ------------D----------  -- -- ----Disbursed-------------------
FY Approval Company                                        Loan         Equity Quasi-Eq. Participat.    Loan   Equity Quasi-Eq. Participat.
1995 PIIF Masurina Corporation                      0.11           0.00      0.00      0.00     0.11      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:                               0.11           0.00      0.00      0.00      0.11     0.00      0.00      0.00






ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
Papua New Guinea at a glance                                                                     5/18/00
Papua       East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    New      Asia &   middle-
Guinea    Pacific  income        Development diamond*
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                         4.6     1,817       908                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     890        990     1,710
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       4.1      1,802     1,557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Populatior ()                                          2.3       1.2       1.1
Labor force (%)                                         2.3       1.6       1.5      GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                capita                       enrollment
Poverty (96 of population below national poverty line)
Urban populalion (% of total population)                17         35        58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        58         69        68
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                61         37        38
Child malnutrition (% ofchildren under 5)               30         20        ..                Access to safe water
Access to sate water (% of population)                  31         77        75
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     ..        15        14
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   80        117       103              Papua New Guinea
Male                                                  87        119       105              Lower-middle-incone group
Female                                                74        118       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978     1988      1997      1998
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                             1.9      3.7       5.2       4.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                22.6      27.2      24.6      26.2                     Trade
Exports of gcods and services/GDP            41.9      43.3      48.8      59.1
Gross domestic savings/GOP                    19.1     18.5      21.0      24.5
Gross national savings/GDP                   26.3      11.3      15.2      21.8
Current account balance/GDP                   -2.8    -15.1      -9.4       -4.4     .o//s\\
Interest payments/GDP                          1.8      4.5       1.9       1.2      Domestic                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                               29.9      61.5      49.5      62.3      Savings
Total debt service/exports                    17.5     28.3      20.3      22.5
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..      35.3
Present value of debVexports                    ..       ..      70.6
Indebtedness
1978-88  198898      1997      1998   1998-2
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  1.7      4.6      -2.4       1.4       4.4             Papua New Guinea
GNP per capita                       -0.7     2.1      -7.0       0.3       1.9               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        3.6      9.1      -1.2      10.4       2.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1978     1988      1997      1998      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           8
Agriculture                                  36.0      29.1      34.7      34.9      60
Industry                                     25.4      34.2      30.6      32.7        t -
ManufaCtUring                                9.7      9.3        8.6       8.1     20
Services                                     38.6      36.7      34.7      32.5    -20       -
Private consumption                          55.3      60.6      58.7      57.6    _40
General government consumption               25.6      20.9      20.3      18.0                     GDI         GDP
Imports of goods and services                45.4      51.9      52.4      60.8
1978-88  1988-98      1997      1998      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    2.0      2.8      -2.8       -6.1    40
Industry                                      3.5       8.4     -11.9       9.9    30        -
Manu)acturing                                0.7      3.8        1.8    -11.3    20
Services                                      2.1       2.8       6.5       0.4
Private consumption                            1.4      2.32.3                                       .. ..         o-
General government consumption                -1.3      0.8        ..        ..                              96   97   98
Gross clomestic investment                     0.4      3.7      -7.8       4.1
Imports of goods and services                 0.8       4.8       3.9      13.4               -Exports        C  Imports
Gross national product                         1.5      4.4      -4.9       2.6   |
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
Papua Newl Guinea
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1978     1988      1997      1998       Inflation (%)
Domestic prnces
(% change)                                                                           30 -
Consumer prices                                          5.4       4.0       13.6    20 .
Implicit GOP detlator                          -2.0      7.9        9.2     17.1    10
Govemment finance                                                                     s        _C
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   o
Current revenue                                         28.5      25.2      20 6              93    94    95    9S    97    9B
Current budget balance                                   3.0        0.9     -1.1             -G DP deflator   - CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                            -4.0     -7.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1978     1988       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS mill.1
Total exports (fob)                                    1,472     2,186     1,849     3,000
Gold                                           4. 67             501       607      2.00
Copper                                         ..      516       226       323
Manufactures                                   2.00
Total imports (cif)                                    1,589      1,972    1,425     :,-
Food                                                   256       244       177      1co00
Fuel and energy                                        171       208       151       s00
Capital goods                                          516       763       551         o
Export price index (1995=100)                                                               92   93   94   95   96   37  98
Import price index (1995=100)                    .         ..        ..        ..                 t Exports     e Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                 ..         ..        ..                                             -
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1978     1988       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                  749    1,598      2,502     2,147      20-
Imports of goods and services                  905    1.820      2,659     2,115      15
Resource balance                              -156      -222      -157        32    | 
Net income                                     -65      -208      -303      -237   |5
Net current transfers                          166      -125       -32        13
Current account balance                        -55      -554      -492      -192       5                   95
Financing items (net)                           62      495        289         3     -10
Changes in net reserves                          -7      59        204       189   |151
Memo:                                                                               I_I
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..       ..       380       187
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)                0.7      0.9        1.4       2.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978     1988       1997     1998
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           583    2,250      2,589     2,692
IBRD                                          51      162        270       267
IDA                                           36      114        101       100                     G: 157   A 267
Total debt service                             138      498        531       483                                    C.4f
IBRD                                           6       24         47        45
IDA                                            0        1          3         3
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                     0:493
Official grants                              266      307        185                  F: 1,163
Official creditors                            13       37         -4       -20
Private creditors                            -76       48        104       120
Foreign direct investment                      ..
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0                                          E 466
World Bank program
Commitments                                                                       | A- IBRD                      E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                  7       36         48        14      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Priwate
Principal repayments                           2       12         31        31      C-IMF                        G - Short-term
Netflows                                       5       24         18       -18    1                                           I
Interest payments                              4       13         19        17
Net transfers                                  1       11         -2       -35
Development Economics                                                                                                   5/18100



