Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 23734
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
GOVERNANCE PROMOTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan No. 7021-PNG)
June 27, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 27, 2002)
Currency Unit  =   Kina (K)
1 Kina             US$ 0.251
US$1.00             K3.984
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: Metric System
FISCAL YEAR: January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BPNG       -   Bank of Papua New Guinea
CAS        -   Country Assistance Strategy
CACC       -   Central Agencies Coordination Committee
CSTB       -   Central Supply and Tenders Board
FED        -   Financial Evaluation Division
GPAL       -   Governance Promotion Adjustment Loan
IMF        -   International Monetary Fund
MRSF       -   Mineral Resources Stabilization Fund
MVIL       -   Motor Vehicle Insurance Limited
NEC        -   National Executive Council
NGO        -   Non-Governmental Organization
NPF        -   National Provident Fund
ORD        -   Office of Rural Development
PNGBC      -   Papua New Guinea Banking Corporation
PSC        -   Public Service Commission
RDB        -   Rural Development Bank
RDP        -   Rural Development Program
SBA        -   Stand-By Arrangement
Vice President                       :    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director                     :    Klaus Rohland, EACNF
Sector Director and Chief Economnist  :   Homi Kharas, EASPR
ICR Task Manager                          Thang-Long Ton, EASPR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
GOVERNANCE PROMOTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan No. 7021-PNG)
CONTENTS
1.  Project Data .........................................1
2.  Principal Performance Ratings .........................................2
3.  Assessment of Development Objectives, Design,
and Quality at Entry .........................................2
4.  Achievement of Objectives .........................................9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome .......................... 18
6.  Sustainability ........................................     20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................  21
8. Lessons Learned ........................................     23
9. Partner Comments ........................................    24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators .28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing .28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits .28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs .29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components 30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performnance .31
Annex 7. Output and Achievements .32






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
GOVERNANCE PROMOTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan No. 7021-PNG)
Project ID: P069771                  Project Name: Governance Promotion Adjustment Loan
Team Leaders: Cyrus Talati           TL Unit: EASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                   Report Date: June 27, 2002
1. Proiect Data
Name: Governance Promotion Adjustment Loan
Country! Papua New Guinea                              Region: East Asia and
Department:                                         .              Pacific Region
Sector/subsector: KY - Other Economic Policy
Key Dates                                                        Original   Revised/Actual
Project Concept Document     3/8/2000   Effectiveness    6/21/2000        6/21/2000
Appraisal      5/1/2000
Approval     6/13/2000        Closing    12/31/2001       12/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Central Agencies Coordination Committee
Other Partners: None
Staff                              At ICR preparation          At Appraisal
Vice President:                    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP  Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:                  Klaus Rohland, EACNF        Klaus Rohland, EACNF
Chief Economist and Sector Director:  Homi Kharas, EASPR       Homi Kharas, EASPR
Team Leader:                       Cyrus Talati, EASPR         Cyrus Talati, EASPR
ICR Primary Writer:                Thang-Long Ton, EASPR
Country Team Reviewers for the ICR:  Sanjay Dhar EASPR



- 2 -
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory; HL = Highly Likely; L = Likely; UN = Unlikely,
HUN = Highly Unlikely, HU = Highly Unsatisfactory, H = High, SU  Substantial, M = Modest, N = Negligible)
2.1.  The principal performance ratings are as follows:
Outcome:                             S
Sustainability:                      L
Institutional Development Impact:    SU
Bank Performance:                    S
Borrower Performance:                S
ICR                (AG (if available)
Quality at entry                                        not available
Project at Risk at any time          yes                not available
3. Assessment of Development Obiectives, Design and Ouality at Entry
3.1   Original Objective
Background
3.1.1. In mid-1999, Papua New Guinea (PNG) found itself on the verge of an economic and
financial crisis. The crisis was the culmination of years of deteriorating economic management,
lax fiscal discipline and a breakdown in budget processes and implementation; declining business
confidence and investment had led to poor economic performance and a breakdown in public
service delivery. Social indicators were stagnant and the incidence of poverty was relatively
high. The decline in performance coincided with increased political intrusion into the civil
service and economic activities and widespread governance problems which were responsible for
declining state institutions.
3.1.2. Coincident with the deterioration in governance, economic performance was also
adversely affected by a number of external shocks. These included a severe drought in 1997 and
then the aftermath of the Asian financial crisis which depressed export earnings and overall poor
terms of trade. The kina depreciated as capital outflows intensified with the deterioration of
confidence and international confidence also declined sharply.
3.1.3. Against this backdrop, a new reform-oriented government was formed in July 1999 with
a mandate to stabilize macroeconomic conditions, improve the transparency and governance of
public institutions, undertake much needed but deferred structural reforms and restore relations
with international financial institutions and bilateral partners. It sought to address the root causes
of the economic decline through a comprehensive multi-sector reform program which it framed
in collaboration with its principal development partners. The program was supported by the
International Monetary Fund (1MF) through a Stand By Arrangement (SBA), the World Bank
through a structural adjustment loan, the Asian Development Bank through a public sector
reform loan and parallel financing from the European Union, Australia, and Japan.



-3 -
3.1.4. Although formal arrangements with the Bank and IRF did not commence until the
second quarter of 2000, the government began to implement its reform agenda immediately upon
taking office, commencing with a supplementary budget for 1999. Building on that, an
impressive track record of broad-based reforms was achieved, leading up to the formal approval
of IMF and Bank programs in April and June 2000, respectively.
3.1.5. Implementation of the reform program over the remainder of 2000 and through 2001
proved more challenging than envisaged as a number of unexpected events distracted the
government, requiring considerable attention to remedy. These included army unrest over
various issues early in 2001 and were followed by anti-reform demonstrations and civil unrest
that turned violent. Ongoing opposition to the privatization program, a major plank of the reform
agenda, resulted in delays and required greater mediation and outreach efforts on the part of the
authorities. Overall, the reform program was implemented despite considerable domestic
opposition to it and amid an ongoing deterioration in the external environment facing PNG.
Objectives
3.1.6. The Governance Promotion Adjustment Loan (GPAL) sought to reverse the decline in
economic management and restore the integrity of public institutions through a program of policy
reforms designed to strengthen economic management and improve governance. Economic
management was to be strengthened through a series of measures aimed at improving: (a) fiscal
management to enhance macroeconomic stability; (b) improving debt management; and
(c) improving the operating environment for business. Reforms to improve governance were
designed to: (i) improve governance and enhance transparency and accountability; (ii) restore
civil service efficiency and effectiveness; (iii) enhance the delivery of health and education
services and forestry management through strengthening institutions; and (iv) increase the
efficiency of financial services and reduce systemic risk through reform of the pension industry
and privatization of the state bank group.
3.2   Revised Objectives
3.2.1. No revisions were made with respect to the above objectives.
3.3   Original Components .
3.3.1. In accordance with the major objectives outlined in Section 3.1 above, the key policy and
institutional changes supported under the GPAL were as follows:



-4 -
Strengthen Economic Management
3.3.2. Improve Fiscal Management and Enhance Macroeconomic Management. The GPAL
supported a series of measures which sought to enhance transparency, restore expenditure control
and predictability to budget implementation, and to reduce waste. In so doing, it promoted good
practice with respect to recording and treatment of domestic arrears which had become large and
a source of macroeconomic instability. A quarterly arrears identification and monitoring system
was established to support clearance of these substantial pre-1999 arrears. Specific measures
were designed to enhance macroeconomic stability and promote growth including timely
execution of the development budget (public investment program). At the same time, support to
priority areas such as health, education and law and order was also stepped up, beginning with
the 2000 Budget. To improve fiscal discipline, the government developed a new monthly
warrant control system for non-wage, non-interest recurrent spending and announced a public
sector hiring freeze (with exclusions for a few priority areas such as medical personnel). Trust
accounts for recurrent expenditures, whose proliferation was compromising cash management,
were abolished in early 2000. To strengthen control and monitoring of the wage bill, it
commenced an integration of the five separate public sector payrolls and committed to
establishing an integrated payroll and human resource records management system.
3.3.3. To ensure that budgetary expenditures under the GPAL did not add to recurrent spending
in an unsustainable manner, the government committed to ensuring that in aggregate such
expenditure would be undertaken only on a series of approved targets in the 2000 Budget. These
expenditure items were generally to be "one-off' in nature and related to the structural reform
program with no future recurrent spending implications or those which would generate future
savings for the budget. These activities to improve fiscal management-when combined with
other reinforcing elements of the GPAL-were designed to bring about an improvement in the
structure of the budget.
3.3.4. Debt Management. The lack of debt management capability and erosion of existing
capacity had been costly to the government. Public domestic debt and debt service obligations
increased significantly during the 1990s, the bulk of which comprised 180-day or lesser maturity
treasury bills and accounted for a progressively larger share of recurrent expenditures. At the
same time, the external debt burden had also increased due to the significant depreciation of the
kina against major currencies in the 1990s.
3.3.5. A good start was made in this area through the prohibition of central bank financing of
the budget deficit which was a major element of the new Central Bank Act (2000) that preceded
effectiveness of the GPAL. This was followed by changes to the framework governing
transactions of government securities by the Central Bank. Under these changes, the
responsibility for debt management and issuance of government securities was transferred from
the Central Bank to the Department of Finance and Treasury, now the Department of Treasury.
Market determined rates were to be paid on all government securities. In this manner, a more
orderly reconstruction of domestic debt was to be undertaken.



3.3.6. The government was also committed to establishing a fully functioning debt management
office and undertaking a comprehensive review to strengthen debt management policy, including
introduction of improved instruments, portfolio restructuring and exposure management as
appropriate. These activities were envisaged to support a lengthening of the maturity of the
domestic debt portfolio through issuance of longer-term domestic securities as well as a
reduction of the domestic debt overhang. Other improvements were to be made with respect to
disclosure of government cash flow requirements to improve the functioning of financial markets
and boost the confidence of the private sector. Government policy directed that privatization
receipts be utilized to retire public debt.
3.3.7. In addition, the government committed to repeal the Mineral Resources Stabilization
Fund (MRSF) Act and abolish the fund as it was yielding less return than the cost of government
borrowing and was perceived to be a source of non-transparency and subject to inappropriate
manipulation. The government therefore decided to close the MRSF in an orderly and
appropriate manner.
3.3.8. Operating environment for business. To improve the operating environment for business
and provide a basis for private sector development, government policy focused on: (a) a
withdrawal of government through privatization from areas where the private sector could more
efficiently and effectively provided services, which inter alia, would also free up scarce public
resources to better focus on core priorities and functions; (b) a comprehensive taxation review
which would ensure the competitiveness, efficiency and equity of the taxation system; and (c) a
review of competition policy in order to identify and address important impediments to private
sector economic participation.
3.3.9. Privatization of key state-owned enterprises commenced with the establishment of the
legal and institutional foundations for the process of privatization. The enactment of the
Privatization Act and establishment of the Privatization Commission in 1999 set the stage for
privatization of the major utilities and the state bank conglomerate, which were supported under
the GPAL. The GPAL sought to support this process by back-stopping key steps in the
privatization process. These included: (a) completion of up-to-date audits; (b) design and
implementation of appropriate industry structural arrangements; (c) design of appropriate
community service obligations arrangements; (d) design of appropriate forms of privatization for
the entities. In addition, commitments were also made under the GPAL to ensure that due
diligence review exercises for these entities were undertaken.
3.3.10. A broad-based taxation review was launched by the incoming government to respond to a
variety of concerns regarding the competitiveness of the tax regime in PNG relative to other
countries in the region as well as on questions of buoyancy, efficiency and equity. A major focus
of the review was to be the mining sector tax regime as well as issues relating to personal and
corporate income tax systems, import tariffs and the program for their reduction and duty
concessions. While safeguarding future tax revenues, the broad objective was to ensure an
appropriate system of taxation that would encourage increased private sector investment and
boost growth.



-6 -
3.3.11. The third set of initiatives to improve the prospects for business was to undertake a
review of competition policy in order to identify impediments to business activity which were
then to be addressed. This was to focus on the investment regime, to identify entry (and exit)
barriers as well as on the system of administered prices and their regulation and the implications
of the system for economic efficiency.
Improving Governance
3.3.12. Poor governance, fraud, corruption and waste in PNG were seen as the prime cause
behind the deterioration in public institutions and public sector outcomes. Particular areas
singled out by the govemment for reform and improvement were improving governance to
promote accountability and transparency in public spending and to strengthen institutions of
accountability. In addition, the reformn targeted public service delivery in the key social sectors of
health and education, forestry management, and the financial sector with a focus on pension
reform and banking. The GPAL was designed to support these initiatives with specific
components in each area.
3.3.13. Beginning in 1999, the govemment made a policy cornmitment to rebuild the integrity of
public institutions, restore the role and independence of the civil service and reduce the scope for
corruption. It subsequently built upon that pledge by undertaking a number of actions with
respect to re-establishing proper cabinet procedures, establishing a Central Agencies
Coordination Committee (CACC), replacing the Board of the Central Supply and Tenders Board
(CSTB) with citizens of repute and a comprehensive overhaul of the framework and functioning
of the Rural Development Program (RDP). With the support of the GPAL, it committed to
further these reforms through greater disclosure of budget outcomes and other measures to
promote fiscal transparency, strengthening of the key agencies of accountability (Office of the
Auditor General, Ombudsman Commission and Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee),
strengthening of the central government procurement system and to admninister and manage the
RDP under the newly established framework.
3.3.14. Civil service efficiency and effectiveness. To reverse the deterioration in public sector
management and the provision of public services, a systematic process for decision making was
instituted with the CACC playing a vital role in the coordination of advice to the National
Planning Committee and the National Executive Council (NEC). The CACC was also
empowered to take the lead in public sector reform, establish policies to return responsibility for
civil service appointment and termination decisions and terms and conditions of senior
executives to the appropriate agencies, commence a series of department functional reviews
which were to be implemented under the GPAL, as well as coordinate the preparation and
implementation of the 2001 and 2002 Budgets.
3.3.15. Delivery of health and education services. Having declared health and education as
priority sectors, the govemment set about increasing budgetary resources to these areas
commencing in 2000. To reduce waste and fraud, the database of teachers underwent a detailed
review to identify and rectify anomalies that resulted in ongoing overpayment of salaries and
allowances. A National Health Information System was developed and implemented to identify



-7-
local health priorities and monitor service delivery. A health budget format was developed at the
national level to conform to priority programs and monitor resource allocation. To further these
reforms, the government agreed to finalize a comprehensive national health plan through 2010,
under the GPAL. It also committed to specific actions to facilitate the restocking of aid posts
with medical supply kits.
3.3.16. Forestry management. With virtually all forested land in PNG under customary
ownership by local clans and forest sector development largely under individual/corporate
management, forestry sector governance is a critical issue for ensuring efficiency, equity and
sustainability in the exploitation of the resource. To that end, the government took a number of
early measures to support these objectives. These included the reinstatement of the export tax
regime for logs, provision of adequate resources in 2000 to enable the continuation of
independent pre-shipment inspection service for log exports, and a moratorium on issuance of
new timber harvesting permits (including for extensions and forestry conversions). The GPAL
was to build on these initiatives. Further changes were to be supported with respect to the
revenue and royalty regime for logs. An independent review was to be undertaken of the large
pipeline of projects pending approval-that the previous government had attempted to fast
track-and which were the subject of the moratorium, in order to identify and address serious
shortcomings in the acquisition of forest resources. Finally, amendments were to be made to the
Forestry Act to strengthen the regulatory framework for the clearance of forested land, increase
disclosure by the Forestry Board, and strengthen the workings of the Board and other forestry
sector participants. The amendments were to provide the legal and institutional framework for
improved sector governance and set the stage for less environmentally exploitative logging and
ensure greater accountability in the management of this resource.
3.3.17. Efficiency offinancial services and reduction of systemic risk. Recognizing the critical
role played by the financial sector in ensuring the smooth functioning of all economic activities,
including mobilizing and intermediating savings, pooling risk and effective investment appraisal,
the govemment singled this out as an area for reform. A deterioration in sector governance
during the 1990s resulted in loss of central bank independence, near insolvency of the largest
pension fund, proliferation of ponzi type pyramid schemes and concerns about the health of the
banking sector resulting from the establishment and activities of a conglomerate which included
the state bank. The government began to address these issues in a comprehensive manner. First,
it prepared and enacted a new Central Bank Act to strengthen central bank independence and
proscribe deficit financing and a new Banks and Financial Institutions Act to strengthen and
clarify licensing, regulation and prudential supervision of financial institutions. It vigorously
pursued and shut down ponzi-type financial schemes and undertook independent financial and
performance audits of the two largest superannuation funds. Following completion of these
audits, it took short-term measures to stabilize the National Provident Fund (NPF), appointed a
commission of inquiry to look into the affairs of the NPF and announced an action plan to reform
the pension fund industry. With respect to the state bank conglomerate, Finance Pacific Group, it
made a commitment to privatize the state bank, Papua New Guinea Banking Corporation
(PNGBC), and dispose off the remaining entities in the group.



3.4   Revised Components
3.4.1 None.
3.5   Quality at Entry
Quality of the design
3.5.1 The GPAL is rated satisfactory for quality at entry. The design of the operation was
based largely on a comprehensive Country Economic Memorandum which had been prepared
and finalized just as the new government assumed office. ' The report represented the
culmination of many years of work on Papua New Guinea by a number of Bank staff in a variety
of important areas. Many of the issues contained in it had been the subject of some years of
dialogue with government officials. The key areas it covered included public sector
management, private sector development, financial sector development, and forestry
management-all with a focus on governance. As such, the analysis and scope of the report
presented a unique opportunity to design a comprehensive reform program.
3.5.2 Consistency of the project with the CAS and government priorities. The Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for PNG called for operations that emphasized improvements in the
governance framework for sustainable development and enhance rural development. Further, the
CAS explicitly recognized that the change of government in mid-1999 presented a window of
opportunity to support a far reaching reform program under the leadership of the Prime Minister
and advocated a progressive reengagement in PNG, based on tangible demonstrations of
government commitments to its development agenda and reform program.
3.5.3. This strategy was reflected in the preparation of the GPAL which took account of
recommendations by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department that no adjustment lending
operations be undertaken in PNG.2 The operation therefore required a relatively long lead time
during which intensive discussions were undertaken with the government to foster and ensure
strong ownership of the reform program, and to establish a track record of policy reform. Thus,
the decision to undertake the GPAL was based on the strong reformist credentials of the Prime
Minister, and on the substantial engagement of government officials as well as the achievement
of a significant quantum of reforms which built a credible track record of reform implementation.
That effort and investment are judged to have reaped benefit through the government's strong
commitment during implementation in the face of considerable adversity and a souring of public
support which might otherwise have led to its abandonment. The GPAL covered both
macroeconomic and structural issues. Key issues it addressed related to public finances, budget
management, private sector development, financial sector development and forestry
management. There was extensive collaboration with the IMF on macroeconomic issues and a
number of the issues had been previously discussed with stakeholders including NGOs.
Papua New Guinea: Improving Governance and Performance, Report No. 19388-PNG, World Bank, October 1999.
2Papua New Guinea: Country Assistance Evaluation, Report No. 20183, World Bank, March 2000.



9-
3.5.4. Major risks to the operation were accurately assessed and clearly highlighted in the
preparation of the program. The country faced political instability, weak implementation
capacity, economic vulnerability and a law and order situation ill-suited to private investment.
During program implementation, the capacity issues and political opposition came to the fore and
led to a challenging environment for the government. Completion of the program in the face of
these difficulties was ascribed mainly to the government's perseverance.
3.5.5. Compliance with safeguards policies: Not applicable.
4. Achievement of Obiectives
4.1 . Outcome/Achievement of Objectives
4.1.1. The GPAL supported PNG's economic and institutional reform program by strengthening
economic management, policy implementation and delivery of key social services within a
framework of improved governance. It sought to support the government to redress
shortcomings in past public policies and poor governance. The operation was also implemented
in parallel with an IMF's SBA, approved in April 2000. The SBA was completed successfully in
2001, a first for PNG as two previous such programs did not conclude successfully. The
achievements under the GPAL have been substantial and impressive, including the policy actions
undertaken, leading to release of the first tranche.
4.1.2. Macroeconomic Performance. After a prolonged period of economic instability, the
government which was elected in mid-1999 worked diligently to implement a program of
stabilization under difficult economic and political circumstances. The government succeeded in
stabilizing the economy given the dire situation it inherited in 1999. Notwithstanding the
adverse exogenous economic factors and political problems, fiscal policy was broadly
appropriate, inflation was cut in half and international reserves were about quadrupled compared
with mid-1999. Thus, a satisfactory macroeconomic framework has been maintained and was
endorsed by the IMF Board in its final review of the SBA. Looking to the future, however, PNG
continues to face a difficult economic situation that will require continuous careful economic
management, given the modest recovery projected for 2002. The major targets set by the
government for 2002 are achievable, but its program remains subject to a number of risks,
including sensitivity of budget revenue to further downturns in the price of oil and other
commodities, further deterioration in the external environment, risks associated with the
significant reliance on privatization receipts, and those arising from increased uncertainties in an
election year.
4.1.3. Structural Reforms. The government's reform program, supported by the GPAL, sought
to reverse the decline in the management and decision making of public institutions in PNG in
order to raise governance standards and address issues of waste, fraud and corruption. The
government has made considerable progress in carrying out the program and clearly recognized
the imperatives of strengthening budget management and increasing civil service effectiveness.



- 10-
4.2   Outputs by Components
Strengthen Economic Management
4.2.1. Improving fiscal management and enhancing macroeconomic stability. The government
has maintained its commitment to improving fiscal management. Budget implementation has
focused on restoring predictability in the provision of resources to departments and agencies. In
addition to the repayment of substantial arrears-equivalent to about 4 percent of GDP-an
arrears monitoring system was established to ensure no accumulation of arrears in the future.
The public sector hiring freeze was maintained-which allowed limited new hiring in priority
areas-while the government also pursued a program of selective retrenchment in 2000 (2,054
personnel) and 2001 (1,350+ personnel). Despite a large intake of new school teachers at the
provincial and local levels in 2000, the medium-term savings to the public payroll should be
tangible.
4.2.2. The initial consolidation of the five separate public sector payrolls resulted in immediate
benefits. First, it allowed a crude payroll and employment monitoring system to be established in
the Department of Treasury. In addition, the exercise required considerable clean-up of the
individual payrolls to identify and rectify employment-related anomalies in records. This created
the foundation for migration to a single integrated payroll and human resource records
management system to improve budget management and remove fictitious workers. Under this
component of the GPAL, the substantial completion of a pilot phase in two national departments
was achieved, following which the system is to be rolled out to all national departments,
scheduled for completion by end 2002 under terms of a binding contract tied to a time-bound
action plan. Adequate financial resources have been budgeted in support of this through the
2002 Budget. Complementing these efforts, increases in public sector wages have been contained
to below inflation.
4.2.3. To improve fiscal management and enhance macroeconomic stability, full cash warrants
were released on a timely basis in 2000 as indicated by the 2000 Budget as required under the
GPAL. In 2001, full cash warrants were also released on a timely basis relative to the 2001
Budget, adjusted for the government's cash flow situation. To further underpin fiscal
management and macroeconomic stability, the government had also committed to maintain
expenditures on the structural reform program in 2000, consistent with approved targets in the
budget. These expenditures funded "one-off' initiatives with minimal recurrent implications
which were designed to lift public sector productivity in future years. The expenditures
undertaken in this case were in compliance with the agreed criteria under the GPAL-including
public sector reforms covering systems upgrade and retrenchment related costs, upgrading of
oversight institutions and costs incurred in preparation for privatization.
4.2.4. Improving debt management. Following a review of debt management undertaken in the
context of the functional review of the Department of Finance and Treasury, administrative and
staffing arrangements were put in place for a separate debt management unit in the Department
of Finance, known as the Financial Evaluation Division (FED) and technical assistance was
sourced from Australia and the Commonwealth Secretariat. Under this technical assistance the



- 11 -
recording and reporting system for external public debt was restored and a consolidated register
of government securities-the prevailing form of domestic public debt-was established.
Recommendations of the Treasury functional review pertaining to debt management were also
implemented. FED prepared a review of recent institutional changes in debt management as a
blueprint to guide future thinking in this area. A review of the government liability portfolio was
also completed. This provided comprehensive information on government guarantees and
contingent liabilities, for the first time. Some restructuring of the domestic debt portfolio was
achieved with the issuance of long term securities in 2001.
4.2.5. To further strengthen debt management and improve governance, the MRSF, which had
long ceased to carry out its revenue smoothing function, was closed down in an orderly manner,
as required under the GPAL. Accordingly, the balance of the MRSF deposit was offset against
treasury bills held by the Central Bank, and the MRSF Act was repealed by Parliament in
December 2000.
4.2.6. Improving the operating environment for business. The government made good progress
on its comprehensive privatization program as supported under the GPAL. This focused on the
preparation for sale of the major non-bank state-owned enterprises-Telikom, ELCOM,
Harbours Board and Air Niugini. The institutional framework for privatization was enhanced
when, following establishment of the Privatization Commission, a Central Agencies Working
Group was established to provide guidance on critical regulatory issues such as tariff policy and
price paths for the privatized entities. An Intemational Advisory Group continued to provide the
government with high quality advice on privatization. As required under the GPAL policies
were framed and endorsed by the NEC covering the form of privatization for each entity/sector,
industry structural arrangements and community service obligations. Preparatory work to
support these decisions included a comprehensive multi-sectoral regulatory review. Due
diligence reviews for the privatization of the entities were also initiated under terms of reference
agreed with the Bank, and were largely completed. Audits were undertaken by recognized
external auditors for all four entities. These revealed poor accounting practices, compounded by
poor record keeping and consequently the audits were heavily qualified. It was therefore not
possible for them to be compliant with international accounting standards as required under the
GPAL but this was mainly a technical issue which did not affect the overall progress towards
privatization. As the development objective of this component, which was to halt the erosion of
state assets and advance the privatization process, had been met, a waiver was requested and
granted by the Bank's Board.
4.2.7. The government implemented the recommendations of the 2000 Taxation Review which
went beyond commitments under the GPAL. Agreed changes that were implemented in the 2001
Budget included rescinding of ministerial discretion over import duty exemptions and revised
thresholds and bands for personal income tax. For 2002, these reforms were built on with further
changes to the taxation regime, both to harmonize and rationalize different aspects of taxation
and to maintain the competitiveness of the tax regime while retaining buoyancy and efficiency.
4.2.8. A review of competition policy was undertaken in conjunction with the comprehensive
regulatory review conducted for the privatization process. Resulting from this, an administrative



- 12.-
and legislative framework for competition policy administration and regulation was established.
Investment liberalization was also pursued through rationalization of the Reserved Activities
List. Finally, price decontrol of selected items was undertaken in conjunction with the above
activities.
Enhancing Governance
4.2.9. Improving govemnance. The commitment under the GPAL to fiscal transparency and
disclosure is reflected in the regularization and dissemination efforts of the Treasury Economic
Bulletin, which the government began to publish in early 2001 and through the early involvement
of the business community in the preparation of the 2002 Budget. Comprehensive briefings on
the 2002 Budget were also provided to the media and civil society groups. A large amount of
previously undisclosed information on the public finances is now available publicly.
4.2.10. The major reform to the RDP, initiated in 2000, was implemented in 2001 through the
Office of Rural Development (ORD) and the application of new guidelines for the program under
a new framework. The aim was to deliver development projects to local levels that reflected
local communities' needs within the framework of the Public Finances Management Act. The
authorities persevered in this endeavor despite considerable institutional and human resource
challenges. The program's success can be attributed in part to government acceptance and
endorsement of an external party from the private sector to oversee implementation of the
guidelines and in particular to enhance the control environment. Benefit has also been realized
by the twinning aspects of the private involvement.
4.2.11. As required under the GPAL, required funds were appropriated in the 2001 Budget for
the funding of the RDP and the Managing Agent and the contract for the latter, extended through
2001. There were, however, some adverse effects on program implementation due to cash flow
difficulties experienced by the government through most of 2001. These led to slower than
expected disbursements of project funds as well as difficulties in program management due to the
constrained availability of operational resources for the ORD, despite the provision of adequate
funds through the 2001 Budget as required under the GPAL. On an overall basis, however, funds
were disbursed within the agreed guidelines developed with the Bank and satisfactory progress
was made in terms of project delivery to rural areas though the pace of implementation was
slower than anticipated.
4.2.12. The fight against corruption initiated by the government made progress in 2000 and 2001
with advancement of legal action on high profile corruption cases. Unfortunately, during the
period of program implementation these did not yet result in any major prosecutions. Reform
agendas to strengthen the institutional capacity of key independent "watch dog" agencies, i.e., the
Office of the Auditor General, the Ombudsman Commission, and the Parliamentary Public
Accounts Comrmittee, were initiated in 2000 and continue, consistent with their independent
status. In particular, as agreed with the Bank financial resources to each of the three oversight
entities were increased for 2001. Institutional strengthening plans were subsequently drawn up
for the Auditor General's Office and the Ombudsman Commission and are under



- 13 -
implementation. The Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee was strengthened through a
private member's bill which sought to re-establish due process for the Committee..
4.2.13. The government replaced the Board of the CSTB in 1999, and followed this in 2000
through an assessment of the CSTB's performance and implementation of a short-term action
plan to improve its performance ahead of a more comprehensive review. That review was
conducted in 2001, covering the central government level, with plans for later extension to the
provincial level. The review found the CSTB to be the only one of the seven national supply and
tenders boards functioning reasonably well. Recommendations of the review, in the form of a
time bound action plan, were subsequently endorsed by NEC. These covered specific measures
to address identified shortcomings of the present system including, changes to the legal and
regulatory framework, amalgamation of the separate national boards into one board, and a
number of others designed to reduce fraud and waste and ensure value for money in the
expending of public funds.
4.2.14. Improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the civil service. A number of important
changes to restore the role of the civil service, reassert its independence and re-establish due
process have been made. Cabinet procedures were re-established with a clear and defined role
for NEC. The formation of the CACC with an important vetting and policy input role relative to
NEC, boosted the civil service and this was further strengthened through subsequent conferral of
legislative authority. In addition, in late 2001, the government announced major changes in the
Public Service Commission (PSC) to strengthen governance in the civil service, including a more
central role in the authority to hire, suspend or terminate departmental heads all on the basis of
merit.
4.2.15. Under the GPAL, the government committed to implement the findings of a series of
functional reviews covering key departments and agencies. These were managed by a Public
Sector Reform Management Unit, established in the Department of Prime Minister and NEC, and
focused on identifying core roles and resppnsibilities of agencies, refocusing government
priorities, improving efficiency and identifying savings. Recommendations of the reviews of
Foreign Affairs, Defense and Fisheries were incorporated in the 2001 Budget. Subsequently,
near term recommendations of the functional reviews of the Departments of Finance and
Treasury, Health, Works and Lands were also implemented in the 2001 Budget during the budget
year. Details of these were disclosed in the September 2001 Treasury Economic Monitor.
Anticipated cost savings from these reviews were slow to materialize as most called for
strengthening of various functions leading to increased resource requirements in the aggregate.
This was, however, indicative of the longer-term under-funding of departments and agencies
through the budget, which had resulted in agencies stretched in their mandates and objectives,
with little operational funds with which to implement programs and priorities. The Asian
Development Bank is providing a program of medium-term support in this area through a public
sector reform loan that was approved in December 2001.
4.2.16. Improving resources and delivery of health and education services. With the declaration
in the 2000 Budget of health and education as priorities, resources to these sectors were increased
and this was continued through the 2001 and 2002 Budgets. In particular in 2002, the



- 14 -
government substantially increased the resources directed to education through a large increase in
the education subsidy raising some concerns about the planning behind this change especially in
light of institutional and absorptive capacity concerns. In the health sector, an effort to establish
a common set of health budget parameters at the provincial level to improve monitoring of public
expenditure outcomes was introduced. The National Department of Health established minimum
standards for district health services in 2001 that established roles and responsibilities for service
institutions and service providers. These are designed to guide inter-regional distribution of
public expenditures in 2002 and beyond.
4.2.17. In 2000, a comprehensive National Health Plan was prepared and endorsed by NEC as
required under the GPAL. Implementation of the plan commenced through the 2001 Budget.
Additionally, the composition of medicines for aid post medical kits was assessed and approved
by the Pharmaceutical Advisory Committee and two orders were placed through the CSTB to
supply the pre-packed kits. Kits were subsequently distributed to health centers and aid posts as
agreed with the government.
4.2.18. Improving forestry management. To reverse the deterioration in forest sector governance,
the government took a number of measures during 1999-2000. These included reinstatement of
the previous export tax regime, a moratorium on issuance of new timber harvesting permits-and
fully funding of the independent service for pre-shipment inspection of log exports. The latter
has been maintained to date.
4.2.19. As agreed under the GPAL, in 2000 Parliament enacted comprehensive amendments to
the Forestry Act and related regulations requiring non-commercial disclosure by the Forestry
Board. The Forestry Act was also amended to adjust the composition of the Forestry Board to
broaden stakeholder representation and to establish clear appointment criteria to ensure selection
of suitably qualified individuals. Other amendments provide an improved regulatory framework
for the clearance of forested land for agricultural and infrastructure projects. Regulations were
promulgated in this respect in 2001. Implementation of these changes, however, remains
difficult.
4.2.20. The government also committed itself to undertake an independent review of projects
requiring harvesting permits that were pending approval due to concerns about apparent
avoidance of tendering processes and scrutiny under the Forestry Act and related regulations. An
expert team presented its findings on compliance of pending projects in 2001. Subsequently, an
independent review process was set in motion with an inter-agency working group established to
oversee the review. This review involved consultations with a broad range of independent
stakeholders and the recommendations in the form of a time-bound action plan were presented
and endorsed by NEC for implementation. The action plan has been made publicly available and
was designed to build a transparent and accountable framework for the forestry sector.
4.2.2 1. The review of the above-noted applications for timber harvesting permits generated
controversy during its implementation, which continued beyond the completion of the GPAL.
Due to process error on the part of the Bank, there was inconsistency and some unintended
ambiguity in the wording of the condition between the legal document for the GPAL and the



- 15 -
matrix attached to the government's Letter of Development Policy. While there was never any
deviation in views between the government and the Bank regarding the applicability of the
review to operations in the pipeline of applications and while this had been clearly
communicated to the NGO community prior to negotiations, it was nevertheless the
understanding of various NGOs that the review was to apply to all projects, including those
under implementation. Despite efforts by the Bank during the course of implementation to
further clarify the issue and to discuss the rationale for the condition, some groups were
disaffected and included this as one of a number of grievances brought before the Inspection
Panel of the World Bank, in a Request for Inspection. The Inspection Panel subsequently
recommended against an inspection to the Board of the World Bank. That recommendation was
accepted by the Board.
4.2.22. In 2001, the government undertook a review of the forestry revenue system, in particular
the export tax regime, to ensure adequate collection of economic rents and equitable and
consistent rent-sharing with landowners. The results were, however, not conclusive in some
respects and pointed to the need for a longer term examination and analysis of forestry issues that
the government recognized and committed to undertake. In keeping with its commitments and
based on the review of the forest revenue and royalty regime undertaken, the government
implemented measures relating to the export tax on logs and taxation of the plantation sector.
4.2.23. Improving efficiency offinancial services and reducing systemic risk. Responding to
concerns stemming from political intervention in financial institutions, in 1999 the government
announced plans to privatize the state bank, PNGBC and in early 2002, commissioned special
performance audits of the two major pension funds-the Public Officers' Superannuation Fund
and the NPF. The audits showed a deterioration in performance, highlighted potential
illegalities, and revealed that the NPF was in a precarious financial situation facing possible
insolvency. This led to the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into the NPF and efforts to
reform the pension industry and the NPF in particular.
4.2.24. Following announcement of its plans to reformn the pension and life insurance industries
in 2000, new legislation on the regulation and supervision of the pension industry-the
Superannuation Act, 2000-was enacted by Parliament, as agreed under the GPAL. This reform
placed the supervisory and regulatory framework for the sector under the central bank and
subsequent progress has been made in this respect.
4.2.25. With respect to the Commission of Inquiry into the NPF, the government had committed
to implementing the recommendations of the Commission. As the Inquiry became a broader
inquiry into the entire pension industry, the work of the Commission took considerably longer
than expected requiring several extensions. With uncertainty about its conclusion and the NPF
restored to financial health and operating under the new legislation with an improved corporate
governance structure, the development objective of the condition had been met and management
recommended to the Board that a waiver be granted in respect of it. The waiver was
subsequently granted. The proceedings of the Commission were made publicly available on an
Internet site on a regular basis and its findings are expected to have a significant impact on the
fight against corruption as well. Following disbursement of the Second Tranche the Inquiry



- 16 -
concluded its expert testimony phase and is presently preparing its final report. The work of the
Commission has contributed to further strengthening of governance in the pension industry as
well as in the government.
4.2.26. Under the Floating Tranche of the GPAL, the government had committed to undertake all
actions necessary to: (a) bring the PNGBC group to the point of sale; and (b) dispose of the
remaining assets in the Finance Pacific Limited/Finance Pacific Group. With respect to (a), the
process entailed a number of steps which were accomplished in close consultation with the Bank.
4.2.27. A legal review was undertaken of all the laws impacting on privatization of the respective
assets and clarification of the legal status of and process for privatization of the PNGBC group.
This was followed by completion of necessary due diligence reports, restructuring and
valuations. In tandem, the community service obligations of PNGBC were identified and
policies designed and implemented to address these. Accounts for the group were brought up to
date. In the process, payments between PNGBC group and the government were identified,
categorized and disclosed and a settlement timetable was established. A privatization plan for
the sale/disposal of the assets in the group was established and agreed to with the Bank and
capital allocation was confirmed. Finally, bidding documents and sale advertisements were also
issued. Completion of these actions paved the way for the release of the Floating Tranche in
July 2001.
4.2.28. Completion of these actions did, however, require considerable effort as a number of
difficulties were encountered during the process. An early issue arose over the status of the
Rural Development Bank (RDB) which had been considered part of the Finance Pacific Group
and therefore subject to sale/disposal by both the Bank and the authorities. The government
argued and the Bank agreed that the RDB was not part of the Finance Pacific Group and should
not therefore be subject to the operation. It did, however, agree to subsequently engage the Bank
to design a strategy to re-establish the RDB on a sound financial footing with strong corporate
governance arrangements.
4.2.29. A major complication was the declaration in late 2000 that an entity in the Finance
Pacific Group, Motor Vehicle Insurance Limited (MVIL), the provider of third party automobile
insurance in PNG was insolvent: A court appointed liquidator was placed in charge of MVIL. In
time, the Liquidator took legal action against the Finance Pacific Group based on the discovery
that assets of the predecessor company to the MVIL, the Motor Vehicle Insurance Trust, had
been improperly acquired by Finance Pacific as well as disagreements over asset valuations.
According to the Liquidator, MVIL would not be insolvent if the improperly transferred assets
were returned to MVIL. Such action, however, would have adversely affected the capital'
position of PNGBC. The question was eventually resolved through a negotiated settlement
which saw MVIL placed on a sound financial footing and PNGBC solvent, though
undercapitalized relative to regulatory requirements.
4.2.30. Another legal challenge to the sale of PNGBC subsequently emerged through action
taken by two creditors (Finance Pacific former Executive Chairman and Managing Director)
seeking payment of full contractual entitlements. This culminated with a court injunction barring



- 17 -
the sale of PNGBC. The injunction was eventually lifted after the authorities found a way to
satisfy the courts. The sale process for PNGBC went forward in the second half of 2001, with a
road show and bidding process. A winning bidder was selected late in the year and the sale
completed in early 2002.
4.2.31. Regarding required actions under the GPAL with respect to sale/disposal of the non-bank
assets, NEC approved a privatization plan for MVIL which would see the monopoly third party
motor vehicle insurer in private hands under an improved regulatory framework by early 2002.
Niugini Insurance Corporation was merged with a private insurance company with the liability
tail to be extinguished over time. Details of the merger and structure were presented in the
PNGBC Information Memorandum. The holding corporation-Finance Pacific-was then
wound up, entailing only a procedural matter as the entity had no assets and only minor residual
liabilities.
4.3   Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Retunt
4.3.1. Not applicable.
4.4   Financial Rate of Return
4.4.1. Not applicable.
4.5   Institutional Development Impact
4.5.1. The institutional development impact of GPAL has been significant through improved
governance and better transparency and accountability. GPAL supported the regularization of
the budget process with an emphasis on public disclosure to enhance transparency and engender
accountability. The integration of five separate public sector payrolls has facilitated better
monitoring and control while building the foundation for a single integrated payroll and human
resource records management system. The latter should provide the required degree of control to
underpin long term management of public sector employment and the wage bill.
Notwithstanding these achievements, the institutional development impact needs to be sustained
if it is to play a positive role and be of lasting value.
4.5.2. As part of an effort to re-establish a systematic process for decision making a number of
important restructurings were undertaken. These included the Department of Prime Minister and
NEC, the CACC, the PSC, and the establishment of the Public Sector Reform Management Unit
which have each contributed to improved integrity and effectiveness in public institutions.
4.5.3. A debt management office, the FED, was established in the Department of Finance with a
significantly enhanced role in debt management. Despite severe resource constraints, the
government intends to build on this modest beginning to further develop and build the capacity
of this function.



- 18 -
4.5.4. GPAL also contributed to-an improvement in fiscal transparency and overall
accountability through the strengthening of oversight entities, such as the Office of the Auditor
General, the Ombudsman Commission and the Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee.
4.5.5. Support for government's privatization program has been instrumental in building
improved capacity which has been institutionalized in the Privatization Commission which has
managed a substantive agenda of preparatory work on privatization for major bank and non-bank
public enterprises. The interaction with the Bank on the privatization of Finance
Pacific/PNGBC, contributed to enhanced understanding and institutional development impact
across agencies.
4.5.6. Through its support for the legislation of a disclosure regime for the Forestry Board, the
GPAL has contributed directly to improved governance in the forestry sector. While the
institutional development impact of this measure alone may be considerable, it will take time for
its effectiveness to be demonstrated.
4.5.7. Finally, support for pension industry reform including diagnostic work, new legislation
which established a supervisory and regulatory regime has contributed to a reduction in systemic
risk to the financial sector and had a positive impact on institutional development. In addition,
the Bank's support of and involvement in the preparation of the new Central Bank Act (which
strengthened the independence of the central bank and proscribed deficit financing) and the new
Banks and Financial Institutions Act (which clarified and strengthened licensing, regulation and
prudential supervision of financial institutions) has had a positive institutional development
impact.
5. Maior Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1   Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency
5.1.1. The political resistance from interest groups such as those opposed to privatization posed
significant challenges to program implementation. The GPAL documentation had already
highlighted this as a source of risk. Changes in the political, social and economic environment in
2001 complicated implementation of the reform program and posed serious challenges to the
government. These included violent street protests, civil unrest and army unrest over various
issues including terms and conditions of employment and proposed retrenchments' Additionally,
Parliamentary approval of various legislative amendments and legislation, required under the
GPAL was also not within government control.
5.1.2. With seven primary commodities comprising over 95 percent of its exports, the PNG
economy is particularly vulnerable to volatility in global prices and demand. The country is also
prone to natural disasters. These factors adversely affected the ability of the authorities to
implement the reform program, which was dependent on a stable economic environment. This
was already identified as a risk in the GPAL documentation. In the event, the weakening of
commodity prices reinforced the economic downturn, complicated the task of economic
management and challenged the authorities ability to implement the reform program.



- 19-
5.1.3. The unexpected departure of the Treasury Secretary in mid-2001, due to illness was a
critical factor beyond government control as he was one of the two principal government
counterparts responsible for program implementation.
5.2   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
5.2.1 Measures within government control were laid out in the Letter of Development Policy.
Overall, satisfactory progress was made with respect to the key actions that the government had
committed to under the operation. Implementation was, however, not without difficulty despite
Bank efforts during preparation to build strong ownership and to establish a track record of
policy implementation. One such example was that despite being in control of the budgetary
process, this became an area difficult for the government to manage during 2001, as the
economic downturn deepened and cash flow management difficulties emerged.
5.2.2 Government's expulsion in early 2001 of the Bank's Resident Coordinator in PNG
generated temporary stress in the relationship between the Bank and the government and added
complexity to program completion that was overcome during further implementation.
5.2.3 The government decision in early 2001, to split the Department of Finance and Treasury
into two separate departments, had an adverse impact on program implementation, given both the
thinness of resources and the close functional fit of Finance and Treasury. While the staff and
management of both agencies continued to work together there were inherent stresses imposed
through this arrangement as Treasury was left with little management capacity.
5.2.4 Following the unexpected departure of the Treasury Secretary, as noted above, the
government appointed the Chief Secretary to Government as Acting Treasury Secretary. While
this may have been an appropriate short term response, it surely made program implementation
more difficult, given that the Chief Secretary was already one of the two principal government
counterparts responsible for implementing the program. His workload then increased
substantially.
5.3   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
5.3.1. The implementation of the loan was overseen by the Secretary for Treasury and the Chief
Secretary to Government, together with the CACC. The Banking Operations Department of the
Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG) managed the disbursements of the loan. Provision of
agreed reports and data relevant to the program was coordinated largely through the Department
of Treasury and the BPNG. While the latter was able to furnish these on a timely basis, this was
unfortunately not the case with the former.
5.3.2. Progress on a number of program elements under the GPAL was slow and uneven,
relative to expectations and this did at times impi-nge adversely on implementation. The areas
where this posed a problem included the functional reviews of key departments which were to
provide the basis for changes to be implemented in the 2001 Budget. As a result of the delays,



- 20 -
agreed recommendations were indeed implemented as required but they covered largely those
implementable in the short term. Similarly, the implementation of the integrated payroll and
human resource records management system was delayed well beyond its project timetable due
to non-technical difficulties during the tendering/procurement process which resulted in a more
limited implementation than originally envisaged. Other areas where delays affected
implementation were the reviews of procurement and debt management among others. As a
consequence, the government was not able to realize early benefits from the reform of some of
these areas, as had been anticipated.
5.3.3. An area of note where the reform effort appeared to falter was with respect to the RDP,
which after a promising start appeared beset by difficulty, some of which appeared to result from
a lack of consistent support to the ORD, which was for significant periods of time hamstrung by
a lack of operational funds.
5.3.4. In response to the slowing pace of reform implementation the Bank showed a degree of
pragmatism and the authorities made a number of concerted efforts over the second half of 2001.
The first of these resulted in the designation of the CACC Secretariat to oversee and expedite
matters relating to the implementation of the GPAL. Additional resources were then brought to
bear on the outstanding issues, and, with the personal oversight and involvement of the Chief
Secretary, in the last quarter of 2001 progress improved markedly, leading to attainment of all
development objectives related to the operation.
5.4   Costs and Financing
5.4.1. The original loan amount was US$90 million. The first tranche of US$35 million was
disbursed upon effectiveness. The floating tranche of US$20 million was disbursed in July 2001.
The second tranche of US$35 million was disbursed in December 2001. The loan was closed on
December 31, 2001 as scheduled.
6. Sustainability
6.1   Rationale for Sustainability Rating
6.1.1. The program supported by the GPAL has made significant inroads in enhancing the
framework for governance and good government. The long lead time spent in preparing the
operation in order to enhance ownership and improve understanding of key issues resulted in
strong commitment as reflected in perseverance with program implementation in the face of
adversity, particularly domestic opposition to the reforms. This is one factor behind the
sustainability rating. Additionally, a number of the actions undertaken through the GPAL have a
strong element of irreversibility in them such as the reform of the pension industry and return to
financial health of the NPF under strong corporate governance, the privatization of PNGBC, and
actions taken to halt the erosion of other public assets by improving governance in the interim
period leading to privatization. It should be noted too that in some areas-such as the
elimination of the RDP-the government exceeded its commitments under the GPAL. Many of
the other initiatives supported through the GPAL are of a process nature and while this has been



-21 -
an important factor in restoring civil service morale, reforms of this kind are by their very nature
susceptible to reversal. How such "process" related objectives of the GPAL are sustained will be
dependent on the new government after the June 2002 elections. With this in mind, the
sustainability of the program is rated satisfactory.
6.2   Transition Arrangement to Regular Operations
6.2.1. The GPAL prepared the ground for the Bank's Forestry and Conservation Project,
approved by the Board after disbursement of the Second Tranche. In a number of respects, the
Forestry and Conservation Project aims to build on some of the institutional aspects established
under the GPAL, for example, with respect to improving forest sector oversight and legislative
compliance.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1   Lending
7.1.1. The Bank utilized its long relationship with counterparts in PNG and played an important
role in the implementation of the government's reform program. Bank staff devoted
considerable time over a nine month period during the preparation of the loan, to build ownership
of the program. The Bank also initiated a dialogue with civil society. Bank staff also helped
responsible officials to implement an agreed program of policy actions prior to Board
presentation. The Bank lending activity is rated satisfactory.
7.2   Supervision
7.2.1. The Bank supervised the project with supervision missions led by staff stationed initially
at Headquarters and later in Australia, thus allowing for closer contact with counterparts in the
government. For the first seven months this was complemented by supervision from Port
Moresby. Bank staff helped the officials responsible for the program to implement the
conditions called for in the floating tranche and the second tranche.



- 22 -
7.3   Overall Bank Performance
7.3.1 The Bank has satisfactorily played a supportive role to the country through its continuing
economic dialogue with the authorities and responded to their request for help to implement the
country's reform program, along with other donor agencies. The Bank provided timely
assistance to the country, following the economic and financial crisis that resulted from many
years of policy and govemance shortcomings, taking into account the opportunity to support a far
reaching reform program in order to establish the basis for sounder economic management and
growth. The Bank's strategy of re-engaging progressively based on tangible demonstration of
government commitment to its development agenda and reform program has served the client
country in a productive manner. Strains in the relationship mainly because of the expulsion of
the Bank's Resident Coordinator have been successfully overcome over the last year.
Borrower
7.4   Preparation
7.4.1. The government of PNG played an active role in the preparation of the loan under the
direct supervision of the Prime Minister and the sense of program ownership was strong among
government officials.
7.5   Government Implementation Performance
7.5.1. Government implementation of the program was satisfactory. It met all the conditions for
the release of tranches with the exception of two conditions, for which waivers were approved by
the Bank's Board. Although the Board approved the waivers, this was because country
developments had rendered the precise wording of these conditions irrelevant, as the
development objectives of the conditions had been met.
7.6   Implementing Agency
7.6.1. The GPAL was under the supervision of the Secretary for Treasury and the Chief
Secretary to Govemment who both maintained a continuing policy dialogue with the Bank, until
the former unexpectedly departed, following which the dialogue was maintained with the Chief
Secretary. They coordinated and monitored the program and helped carry out most of the policy
actions called for in the GPAL.
7.7   Overall Borrower Performance
7.7.1. The government's overall performance is considered satisfactory in the implementation of
the program, especially with respect to perseverance in carrying out the program once economic
conditions deteriorated and in the face of domestic opposition. All the development objectives of
the GPAL were met.



- 23 -
8. Lessons Learned
8.1.  Major lessons from the GPAL are:
* A stable social and political environment is essential to support macroeconomic and
structural reforms. The government made good progress during the early phase of the
GPAL, but increasingly in the face of domestic opposition, political instability, civil
unrest and a mutiny, program implementation became more arduous during 2001.
* Careful investment in preparation to ensure strong ownership and build counterpart
commitment and understanding are important to maintain reform momentum. In PNG,
this ultimately underpinned successful completion of the program in the face of emerging
difficulties. It was hence worth taking the risk of involvement in a new adjustment
program once the new government had established its reformist credentials,
notwithstanding the poor track record of reforms of previous governments.
* When counterpart capacity is not strong, close and frequent supervision by the Bank is
necessary to achieving program completion.
* The burden of program implementation would have been considerably eased and made
smoother if a more formal and extensive mechanism, perhaps comprising all relevant
department heads, had been established in government with responsibility for program
implementation.
*  Although structural adjustment loan counterpart funds are useful for budgetary financing,
subsequent tranche conditions are not dated and hence cannot be programmed directly
into the budget. Careful discussion of the difficulty in predicting the timing of tranche
releases, and of the many uncertainties that cannot be anticipated is needed to avoid
subsequent misunderstandings.
* Effective donor coordination is essential in a small country like PNG with limited
implementation capacity. Consequently it is easy to overwhelm counterpart capacity with
the programs of just a few donors. Although this was handled relatively well in PNG,
partly due to careful effort at donor coordination and partly because of the nature of donor
assistance, in the form of parallel financing, there were occasions when duplication of
effort could have been avoided.
* Bank efforts at outreach and stakeholder consultation must be consistent throughout the
program to maintain reform support. In PNG, although there were consultations with
various stakeholders including the private sector and NGOs during the preparatory period,
this did not subsequently extend to the implementation period with the same consistency.
*  Once stakeholders are consulted at an early stage of the preparation process, that process
needs to be maintained throughout to avoid late misunderstandings about the intention of
specific conditions. The alternative may be to not discuss the specific conditions of the
operation with outside stakeholders until negotiations with the government are finalized.
It should be noted, however, that such an approach may run the risk of alienating
important supporters of the reform process.



- 24 -
9. Partner Comments
9.1    Borrower/implementing agency
9.1.1 The following contribution was received from the government.
Ikf fSwetre    i to Govenment
21A June 2002
Mr KMaus Rohland
Coutrry Dietor
The World Bank
Level 19. CdML Buldig
14 Martin Pae
SYDNEY NSW 2000
Dear Mr Robland,
It:. Gvarana     Pzomotio   Aj    atet L-a         p    en
Thank you fot frwar"     the Impamentadon Competion PRport on the
oov=nl   e prowation Adjustmen Loan for our comments.
I am vOly happy t inform y     ax tht overal., we ae very pleased with the
Gornace Protno Ad ptnmant Loan Implementa&n           Canepledta
Report.  Por the proect to receive an overall perormance, raing of
saisfactry is a =* achievevnat for us and we oaacur with TIs rating
gwcn the diLilties we enounbered im maeeting the vw4tus loan eandit;ias
The Government wa     utaly comnitted   to a reonstruction  and
redeveWopment anda and the Structrl Adjustment Programme provided
a suitable vehiel for La implentatio.
Por the country as s whle we are happy to not only suc,ess y i:mplemeat
the World Bank 8tnt,  Atusbz=t Pra      but that of the ThP' StndBy
Arrangement as weDL As I mentioned to you eaiA yu oDoe4gue on many
oi9ion, substandal progpe as been made in 8tre    ng -Papua fcw
Guinca'. economy over the last three year uith the assiatance and
partuship of the donor comunites. We wi now have to ensur  that we
C=rd against any changes and sppages that wi erode all the gais
achieved so fakr.
TV.qCMW -WU65                              P. 0, BOXU .W.3gWWis 1,NCD
EWMSS,.,                                   p      rKWGI



- 25 -
:2:
WhDie substantl reonms have been undertakcn, thf fwom  still renams
frag&  The oouabta dffiult economic situaoun remains a enuts
cha   ge for the goverment to deal with and tbiwill w equre  our concerted
and concentraed efforts over the medium tax-.
You will find in specific =nent an the text of the Completion Report In
Auaacbmat Qro for your cmnaidcmd.
On beba of the Oovesn=  t and the people of PNG, I wauld Mi   to extend
our app1dation to you and your Wag for the assisance and pesev wce
in enurng that the G    0vernane Promotion Adjttient Loan program
reached a successfu  cncluho     I look forward to a more closer
con ltaibn dialogue and cooperation In f iur-
Yours alnoax
Ie       S    tO GOYSTUeDt
, /Z*.    sU9ll BLR                                     sVn:adee:s ftp-s -i



- 26 -
9.1.2. The attachment referred to in the letter is not included here, as the comments therein were
primarily factual in nature and have been incorporated in the report. In addition, the attachment
suggested the following lesson learnt:
"Political will was also a very strong factor in ownership and commitment to successful
implementation. The nature of structural adjustment programs makes it difficult for any
one agency to lead and the CACC was the appropriate body to oversight program
implementation however, it must be remembered that it too had just been established and
yet was expected to operate effectively and efficiently almost immediately."
9.2   Cofinzanciers: There were no cofinanciers.
9.3   Other partners (NG0/private sector): There were no other partners.



- 27 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
GOVERNANCE PROMOTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan No. 7021-PNG)
Annex Tables
Annex 1:   Key Performance Indicators ......................................................   28
Annex 2:   Project Costs and Financing ......................................................   28
Annex 3:   Economic Costs and Benefits ......................................................   28
Annex 4:   Bank Inputs ......................................................  29
Annex 5:   Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs
of Components ............................                    30
Annex 6:   Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance .................... ............... 31
Annex 7:   Output and Achievements ......................................................   32



- 28 -
ANNEX 1: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
PLEASE SEE THE POLICY MATRIX IN ANNEX 7
ANNEx 2: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(US$ million)
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Proiect Cost by Component    Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
Total Project Costs        90.0           90.0          100.0
Total Financing Required      90.0           90.0          100.0
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component    Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisal
Bank  Govt. | CoF. Bank   Govt.  CoF.  Bank   Govt.  CoF
90.0 I      I      90.0                100.0
ANNEX 3: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Costs    Benefits  NPV    ERR (%)
Not Applicable             N/A



- 29 -
ANNEX 4: BANK tNPUTS
a)    Missions
Stage of Project Cycle     No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
(e.g., 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation  Development
Progress        Objective
Month/Year           Count          Specialty
Identification/Preparation:  3    Economist
Aug Oct and Nov 1999.   -    I     Public Sector Management
Feb 2000.                    1     Forestry Advisor
1     Pension Reform
I     Banking Specialist
1     Financial Management
Appraisal/Negotiation:    2      Economist
Apr May 2000.                1     Disbursement officer
2     Lawyer
I     Treasury Officer
Supervision:          5     Economist                       S                S
Oct and Oct-Nov 2000.        1     Public Sector Management        S               S
Feb Mar Apr May Aug Oct      1     Forestry Advisor                S               S
and Nov 2001.                1     Forestry Specialist             S               S
1     Pension Reform                  S               S
1     Financial Management            S               S
ICR                I     Econonist                       S               S
None
b)    Staff
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. Staff Weeks                 $ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                      48.4                        177.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                           25.0                        128.8
Supervision                                     37.6                        133.7
Sub Total                                      111.0                       439.5
ICR (est.)                                        8.0                        24.0
TOTAL                                          119.0                       463.5
Note: Figures do not include Trust Fund resources.



- 30 -
ANNEx 5: RATINGS FOR ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES/OUTPUTS OF COMPONENTS
(H - High; SU = Substantial, M = Modest, N = Negligible, NA = Not Applicable)
Policy                          High     Substantial   Modest    Negligible     Not
Applicable
Macro policies                               X
Sector Policies                              X
Physical                                                                         X
Financial                                    X
Institutional Development                    X
Environment                                  X
Social
- Poverty Reduction
- Gender
- Other (Please specify)
Private sector development                   X
Public sector management                                 X
Other (Please specify)



- 31 -
ANNEX 6. RATINGS OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank           HiehIV satisfactory     Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory          ffighIl
performnance                                                                         Unsatisfactorv
Lending                    a                      ]                 Z                     L
Supervision              Eii                 [3                   [                       l
Overall                 [                         ]                     ]              K
6.2 Borrower       HiRhIv satisfactory     Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory          HiRhIy
nerformance                                                                          Unsatisfactory
Preparation             D                         ]               [1                     CI
Govemment
implementation             D
performance
Implementation
agency
performance
Overall                      ]                                                          LI]



- 32-
ANNEX 7. OUTPUT AND ACHIEVEMENTS
Objective              Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation        Actions Taken for Second Tranche
l. STRENGTHEN ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
A. To improve      Passed Supplementary Budget in August 1999 to limit fiscal
fiscal management  deficit-target exceeded and deficit reduced to 1.3 percent of
and enhance        GDP.
macroecononic
stability          Enforced a cut-off date of end January 2000 on budget
transactions for 1999 and published a preliminary report on fiscal
outcomes.
Established control over budget expenditures in 1999 through  Integrated payroll and human resources
public sector hiring freeze, development of a monthly warrant  records management information system
control system for goods and services, statutory authorities and  was established as agreed with the
provinces, and an improved monitoring system including for  Bank.
payroll and employment.
Strengthened the expenditure control and monitoring system in  In 2000, full cash warrants were
2000: (by requiring spending agencies to report all spending  released on a timely basis for the
commitments, integrating warrant issuance for the development  development budget as projected and
budget, including non-cash warrants, into the central warrant  for identified government priorities in
system and issuing monthly reports, and warranting in advance  the recurrent budget for 2000. Full cash
all debt related payments).                             warrants were also released in 2001
when compared with the 2001 Budget,
Abolished trust/suspense accounts for recurrent expenditure  adjusted for the government cash flow
purposes for Plant and Transport Board and Works Transferable  situation.
Account.
Cabinet approved a public sector hiring freeze effective January
2000.
Settled K1148 million in arrears accrued prior to 1999 in FY1999.
Budgeted a further K100 million for 2000.
Provided a full and transparent accounting of the existing stock of
domestic arrears and adopted a time-bound schedule for their
elimination by end-2000.
Introduced a VAT in July 1999 and commenced a 7 year tariff
reduction and rationalization program.
Commissioned an independent review of taxation (mining and
improvements in VAT operations).
Passed a 2000 budget targeting a surplus (0.4 percent of GDP)  Expenditure on the government's
net of arrears, and financing for "one-off' expenditures  structural reform program was
associated with structural reforms.                     consistent with approved targets in the
2000 Budget.
Established a framework for Central Bank transactions of
government securities.



- 33 -
Objective              Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation         Actions Taken for Second Tranche
B. To improve debt Debt management function transferred to Treasury from the  A debt management office, the
management         Central Bank.                                            Financial Evaluation Division, was
established within Treasury. Reviews of
Initiated an action plan, with TOR agreed with the Bank, on the  the government's liability portfolio and
review of debt management as a component of the announced  the institutional arrangements were debt
functional review of Treasury.                           management were completed, and some
restructuring of the domestic debt
portfolio was achieved with issuance of
Proscribed central bank financing of the budget deficit through  long term domestic securities.
new Central Bank Act and limited through-the-year temporary
advance facility to K100 million.
Government commitment to pay market interest rates on all
government securities and temporary advances.
Balance of the Mineral Resources Stabilization Fund (MRSF)  The MRSF Act was repealed by
deposit offset against treasury bills held by the Central Bank at  Parliament in December 2000.
end 1999.
Committed the retirement of public debt with privatization
receipts.
C. To improve the  Passed legislation to establish a Privatization Commission, and  Audits were completed (up to and
operating          appointed an international advisory group. Amended Act to  including 1999) of Telikom, Elcom,
environment for    clarify the role of the managing director, enhance the role of  Harbours Board and Air Niugini by
business           Cabinet and clarify the legal framework.                 recognized external auditors. Due to
poor accounting practices, weak and
Cabinet endorsed privatization strategy and institutional structure  fragmented records, however, these
for implementation:                                      audits could not be compliant with
*   National Planning Committee appointed as responsible  internationally accepted accounting
Cabinet sub committee;                                standards. Thus this condition was only
*   Establishment of a regulatory framework through an   partly met and a waiver was requested,
interdepartmental working group under the chairmanship of  and granted, on the grounds that this
Treasury.                                             was largely a technical issue and did not
affect the overall progress toward
Appointed the Managing Director to the Privatization     privatization.
Commission.                                              Cabinet approved industry structural
arrangements, community service
Established the Privatization Commission secretariat under the  obligation arrangements and form of
managing director and assigned the budget for the Commission.  privatization for these entities.
Due diligence exercises for these
Commission is preparing Air Niugini, Telikom, Elcom, Post  entities were commenced and largely
PNG, Harbours Board and the water assets for privatization.  completed, under TORs agreed with the
Bank.
Established regulatory review unit in Treasury to support the
Central Agencies Working Group.
Undertook a review of small business development policy.  Taxation Review recommendations
(with respect to personal and corporate
Streamlined customs clearance procedures and aligned them with  taxes, tariff rates and tariff exemptions)
the new simplified tariff structure.                     were implemented through the 2001
Budget, as agreed with the Bank,
including rescindal of ministerial



- 34 -
Objective              Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation         Actions Taken for Second Tranche
discretion over import duty exemptions.
Repealed the Pioneer Industries Act to eliminate case by case  Competition policy review undertaken
approval of investment incentives.                      in conjunction with regulatory review
for privatization candidates and an
administrative and legislative
framework established for competition
policy administration and regulation.
Reserved Activities List (RAL) was
rationalized, following a review of the
RAL and price decontrol was furthered.
as agreed with the Bank.
If. IMPROVE GOVERNANCE
D. To improve      Announced policy commitments to build the integrity of public  The 2000 Budget outturn was published
governance         institutions, restore the role and independence of the civil service, in the June 2001, TEM. A mid term
and reduce the scope for corruption.                    budget review of the 2001 Budget was
undertaken and published in the
Re-established proper Cabinet procedures following review of  September 2001 issue of the TEM. The
Cabinet Secretariat.                                    statutory Auditor General's report on
the public accounts for 1999 was
Re-established National Planning Committee, and with the  produced as prescribed by law and
addition of Minister for Privatization, to ensure delivery of  improved progress was demonstrated in
cabinet decisions on key policy issues and privatizations.  bringing outstanding departmental
annual reports up to date. The new
Established a central agencies coordinating committee (CACC)  arrangements for the RDP were
to formulate and implement policies, and coordinate the reform  implemented to the satisfaction of the
process.                                                Bank but disclosure regime not fully
implemented due to system difficulties
Rescinded previous Cabinet decisions allowing for retention of  and commitment made to disclose the
revenues by major statutory bodies and departments.     results of the RDP in the near future.
Government took actions, as agreed, to
implement the standard health budget
format by provincial governments in the
2001 Budget.
Cabinet decision not to disburse funds to the Rural Development  Funds were appropriated in the 2001
Program (RDP) until IBRD endorses new accountability and  Budget for the funding of the RDP and
transparency framework.                                 Managing Agent and the contract for the
latter was extended through 2001, as
Cabinet approved the revised framework and guidelines   agreed with the Bank..
governing the use of RDP funds, as agreed with the Bank
Finalized restructuring arrangements for Office of Rural
Development, approved funding and new staffing structure and
tendered for the managing agent with TOR agreed with the Bank.
Drafted legislation on the establishment of an Independent  In the 2001 Budget, financial resources
Commission Against Corruption. Instituted legal action on high  were increased for the Auditor
profile corruption cases, including seeking recoveries from the  General's Office, Ombudsman
Cairns property transactions cited in a report by the Ombudsman.  Commission, and the Parliamentary
Public Accounts Committee, and
CACC placed outstanding issues of malfeasance cited in recent  institutional strengthening plans for the
reports by the Attorney General on its formal agenda.   former two imvlemented as agreed with



- 35 -
Objective              Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation         Actions Taken for Second Tranche
former two implemented as agreed with
the Bank. The Parliamentary Public
Accounts Committee was strengthened
through a private member's bill.
Initiated a review of the administrative framework of the Central
Supplies and Tenders Board with TOR agreed with the Bank.  NEC endorsement of a time bound
action plan, agreed with the Bank, to
strengthen central government
procurement system, following a policy
review in 2001.
E. To improve the  CACC to direct and coordinate civil service reform program.
efficiency and     Established a system to ensure regular meetings of CACC with
effectiveness of the  all departmental heads to secure implementation.
civil service
Strengthened Department of Prime Minister & Cabinet, and
establish the CACC Secretariat.
Cabinet approved recommendations with respect to Department
of Personnel Management and Public Service Commission
(PSC), (covering civil service appointments and termination
decisions and terms and conditions of senior executives and the
Salaries and Monitoring Committee).
Commenced functional reviews focusing on key spending and  Recommendations of key functional
revenue departments.                                    reviews-of Finance and Treasury,
Health, Works and Lands-
Inter-connected all central agencies information technology  incorporated in 2001 Budget, as agreed
systems to improve data and information flows.           with the Bank.
F. To improve the  Health and education declared as priorities in 2000 Budget.  National Health Plan acceptable to the
resources and      Allocations increased for health 33.4 % increase, and education  Bank was approved by Cabinet and
delivery of health  37.8 % increase.                                        implementation commenced in 2001
and education                                                               Budget.
services.
Provided timely warrant allocations as appropriated under the  Standardization of procurement of pre-
2000 Budget for National Department of Health.           packed medical supply kits for aid posts
was implemented, as agreed with the
National Health Information System developed and implemented  Bank.
to identify local health priorities and monitor service delivery.
Developed health budget format to conform to priority programs
and monitor resource allocation. Department of Health
restructured in line with system of government reforms and
public service administration.
Elementary level sub-sector introduced with emphasis on
community-based support and vernacular education. Extended
reach of pre-primary, primary and secondary schools.
Upgraded database of teachers gainfully employed to rectify
anomalies that allowed regular overpayment of allowances and
salaries.



- 36 -
Objective              Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation         Actions Taken for Second Tranche
G. To improve      Reinstated the previous forestry export tax regime in the August  Measures were implemented relating to
forestry           1999 Supplementary Budget.                              the export tax on logs and taxation of
management                                                                 the plantation sector, satisfactory to the
Provided resources in 2000 to enable the independent inspection  Bank. These resulted from a review of
service for pre-shipment inspection of log exports to be  the forestry revenue and royalty regime.
contracted.
Moratorium declared on all new Forest Management Agreements  Completed independent review of
(FMA), timber permits and geographic extensions to timber  FMAs, timber permits and geographic
permits.                                                extensions to timber permits pending
approval and Cabinet approved a time
Cabinet clarified legal status of the moratorium and directed the  bound action plan of review
Minister to implement that decision in accordance with the  recommendations. Action plan, publicly
requirements of the Forestry Act (1991; as amended 1993), as  released.
agreed with the Bank.
Rescinded Cabinet Decision No. 59/97 regarding agricultural  Amendments to the Forestry Act
conversion and road projects in forested areas and gazetted in its  covering: (a) the regulatory framework
place new regulations to unambiguously establish the forest  for the clearance of forested land;
protection policies as contained in the previous Cabinet Decision  (b) non-commercial disclosure by the
No's: 113/96 and 15/97, and in accordance with the Timber  Forestry Board; (c) delegation of the
Authority Guidelines 1995.                              powers of the Board to an individual;
and (d) composition of the Forestry
Cabinet approved regulations to require non-commercial  Board, as agreed with the Bank, were
disclosure by the Forestry Board in respect of its deliberations.  enacted by Parliament in December
2000 and regulations promulgated in
July 2001.
H. To improve      Passed a new Central Banking Act (3/00) to strengthen Central
efficiency of      Bank independence and proscribe deficit financing.
financial services,
and reduce         Passed a new Banks and Financial Institutions Act, (4/00) to
systemic risk      strengthen and clarify licensing, regulation and prudential
supervision of financial institutions.
Shut-down and prosecuted pyramid-type financial schemes.
Prepared action plan to enhance prudential supervision and
regulation relating to banks, and non-bank financial institutions,
in consultation with the Bank.
Announced plans for new legislation to cover insurance and  Legislation on the regulation and
superannuation and bring these industries under the regulatory  supervision of the pension industry, the
and supervisory framework of the Central Bank.          Superannuation Act 2000, acceptable to
the Bank, was enacted by Parliament in
Undertook independent financial and performance audits of the  December 2000.
National Provident Fund (NPF) and the Public Officers
Superannuation Fund (POSF).
Appointed a commission of inquiry and took short term measures  As the Commission of Inquiry into the
to stabilize NPF following completion of audits.        NPF continued to receive expert
testimony more than one year after its
Cabinet passed an action plan to commence the reform of the  original completion date and as the NPF



- 37 -
Objective              Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation         Actions Taken for Second Tranche
pension fund industry with a view to maintaining a broad  had been restored to financial health
mandatory scheme, licensed private sector funds management  under strong corporate governance
and administration industry with minimal government      arrangements, given the Bank's
involvement other than regulation and supervision by the Central  satisfaction with the conduct of the
Bank.                                                    Inquiry, a waiver of the condition was
recommended and granted by the
Board.
Actions Taken for Floating Tranche
Cabinet directed privatization of Finance Pacific, to be-  The PNGBC group was brought to the
undertaken in two stages-a trade sale of a controlling interest  point of sale, as agreed with the Bank
through competitive auction by end 2000 with financial closure in  and the remaining assets in the Finance
the first quarter of 2001, and a public offering of the balance of  Pacific group were disposed of.
shares within 12-18 months.
Completed the 1999 audited accounts of the PNGBC group in
compliance with international accounting standards to the
satisfaction of the Bank.
Source: World Bank staff.









I     M
Report No.:        23734
Type:    ICR



