Report No. PID8970
Project Name                     Papua New Guinea Governance Promotion...
Adjustment Loan
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Public Financial Management/Privatization
Project ID                       PGPE69771
Borrower(s)                      Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Implementing Agency              Chief Secretary,
Department of the Prime Minister
and National Executive Council
Morauta Haus, 5th Floor
P. 0. Box 639
Waigani, NCD
Papua New Guinea
Tel: 675-326-6713
Fax: 675-323-3903
Environment Category             C
Date this PID Prepared           April 25, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         May 2000
Projected Board Date             June 2000
Background
The proposed loan is in response to a request from the
Papua New Guinea Government in mid-1999 to support its
stabilization and structural reform efforts. Having
inherited a severely deteriorating policy environment,
characterized by an undermining of the basic
institutions of government as well as poor budget
management and repercussions from the regional
financial crisis and a severe drought in 1997 the new
Government had to contend with a significant overhang
of public sector arrears which masked the extent of
fiscal deterioration that had previously occurred.
The government recognizes that a deterioration in
governance and the institutions of state have been
prime causes of the poor economic management of the
past several years and has taken a number of steps to
address this situation. But the magnitude of its
fiscal legacy has constrained its ability to improve
the delivery of public services.
The deterioration in the institutions of state and
governance were marked by increased political
intrusion into all aspects of public policy, one
feature of which was an unprecedented turnover of
public sector managers. This had serious consequences
on public sector performance, morale and public



confidence in government. Another, stemmed from poor
appointments, perceived as patronage based, to the
boards of public and quasi-public entities in the
financial sector. This combined with politically
directed imperatives resulted in a deterioration in
the governance of these institutions and in their
financial performance.
Loan Objectives
The main objective of the proposed loan is to support
and deepen Government's reform program which seeks the
resumption of sustainable growth. In that respect,
the proposed operation will strengthen governance in
order to support: the reassertion of macroeconomic
stability and improvements in the economy's capacity
to weather future shocks well; a reduction in the
scope of public sector activity through privatization;
and improvements in the efficiency and ability of the
public sector in support of service delivery.
Loan Description
The proposed loan would provide balance of payments
assistance to the Government of Papua New Guinea in
support of its economic reform program which aims to
strengthen economic management and improve governance
and fight corruption. The program includes policies
to: improve fiscal management and enhance
macroeconomic stability; strengthen debt management,
increase transparency and lower funding costs to
government; enhance the operating environment for
business; strengthen governance and combat corruption;
improve and restore civil service efficiency and
effectiveness; enhance budgetary resources to and
improve delivery of health and education services;
strengthen forestry management through the
institutional framework; increase access to and
efficiency of financial services and reduce systemic
risk; and improve the quality and efficiency of
financial and utility services through privatization.
Project Financing
A fast disbursing, tranched loan of US$90 million is
proposed. It is estimated the loan would take about
14 months to fully disburse and the anticipated
closing date would be September 30, 2001.
Project Implementation
The Government has established an interdepartmental
panel, known as the Central Agencies Coordinating
Committee, headed by the Chief Secretary, Department
of the Prime Minister and National Executive Council.
- 2 -



The panel will closely monitor and coordinate the
timely implementation of the loan actions, reporting
to the Cabinet, the Bank and other donors on a monthly
basis. The Central Bank's Banking Operations
Department would manage the details of loan
disbursement and maintain the loan account.
Benefits and Rationale
The loan is justified on the scope and ambition of the
Government's adjustment program. PNG's balance of
payments needs are acute, and an IMF Stand By
Arrangement has been prepared in parallel with the
Bank's loan. Without strong external incremental
support, PNG's macroeconomic program for 2000/01 would
not be viable. The benefits of the loan would be
improved and strengthened governance from more
transparent and accountable public operations;
improved public sector management, particularly the
capacity of government to provide essential services
to a wider range of citizens; an improved incentive
framework for private sector development; and improved
management of natural resources. Given PNG's still
fragile developmental status, however, these results
would only begin to improve the framework for a
broader, more shared development.
Risks
There are two major risks to the program: the
political fragility of the coalition may undermine
Government commitment and the capacity to implement
the program. Regarding the first risk, vested
interests and political pressures are not unique to
PNG and the authorities hope to minimize this risk by
concentrating program actions over the next nine
months. Consultations with civil society, NGOs,
industries, and donors have been undertaken during
project preparation and the proposed actions are the
results of work and analyses undertaken over the past
18 months and disseminated. Secondly, given the
comprehensive nature of the reform program and the
deteriorated state of local capacity, implementation
risk exists. This will be mitigated through major
donor assistance-particularly by Australia-which has
financed a series of technical assistance efforts that
have assured the Government they will have expert help
in implementing the program. We believe this effort
will reduce the implementation risk, although constant
and frequent support by Bank staff will still be
required for successful execution of the governance
promotion loan.
Environmental Aspects
-3-



In accordance with the Bank's environmental policies
(OP4.01), structural adjustment operations are exempt
from environmental assessments. Accordingly the
proposed operation has been placed in Category U and
will not require an environmental assessment. The
program will, however, strengthen environmental
management and sustainability in the forestry sector.
Poverty Category
Not applicable.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Cyrus P. Talati
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-2469
Fax:        (202) 522-1557
Note: This is information on an involving project.
Certain components may not be necessarily included in
the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 28, 2000.
- 4-



