             WORLD BANK INSPECTION PANEL

                   REQUESTFOR INSPECTION




               Filed by certain namedcustomary
                    owners of forests in
                            Kíunga- Aiambak,
                           Western Province,
                            Papua New Guinea




                  "Governance has been particularly poor in the area of
                  forestry,with the side effect of promoting corrupt practices
                  and undermining environmental sustainability in logging
                  activities. The Government is committed to introducing a
                  moratorium on all new forestry licenses, extensions and
                  conversions, and to proceed with a review of all existing
                  licenses, to ensure that proper procedures are followed,
                  that logging practices are not carried out in an
                  unsustainableway, and that landowners get their share of
                  fair benefits from resourceuse.  "



                  -- Sir Mekere Morauta, Prime Minister of Papua New
                  Guinea




CENTRE FOR ENVIRONMENTALLAW AND COMMUNITY RIGHTS
INC. ,P O BOX 4373,BOROKO ,NATIONALCAPITAL DISTRICT,
3234509,fax (675)311 2106
PAPUA NEW GUINEA, email: dace celcor@datec.com.Rg,tel (675)




                       P A G E 1

                       REQUEST FOR INSPECTION

TO: THE INSPECTION PANEL: 1818 H St., N.W.,Washington, D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.


ExecutiveSummary

"Theyshould leave us with good projects, we have a church but they didn't give
us a church, they said they would give us houses, church, markets, but nothing
was done."
Baida Bamesa, Women's representativein Middle Fly.

"Now when I see my bush I cry. In the past we had sago, pigs, cassowary, big
trees everywhere. We used traditionalpaint from the bush. Now Aiambak is very
different,life is very difficult. I cry for my village."
Jerry lawe, Aiambak Villager.

"We became spectators on our own land. When the company came in they sori
of disturbed village life, so many youths when to Aiambak to seek employment
with the company and some even became spectators on the project because
there was no space for employment,"
Robert Polus,former employeeof PaisoLandowner Company.

This claim comes from landownerswho seek assistanceof the Inspection Panel
because they have lost their land and forests during the currency of a loan by the
World Bank to the Papua New GuineaGovernment for forest governance.

Governance of Papua New Guinea's rainforest sharplydeterioratedin 1998,
when the government decidedto liquidatelargeforest areas in order to balance
its budget. Corruptionunderminedenvironmentalsustainability,the law and
procedures were not followed, logging practiceswere deficientand customary
landownerswere short-changedin the alienationof their timber resources.

 In 1990the World Bank and other donors beganto supportthe State in its
attempts to re-assertcontrol over the logging industry.While new legislationand
a series of donor -funded activities brought some change, real change was slow
 in comingand sometimes difficult to see. Certainly,governance was absent in
 1994,when a Ministerfor Forestsunlawfullyallowed a loggingcompany to begin
 a road-lineclearance of the claimantsland: the origins of the current claim.

 A "road-lineclearance" is an authorisationto clear tress along the alignment of a
 proposed road. The authorisation(the Timber Authority) usuallyallows the
 builder of a road to cut timber in a corridor, 40 metres either side of the road's
 centre-line.There have been a number of attemptsto build roads in Papua New
 Guinea, using a corridor wider than 40 metres and funding the construction of the
 road from sale of the timber. The result is generallya sub-standardroad that
 quickly deteriorates, and an uncontrolledlogging project.

 This is what we have in the case of the Kiunga-Aiambakroad.

 This submission will demonstratethe failure of the Papua new Guinea
 government and logging industryparticipantsto fulfil or demonstrate good faith
 on every single conditionality aimed at improving forest governance, imposed by
 the Bank on the Structural Adjustment Programme Loan (SAL).

  It will also refer to preliminaryresultsfrom the current review intoforest revenue
  and royalties,which show and industrythat is uneconomic.

  And this submissionwill deal with significantinstancesof social, cultural,
  ecologicaland economic harm.

  The expropriationof the claimants'forests by the State and the loggingcompany

                                          P A G E 2

has caused and will continue to cause, grave financial loss to the claimants.The
net value of the logs taken from their land since 1995 can be calculatedas
US$36 Million.

There is symmetry betweenthis net loss to the Claimants of US$36 Million and
the Second Tranche outstandingto the State of US$35 Million.
The Bank's disbursementof the secondtranche without:

     maintainingthe moratorium
    fully implementingthe findings of the partial review, including the
     requirementsseeking the remediation of illegal activities, and
     requiring a full review of the contractual provisions of the loan

     constitutes

     a violation of the contractual provisionsof the SAL by loaningto a borrower,
     who with bad faith, defaults to implement its own promises. There are very
     clear examples set out in the body of this claim indicating the development
     objectives of the governance loan have not been met and are unlikelyto be
     met, if the disbursement of the secondtranche is completed.

     a violation of Operational Directives 13.05 on supervision and monitoring
     because of poor judgement and imprudent lending to a borrower who
     promotes illegal practices.

     A violation of the Banks forest policy OP 4.36 as the acts of the State show
     that it did not implement,follow, adhere to, or is in fact committedto,
     sustainable forest management,sustainableforestry, conservation-oriented
     forestry or good forestry practise.


The Inspection Panel should addressthe need that arise from this claim:

                       The claimants need to have this illegal logging concession
                       stopped,

                       There needs to be a moratorium on new concessions in the
                       forests of Papua New Guinea to allow a respitefor reform,

                       The landowners needto be compensatedfor their losses,
                       and the institutional reform processes need to be put in
                        placefirmly.

                       The second tranche of the SAL should not be paid until
                       these matters are resolved.


 1.        The Claimants

 The claimants are the persons named in Appendix 1, customary landownersof
 land and forests in the Kiunga District of the Western Province of Papua New
 Guinea( "theClaimants").The individual claimants are requesting anonymity
 due to threats of reprisalsand they have given authorisation to the Center of
 Environmental Law and Community Rights Inc(CELC0R) to representthem and
 file this claim on their behalf. These authorisationsare attached as Appendix 1.
 The addresses and contact informationfor claimants are included in Appendix 1
 The Claimants are living in the area betweenthe township of Kiungaand the
 international border of Papua New Guineaand Indonesia located inthe Western
 Province of Papua New Guinea, and shown in the map at Appendix 2 (herein
 after referredto as (""theClaimants land").


 2.        TheLoan
 The International Bankfor Reconstructionand Development (hereinafter the
 "Bank) has providedthe Government of Papua New Guinea (the State) with a

                                       P A G E 3

$90 millionstructuraladjustmentloan known as the "GovernancePromotion
Adjustment Loan."See the President'sReport No. P-7374-PNGMay 19,20001
(hereinafter "the loan"). The loan was approved in May 2000, and it was
designedto be disbursed in three tranchesthe first tranche, a floatingtranche,
and a second tranche. The first trancheand the floating tranche have been
disbursed and disbursement of the second tranche is believedto be imminent.

However, the conditionsrequiredfor disbursementof the second tranchehave
not been met by the State.

             The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL): Deterioratingsituation

The Claimantsseek the assistanceof the InspectionPanel because they have
lost their land and forests to bad forest governance, during the currency of a loan
by the Bank, specificallylent to the State for forest governance.

While the loanwas made in May 2000, governance of Papua New Guinea'
rainforestsdeterioratedsharply in 1998,when the Government decided to
liquidatelargeforest areas in order to balanceits budget. Corruption undermined
environmentalsustainability,the law and procedureswere not followed, logging
practiceswere deficient, and customary landownerswere short-changedin the
alienationof their timber resources(see PrimeMinistersstatement front page of
this Claim).

                    The Loan: Historyof forests in PapuaNew Guinea (PNG)

Before Independence in 1975 loggingwas largelyconfinedto plantation
clearance,and saw milling by expatriateplanters. The Australianadministration
broughtin three largeJapanese investorsinthe 60s and 70's. During the 1980s
Malaysian loggingcompanies establishedthemselvesthroughoutthe country. By
 1989,the loggingindustry was out of control. The extent of the crisis was
described in the Report of a Commission of Inquiryby Mr. JusticeT. E. Barnett.

In 1990 the Bank and other donors began to supportthe State in its attempts to
 re-assertcontrol over the logging industry.New legislationwas introducedin
 1991, althoughit did not become effective until 1993, and subordinate
 regulationswere not promulgateduntil 1998. A series of donor-fundedactivities
 under Bank guidance broughtsome institutional change, although, real change
was slow in coming, and sometimes difficult to see. Certainly,governancewas
 absent in 1994,when a Ministerfor Forests unlawfullyallowed a logging
 company to begin a road-lineclearance on the Claimants'land:the origins of the
 current claim.

 A "road-lineclearance" is an authorisationto clear trees along the alignmentof a
 proposedroad. The authorisation(the Timber Authority) usuallyallows the
 builderof a roadto cut timber in a corridor 40 metres either side of the road's
 centre-line.Followingthese rules, it would not be economicallyfeasibleto fund
 the constructionof the roadfrom the sale of the logs. There have been a number
 of unlawfulattempts to build roads in Papua New Guinea, using a corridor wider
 than 40 metres, and funding the construction of the roadfrom the sale of the
 timber.The result is generally a sub-standard roadthat quickly deteriorates, and
 an uncontrolledloggingproject.

 At the heart of the forest problemin PapuaNew Guinea are improper
 relationships betweenloggingcompanies,the electoralsystem, politicians,
 political parties,and officials. PapuaNew Guinea'sfirst pastthe post electoral
 system is very risky for intendingcandidates. Large numbers of candidates stand
 for elections. Electoralsuccess depends upon candidatesspending large
 amounts of money campaigning, and on gift giving. Loggingcompaniesfinance
 this. Then, the companies expect to be lookedafter by the successful Member of
  Parliament. This informal system dominates politics and official decision-making
  in PapuaNew Guinea, and affectsthe highestechelonsof government. See
 Appendix 3, statement by Transparency International(PNG) IRC

  All these elements are present in the Claimant's case. However, the Inspection
  Paneljurisdiction may not grant the partiesimmunityfrom civil suit in Papua New
  Guinea, and PapuaNew Guinea has out-dated defamationlaws that prevent us

                                      P A G E 4

  speakingwith precision,at times in this claim.

  InAppendix 4, we show copies of a memorandumfrom Paiso Limited (theso-
  called landownercompany in the Kiunga-Aiambakroad and logging project) to a
  middlemannoting the payment of an inducementof K260,000 in order to obtain
  a tax exemption on the export of logs. Annexed also is a copy of a National
  Gazette notice, signed by a Minister granting the exemption.The Minister later
  announced his resignationfrom Parliamentciting the need to spend more time
  with his family as the main reasonfor his resignation.


                                   The Loan: PresidentsReport

  The PresidentsReportto the Executive Directorsdoes nottell the full story;
  does not describe either the nature, or the extent of these political relationships.
  The importantall-embracing political influence of the logging industry is not
  described.The Presidents Report, P-7374-PNGat p18 para 75 does say:

                       Thesystemhasbeenexploitedinthepastbyfirms, whichhave
                      essentiallyexpropriatedforestresourcesthroughfraudulentdeals with
                      localindividualswho havemisrepresentedthe wishes andintentionsof
                       clangroups. Rectifyingthis situationisa challenge.

  The officers who wrote the report were in possessionof many submissions by
  NGOs detailingthe failure of forest reform and its impact on customary
  landowners,land-theft, police harassment,landownersdeprived of constitutional
  rights,their rights to the protection of the law, and the flagrant abuse of due
  processand unlawful practices. Further,the Reportdoes not fully describethe
  likely impact of proposed logging, and how the fate of the forest biosphere in
  Papua New Guinea hangs in the balance.The Reportsaid at para 76, p. 18

                       Significantlossesof forestedareas, inanexploitativeanduncontrolled
                       fashion, willhavemajorconsequencesfor downstreamagricultureand
                       otheractivitiesandtherehavebeensomelocalizedexamplesofthis
                       already.


, Thatsentencedidnotdescribethe likely consequencesof the lackof controlandthe
  exploitation onfragilesocieties alreadystrugglingfor somecohesionin transition,on
  fragileenvironments,andonthe biodiversityiconsofthistreasure-houseof creationand
   life,andthe economicimpactof the exploitation,expropriationandfraud onthe private
   propertyof the customarylandandforestownerssuchas the Claimants. Heretherewere
   significant risks. Itis unlikelythat the ExecutiveDirectorsappreciatedthese risks.

                            The Loan: Bank put on appropriate SAL conditionality
   Neverthelessthe thrust of the Bank's policy matrix was appropriate, in as far as it
   went. Itwas driven in the right direction.

    The Bank acted quite properlywhen it imposedforest conditions in the SAL.
   Why was forest conditionality proper? Becausethe forests were in crisis,the loan
   was to improve"governance",and governance had been particularly poor in the
   area of forestry (see Prime Minister's statementon the cover of this claim), hence
   the crisis, hencethe appropriatenessof the conditions.

   The conditions imposed to improveforestry managementon the SAL were:

            to reinstatethe forestry log tax regime; and satisfactorily implement
            reformson the forestry revenue and royaltyto landowners regime.

            to fund an independent inspectionof log exports, pre-shipment.

            a moratoriumon all new timber concessions, pending a complete review
             of all existing concessions (but implementedas a review of
             new/proposedconcessions).
                                            P A G E 5

       new laws on forest clearancesfor roads and agricultural schemes.

       new laws restraining powers of delegation.

       new laws insisting on a better balance on the Board of the Papua New
       Guinea Forest Authority.

       new laws on transparency and non-commercialdisclosure by the
       Forestry Board.

                             The Loan:The State's badfaith

   Log Revenues

   The State did reinstatethe forestry log tax regime, and a review is being
   carried out into forestry revenue and royalty. But that review is already under
   pressure.The consultants have beentold to fastract an interim reportto
   enable the State to decrease the tax burden on the loggers in the November
   2001 budget. Preliminary resultsfrom the review show :

                            a sharp decline in log prices;

                       1    a need to increase landowner royalties significantly;

                        1   a need to adjust the log tax,

                            but most importantly,for the purposesof this
                            submission: an industry whose sales revenueis less
                            than its out-qoinqs, an industrythat is uneconomic.

   The uneconomic nature of the logging industry has been apparentfor some
   time. Logging could only be justified in very narrow profit-and-lossterms,
   from the point of view of an export logger. Interms of real economy,
   externalitieswere never taken into account. However, now pricesare low,
   the industry is uneconomic,even in a narrow profit-and-losssense. Good
   faith requires a government to look at the real,full, or true economic impact
   upon its economy of an activity. To ignore the true economic impact, for the
   sake of narrow sectoral interests is irrational, and in our submission points
   towards ineffectiveness,and the unhealthy relationshipsthat exist between
   the State and the logging industry.

   In our submission, the preliminarydata of the revenue review providesan
   important economic justification for maintainingthe moratorium on new
   concessions. If an industry is uneconomic,then it does not make sense to
   expandthe industry.
   The Bank is obliged properly to supervise loans and under OP 4.36
   (Forestry Policies), not to loan for an activity that is irrational, or to loanfor
   forestry purposesthat cannot be managed on a sustainable basis.The
   uneconomiccharacter of the logging industry meansthat the industry is not
   sustainable. `The Banks OP4.36 says:

             "(e) Sustainable management of natural forests means controlled
                utilization of the resource to produce wood and non-wood
                benefits into perpetuity, with the basic objectives of long-term
                maintenance of forest cover and appropriate reservation of areas
                for biodiversity protection and other ecological purposes.       "


The preliminaryfindings of the Revenue Review showing an industrywhose
outgoings exceed its income,do not comply with this definition of sustainability.
To seek to keep the industry going, without a respitefor purposesof
investigationand restructuring is to managethe industry poorly.


    Fundingan Independent Inspectionof Log Exports

Althoughfunds have been providedfor the Swiss firm Social de General
Surveillance (SGS)to monitor log exports and the work is being done,the funds
                                     P A G E 6

are not part of the Papua New Guinea ForestAuthority's formal budget. The
funds have been donated through the European Union.The PNG Forest
Authority has opposedthe employment of SGS, and tried to give this work to a
local contractor.


 A moratoriumon all new timber concessions, pending a complete review
 of all existing concessions

The issue we wish to raise here is the lack of good faith of the State in honouring
this condition.The thrust of our submission here, is that as soon as the second

tranche is paid, the State will slip back into its old ways: business as usual.

 As will be seen from the text of our submissions the State broke boththe letter
and the spirit of the condition with the following logging concessions:

                             PondoTRP,
                             Tuwapu,
                             Collingwood Bay,
                             Kamula Doso FMAs,
                             Amanab Blocks 1to 4 FMAs,
                             Semabo FMA,
                             Kula Dag¡
                             Bakada
                             and on the Claimants land within the Kiunga-
                             Aiambak Road.


We draw attention to the schemesor arrangementsby which logging
 concessions fall into the hands of companies because of omissions by State
 lawyers.Due process is allowed to fall by the wayside, and then companies
 asserttheir rights through the law of contract, quasi-contract,and the use of ex
parte orders and declarations, by the courts. All of this, whether it be
 misfeasanceor nonfeasance,points toward a situation where the Bank should
 draw the conclusionthat as soon as the second tranche of the loan is paid out,
 the Statewill slip back into its old ways. Business as usual. The State and
 loggingcompanies connived at circumventingthe moratorium. Bank officials
 knew of these developments.As was reported by the ReviewTeam, the Vailala
 Blocks2 & 3 Forest ManagementAgreement area had no legal basis. But the
 loggingcompany,with the tacit consent of the Forest Authority and the State
 managedto obtain a declaration from the courts that a timber permit existed. A
 similar situation occurred in the Makapaconcession. Un-opposedby the Forest
 Authority or State, the logging company obtained a court order that regularized
 an otherwise irregular concession.

 The behaviourof the State prior to the loan, and during the currency of the loan
 shows a lack of good faith. The State was working against the conditionsof the
 loan.The purpose of the loan was to promote governance. But, duringthe
 currency of the loan, there is poor and ineffectual governance; the antithesis of
 the conditions of the loan agreement.

 Underthese circumstances,the release of the second tranche of the loan
 constitutesnot only acts of bad faith, but a violation of the loan agreement.The
  Bank responsibilities under OD 13.05to supervise the loan have been breached.
  For full submission on this point ,see Appendix 5.

  New lawson forest clearancesfor roads and agricultural schemes

 This is part of the substance of the Claimants case and we make detailed
  submissions later in this Claim. The issue we wish to raise here is the lack of
  good faith of the State in honouringthis condition. The required legislation has
  been put in place. But the Ministerfor Forestsignores it. There is evidencefrom
  the ReviewTeam reportsthat the Ministerfor Forests gave approvalfor a major
  road-line clearance during the currency of the moratorium.The ReviewTeam
  said:


                                      P A G E 7

          "Whilst in general policies, laws and proper procedures are being
          observed, there were four notable exceptions. Theseare:
                  .     Theapparent illegal issuance and extensionof the so-
                        called Aiambak-Kiunga         Timber Authority       by  a
                        succession of Ministers since about 1995.Although the
                        PNG Forest Authority has made               attempts    to
                        close down thisproject, it has been constrainedby a
                        court order which bizarrely prevents the Authority from
                        exercising its powers under the Forestry Act Related to
                        the above, the approval in December 2000 by         the
                        Minister for forests, of forest clearing for a 635 km
                        "Trans Island Highway". Thisis outside the Minister's
                        authority. It wasrevoked by the Minister after receiving
                        advice from the Board.

                        Theissuance of a permission to "setup base camp and
                        constructadvance roading" in the Pondo TRParea in
                        2001 by the PNG ForestAuthority Managing Director in
                        the absence of a TimberPermit or a TimberAuthority.

                        Theissuance of a permission to harvest logs in the
                        Tuwapuarea in 2007 by the PNG ForestAuthority
                        Managing Director despite advice from the National
                        Forest Service.

                   The latter three are in direct breach of the Government`s
                   currentmoratorium on the issuance of loqqinq permits. In the
                   case of Pondo, the Managing Director later revoked his
                  permission, and his action wasduly noted by the Board. In
                   the interim some 8,500 m3 of logs witha value of Kina 1.4
                   million were exported`. In the case of Tuwaputhe Board
                   correctlydirected the Managing Director (Board meeting 73of
                   22August 2001) to withdraw thepermission given.A legal
                   direction to cease operations was issued on 20 September. In
                   the interim an estimated           m3 of logs were exported.At
                   currentlog exportprices3this represents revenue to the log
                   exporter ofsome K 2.6 million. Theseare not minor
                   amounts."(emphasisadded)

In our submission the failure of the State duringthe currency of the moratorium to
stop the loggingon the Kiunga-Aiarnbak is a clear demonstrationof its lack of
good faith.


New laws insistingon a better balance onthe Boardof the Papua New
Guinea Forest Authority

The intentof these reforms was to removefrom the Boardthe ForestIndustries
Association (FIA) representatives, because they had come to dominate the
Board. The FIA representativeswere replaced by a member of the PNG
Chamber of Commerce. A woman's representative was also provided for in the
new legislation.
                A woman has not yet been appointedto the board.
                Further, at the meetingheld on Saturday 13thof October 2001,
                the Chair of the Boardallowed a representativeof the FIA to be
                presentin a Boardmeeting.
These matters show a lack of good faith on the part of the State.




                                     P A G E 8

New lawson transparency and non-commercialdisclosureby the Forest
Authority Board.

Itwas a condition of the loan that the State pass a law that would give
transparencyto all alienations of forestland. The State has not passed a law to
require public notification (press advertisementsand public meetings)to the
intention of the Forest Authority to establisha Forest ManagementAgreement.

Although other necessaryamendmentsto the Act were made, the Forest
Authority does not as a matter of practicefollow the new law on transparency
and non commercial disclosure.

         Duringthe currency of the moratorium,the landowners in the
         Josephstaal FMA through their lawyers, requested from the Forest
         Authority, a copy of the contract and maps which were said to alienate
         the timber rights from their land. This document is called the "Forest
         ManagementAgreement" (FMA).The landowners did not know who had
         signed the FMA on their behalf.

         The ForestAuthority refusedto hand over a copy of the FMA or the
         maps.

         The landowners made a Constitutionalapplication for freedom of
     .   information,to the courts.

         The Forest Authority consentedto the order. But gave illegible copies.

         Only when threatened with contempt, did the Forest Authority give over
         the FMA and maps.

     This is a further example of the lack of good faith on the part of the State.


2nd Tranche should not be paid until full review and Kiunga-Aiambak
stopped

 In our submission on this preliminary pointwhich raises itself as we attemptto
sketch the scene on behalf of the Claimants,the State has not acted in good faith
 duringthe currency of loan and prudencedemands the inferencethat it may not
 be trusted, at least until it can demonstrateits bona fide in such a way as to
 dissipatethe distrust that must be seen to have accumulated.


  3. World Bank Policiesand Procedures

  3.1 OD 13.05
  We understandthat the Bank has the following policy(ies) and/or procedures:

           3.1 The Bank' s Supervisionand Monitoring Policy, Operational
          Directive 13.05. "Projectsupervisionis one of the Bank's most
          important activities. Its mainpurposes are (a) to ensure that the
          borrower implements the project withdue diligence to achieve the
          agreed developmentobjectives and in conformity with the loan
          agreement".


This is a case where the Claimants respectfullyseek to implementthe
 safeguards, checks and balancesthat Bank management has prudently put in
 place in order to help the Bank to carry out its formal mandate.

  In so doing, the Claimants seek to helpthe World Bank implementits own well-

                                      P A G E 9

founded policy prescriptions,that have been eroded through errors of judgment,
poor practiceand inconsistent implementation.

The loan agreementfor the 1999$90 million Governance PromotionAdjustment
Loan(GPAL) says that the,
            'proposedloan would support the Government'songoingefforts to
             redress past policy and governance shortcomings in a sustainable
             manner. Hence the loan includes components to improve. ..forestry
             management. ...A pervading themeis to strengthengovernance in
             public institutions through enhanced transparency and
             accountability.

The Claimants allege that the disbursement of the secondtranche of the SAL
without the maintenanceof the moratorium and full review of logging
concessions would constitute a violation of the contractual provisionsof the
structuraladjustment loan, and a violation of the Bank'sobligation to supervise
and monitor its projects pursuantto the Bank's Supervision and Monitoring
policy, Operational Directive 13.05. The very first paragraphof that policy says
that,

         "Projectsupervision is one of the Bank's most important activities. Its
         mainpurposes are (a) to ensure that the borrower implements theproject
         with due diligence to achieve the agreed development objectivesAND IN
         CONFORMITY WITH THELOAN AGREEMENT; (emphasis added)



The loan agreement's Matrix of Policy Actions says under "Actions
Taken/OutcomesAchieved" that there was a "moratoriumdeclared on all new
 Forest ManagementAgreements (FMA),timber permits and geographic
 extensions to timber permits."

 A column entitled "second tranche", contains conditionsthat must be met before
 second tranche disbursement.That column includes,

              "Complete independentreview of all FMAs, timber permitsand
              geographic extensionsto timber permits.

 An explanation of the shifting position of the State and the Bank over the
 Loanconditionrequiring a full review of existing concessions

 The condition requiring a moratoriumon new logging concessionsfirst appeared
 in a draft Policy Matrix of early October 1999. The draft Policy Matrix was linked
 to the internal Bank reporttitled, Papua New Guinea: Improving Governanceand
 Performance, unpublisheddated October 1999.This report is not availableto the
 Claimants.This condition was always linked to the needfor a review of existing
 projects. That was confirmed between Bank officials and NGO representativesin
 early November 1999, orally and in writing. See our submissions under the "time-
 line" below and also Appendix 6. It cannot be arguedthat there was an
 unfortunatecommunicationerror over this matter.This is so becausethe Prime
 Minister made it very clear in his budget speech that the moratoriumwas linked
 to a review of existing concessions.There was no unfortunate"communication
 error".

 The condition requiring a full review of existing concessions, in the policy matrix,
  madesense becausethere was no real dispute (betweenthe Bank,the State
  and NGO's) that the managementof Papua New Guinea'sforests was in crisis,
                                     P A G E 1 O

hence the forest conditionality placed in the SAL. To proceedto plan and allocate
to logging companies more of the untouchedancient forests, without a respite
long enoughto get the existing forest concessionsunder control, would bring
about irreparableharm to society, the forest ecosystemsgenerally. Hence, it
makes sense to extend the moratorium over the period of a review of existing
concessions.

The history of Papua New Guinea'sforests was one of poor governanceand
corruption.There was a need for a moratoriumon new concessions while a
review of all concessionstook place. It was necessaryto ensure that forests
were properly managedand benefits are shared fairly. These matterswere
discussed by NGOs in detail with Bank officials and were included in the
conditions of the loan.

However on the Bank's web site "Papua New Guinea and Forests, Frequently
Asked Questions (FAQs)"there is a more limited statement of the scope of the
review and moratorium,supporting a review only of pending/proposedforest
concessions:

                 "Referenceto the moratorium and the need for a review of
                 applications for timber harvest, is made in the GPAL.A lack of
                 clarity in the language in the documentation has resulted in
                 unintended ambiguity. Wordingin the loan agreement and the
                 matrix of policy conditions could be read to mean that the review
                 would cover all forest operations in PNG -including currently
                 operating logging concessions.However the Letter of
                 Development Policy, as signed by the Government,is clear that
                  the objective was to focus the review only on pending
                 applications, and this was certainly the intent of the both the
                  Governmentand the Bank from the beginning in this area".
                  (emphasisadded)

 See Appendix 7 for a detailed submission on FAQ's.
This self-servinginterpretation is directly contradicted by the languageof the
 matrix included in the President's Report on the GovernanceAdjustment Loan,
 the Policy Matrix sent to the State in November 1999,and the words of the Prime
 Minister,set out above and on the cover of this claim.

 The web site also says:

          "Areview of all current logging concessions in the field wouldbe a major
          task, and could not be achieved within the time frame of a structural
          adjustment operation. However,it can -and would -be done under the
          auspices of the proposed Forestry and Conservation Project (FCP). This
          is reflected in the Project Appraisal Document for the FCP and will be
          specified in the Loan Agreement for this project"

  In our submission,the last sentence here is quite misleading.

 The statementthat a review of current concessionscould not be achievedwithin
  the SAL time frame is incorrect.We submit that it would have been possibleto
  reviewsome of the most critical existing concessions in the time frame allotted to
  the ReviewTeam. The ReviewTeam managedto review 32 new concessions
  over the same period of time.



                                      P A G E 1 1

A Time-line

We set out below in our submission, our version of how events unfolded:
   .   NGO concernswith World Bank forest policy in Papua New Guinea were
       raisedwith Bank representativeMr Pirouz Hamidian-Radin 1997. Mr
       Hamidian-Rad refusedto accept the needfor a moratorium on the
       allocation of new logging concessions, and at that point NGOs brokeoff
       relationshipswith the Bank and began preparingan Inspection Panel
       Claim.

       On about the 11 or 12thof November 1998,NGO's met with Mr. Douglas.
       The Individualand Community Rights Advocacy Forum Inc. (ICRAF) had
       prepared a letter of demand, leadingto an InspectionPanel Claim. But at
       the meeting Mr. Douglas said the Bank was preparedto support a
       moratorium on new logging concessions and a review of existing
       concessions. These matters are described in Colin Filer's book "The Thin
       Green Line" pp68-70.SeeAppendix 8.

       On the 2nd of November 1999, Greenpeace representative Brian Brunton
       met with Mr. J Douglas. Mr. Douglasconfirmedthat the Bank would
       requestthe State to include a moratoriuminthe SAL and the FCP loan.
       And that "the Bankwould support/proposea review of all existing
       projects during the duration of the moratorium."See Appendix 6 (email
       messagesfrom Brunton confirmingthe conversationand Mr. Douglas
       reply not disputing that the Bankwould supportlpropose a review of all
       existing projects during the duration of the moratorium").



       Council approved the terms of the SAL, to include a moratorium and a
       In the first or second week of November 1999,the National Executive

       review of existing concessions (the Claimants have no documentationon
       this meeting because it was kept confidential. Our sources were oral, but
        confirmed by the Prime Minister's budget speech, see front page of the
        claim.

        inthe time betweenthe Prime Minister'sspeech in November 1999and
        May 2000,when the National ExecutiveCouncil (NEC) approvedthe
        terms of the loan, officials in the Prime Minister'sDepartment came
        under political pressureto roll-back the commitmentto a moratoriumand
        full review of all existingconcessions, and substituted it with a limited
        review on  new concessions.      In particular,the ForestAuthority, made a
        submission to the NECthat, amongst other things, successfully sought to
        change the reviewfrom a review of existing projects,to a review of new
    .   projects.See Appendix 9.

        Politicians and loggers did not want a full review of existing concessions
        becausethey did not want any independentinvestigation into
        malpractices. Papua New Guinean officials were also uncomfortablewith
        a full review of existing concessions because it would require a lengthy
        process of aboutfive years, and reveal their short-coming too.

        Politicians, and hence officials, were under pressurefrom their patron-
        logging companiesto removethe moratoriumand give as concessionsto
        logging companiesthe remaining areas of accessible untouchedforest.

        A detailed history of the process by which the World Bank came to agree
         to a moratorium in Papua New Guinea is given in Filer et al The Thin

                                    P A G E 1 2

Green Line: World Bank Leverage and Forest Policy reform in Papua
New Guinea (Appendix 8).

Certainly Mr. Douglas, a Bank official key to negotiating the forest
component of the loan, wavered over the needfor a full review of
existing concessions.

As early as November 1998, Mr. Douglas gave verbal undertakingsto
Port Moresby NGOsthat he was willing to support the call for a
moratorium on the development of new logging projects,while a review
of existing concessionstook place.

Later (see Appendix 6),when confrontedwith the minutes of that
meeting he changed his mind on his verbal commitment, although at the
time the Bank's commitmentto extend the moratorium until all current
permits and extensions had been subjectedto review, had been included
in a draft Policy Matrix. Mr. Douglas in a newspaper interview in the
Papua New Guinea Independent, 11 November 1999,highlightedthe
needfor a moratoriumon new timber concessions,and a review of "all
existing logging operations and a far greater level of transparency in the
deliberations of the National Forest Board".The NEC (cabinet)in
November 1999and the Prime Minister's budget speech, confirmed a
review of existing concessions.

Mr. Douglasand other officials believedthat industrial-scale-logging
should proceed in Papua New Guinea. See Report No. PID6506May
29,2001 paragraph4.

In May 2000, Mr. Douglas reachedan agreementwith Mr. Paul Barker
an official in the Papua New Guinea' Prime Minister's Department. Mr.
Barker,who was respondingto the political pressure, negotiateda short-
term moratoriumwith the Bank. This shortened moratoriumwas to be
maintainedwhile 30 or so new projectswere vetted for complianceand
legality under a modified review.

The Bank officials backtrackedto a weaker position, a short-term
moratorium pending a compliance review on selected new projects.This
position did not comply with the matrix of loan conditionality and it
 endangeredthe forests of Papua New Guinea generally and the
 Claimants forest in particular.

 The "modified review"was no longer a review of all existing concessions.
 Itwas a processarisingfrom the political pressureof logginginterests
 and threatened the Claimants' forests. Perhapsfrom the view of logging
 interests in Papua New Guinea, a limited review was preferablebecause
 it could be quickly implemented, paid for by donors (the Governmentof
 Australia), and then ignored,while the new forest estate was prepared
 for allocation.

 An additional strategy of Papua New Guinean officials, (withthe
  knowledge of Bank officials -who were advised by NGOsof these
 developments),was to continueto prepare and processthe allocation of
  new concessions during the time when the moratoriumwas supposedto
  be in place. Thus, the ForestAuthority proceeded to take steps to have
  a number of concessions readiedfor allocation to particular logging
  companies during the currency of the moratorium.The government
  sought to expeditethe allocationsof new concessions up to, but just

                             P A G E 1 3

        short of approval, with the objectiveof formalizing the new contractual
        arrangementsas soon as the moratoriumwas lifted. This in itself
        constituteda violation of the moratoriumand it is evidence of badfaith on
        the part of the government.



        Further,the State, in good faith, did not address the need for a
        substantial hiatus in new logging,to allow a complete over-haul of forest
        and conservation policy and implementationin Papua New Guinea.This
        was necessaryfor the effectivenessof both the loan, and a proposed
        loan, called the "Forest and Conservation Project" (FCP) .

Consistentwith the Policy Matrix, PNG National ExecutiveCouncil (NEC)
decision No NG 99/99 (a cabinet decision) ordered a moratoriumon all current
proposals (Forest ManagementAgreements (FMA's), Timber Permits (TP's),
Timber Authorities, (TA's) pending a review of existing concessions. The
Cabinet decision was made in November 1999.The Claimants do not have a
copy of the NEC decision. It is a confidential document and was not made
availableto us. But we are reasonablysure what was decided in the decision
becauseof a speech the Prime Minister made in Parliament,and becauseof
referencesin other NEC documents,which did fall into our hands. The Prime
Ministerof Papua New Guinea in his budget speech November 1999described
his government'spolicy thus:

           "Governance has been particularly poor in the area of forestry,with the
            side effect of promoting corrupt practices and undermining
            environmental sustainability in logging activities. The Governmentis
            committed to introducing a moratorium on all new forestry licenses,
            extensions and conversions, and to proceed with a review of all
            existing licenses, to ensure thatproper procedures are followed, that
            logging practices are not carried out in an unreasonable way, and that
            landowners get their fair share of benefits from resource use."


In essencethe loan was to promote governance,and for the purposesof this
Claim, in particular,forest governance.The Claimants submit that Bankofficials
behaved in an imprudent and irresponsible manner lending large sums of money
to a governmentthat is corrupt and irresponsible.Senior Government Ministers
on several occasions gave tax exemptionsto the logging company logging on the
Claimant's land. Although corruption in Papua New Guinea is known to be
"systemic and systematic",to quote Sir Mekere Morauta,the Prime Minister of
Papua New Guinea, the imprudenceand irresponsibility refers to irresponsible
acts that directly affect the Claimants and their land. Detailed submissionson
imprudenceand irresponsibility are at Appendix1O.


3.2       OP4.36
 In addition, Bank decisions in Papua New Guinea forest matters are regulated by
the Bank's 1993forest policy knownas Operational Policy 4.36 (OP 4.36).

 in our submissionthe failure to secure the moratoriumon new logging
 concessions, pending a review of existing concessions,was a breach of OP
 4.36, because it failed to implementthe policy objectives of OP 4.36. The loan
 allowed logging operations to proceed (the new concessions)where there was in
 fact no sustainableforest management.

  OP 4.36 bansthe Bankfrom financing commercial logging operationsor the
 purchaseof logging equipmentfor use in tropical moist primaryforest. O P 4.36,
 para. 1(a), "Wherea country has madea commitmentto undertake
 "conservation-orientated"forestry, the Bank may finance improvementsin
                                    P A G E 1 4

planning, monitoringand field control of logging Operations".

OP 4.36 promotesgood forestry practiceand sustainable forestry and limits
World Bank forest sector lending by requiring environmental and social
assessments, avoiding loans for logging in areas of high ecologicalvalue,
requiring safeguards for forest dwellers rights.

In primaryforest where logging is ongoing, but where a government has made a
commitmentto sustainable management,the Bank may finance improvementsin
the planning, monitoring,and field control of forestry operationsto maximizethe
capability of responsibleagencies to carry out the sustainable managementof
forest resources.

Detailed submissions on breaches of OP 4.36 are at Appendix 11.

 4. The Bank hasviolatedor threatensto violate its
        own policiesand proceduresinthis way:

The Bank'sdisbursementof the second tranche without:
           -     maintainingthe moratorium

                fully implementingthe findings of the partial review, includingthe
                requirementsseeking the remediation of illegal activities; and

                 requiring a full review of the contractual provisionsof the loan,

                 constitute

                             a violation of the contractual provisionsof the loan by
                           loaningto a borrower, who, with bad faith, defaultsto
                           implement its own promises. The loan, amongst other
                           things was to give the State support for on-going efforts
                           to redress past policy and governanceshortcomings in
                           a sustainable manner,with components to improve
                           forestry management.There are very clear examples
                           set out in the body of this Claim above, that affect the
                           Claimants land, and other examples referred to in
                           evidence, showing the failures of the forest sector
                           generally, indicatingthe developmentobjectives of the
                           governance loan have not been met, and are unlikely to
                           be met, if the disbursement of the second tranche is
                           completed.

                            a violation of Operational Directive 13.05on
                           supervision and monitoring becauseof poor judgement
                           and imprudent lendingto a borrower who promotes
                           illegal practices.

                              a violation of the Banksforest policyOP 4.36.The
                           acts of the State show that it did not    implement
                           follow, adhereto, or is in fact committedto, sustainable
                           forest management, sustainableforestry, conservation-
                            orientated forestry, or good forestry practice.


          5 Harm:The damage to the Claimants

                Harm: Governance

   5.1    The ReviewTeam report on the Kiunga -Aiambak Roadsaid:

                   At no time since the purported issuance of the Timber Authority
                                      P A G E 1 5

                 in April 1994has anyaspect of dueprocess been observed. This
                 has arisen from matters beyond the direct control of the
                 PNGFA."

 Governance, then directly affects rights of the Claimants (and all Papua New
 Guineans') to protection of the law in a broad sense. The unlawful and
 uncontrolled activities of logging companies de-stabilises governance. In this
 case the logging company is able to effect political, judicial, and administrative
 checks and balances,to the end that it can log with impunity, along the Kiunga-
 Aiambak Road, and the feeder road known as the "Barramundi Highway".
 Thus, the administration of a country is undone. When loggers can get their
 way, without "due process" being observed over a seven year period, in such a
 way that their actions are beyond the control of the regulating authority, then
 the core of governance in a nation is put at risk.


   The recent report by the ReviewTeam put in place as a result of the loan,
   describesthe illegal nature of the KiungaAiambak concession imposedon
   the claimants land. The Review Team also concludedthat the Kiunga
   Aiambak concession is in violation of the World Bank's loan conditionality
    requiringa moratorium on all new concessions. A copy of the ReviewTeam
    report on the KiungaAiambak concession is attached as Appendix 12. The
    report hints at relationship between politicians and logging companies. The
    Claimants do not want to be more specific, at this stage, becausethe civil
    laws of Papua New Guinea which limitfreedom of speech. Officials in the
    PNG Forest Authority apparently lacked authority, or resolve,to intervene
    and protectthe Claimants' rights.

    Harm: A Kind of Genocide

    The claimantsfear an impending destruction of their culture. The evidenceof
    this harm will be given by the Claimants to the InspectionPanel in the form of
    direct testimony on a video tape Exhibit 1.The testimonies describe:

     1. The empty promisesthe logging company madeto the landowners
        to get their consentfor the logging project to be developed on their
         land.

    2. The destructionthat has being caused to the forest, wildlife and culture
         of the people as a result of logging.

    3. The impact of logging on social life of the people.

5.4 Papua New Guinea is the most culturally diverse place on earth. One fifth of
the world's languages are found there, with over 800 languages spoken. The
forest is held under customary land tenure by many indigenous tribes. The
culture and the forest are under threat. The Claimants are the lawful owners of a
forest of global significance. Their forest is part of the lungs of the Earth. It has a
major role in global climate, yet the State and Bank officials appear to tolerate its
liquidation.


5.5 Becausethe area is lightly populated, about one person per square kilometre,
logging is not the most effective, appropriate, or economic form of development
for the Claimants. The demographics of the area are not accidental. They arise
as the result of thousands of years of interaction between the land, forests and
the Claimants' ancestors. They were and are, hunter-gatherers, moving through
the forests, living from the forests. This is a delicate and complicated process of
human activity and biodiversity; an ancient balance,that is easily upset. Butthere
was never any attempt to involve the Claimants in any discussions about the
development options open to them. Although rich in culture and resources,in the
modern marketsthe Claimants are the poorest of the poor. Their livelihoods,food
security, depends upon the forests remaining intact. This is their wealth. They are
 isolated, uncared for by the State, the Bank, and easy prey for logging
 companies. The Kiunga Aiambak road, the centre of this Claim, drives through
the heart of this ancient forest, and has little justification, other than an excuse to
                                    P A G E 1 6

supply the logging company with raw logs. The road is of such a low standard
that it becomes impassable in the wet season. The jobs offered by the logging
company are unskilled, and temporary. The Claimants have no virtual experience
in the modern economy. That economy does not present itself to them as a level
playing field. They are disadvantaged, weak competitors, at risk from a form of
quasi-social genocide now familiar to many indigenous peoples.


5.6 In the Constitution of Papua New Guinea, the National Goals and Directive
Principles place a duty on the State to use wisely and preserve the natural
resources and the nation's environment,for the use of future generations. There
is simply no way that the logging operations on the Kiunga- Aiambak Road
conform to this mandate. The same Goals and Directive Principles place a duty
on officials to protect Papua New Guinea's culture. If the forests die, there is no
food, the plant life, birds, animals at the basis of the diet wither away, water
becomes contaminated, building material for shelter, canoes-transport, slowly
become harder to find, and the physical rationality, the foundation of culture,
begins to disappear. Relations between groups, as has happenedalready, begin
to fracture. The young who can no longer make a living traditionally, migrate to
the cities, there to join the desperate cycle of urban poverty and crime. As the
young move, the old are left in rural poverty, the oral traditions begin to wither.
Then the languages die. When your language dies you are no longer a people:
by definition. It is not legally genocide, but nevertheless,a kind of genocide.

5.7      The logging companies make their links with men. Women are never
asked what they want. This is a society where womens' role in life is defined and
subservient. Nevertheless a video tape was madewhich shows women, men and
youth from the area talking about logging and the road. The video tape is Exhibit
1. The following is a summary of the main points put forward by women in their
oral testimonies:

         The integrity of the forest (bush) is important for the collection of housing
         material- particularlytemporary houses used by women for giving birth

         Logging makes it harder for getting sago (the local staple) for food; the
         mud is now much deeper; the sago palms are shorter.

         Stocks of sago and fish are decreasing

         The company spoilt the bush

         Animals (protein) are now far away- before they were close

     I   The company gave the women nothing

     I   There was no consultationwith women

     I   Women face hard problems. Logging did not benefit us with anything
         good

     I   We are happy about the road; it lets us get to Kiunga; but we have to beg
          rides on company trucks; it is not maintained properly

          They should have given us a church

          They said they would give us houses, a church, a market; but nothing
          was done

          Governmentservices are not comingthrough

          Nobody cares about this place, we are a forgotten people here and the
          governmenthas not given us any services

          The BHP-Billiton/ Ok Tedi Mining Ltd mine has contributed to the
          pollution

      I   Health problems in the area are caused by the mining pollution of mine
                                      P A G E 1 7

         at Ok Tedi, the Placer mine at Porgera, and the logging by Concorde
         Pacific

         People come to the Boboa Health Centre, Lake Murray with lots of
         gastric pain, it affects the chest, burning, blood in the fetes, typhoid, skin
         irritations; its from eating the sago and drinking the water

         They (the loggers) put chemicals at the road-side

5.8 The forests of Papua New Guinea are crucial to the well being of the people.
The forests provide the people with food, water, building materials, medicineand
are closely integrated into the everyday way of life. They are a resourceand a
life-support mechanism.The forests are also owned by the people.They are the
private property of customary clans or extendedfamilies. So the rightsto all the
necessitiesto life that the forests provideare also the property of the customary
owners. The arrangement by which foreign logging companies,through the
State, accessedthe forests and appropriatedlogs has been deterioratingover
the years. The current situation is that the industry is bankrupt. The costs of
logging exceed the f.o.b. prices. In 1998the then government made a
determined effort to access most of the available and accessible un-logged
forests. There was widespread resistanceto that move. The source of that
resistancewas that people realised that the deals being offered them by the
loggers and the State were "bad deals". At one level, the financial returnswere
very poor. But they also realisedthat they were being mislead, and that there
were attempts to inducethem to enter into unfair agreements (seethe Report of
the ReviewTeam LandownerSpecialistsAppendix 13).The peoplewere
worried about their future. They understoodthat they had a responsibilityto their
children, and future generations.They understoodthat their ancestors had
largely left the forests to them intact, and that they had a responsibilityto pass
the forest resources on to the future generationswithout any unduewaste. They
were worried and concerned that the Statewas unable to keep its promises,
unable to manage its own affairs, that some State representativesand officials
were dishonest, manipulative and even corrupt. The people feared all these
things. Bank officials were also aware of this deteriorating situation. That is the
 reasonwhy they put the forest conditionson the loan. Both landowners and Bank
 officials were concerned about poor governance. The conditions on the loan
 were there to prevent things getting worse. But then the State and the Bank
 officials did not follow the conditions; things will certainly deterioratefurther if the
 secondtranche is releasedwithout the Bank ensuring that meaningful reform has
 taken place.

 5.9 The social degradation that accompaniesindustrial logging is not a figment of
 the Claimants' imagination. It is supported by scientists who work in Papua New
 Guinea. It was documented recently in researchcarried out by Bruniosinthe
 Wawoi Guavi TRP not far from the claimants' land and in the Sandaun Province
 in research done on behalf of the EuropeanUnion by Schmid. See Appendix 14.
 Schmidsaid:


              "Industrialresources extractionnot only threatens the natural richness
               of these areas of globally highest biodiversity but also deeply affects
                the local populations. Thesocial consequences of the "frontier effect"
               are numerous and detrimental: alcohol abuse, gambling, prostitution.
                Theinflux of cash as well as of migrant workers irreversibly destroys
                the social fabric of the communitiesand subjects local people to
                forced and rapid social and cultural change and reorientation..
                Change of diet from fresh produce Io commercial food causes

                                       P A G E 1 8

             serious healthproblems while introduced diseases (suchas malaria
             in Guyana) further severely affected local peoples health. The
             pollution of fresh water resources by logging and mining operations
             represents another serious health hazard.



5.1O    Communityforestry: It is unfortunatethat methodsof forest utilisation
that assist peopleto control their own development,such as communityforestry
are not well supported by the Bank, the State, or the PNG ForestAuthority.
Community forestry has been carried out almost exclusively by the private sector,
mainly NGOs and CBOs. Most of the work of the ForestryAuthority is in
promoting large-scale export logging concessions.Community forestry is an
economic link betweenthe landowners,forest owners and their forests that
allows them to control their own forests. Communityforestry conformswith Bank
policy, see OP 4.36:

           TheBank'slending operations in the forest sector are conditional on
         government commitment to undertake sustainable management and
         conservation-oriented forestry. Sucha commitment (which may be
         reflected in specific conditionalities; see Good Practices 4.36 for
          examples) requires a client country to

                        (¡)adoptpolicies and a legal and institutional framework to:

                            (a)    ensure conservation and sustainable
                                  management of existing forests, and
                            (b)   promote activeparticipation of local people and
                                   the private sector in the long-term sustainable
                                   management of natural forests (seeparas. 19-
                                  20 of OD 4.01, EnvironmentalAssessment);

                  (ii) adopt a comprehensive and environmentally sound forestry
                       conservation and development plan that clearly defines the
                      roles and rights of the government, theprivate sector, and
                     local people (including forest dwellers) (see OD 4.20,
                    Indigenous Peoples; "(emphasisadded)


5.11The Claimants have never been assisted by the State to participatein
 communityforestry. With larger-scaleactivities, such as the activities on the
 Claimants land, the State is in breach of these policies becausethere is no legal
 and institutionalframework in Papua New Guinea to promotethe active
 participationof local people in the long-termsustainable managementof existing
 forests concessionsover 5000ha all timber rights are surrenderedto the Forest
 Authority through a standard Forest ManagementAgreement. No negotiationon
 the terms of the FMA is tolerated. There is no legal relationship betweenthe local
 people and the developer. They have no privity of contractwith the developer.
 The partiesto a project agreement or timber permit are the ForestAuthority and
 the logging company. So, the local people cannot sue if there is a breach of the
 concessionagreement, becausealthough the timber resource is based on their
 land, they no longer own the timber rights and they are not partiesto the
 operating contracts. If there were any legally binding contracts betweenthe
 ForestAuthority and the logging company operating on the KiungaAiambak
 road, then the Claimants or other landownersare not parties to them.

   Harm: The Degradationof Forests

   5.12 There are real threats facing landownersin Papua New Guineawho
   haveforest concessions imposed on their lands. But in this case, the people
   affected and their forests, have wider significance. New Guinea'svast Paradise
   Forestis part the world's third intact largest tropical forest. This forest stretches
   across the international border between Indonesia/WestPapua and Papua
   New Guinea. It runs through Papua New Guinea and West Papuafrom the

                                      P A G E 1 9

 south coast, over the central mountains, and down to the north coast. The
 Claimantsforests were, until recently,completely unspoilt. The iconfor this
 forest is of course the Bird of Paradise (32 species of these stunningly beautiful
 creatures are endemic to Papua New Guinea), which is also the national
 symbol of Papua New Guinea. But the forests burstswith biodiversity.The vast
 forests that run along the western border between Indonesia's provinceof Irian
 Jaya and Papua New Guinea, comprisethe heart of PNG's remainingancient
 forest landscape (about 5 million ha.), containing 5-7 % of the earth's bio-
  diversity.The Claimants forests are in the heart of this area.

5.13     Forestmanagement is so poor as to cause actual harm to the forests.
The Bank made the loan knowing that the State had no effective ability to protect
the forests of the claimants through the implementationof managementpolicies
or practiceson fragile forests, 10% conservation set-asides, rotationcycles.
There is no "National Forest Plan" This was a risk for the Bank.


     m   On the one hand it sought to improvethe governance of forests through
         the loan.


     m    But on the other hand, by not insisting on proper adherenceto the
         conditionality,


     m    not ensuring that the moratoriumstayed in place until the
          recommendationsof the partial review were fully implemented,and


     m    a full review of existing concessions completed,

it ran the risk of harming landownersand in particularthe Claimants'.

5.14      These issues are well known amongstforest policy-makers butwere
recently revisited on the State and the Bank by the ReviewTeam. Devastationto
intact mixedspecies of tropical forests can be profound. Bankforest experts
should be aware of this because it has been demonstrated in the literaturesee
 Bowles,et al, "Logging and Tropical Conservation"Science volume 280, 19June
 1998,p1899,see Appendix 15. Closely associated with the degradationof the
forest, the degradation of the culture we have referredto above. As Schmid
 notes at Appendix 14, the immediate impacts of selective logging may not be
 visible. High grading sees the removal of select trees only and the lower value
 softwoodsare left in place. The appearance is that an intactforest is still there.
 The under-growthand vines quickly re-establishthemselves. In reality a profound
 change has taken place, although there may be little or no perceptionof the
 change.The Claimantsfears of this global phenomenonmay have a basis in
 Papua New Guinea. Here, the fears are well established,and have been
 documented.


 5.15     Rotationcycles. The PNG ForestAuthority bases all its forest
 management on a 35-yearforestry cycle or rotation period. There is no scientific
 evidenceto support the propositionthat mixed species tropical rainforestwill
 regeneratewithin a period of 35 years after they have been logged.The
 evidence is to the contrary. Highvalue tropical hardwoodspecies invariablytake
 longer than 35 years to regenerate.The Review Team has recommendedthat
 the ForestResearch Institute be asked to advise the State on the issue of
 rotation period. But that is not enough.There needsto be a breathingspace long

                                      P A G E 2 0

enoughfor all stakeholdersto view and discuss the data. That would take time.
Certainly no new concessionsshould be allocated until the rotation period is
scientifically established,to the satisfaction of stakeholders.This issue is linked
to Bank policy in OP 4.36. The definition of "sustainable management"in the
Bank's Policy is:

             "(e) Sustainablemanagement of natural forests means controlled
                utilization of the resource to produce wood andnon woodbenefits
                into perpetuity, with the basic objectives of long-term maintenance
                of forest cover andappropriate reservation of areas for biodiversity
                protection andother ecological purposes."


  If the resource is to be used in perpetuity,then the rotation period must reflect
  the life cycle of the slow-growing species. It must be scientifically based, and
  not an arbitrary figure such as 35 or 40 years.


5.16      "Sustainable"management of naturalforests. The policy mandate in
 OP 4.36 of sustainable managementof naturalforests, is problematicin Papua
 New Guinea's mixed-speciesforests. The evidence pointsto industrialscale
 sustainableforestry not being either economically or ecologically feasible. One
 reasonfor industrial-scaleforestry not being feasible, is that the cost of putting
 back the forest into its original form is very high. True sustainableforest
 managementin mixed species tropical forests has a very high cost of
 managementto make it work. This is so for example, with the Mil Madeiras
 experiment in Amazonas, and other Brazilian examplesthat are Forest
 StewardshipCouncil certified.The claimants assert that there are no examples
 in the world where industrial logging in a mixed-speciestropical forest has been
 shown to be ecologically or commercially sustainable. Papua New Guinea
 forests and their owners are being usedfor experimental purposes,at great risk
 and without scientific or economic justification.


 5.17     Selective logging. Another reasonwhy the sustainable managementof
 naturalforests is problematicin Papua New Guinea, is that selective logging, on
 an industrial scale, tends to kill-off the high value slow-growing hardwoods.The
 Bank policy in OP 4.36 :


           "The Bank'slending operations inthe forest sector are conditional on
          governmentcommitmentto undertake sustainabie managementand
           conservation-orientedforestry':


  is not followed in that the selective logging destroys between 53 to 79 % of the
  high value trees. Ittherefore cannot be called "conservation-orientatedForestry",
  see paras5.23-24 supra.


 5.18      The standard logging methodof operation used by the PNG Forest
 Authority is to employ a technique known as "selective logging". This technique
 was used on the Claimants land without their consent, along the alignment of the
 KiungaAiambak road, and will be used along the alignment of the Baramundi
 Highway.


  5.19     The term "selective logging" is a euphemismfor "high-grading".With
                                       P A G E 2 1

"high-grading"the logger removesthe high-valuedtropical hardwood species,
which are generally slower growing. The effectof this is to give living space to
the faster growing, but commercially less valuable, softwood species. The
ecological balance of the forest is disrupted and a systematic degradationtakes
place into secondary growth.



5.20     Logging companies, with the PNG ForestAuthority, turning a blind eye or
in connivance,then carry out a second cut, even though a second cutwould not
be in accordancewith the law. The implementationof the Logging Code of
Conduct is poor. Forest management is poor. There has never been a
prosecutionof a logging companyfor violation of the Logging Code of Conduct. A
second cut would not conformto environmentalstandards. Environmental Impact
Statementsare routinely signed-off by Ministersfor Conservation and
Environmentwithout regardto standards. The Officeof Environment and
Conservationhas closed its section for monitoringforests. There has never been
a prosecutionof a logging companyfor infringementof environmental
regulations. Following the second-cut,the forest is so degraded, the logging
companythen recommendsto the State, generally through the Departmentof
Primary Industry,the clearance of all trees, and the planting of oil palm. The
loggingcompany, the Departmentof Primary Industry,the PNG ForestAuthority,
the Office of Conservationand Environment,the Departmentof Lands andthe
 ProvincialGovernmentthen work together to set up an "oil palm scheme".
Agricultural clearances are not "selective logging.They are clear-fell operations.
They are therefore profitablefor loggers, who can fell all the trees.


 5.21     CollingwoodBay Case: 38000ha "stolen".A specific example of this
 attempt at a clear-fell operation, occurred in 1999, at Collingwood Bay. There,
 State entitiesworking together, unlawfully alienated38,000 ha of customary land
 and placed it under indefeasible title. The customary landowners obtained interim
 injunctionsstopping actual logging, but the matter is still before the court. And the
 title over the land is still in existence,although disputed.


 5.22     In 1999, the State permitted the alleged fraudulent acquisition of
 38,000ha of forests for an illegal oil palm projectat Collingwood Bay, inthe Oro
 Provinceof Papua New Guinea. This illegal acquisition undermined attempts by
 local communitiesto protecttheir forests and pursue alternative sustainable
 developmentpaths. The Maisin people were able to establish amongst
 themselves local control over their lands and their forests. Their leadershipwas a
 combinationof traditional leaders, and educated peoplewho had either returned
 from work in the modern sector, or kept close linkswith home, while still at work
 in government or commerce. The leadership, working though a complex system
 of local consultation arrived at a practice of forest conservation. No cuttingthe
 forest, not even with portable sawmills. As an alternative,they developed links
 with NGOs to markettraditional bark-cloth-known as tapa-cloth, When the
  landowners learntabout the leases, they successfullysued for interim orders
  preventingany trespass. The action is still beforethe courts. Landowners
  sought and obtained interim injunctionsto stop logging in 1999.The loggers
  through their lawyers brought a series of interlocutoryapplications, culminating in

                                        P A G E 2 2

ForestAuthority, although defendants in this action, have done nothingto defend
the rights of the landownersin that case. The landowners' lawyersgave a full
brief on the case to Bank officials.


5.23     "70% of stems left mortallywounded" Mr. T R Vigus, a respected
forester and conservationistin Papua New Guinea, undertook research in the
1980sand 199O's,which empirically shows the high loss of commercialtrees
after selective logging has been through a forest. The data was obtainedfrom
plots within commercialtimber concessions in Papua New Guinea, and show
between a 53% to 79% loss of commercial trees after selective logging. See
Appendix 16.


5.24     Vigus work is cited and supported by other scientists. C.K Schmid says:

                  "ln selective logging those big mature trees which are anyway
                   not used by local people are removed by the loggers and paid
                   for. Thisprocess is often unprofessionallycarried out by poorly
                   skilledpersonnel operating heavy equipment.

                  "Inresearch plots in West New Britain it wasshown that more
                   than 70% of the stems were left mortally wounded(Cameron
                   and Vigus 1993),not to mention collateral damage to other
                   forest organisms and trees. Withinthe WawoiGuavi Timber
                   Concessionin the SouthernHighlands, Brunios concluded that
                   an average of 119trees were damages in every 10,000square
                   metres of selectivelylogged forest (Brunios 1999b, 9), or, that
                   for every selectively felled tree, 45 others weremortally
                   wounded." (Brunios 1999b,31).

5.25      In our submission,the State does not have the ability to manageand
 conservethe rainforests in the country. The Bank's own documents show that:


                 Theforestry sector experienced a number of reversals with
                 respect to important initiatives that had been introducedin 1995-
                 97. Theseevents raised the spectre of deteriorationin sector
                 governance that had thepotential to lead to unsustainable logging
                 .See Presidents Reportto the Executive Directors,Report No. P-
                 7374-PNG p3 para 12.

  5.26 There had been previous,and failed, Bank attempts to bring
  "governance"to the forestry sector. The Bank's President's Reportfailed to
  adequately capturethe degree of risk in the sector. One Bank document (see
  Appendix 17)describesthe risks invery general terms, insufficientlyso, in our
  submissionto be of use to decision-makers:

                   "Therisks to attaining the objectivesof the loan stem from a
                  number of factors:political oppositioncould compromisethe
                  reformprogram; sustaining the wide ranging reform effort may be
                  constrained by weaknessesin implementationcapacity; PNGs
                  vulnerabilityto commodityprice fluctuationsand natural disasters
                  could undermine gains from improved policy; and high cri.    rates
                  could weaken the supply responsefrom on-goingreforms"

                                     P A G E 2 3

 5.27 The situation, was, in fact, far worse than a mere potentiality to lead to
 unsustainable logging. As Vigus's work shows, namely 70% of the residual
 forest may die. Independentcommentators (Fileret al) recorded Bank officials
  as being of the opinion that:

                 "ThePNGFA was still seen to have a "limitedability to actually
               enforce sustainability guidelines",while DEC was "highly
               constrained" in its capacity to establish conservationareas or carry
               out its other core functions.


  5.28 We make two observationsabout this statement:

  First, we are forced to rely on statements made in documents not in our
possession,but referredto in a semi-official publication.The Claimants arefaced
with a major problemthat there is no discovery process inthis claim. Filer et al,
working in a State-funded research institute had access to original State and
Bank documents.We do not have that privilege.The Bank document cited by
Filer et al, would have been categorisedas "confidential". Indeed most Bank
documentsto do with SAL, before the formal press announcements, are so
categorised.The Claimants would not have had access to it in the normal course
of business.See Filer et al id 52, citing World Bank PNG Forestry and
Conservation Project: Project ConceptDocument unpub. 1997, 5

  Second, again, the remarks were understatements.The statements are
neverthelesscogent. They are assessments by Bank officials. They go to the
issue of whether or not a country is willing or able to implement forest
conservationand sustainable forest management,which is a preconditionof
lending by the Bank.The Bank's OP4.36says:

             1. Bank involvement in the forestry sector aims to reduce
                   deforestation, enhance the environmental contribution of
                   forested areas, promote afforestation, reducepoverty, and
                   encourage economic development. In pursuit of these
                   objectives, the Bank applies the following policies:

                      (b)     TheBank does not finance commerciallogging
                      operations or the purchase of logging equipment for use in
                      primary tropicalmoist forest. In borrowingcountries where
                      logging is being done in such forests, the Bank seeks the
                      government`s commitment to move toward sustainable
                      management of those forests,as describedin para. 1(d)
                      below, and to retain as much effectiveforest cover as
                      possible. Wherethe government has made this commitment,
                      the Bank may finance improvements in theplanning,
                      monitoring, and field control of forestry operations to
                      maximize the capability of responsible agenciesto carry out
                      the sustainable management of the resource.

 Empirical researchcarried out by Dr. P Erskine, on behalf of the Individualand
 Community RightsAdvocacy Forum Inc. in 1998,showed that the realthreats to
 the integrity of the forest still existed despite the Implementation in 1996 by the
 PNG ForestAuthority of the Logging Code of Conduct. The Logging Code of
 Conductcontainsforest managementand conservationstandards to be applied
 during selective logging operations. Dr. Erskine'sresearch showedthat in the
 two most importantconcessions in PapuaNew Guinea, the Code was breached
 in many ways. In the Wawoi Guavi Timber Rights Purchase area (TRP) (see
 Appendix 18 operated by the RimbunanHijaugroup and the Vanimo TRP (see
 Appendix 19 operated by WTK group,there were numerous breachesof the
 Logging Code of Conduct. Copies of these reportswere passed to the PNG
 Forest Authority.The Wawoi Guavi concession is close to the claimants land. Dr.
 Erskine's work is included in the Claimantssubmissionsfor the following
 reasons:
                                        P A G E 2 4

operated by WTK group (see Appendix 19),there were numerous breaches of                I
the Logging Code of Conduct. Copiesof these reportswere passedto the PNG
ForestAuthority. The Wawoi Guaviconcession is close to the claimants land. Dr
Erskine'swork is included in the Claimants submissions for the following
reasons:

       To our knowledge, it is the only recent, competentand informed
        assessment conducted by a scientistinto the impactof logging and
        compliance of logging with the LoggingCode of Conduct in the public
        domain.

        It is relevantbecauseit shows the likely impactof logging in the
        Claimants'forests. These reports give rise to the basis of the Claimants'
        apprehension that if a similarcompetentresearchwas carried out in their
        forests, it would revealsimilar resultsand conclusions. It is this
        apprehension that makes so important the failure of the Bank to secure a
        commitment to ensuringthe moratoriumstays in place while there is a
         full review of the impactof logging in existingconcessions.

         In the case of the Dr. Erskine's work in Wawoi Guavi,that forest is in the
         same province as the Claimants land, is near to the Claimants land.

         Inthe case of Dr. Erskine'swork at Vanimo, his report shows, similar
         poor practicesto those described inWawoi Guavi.The reportis
         important because it shows that poor forest management, and non
         existent environmentalcontrolsare wide-spread in Papua New Guinea.

         Further the work of Dr. Erskine on the lack of forest management in
         Vanimo, complements the work of Dr. Schmid at Appendix 14who
         examines the social impact of logging.

 5.31 These independent assessments of the ability of the PNG Forest Authority
 to enforcethe Logging Code of Conduct, are important. They reflectempirically
 the physicalimpact of logging in the largestconcessions. They show that
 objectivelythe State cannot protect the privateproperty of land owners once the
 State passes the timber rights to a logging company.

  Harm: Economic Loss


  5.31 The claimants' forestassets have been irreversiblydamaged by the
  decision to allow logging on their lands, the omissionduring the currency of the
  loanto remedy the illegal logging , in violationof the laws of Papua New
  Guinea, and also a violation of the conditionsof the Banks loan. These illegal
  activities have caused and will continueto cause , and is still continuing to
  cause economic, environmentaland social damageto the landowners.

   5.32 The Claimants do not know the full extent of the value of damage to their
   forests. Nevertheless, they havesufferedvery large lossesand are continuing
   to suffer those losses. The State and Forest Authority do not publish statistics
   of log exportson a concession-by-concession basis.Such statisticsare only
   releasedfrom time-to-time and are publishedprovince-by-province. In a
   province like the Western Province, where there is morethan one logging
   concession, it is not possible for landowners, or membersof the public to know
   how much was exportedfrom a particular loggingconcession. The Claimants
   have had to gather materialfor a valuation of their losses from a number of
   sources, informally.

the concession,timber that belonged to the claimants, in the year ending March
2001. If this figure was extrapolated over the life of the illegal concession,at an
average price of US$70per cubic metre the commercialvalue of the logswould
have been US$ 11,238,920. This sum grossly underestimatesthe value of log
exportsfrom the concession, because over the life of this concession log prices
have been much higher,although inthe period since March 2001, they have
slipped further and log prices are now at an all time low. Exports have been on-
going since 1995.

5.34      Another set of figures we have obtained are:

  Exports by ConcordPacificLtd 1999-2001 (part)

                                       1999               2000 2001 (Jan-
                                                                   SePt)
  No of Ships                          21                25                  19
  Volume (m3)                    77,030.454        151,458.843         107,208.619
  %age of total                        3.9%               7.6%                9.4%
  volume
  Value (kina)               15,902,285.440    29,355,692.190      20,001,706.580
  %age of total value                  4.1%               7.6%                9.7%


  We are still attempting to obtain the export figure on behalf of the claimantsfor
  the years 1995to 1998.At presentthe value of the kina against the US dollar is
  at an all time low of US$ .2735to the Kina: source PNG Banking Corporation,
  as published in the PNG Post Courier 9 November 2001, page 37.

   5.35 The expropriationof the claimants forests by the State and the logging
  company, have caused and will continueto cause grave financial loss to the
  claimants.Commercialvalue of logs removedfrom their land and the land
   belongingto other customary landowners,maybe calculated thus: the
  concession holder exported at least 160,556cubic metres of logs from the
  concession,timber that legally belongedto the claimants, in the year ending
   March 2001.

 We can attempt an estimate of the loss from the f.0.b value of logs. Obviously,
 in reality, if the actual inputs were known,the real loss would be different, but
 this calculation gives a reasonable idea of the gross amount of money foregone
 by the Claimants:

 Exportshave been on-going since 1995,say 6 years x 150,000cubic metres of
 logs per year x US$90 per cubic metre ( average estimatefor f.o.b. log prices)
  = US$81,000,000

 Ifwe wantedto look at the lossto the Claimantsinterms of thenetvalue of logs,
 with the cost of productionsubtractedfrom the gross value, the calculationwould
 be (using a cost of productionfigure of $US 50 per cubic metre):

 $US81 million- (6years x 150,000cu mtrsx US$50) = US$81million-US$45
 million = US$ 36 million.

 There is a symmetry betweenthis net loss to the Claimants of US$36 million,
 and the Second Tranche outstandingto the State of US$35 million.

 5.36      Other losses include:

            damage to the land, here the Claimants are entitledto be compensated
            to the value of the cost of repairsto the land to re-instatethe land in the
            condition it was before logging

            damage to the environment including loss of species; the quantum of
                                      P A G E 2 6

       these damages is yet to be ascertained. The principle is that where
        damages are general, and not specialor readily quantifiableby market
       values etc, then assessors haveto do the best they can with the
        materialsavailable. Itwill depend upon a scientific assessment of the
        impact of loggingon the environment and species. Such a qualification
        will be difficult because no base-linewas done beforethe illegal logging
        commence. Nevertheless these damages are recognisedat law, and in
        principle, the calculationwould proceed on the basis of such factual and
        scientific materialas was availableat the time of assessment. They
        would includedamage for the proven absence of riverinecreatures,
        birds, mammals, and flora, irrespective of whether or not the species
        had an economic use. In addition,where the species had an economic
        or social use, then the damage would needto be assessed on the loss
    .   of the value of that use.

        damages for adverse social impacts may includethe value of extrawork
        needed to carry water, find food, collect building materials; a developer
        in a remotearea should exercise a duty of care in respect of the impact
        of introducedexotic diseases, particularlyvenereal diseases and AIDS.
        Both are knownto follow "highways" into remoteareas, particularlyif a
        developer can be shown to have neglectedto providefor employee
        codes of conduct, the banning of drugs and alcohol,and non-
        fraternisationpolicies, as can be seen in the practicesof other socially
    .   responsibleindustries.

        damages for trespass per se. The Claimantsare entitledto a sum
        irrespectiveof compensation for puttingthem, and the land, back to
        where it/ they were before logging. This sum is for the trespass, in the
        nature of punitivedamage.

The Claimants'rightsand interestsare damaged becauseBank officials have
not ensured the loan conditionspromoted good governance in their forests,and
havebeen implementedby Bank officials in such a way as to permit the State
to cause damage and harmto our clients. The actions and omissionsof the
officials in violation of Bank policy have caused, and are likely to continue to
 cause, the claimantsto suffer harm.


6.      responsibility of the Bank.
        We believe the action/omissionisthe

The issuesof:

        the Kiunga-Aiambak Road, and

        the absence of sustainableforest management practicesin Papua New
        Guinea

are well known to World Bank staff and management including Klaus Rohland,
Andrew Bond, Ian Johnson, and Jamil Kassum.

The Bank officials are aware

        that the State is politically compromised over the Kiunga -Aiambak Road,

        that the TA holder in the Kiunga- Aiambak concession was allowedto
        continue logging in violation of the loan conditionality,

        that the logging poses great risk to the claimants rightsand interests,
        and


                                     P A G E 2 7

       that it is in completeviolation of the purpose of the governance loan,
       thereby also subverting the goals of the World Bank's investmentsin
       PNG. This is especially true in light of the fact that the ReviewTeam,
       constituted under the auspices of World Bank conditionality, specifically
       recommendedthat the illegalitiesbe cured.

       the Bank had insisted upon conditions to the loan that requiredthe State
       to enact legislationto close the loop-holesin respect of road-line
       clearances

       the Review Team, constituted under the auspices of World Bank
       conditionality, specifically recommendedthat the illegalitiesbe cured.

       Underthese circumstances, it would constitute a failure to supervisethe
       loan to disbursethe second tranche to the State.

       Globally, primaryforests are in crisis. It should be clear to any right-
       thinking person that now is not the time to expand the logging industry.
       Now is the time to pull-up,stop expanding, reflect, reform and re-
       structure,before it is too late.

       Bank officials were cavalier in developingtheir forest policy and
       practices.

       Bank officials under-estimatedthe political risks in Papua New Guinea
       arising from forest conditionality and made mistakes.


       The experience in Indonesia,where the Government of Indonesiahas
       committedto a moratorium on new logging concessions should have
       been noted.

       The second tranche should not be released untilthe Kiunga -Aiambak
       concession is cancelled, and any company that was found to be in
       violation of the law has its Forest Industry ParticipantStatus revoked,
       pursuantto the ForestryAct.


       The State should also be requiredto compensatethe claimants,at the
       very least, for the lost economic value of the illegally loggedtimber. We
        submit, on the basis of the calculations at paragraph5.35 above, that the
        net value of the damage to the Claimants is a sum similar to the value of
        the Second Tranche.

        Bank officials have the power to withhold the second tranche of the loan
        and thereby inducethey could inducethe State to stop the illegalactivity
        on the claimants land and simultaneously upholdthe integrity of the loan
        conditionality.

        Bank officials and the State are aware of the issues pertainingto the
        Kiunga-Aiambak road-lineproject,the World Bank ReviewTeam Report
        outlines the issuesand recommendationswhich are in linewith the
        above points. See Appendix 12.


7. We have madean effort to complainto Bank staff.

The NGOs and landownershave continually campaignedwith Bank officials
since 1997for a moratorium on new concessionsto allow a breathingspace that
would permit action beingtaken to end illegal logging.

Inthis respectthe issue of the Kiunga-Aiambak road was fundamental inthe
Bank proposingconditions on the loanthat required the State to pass

                                     P A G E 2 8

amendmentsto the ForestryAct to close the loopholes on road-line clearances.
Duringthe period November 1998to November 1999, NGOs met with Bank
officials formally and informally on many occasions, becauseat that time there
was a spirit of cooperationfollowing the statements by Mr. Douglasthat the bank
supportedthe moratoriumand review of existing concessions. Detailed records
were not kept. Itfollows that the knowledgeabout the illegality of the Kiunga
Aiambak road would have been currentwith Bank officials in the period up to
November 1999,when the conditions of the loan were finally settled. NGOs did
not knowthat the conditions of the loan were being interpretedto mean a review
of new concessionsonly, until about June 2000.

After June 2000, in particular, CELCOR and WWF in a joint submissionto the
Bank's ReviewTeam madea detailed report on the specific issuesarising from
the illegality of logging along the Kiunga-Aiambak road see Appendix20.

Many of the wider issues being brought to the attention of the Panel are common
knowledgeamongst those who follow forest issues in Papua New Guinea.These
issues are of the kind that should be knownto Bank staff personsworking with
forest issues in Papua New Guinea, acting with due diligence, reasonablecare
and prudence.

We enclose a copy of the Iko Forestry Niusfor August 2001, the quarterly
newsletterof the Eco-ForestryForum (EFF). See Appendix 21. This publication,
widely distributed, covers a variety of relevant matters. In particular,you will see
from pages 18-19how NGOs have been pressingfor a variety of specific reforms
since November 2000.We also make availablethe full report of the Eco-Forestry
Forum (EFF). See Appendix 22. This pressure coincided with the investigations
of the ReviewTeam and was therefore material available to Bank officials. This is
because,although formally working for the State, the ReviewTeam was selected
under a Terms of Referenceoriginally drafted by Bank officials, in accordance
with the SAL conditions.The reform agenda of NGOs and community based
organisationswas set out very clearly in the Eko-Forestri Nius, see Appendix
21:

In November 2000 NGOs presented to Government their analysis of the state of
 forest management in PNG. Thisanalysis identified six priority actions for
 reform:
                                           Full implementation of the
                                           recommendations of the review of
                                           proposed concessions

                                           A review of all existing forest operations

                                           A new and effectivemethod of
                                           monitoring and enforcement

                                           An effectiveand independent system to
                                           ensuresociallyappropriate and
                                           economically and environmentally
                                           sustainable forest management

                                           A new national planning process

                                           A change in the focus of the Forest

                                     P A G E 2 9

        he current Moratorium on the issue of any new timber permits or TA'S
        must be extended to allow the operating space for the findings of the
        Review Team to be properly analysed and for the recommendations that
        have been made to be implemented.

NGO's and lawyers acting on behalf of the landowners, met with Bank officials,
P. Hamadarian-Rad,Jim Douglas, Dan Weis, Silas Talati, Andrew Bond, Klaus
Rohlandon many occasions. Frankly,they did not keep a close notation of these
meetings,but they were numerous.They included:

9 August 1997          ICRAF, PNG Trust and Greenpeacemeet with Perouz
                       Hamadarian-Radand are told there will be no
                       moratorium
1O November 1998       meeting Douglas and PNG NGOs
                       letter ICRAF to Douglas in preparationfor Inspection
                       Panel Claim.
13 November 1998       Douglasletter in response goes astray,wrong address
11January 1999         Douglasfax sends letter of 13 November 1998.See
                       Appendix 23.
19August 1999           meetingGreenpeace Rohland
13 October 1999         Greenpeaceemail to Klaus Rohland .Appendix 24.
21 October 1999         Douglas email responds to Greenpeace.Appendix 25.
2 November 1999         Greenpeaceemailto Douglas and Douglasresponse.
26June2000              Greenpeaceemailto Rohland and Douglas
7 July 2000             Rohland letter responds to numerousemails from
                        GreenpeaceSee Appendix 26.
4 July 2000             Rohland email to Greenpeace
31 July 2000            Greenpeaceemail to Rohland
15August 2000           Greenpeacehold discussions with Klaus Rohland in
                        Sydney.
6 September 2000        Rohland letter to Greenpeace re 15`hAugust
                        meeting.See Appendix 27.
13September 2000        letter from Environmental Law Centre to Dan
                        Weisse.See Appendix 28.
29 September 2000       emailfrom Environmental Law Centre to Dan
                        Weisse.Appendix 29.
29 September 2000       emailfrom Greenpeace to DanWeisse
30 October 2000         letter from PNG Eco-Forestry Forumto Ian
                        Johnson.Appendix 30.
1 November 2000         letter from the Environmental Law Centreto Ian Johnson
                        see Appendix 31.
1 Febuary2001           submissionby WWF and CECLOR to the Review Team
                        on the Kiunga Aiambak Road, see Appendix 20
5 February 2001         letter from Greenpeace to Rohland
30 October 2001         final letter of CELCOR on KiungaAiambak to Rohland,
                        see Appendix 32.

Landowners and NGOs havewarned World Bank officials on many occasions.

In 2000, concerned persons from all over the world sent thousandsof messages
to Klaus Rohiand, the Country Director for Papua New Guinea, and to Ian
Johnson warning them not to go ahead with paying out the second tranche of the
loan, unlessit was clearthat the forests were sustainablymanaged, and a review
of all existingconcessions carried out.

                                   P A G E 3 0

Specifically, at Port Moresby, in November 2000, NGOs acting on behalf of
landownersdescribed in detail these issues with Jamil Kassum, at a meeting
held in the Banks office.

Lawyers acting on behalf of the landowners gave a brief to the Bank's Review
Team in December 2000.

The Review Team report at Appendix 12 has been in the in the possessionof
the State and Bank officials since September 2001. Yet they havefailed to act in
defence of the Claimants rights. The Claimants' waited a month to see if the
State or the Bank would begin to act on the recommendationsof the Review
Team. Nothing was done. In particular,the recommendation"That court
proceedingsmust be brought to a conclusion"was left unattended.The
Claimants then wrote a formal letter of demand to Mr. Rohlandon 1st of
November 2001.

The Claimants are under pressure becausethey have been told that if the Bank
pays out the secondtranche beforethe Claimants' concerns are addressed, that
they may lose their opportunityto approachthe Inspection Panel, because Bank
lawyers will argue that "the project is complete".

There is an alternativeview that the loan is only complete, when it is repaid,
twenty years hence.

To holdthe view that a loan is complete after loanfunds are disbursed is
 artificial,goes against commercial practiceand common sense. At law and in
 common commercial practice, loans are complete when they are repaid.

 Whatever the legal effect of these views, the Claimants are hard-pressedto
 invokethe assistance of the Panel becausethere is a view that once the second
 tranche is paid out they have no recourseto the Panel.

 Customary landownersand non governmentorganizations have continuallyand
 repeatedcalled on Bank officialsto ensure a moratorium on new forest
 concessions is imposed, as part of the conditions of any loan, while a review of
 all concessionstakes place. This is necessaryto ensure that forests are properly
 managed, benefits sharedfairly and irreparabledamage does not take place to
 the Claimants'forests.


 8.        We believe that the Bank'sresponseto our
            concerns has been unsatisfactory

 Becausethe Bank officialswill not give binding undertakings,that addressthe
 main concernthat the loan is beingdisbursedwhile damage to the claimants
 land is on-going in violation of the purposes and conditions of the loan. The
 damage to the forests and lands of others in Papua New Guinea can be
  reasonablyanticipated.

  Bank officials maintainthat they cannot do anything aboutthe failure of the State
  to take action inthe courts to stop the illegal logging.Our answer to that is the
  State's omission constitutes:
        .   gross negligenceto protectits own citizens; the road has been built on
            private land without agreement. The State has a responsibilityto protect

                                     PAGE 3 1

           landowners,and enforce its laws, in relationto the unlawful alienation of
      .    land.

           bad faith; the failure of the ForestAuthority to press for the removal of
           interim orders made against it in 1999, goes beyond gross negligence.
           ForestAuthority officials were frightened of political retribution if they
           pushedtoo hard in the courts, becausethey knew their own Minister
           was supporting the unlawful logging operation by granting tax
           exemptionsto that company. There was simply no politicalwill to stop
           the unlawfuloperations because officials were frightened of political
      .    action being taken against them

           a breach of the basic purpose of the loan which is to achieve good
           governance inforest managementby enacting and implementing
           specific legislationto control road-linelogging operations. Bank officials
           should withhold the loan until the out-come of the court processes have
           been finalised.

Recent DevelopmentsRegardingThese Issues

The State has announcedthat the moratoriumwill be lifted as of 30thNovember
2001.

There is no National Forest Plan, no properforest inventories, and no informed
consent over the alienationof timber rights from traditional landownersand very
little abilityto manageforests or the environment.All these matters have been
confirmed by the Review Team. In these circumstances, it is irresponsibleto
proceedto allocate moreforeststo the loggers.

Bank officials say they have reached agreementwith the State that the
recommendationsof the Review Team will be enforced through the Forest and
Conservation Project. Similarly, Bank officials say that no new project will go
forward without an independent review. We have not seen the text of that
agreement, and are not preparedto accept those assurances,for two reasons.
First,the State has a bad record of honouring its agreements inforestry and the
Bank has a poor record in enforcingthem. That is what this claim is really about.
Secondly, the State is proceedingto allocate concessionswithout independent
review.

Receipt of correspondencefrom the Bank has informed us that the liftingof the
Moratoriumwill go ahead and for us to raise our concerns with through the
Government and or the Papua New Guinea Forest Authority. The Bank did not
 have any standing to intervene in a matter that came under Papua New Guinea's
jurisdiction. See Appendix 33,

 In light of the reasonable lack of trust explainedabove, vague assurancesare
 unsatisfactory.The claimants call on the World Bank to withhold disbursementof
the tranche of the SAL and requirethe Government to maintainthe moratorium
 until:

       1. The KiungaAiambak road is cancelled and any company that was found
           to be in violation of the law has its Forest Industry Participantstatus
            revoked pursuantto the ForestryAct.

       2. A full review of existing logging concessions is completed and it's
            recommendationsimplemented.

       3. The findings and the recommendationsof the World Bank Review
            Team's Report on pending logging concessions must be fully
            implemented and there must be ongoing independent review of any
            Timber Permit applications.

 9.         In additionwe have taken the following stepsto
            resolveour problem:
                                        P A G E 3 2

In 1998, an NGO calledthe Individualand Community RightsAdvocacy Forum
made a formal complaintto the PNG Ombudsman Commission. About the
unlawful nature of loggingon the KiungaAiambak Road. There was evidence of
an inducement being paid for an exemption to the export log tax. A notice
appeared in the NationalGazette of the log tax\ exemption. The Ombudsman
Commission began its formal investigation.The ministerresignedhis ministry
and seat in Parliamentciting his needto spend more time with hisfamily. The
Ombudsman Commissiontook the view that the matter was better handled by
the police,and stopped its investigation.The police never pursuedthe case.

In 2000, a law suit instituted by land owners other than the Claimants,led by
Paul Singi, engaged privatelawyers,and sought ordersfrom the National Court
to stop logging on the KiungaAiambak road. The ForestAuthorityand the State
were amongst the defendants in that action.The logging companies successfully
obtained an order to strike out the landowners' action,on the basis of procedural
error. Costswere awarded againstthe landowner plaintiffs in an amount of K19,
462.75. See Appendix 34. The Claimantshave been informedby the lawyers for
Mr. Singi, that the lawyers representingthe loggingcompanieswere assisted
out-of-courtby a very senior government lawyer.

On the 4th of September 2001 a policeman, who is a nativeto the area, filed a
formal complaintwith the Ombudsman Commissionand calledfor an
investigationinto allegationsof unlawfuland improper police activities associated
with the logging project.See Appendix 35.

In 2001, the Claimants'and their lawyers have receivedanonymous threats, and
are currentlyseekingways of bringtheir complaintsto court without exposing
themselves to violence.Attempts are being made to engagea largefirm of
lawyersto take on the case.

We authoriseyou to make the text of this Request public, but we as you to keep
the names and addresses of the landownersa secret, becausewe fear they will
be attackedor intimidated,either by those who supportthe loggingcompany, or
by the police.

Appendices and exhibits

We enclosewith this claim the following material:

                                   Appendices
     1       names and addresses of Claimants,and their lawyers

     2       map of the Claimants'land

     3       Statement by Transparency International(PNG) Inc on corruptionin
             the iogging industry

     4       Copy of memorandum of inducement and NationalGazette noticeon
             log tax exemption

     5       Breaches of Moratoriumon new concessions.

     6       Email messages from Brunton (Greenpeace) to Douglas (Bank)
             confirmingconversationsof 2 November 1999,and the reply by
             Douglas

     7       Frequentlyasked questions:PNG and the Forests

     8       Filer C et al The Thin Green Line,World Bank Leverage and Forest
             Policy Reformin PNG NRI/ANU, NRI Monograph37, Port Moresby,
             June 2000

     9        NEC endorsement of Forestry Recommendations

                                     P A G E 3 3

10  Detailedsubmissionon imprudenceand irresponsibility

11  Detailed submissionon Breaches of OP 4.36

12  Review Team Report on KiungaAiambak

13  Review Team Landowners Specialists-Board Discussion,Executive
    Summary and Recommendations

14  Report Impact of Selective Loggingon Cultureand Society by
    Schmid

15  Bowles et al, "Loggingand Tropical Conservation

16  Vigus, extractsreport on empiricalresearchselective logging.

17  Loan Program and Summary

18  P .Erskines report on Wawoi Guavi

19  P.Erskines report on Vanimo

20  Joint submission by CELCOR and WWF.


21  Iko-ForestriNius Special Edition.


22  Eco Forestry Forum Report


23  Douglas'fax ,re sending letter of 13 November 1998.


24  Greenpeace e mailto Klaus Rholand


25  Douglas' e mail responseto Greenpeace


26  Rholand's responseto numerous e mailsfrom Greenpeace


27   Rholand's letter to Greenpeace re 15th August meeting

28   Letterfrom ELCto Dan Weisse


29   E mailfrom ELCto Dan Weisse


30   Letterfrom PNG EFF TO IanJohnson


 31  Letterfrom Environment Law Center to IanJohnson


 32  CELCOR to Klaus Rohlanddated 1 November, 2001.


 33  Klaus Rholand's letter to CELCOR dated 28 November 2001.


 34  Order for Costs.Action brought by Mr Paul Singi .

 35  Letter from Mr Sep Galevato OmbudsmenCommission callingfor
     Investigationinto Police Brutalityat KiungaAiambak.



                           P A G E 3 4

Exhibits

I. Video showing testimoniesby Kiunga-Aiambak landowners

2. SBS documentary on logging in Papua New Guinea


3. Photographs of the Kiunga-Aiambak road project


Note: Exhibits 1and 2 will be sent separately once copies are made.



DATE            : November29.2001


SIGNATURE       :



CONTACT ADDRESS:

Center for EnvironmentalLaw and Community Rights Inc.
Level 1, Suite 1,MalaganHaus, Boroko
P O Box 4373
Boroko, National Capital District
Papua New Guinea

Telephone: (675) 3234509
Facsimile: (675) 3112106
Email: dase-celcor@datec.com.pg




                                          0350

