                                                            Report No. 24001




                               The Inspection Panel



                             Reportand Recommendation




                                        Papua New Guinea

                        Governance PromotionAdjustment Loan
                                       (Loan No. 7021-PNG)

                                               RQ 0114




                                           April 30, 2002



International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International DevelopmentAssociation
1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433, USA
P: (202) 458-5200
F:( 202) 522-0916
Email: Ipanel@worldbank.org
Website: www.inspectionpanel.org


                                   The InspectionPanel

                            Report and Recommendation
                                                 on
                                  Requestfor Inspection

  PapuaNew Guinea: GovernancePromotionAdjustment
                           Loan(Loan No. 7021-PNG)

1.    On December 6, 2001, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for
      Inspection (the "Request") dated November 29, 2001 related to the above-referenced
      loan. (Annex 1) On December 7, 2001, the Panel notified the representative o f the
      Requesters, the Executive Directors and the President o f the International Bank for
      Reconstruction and Development (IBRD or the "Bank") o f receipt o f the Request
      (meaning "Registration" under the Panel's OperatingProcedures).1

A. FinancialArrangements

2.    The Governance Promotion Adjustment Loan (GPAL) made to the Independent State
      o f Papua New Guinea (PNG) was approved by the Board o f Executive Directors o f
      IBRD on June 13, 2000.2 It was a US$90 million fixed-spread loan for 20 years,
      including a 5-year grace period at the Bank's standard variable interest rate and
      commitment fee for fixed-spread loans with an expected disbursement period o f less
      than three years. The GPAL was to be disbursed in two tranches o f $35 million each,
      and a floating tranche o f $20 million. The first tranche was disbursed upon
      effectiveness, which took place on June 21, 2000. The second and the floating tranche
      were to be released upon satisfaction o f the conditions set forth or referred to inParts A
      and B, respectively, o f Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement. The floating tranche was
      disbursed in July 2001, while the last; second, tranche was disbursed in December
      2001.

B.    The Program

3.    The GPAL was made "in response to a request from the Papua New Guinea
      Government in mid-1999 to support its stabilization and structural reform efforts.        ' j 3
      According to the Loan Agreement, the Government o f the Papua New Guinea designed
      a program o f actions, objectives and policies to achieve structural adjustments o f the
      country's economy (the "Program"), declared its commitment to the execution o f the
      Program and requested assistance from the Bank to support its exec~tion.~The Bank
      agreed to support the Programby providing the GPAL.


*
'See The InspectionPanel, Operating Procedures, August 1994at 7 17.

 PID, ReportNo. PID8970, p.1at 7 1.
 IBRDLoanNo. 7071 PNG.


June 16,2000 (the Loan Agreement), p.2 at 7 (A).
 Loan Agreement No.7021 PNG betweenthe IndependentState o f PapuaNew Guineaandthe Bank, dated



                                                  1

4.       The specific key objectives o f the Government's Program were "strengthening
         economic management and improving governance.              'I5The first objective was to be
         achieved by "improving fiscal management to enhance macroeconomic stabiliv;
         improving debt management; and improving operating environment for business,
         including throughprivatization. '" The second -by "improving governance; improving
         civil service efficiency and effectiveness; improving delivery of health and education
         services; improving forestry management through strengthening the institutional
         framework; improving efficiency of financial services and reducing systemic risk
         through reform of thepension industry andprivatization of the state bank group.          >,7


5.       According to Report and Recommendation o f the President submitted to the Board of
         Executive Directors o f IBRD about the Program, the Bank's loan "would support the
         Government's ongoing efforts to redress past policy and governance shortcomings in a
         sustainable manner.    "* The Program included several components to improve the
         following: "fiscal and debt management; governance and civil service effectiveness;
         delivery of health and education services; forestry management; the quality and
         efficiency of financial services, including through privatization; and the operating
         environment for business.    'j9The main objective o f the Program as stated was "to
         strengthen governance in public institutions through enhanced transparency and
         accountability. "lo

6.       The Letter o f Development Policy (the "LDP"), submitted by the Government of PNG,
         described, inter alia, how the improvements to forestry governance were to be
         achieved. It stated that legislation was to be prepared and submitted to Parliament
         which would prevent the clearance of forested land ostensibly for agricultural or
         infiastructural purposes, but which was in fact based largely on the financial
         attractiveness o f clear-felling large areas o f natural forest at very low per unit log
         prices. It added that a careful process for environmental assessment o f any clearing
         proposal would be applied through the Office o f Environment and Conservation, which
         will be provided with the capacity to undertake such reviews. Furthermore, the LDP
         states that a transparent system o f review, through the Forestry Board, would then be
         required rior to issue o f any licenses to clear significant areas o f forest for any
         purpose.  I:

7.       The LDP also stated that the composition and working o f the Forestry Board itself
         would be reviewed and improved because the Government would revise the selection
         criteria and procedures that applied to the appointment o f Boardmembers. Specifically,
         the Govemment was to ensure that independent and capable membership was
         guaranteed. Also, all deliberations o f the Forestry Board which were not o f a sensitive
         commercial nature would be made public, and major decisions taken by the Board will

  Reportand Recommendationof the President of the IBRDto the Executive Directors on a Governance
Promotion Adjustment Loan inan Amount o f USJ90 Million to PNG, May 19,2000, Report No. P-7374-PNG,
p.iii at 7 3.
'Ibid.
  Ibid.
  Id., p.8 at7 35.
  Ibid.
loIbid.
  Letter of DevelopmentPolicy (LDP), May 15, 2000, 6 55, p.15. Attached as Annex 1to the Report and
Recommendationof the Presidentto the Executive Directors on a GPAL to PNG, May 19,2000


                                                   2

        be eligible for public hearings within a sI ecified time frame, so that any objections or
         other claims couldbe lodged and heard.      f


 8.      Inrespect to the moratorium on the issuance of the timber concessions declaredinlate
         1999,the Government stated that a review o f the forest resource license application and
         approval processes would be carried out, and that all projects included in this process
        would be placed on hold until the results o f that review were known and had been
        evaluated by G~vernment.'~Moreover, the Government was also to address major
         questions o f efficiency and equity that have arisen inthe sector. The pricing system for
        logs applied inthe country, for example, was to be reviewed and adjusted, so that actual
        revenues collected from logging operations were close to the full economic rent and
        also to ensure that landholders received a fair and consistent share o f the overall return
        for their resources. The capacity o f the relevant Government agencies to carry out
        monitoring and enforcement o f all regulations and codes inforest operations and inthe
        exporting o f forest output will be improved in a manner, which relied on inputs from
        independent experts or firms. This should enhance transparency and accountability in
        the system and, in this way, reduce the potential for governance issues and corruption
        to disrupt sustainable and environmentally responsible forestry operations in Papua
        New Guinea. The Government would also upgrade the processes, by which landowners
        are involved in the early decisions on resource based projects in the forestry sector, to
        ensure that they are adequately represented, and also properly informed as to the
        implications o f the proposedproject intheir areas.14

C.        The Request

9.      The Request was submitted by the Center o f Environmental Law and Community
        Rights Inc. (CELCOR), a Papua New Guinean non-governmental organization
        representing about 550 customaly landowners o f lands and forests in 21 villages in the
        Kiunga District o f the Western Province o f Papua New Guinea (the Requesters).
        CELCOR has submitted copies of authorization o f representation signed by the
        Requesters, who have requested that their names be made available only to the Panel
        members, but otherwise remain confidential.

 10.    The Requesters claim that Management, inviolation o f the terms and conditions under
        which the Board of Executive Directors approved the GPAL, intends to release its last
        tranche, despite the fact that the Borrower, i.e. the Govemment, has not complied with
        disbursement conditions related to forestry management.lSParticularly, the Requesters
        point to the Borrower's failure to meet the following:

             "to reinstate theforestry log tax regime; and satisfactorily implement reforms on
             theforestry revenue and royalty to landowners regime.
             tofund an independent inspection of log exports, pre-shipment.
             [to maintain] a moratorium on all new timber concessions, pending a complete
             review of all existing concessions (but implemented as a review of new/proposed
             concessions).


12 Id, p.16, at $56,.
13 Id, p.16at $57.
l4 Id, p.16at $58.
  At the time the Requestwas submitted,the secondtranche of GPAL was yet to be disbursed. The approvalof
its disbursement bythe Boardtook place on December 19, 2001.


                                                   3

            [to enact/ new laws onforest clearancesfor roads and agricultural schemes.
            [to enact/ new laws restrainingpowers of delegation.
            [to enact/ new laws insisting on a better balance on the Board of the Papua New
            GuineaForest Authority.
            [to enact/ new laws on transparency and non-commercial disclosure by the
            Forestry Board. ''I6

11. The Requesters refer to the conditions for the release of the second tranche as they are
       defined in the Matrix o f Policy Actions, which i s an attachment to the Government's
       Letter o f Development Policy (specifically referring to the "Actions TakedOutcomes
       Achieved" column). The Requesters maintain that the language o f the above-referred
       document i s binding on the Government o f PNG and the Bank, and claim that this
       language is determinative with regard to the meaning and interpretation o f the release
       conditions."     The Requesters claim that the Government had not achieved full
       compliance with these conditions, which are required for disbursement o f the second
       tranche.

12. Specifically, with respect to these conditions, the Requesters claim that the Bank's
       disbursement o f the second tranche without a full review o f the contractual provisions
       o f the Loanand without the Government:

            "maintaining the moratorium [on all new timber concessions]
           fully implementing theJindings of thepartial review [of all timber concessions],
            including the requirements seeking the remediation of illegal activities, ....

       would constitute

            a violation of the contractualprovisions of the SAL by loaning to a borrower, who
            with badfaith, defaults to implement its ownpromises. There are, they claim, very
            clear examples set out in the body of this claim indicating the development
            objectives of thegovernance loan have not been met and are unlikely to be met, if
            the disbursement of the second tranche is completed.
            a violation of OperationalDirectives 13.05on supervision and monitoringbecause
            ofpoor judgment and imprudent lending to a borrower whopromotes illegal
            practices.
       1    A violation of the Bank'sforest policy OP 4.36 as the acts of the State show that it
            did not implement,follow, adhere to, or is infact committed to, sustainableforest
            management, sustainableforestry, conservation-orientedforestry or goodforestry
            practice. 9~18

13.      The Requesters also claim that the actions, described above, have caused and will

         with "significant instances of social, cultural, ecological and economic harm. ,)19
         continue to cause "gravefinancial loss to the claimants" and that the Request deals


14.      The Requesters also claimed that they have or may be affected by the Bank's failure
         to supervise the Borrower's compliance with the terms and objectives o f the Program


16Request, at pp.5-6.
17Request, Section 3.1, at p. 10
  Id., p.3.
l9Ibid.


                                                 4

          and the conditions o f disbursement o f the GPAL. Finally, they assert that some o f the
          adverse effects they are suffering are caused particularly by the illegal logging and
          road construction project on their lands, the Kiunga-Aiambak Road, which i s
          degrading their land and forest, damaging their culture, as well as inflicting
          substantial economic losses on them.20

15.       The Requesters' claims could constitute violations of, inter alia, the following Bank
          Policies and Procedures:

          OP 4.36 on Forestry
          OD 8.60 onAdjustment Lending
          OD/OP/BP 13.05 on Project Supervision

D.        The Response

16.     On January 29, 2002, the Panel received Management's Response to the Request for
        Inspection. (Annex 2)

17.     In its Response, Management states that the GPAL was "designed as a structural
        adjustment loan (SAL) to support a reform program prepared by the Borrower,
        described in the Borrower's Letter of Development Policy (LDP), dated May 15, 2000,
        addressed to the President of the Bank. ""The Response further observes that the loan
        proceeds were to be disbursed in three tranches: the first (US$35 million), followed by
         a floating tranche (US$20 million), and a second tranche (US$35 million). The latter
        two were subject to the conditions defined in the Loan Agreement between PNG and
        the Bank.

18.      Since the conditions for the release o f the second tranche are the subject o f the
        controversy, Management refers to Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement, which refers to
        twenty specific conditions for release o f the second tranche. Moreover, Management
        indicates that there were "two other general conditions for tranche release applicable
        to each of the tranche releases: (i)satisfactory progress in carrying out the Borrower's
        reform program; and (ii) a satisfactory macroeconomic policy framework.                         ""
        Management then restates the conditions relevant to forestry management as they are
        defined inthe LoanAgreement.

19.     One o f the disputed issuesbetween the Requesters and Management is, however, where
        the tranche release conditions are established: inthe Loan Agreement and the LDP and
        Policy Matrix, or solely in the Loan Agreement. The Requesters contend that the
        release conditions for the second tranche are defined in the Policy Matrix prepared by
        the Borrower as an attachment to the LDP.

20.     The Request for Inspection asserts that the "conditions requiredfor disbursement of the
        second tranche have not been met by the State.             The Requesters further contend that
         "the disbursement of the second tranche of the SAL ... would constitute a violation of


2o As explained in paragraph37 of this Report, the timber concessionfor the Kiunga-Aiambak roadproject was
obtainedin 1994, while the GPAL was approvedinJune 2000.
21 ManagementResponse, Executive Summary, $4, p.vi.
22 Id, at p. vii.
23 Request for Inspection,p.4.


                                                       5

        the contractual provision of the structural adjustment loan, and a violation of the
        Bank's obligation to supervise and monitor its projects pursuant to the Bank's
        Supervision and Monitoring Policy, OD 13.05."24

21.     On this point, Management states inparagraph 56 o f its Response that the Requesters
        misinterpret the facts. Management explains that "there is no Matrix included in the
        Loan Agreement..." and            the language quoted by the Requesters is takenfrom the
        Matrix attached to the LDP, which serves only as a summary of actions taken or to be
        taken by the Borrower under the reform program that isfully described in the main text
        of the LDP.     (...I Management regrets that this issue was not clarij?ed in either the
        Report and Recommendation of the President on the GPAL or the Loan Agreement.                           'I
        Inparagraph 39 of its Response, Management cites the release conditions as they are
        set forth inPart A o f Schedule 3 to the LoanAgreement.

22.     However, the Panel notes that the Loan Agreement incorporates the LPD and the
        Program supportedby the GPAL as follows: "the Bank has receivedfrom the Borrower
        a letter, dated May 15, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
        designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter
        called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
        Program, and requestin assistancefrom the Bank in support of the Program during
        the execution thereof.. .   ,,5

23.     Furthermore, the LDP itself defines the Program as follows: "the details of the
        Government's reform program and the suecific actions that will be taken to achieve it
        are set out in the attachedMatrix ofPo1ic.v Actions, which together with this letterform
        the basis of the Government's structural adjustment program" 26 adding that "&
        remainder of this letter reports on recentprogress and highlights the main areas of the
        program for which World Bank support is sought.9'27 (emphasis added). Thus, without


24Id., at p.10.
25The Loan Agreement, Whereas (A).
26Letter o f Development Policy (LDP), May 15,2000. Attached as Annex 1to the Reportand Recommendation
ofthe Presidentto the Executive Directors on a GPAL to PNG, May 19, 2000, 6.
21There are a number of other references to the Program inthe Loan Agreement, especially in Sections2.02 (d),
Section3.01 and Section4.01. Section2.02 (d), in particular, states that "no withdrawals of theproceeds of the
Second Tranche shall be made from the Loan Account unless the Bank shall be satisfied ...(i) with progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program. In addition, Section 3.01, particularly part (c),
                                                                "
states that "without limitation upon provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall exchange
views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have
the efect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program
inchdin9 any action specified in Schedule 3 to this Apreement" (emphasis added). Section 4.01 refers to the
additional event of suspensionof the loan as a "situation [that] has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereoj will be carried out. In addition, OP 7.00 on Lending Operations:
                                                                 "
Choice of Borrower and Contractual Agreements, when describing the variety of documents that define the
Bank's contractual relationship with borrowers, refers to Letters of Development or Sectoral Policy as follows:
"For a structural adjustment loan or sector adjustment loan, the Letter of Development (or Sectorall Policy sets
out the salient elements of the proposed adjustment program and the borrower's commitment to carry out the
program. The contents of this letter are defined as "the Program" and are incoruorated bv reference in the Loan
Apreement. Receipt by the Bank of this letter, duly executed, constitutes a condition of Board presentation of the
loan. "(emphasis added). Furthermore,it shouldbe noted that OD 8.60 on Adjustment Lending states that: "The
Letter of Development or Sector Policy may be used to elaborate upon and explain some of the conditionality,
particularly the conditionality on satisfacto y macroeconomic performance.     " While in paragraph 40, it states
that "a clear understanding with the government on the overall stabilization and structural programs is a
prerequisite for putting the conditions for tranche releases in the proper context. The Letter of Development
Policy (in the case of SALS) and the Letter of Sector Policy (in the case of SECALs). and the corresponding


                                                         6

        consideration o f the specifics o f the conditions indispute, it i s evident that the Program
        seems to be describedinmore detail and more specifically inthe Policy Matrix than in
        the LDP itselfor inthe LoanAgreement.

24.     InManagement's opinion, the Bank's actions relatedto the GPAL were incompliance
        with the relevant policies and procedures. Concerning "the reports of possible adverse
        effects on the Requesters, Management states that
                                      "                             "  any such adverse effects were in
        no way connected with the GPAL, and there is no cause and effect between the adverse
        impacts and any actions or omissions of the Bank."28 With regards to the tranche
        release conditions at issue, Management states that "the forestry-related tranche
        release conditions were all metprior to disbursement of the second tranche. 'r29

25.     Inits Response, Management addresseseach ofthe claims submitted by the Requesters
        and, specifically, the second tranche release conditions. Particularly, with regard to the
        failure to maintain a moratorium on all new timber concessions pending a complete
       review o f all existing concessions, Management asserts that a moratorium was put in
       place by the National Cabinet in November 1999 and was later amended to change an
        alleged error in the language o f the applicable Cabinet Decision. However,
        Management elaborated that "the Cabinet Decision did not indicate any commitment to
        retain the moratorium after the review of pending applications was completed                     j3'.
       Furthermore, Management stated that it supported the scope o f the moratorium as
        defined by the Borrower in early 2000, i.e. a review o f all of the pending timber
        concessions. The Bank i s now financing a Forestry and Conservation Project
        (FCP)31,for which the Board recently approved an IBRD Loan and a GEF grant, that,
        inter alia, includes a review o f all of the existing concessions. At the same time,
        Management admits that "it was not possible to reach a complete consensus between
        the Bank and the Borrower and all stakeholders on the issue of thefull scope of the
        moratorium and review, nor was the text of the various GPAL documents entirely
        consistent. 32

26.    The scope o f the review o f timber concessions, i.e. the review o f all existing
        concessions as opposed to a review o f all pending concessions only, is claimed by
       Management to be determined exclusively by the terms o f the Loan Agreement. In
       response to the Requesters' citation o f the Policy Matrix and Letter o f Development
       Policy, Management states that the Requesters misinterpret the facts and states that the
       Matrix was not included in the Loan Agreement. Specifically, Management claims in
       paragraph 56 o f its Response, that "while the main text of the LDP clearly establishes

policy matrices, spell out the macroeconomic targets to be monitored so as to avoid misunderstandings."
Finally, a specific annex to O D 13.05 on Supervision entitled "Guidelines for the Supervision o f Adjustment
Loans" stated: "An adjustment loan normally supports a program consisting of a number of policy measures
intended to achieve certain macroeconomic and sector objectives. The measures are detailed in the loan
agreement and the government's "Letter of Develoument Policv. " The program and its rationale arefurther
explained in the President S Report. Supervision has to focus primarily on program execution and, therefore,
the timely adoption and effective implementation of the agreed policy measures and other actions, such as
specific institutional arrangements and studies."(emphasis added).
28Id, at $7.
29Ibid.
30Id., at $51.
31An IBRDloan inthe amount of US$ 17.36 million equivalent and a Global Environment Facility(GEF) Trust
FundGrant inthe amount o f SDR 13.31 million equivalent were approvedbythe Boardon approved on
December 18,2001 to finance the Forestry and Conservation Project (FCP).
32Management Response, at $57.


                                                      7

        the scope of the review to cover all recent major forest resource permit applications
        and approval processes, the summary in the Matrix does not accurately reflect the
        action set out in the LDP." As stated above, Management regrets the fact that this
        situation was not clarified inthe loandocumentation. (See discussion inparas.19-23).

27.     As to the review o f timber concessions, Management refers to the conclusions of the
        Bank's supervision mission that determined that "the independent review was
        completed in accordance with the Loan Agreement, consistent with the LDP and the
        intent of theparties, and in Manu ement's view the Bank is infull compliance with its
        responsibilities under OD I3.05.        A

28.     With regard to the second condition - to reinstate the forestry log tax regime and
        satisfactorily implement reforms on the forestry revenue and royalty to landowners
        regime - Management asserts that the Government o f PNG carried out the requisite
        review, with a focus on taxation reforms and transfer pricing, and implemented
        adjustments to the log export tax in the 2002 budget.34 However, Management admits
        that "the analysis and recommendations of the review with regard to landowner
        royalties raised a number of unanticipated issues that require further detailed
        analysis." 35 According to Management, the Government's commitment to deal
        systematically with the royalty issues raised by the review is now to be implemented
        under the Forestry and Conservation Project (FCP).                  In view o f the foregoing,
        Management reached the conclusion that "together with the revenue system
        amendments implemented in the 2002 budget, the steps towards implementing changes
        in the royalty system initiated through the review process and the Prime Minister's
        letter pledging commitment were therefore considered by Management to be suficient
        to comply with this second tranche condition. .36 The Panel notes, however, that in
                                                               ,)


        recommendingthe releaseof the secondtranche of the GPAL, Management, while
        acknowledging the need for a more measured longer term examination of issues
        related to royalties:'         stated to the Board that the condition calling for the
        implementation by the Borrower of reforms to its forestry revenue and royalty
        regime, satisfactory to the Bank, "hadbeen met." 38 (emphasis added.)

29.     Inaddition, Management denies violation of OP 4.36 on Forestry, as claimed by the
        Requesters. In Management's view, this particular policy i s inapplicable to Structural
        Adjustment Loans. The Panel, however, could not find any provision in the policy
        supportingsuch assertion.

30.     Regarding the next condition        - to strike a better balance on a Board o f the PNG Forest
       Authority- Management states that the relevant second tranche release conditions were
        satisfied. They called for adoption by the Borrower's Parliament o f amendments to the
       Forestry Act o f 1991 covering, inter alia, delegation o f powers of the Board to an



33Id, at $48. Inaddition, it should be notedthat the PNG Forestry Review Team, establishedunderthe GPAL,
did review the EOunga-Aiambaktimber concession. See Appendix 12to the Requestfor Inspection, which is
attached as Annex 1to this Report.
34Id, at $46.
35Id, at $47.
36Id, at $47.
37President'sMemorandum entitled "Papua New Guinea-GovernancePromotion Adjustment Loan-Loan No.
7021-PNG-Releaseof SecondTranche" datedDecember6,2001, at f 41
38Id, at f 64


                                                       8

        individual and the composition of the Forestry Board. These amendments were `>passed
        in May 2000, and the conditions have therefore been met. ''39

31.     Management claims that the next condition - on enactment o f new laws on
        transparency and non-commercial disclosure by the Forest Authority Board - was also
        met satisfactorily. The Government passed the necessary amendments to national laws
        and "based on the commitment shown by the Borrower, it is expected that these laws
        will be enforced accordingly.  '"'
32.     Inresponse to the Requesters' claim on the Bank's failure to supervise adequately the
        GPAL, Management asserts that "the Bank's approach towards preparation and
        supervision wasfully geared to the scope and content of the reform program under the
        GPAL.  I*'  Management asserts that "during supervision of the GPAL, satisfactory
       progress with the Borrower's reform program and with each tranche release condition
        was thoroughly reviewed." 42 In conclusion, Management states that "the $nul
        supervision mission in December 2001 and Management's recommendation to the
        Board concluded that the Borrower hadfully complied with all conditions except two
        (not related to forestry) that were duly waived by the Bank's Executive Directors on
       December 18, 2001.       J*3 Management concludes that supervision o f GPAL was
        intensive and continuous with adequate technical and financial support.

33.     As for the logging operations at the Kiunga-Aiambak Road and their consequences to
        the Requesters, Management declares its concern over illegal logging projects and
        restates its support for the Government's efforts to stop these operations. However,
        Management contends that these logging operations "do not in any way involve the
       Bank, that these actions are done by the private parties of whom the Bank has no
        control, and that these rojects do not in any way constitute consequencesof thefailure
        of GPALconditions.   ,, l

34.     Insummary, withregardto the issues raisedinthe Request for Inspection, Management
        claims that the Bank's actions related to the GPAL, including release o f the loan
       tranches, were incompliance with its applicable policies and procedures and consistent
       with the legal agreements entered into between PNG and the Bank, and, that any
        adverse effects suffered by the Requesters were in no way related to the GPAL and
       there i s no cause and effect between the alleged adverse impacts and any actions or
        omissions on the part o f the Bank inthis regard.

E. Eligibility

35.    Paragraph 9 o f the 1999 Clarifi~ation~~provides that "if the Panel so recommends, the
       Board will authorize an investigation without making ajudgement on the merits of the
       claimants' request, and without discussion except with respect to the following
       technical eligibility criteria:


39ManagementResponse, at 566.
40Id, at $64.
41Id, at $41.
42Id, at $42.
43Id, at 544.
44Id, at 529.



                                                9

                      The affected party consists of any two or more persons with common
                     interests or concerns and who are in the borrower's territory.
                      The request does assert in substance that a serious violation by the Bank of
                     their operational policies andprocedures has or is likely to have a material
                     adverse effect on the requester.
                      The request does assert that its subject matter has been brought to
                     Management's attention and that, in the requesters' view, Management has
                     failed to respond adequately to it, thus demonstrating that it hasfollowed or
                     is taking steps tofollow the Bank's policies andprocedures.
                      The matter is not related toprocurement.
                      The related loan has not been closed or substantially disbursed.
                     ThePanel has notpreviously made a recommendation on the subject matter,
                     or  if it has, that the request does assert that there is new evidence or
                     circumstances not known at the time of theprior request.IR6

36.     For purposes of determining the eligibility o f the Request and the Requesters, the Panel
        reviewed the Request and Management's Response. Panel Members met World Bank
        officials inWashington, D.C. The Panel's Chairman Edward S. A y e n ~ visited          u ~ ~ Papua
        New Guinea in March to establish eligibility o f the Request and the Requesters. In
        Papua New Guinea he met with the NGO that i s representing the Requesters,
        CELCOR, representatives o f the Lake Murmy Resource Owners Association
        (LMROA), Eco-Forestry Forum (EFF), Environmental Law Center (ELC),
        Environmental       Watch Group          (EWG), Foundation            for    People,     Community
        Development, and others. The Panel team also met with several Government officials,
        some Members o f Parliament, some o f the consultants who were in charge o f the
        review o f Forest Management Agreements under the GPAL, and representatives of
        local communities. The Panel team also met with the Bank's Country Director and the
        Senior Economist for PNG at the Bank's offices in Sydney, Australia, and for purposes
        o f the preparation o f this Report and Recommendation, the Panel consulted with the
        Executive Director representing Papua New Guinea and his staff. 48

37.     In Port Moresby, the Panel also met with Kiunga-Aiambak Road area residents who
        confirmed that CELCOR was the representative o f people who signed the Request for
        Inspection. The Kiunga-Aiambak area residents confirmed to the Panel Team their
        concerns over the situation in their community. They stated that on April 18, 1994, a
        purported landowner company called PAIS0 Limited applied to the Papua New Guinea
        Forest Authority for a timber concession and was successful in obtaining a Timber
        Authority to carry out road line clearance o f forests inthe Lake Murray area, which i s a
        part o f the Western Province inPapua New Guinea (the "Project"). This road was part
        of the government's national road plan to link up the Western Province to the Southern
        Highlands Province.




461999 Conclusions o f the Board's Second Review o f the Inspection Panel (hereinafter The 1999
Clarifications), $ 9.
4'Assisted by the Panel's Executive Secretary Mr.Eduardo Abbott.
48The Panel wishes to thank the Executive Director and his staff for their assistance. It wishes to thank the
Government officials, NGO representatives and local people, who took time to meet with them. Finally, it
would like to thank Bank staff inthe Country Offices in Sydney and Port Moresby for their logistical support.


                                                      10

38.  By law, the Timber Authority (TA) would continue for a period of twelve months and
     upon its expiration the TA holder must apply again to the PNG Forest Authority for a
     new TA to continue on with the road line clearance if it was not able to complete its
     task. Also the laws governing TAs forbid the TA holder from transferring its
     obligations and responsibilities to a thirdparty.

39.  PAISO Ltd. apparently breached these laws under two circumstances:

      1) On October 24, 1994, PAISO Ltd. entered into a Log Harvesting and Marketing
          Agreement with Concorde Pacific Ltd. (a Malaysian logging company) to
          undertake the Project.
      2) Upon expiration o f the TA on April 18, 1995, both companies sought and were
          granted a renewal o f the TA for a periodo f five (5) years, allegedly, from a former
          national Forest Minister under questionable circumstances. Both companies did
          not comply with proper procedures under the Forestry (Amendment) Act 1991.

40. The TA was issued purposely to construct 246 kilometers o f road from Aiambak to
    Kiunga. Five thousand (5, 000) cubic meters of logs were allowed by law, as amended,
    to be harvested 40 meters from each side o f the road alignment with a period of twelve
    months. Unfortunately, Concorde Pacific Ltd. seems to have totally breached these
    statutory requirements by going into large scale logging without proper authorization
    and supervision from the PNG Forest Authority (PNGFA).

41. Attempts by the PNGFA to suspend the TA have been unsuccessful due to a Court
    injunction restraining it from suspending the TA or interfering with the operations of
    Concorde Pacific Ltd. InNovember 1999, the PNGFA issued a "Notice to Suspend the
    Timber Authority" from Concorde Pacific Ltd. after allegations o f its police brutality to
    landowners and serious breaches o f the forestry laws. Concorde Pacific Ltd. then
    applied to the National Court and successfully obtained an interim injunctionto restrain
    PNGFA from stopping its logging operations under the TA. This interim injunction
    against PNGFA was later extended until its decision to suspend the TA from Concorde
    Pacific would be fully decided in Court. Upon expiration o f the TA, PNGFA issued a
    "Notice to Cease Operations" on Concorde Pacific Ltd., which resulted in a lawsuit
   brought by Concorde Pacific against PNGFA ManagingDirector for contempt o f Court.
    Currently, PNGFA power has been curtailed by the Court's injunctions and this allows
    for Concorde Pacific Ltd. to continue with its operations whilst the substantive
   proceedings in Court are fully determined. It also prevents PNGFA from taking any
    action against either Concorde Pacific Ltd. or PAISO Ltd. until such time as the
    substantive proceedings in Court are fully settled. The substantive proceeding i s the
   judicial review sought by Concorde Pacific Ltd. to review PNGFA intention to suspend
    the TA. The Court, in spite o f the long elapsed time, has yet to set a date for these
   purposes.

42. As a consequence o f the above-described situation, the customary landowners have
    suffered tremendously due to environmental destruction to their natural forests and
   rivers; non-payment o fpremium and royalty entitlements, and emerging social problems
   withinvillage communities.

43. The national Government through the PNGFA seems to have been incapable o f
   protecting the landowners and the rights to their land and from being deprived o f their



                                               11

      forest resources. Contributing factors associated with geographical isolation and lack of
      access from essential services such as telephones, postal services and transport have
      made it even more difficult for the landowners to bring up their grievances to, and
      receiving assistance from, the appropriate Government authorities.

44. To get better acquainted with the overall situation o f landowners affected by illegal
      logging in PNG, the Panel team visited the Collingwood Bay area. There, they
      interviewed landowners, NGO representatives and local people. During this visit, the
      residents o f the Collingwood Bay area, claiming to have the same views and problems
      as the Requesters, supported and asked that their names be added to the Request for
      ~nspection.~~

45. Duringthis visit the Panel team learned that a controversy around the customary land in
      Collingwood area started with the Government's alleged transfer o f two areas of
      customary land o f about 38,000 ha. out o f customary ownership into special state
      agricultural leases, through a lease-lease back procedure under the Lands Act. The
      lease-lease back transactions o f this land were approved in January 1998 for the
      development o f an oil palm project. Both agricultural leases were registered inthe name
      o f Keroro Development Corporation, Ltd. Keroro Development Corporation i s
      apparently owned by 2 individuals, one o f whom, allegedly, was also involved in
      Kiunga-Aiambak road project. The lease-lease back transaction undertaken by the
      Government was never formally authorized by the true landowners in the Collingwood
      Bay area.

46. Currently, the land titles continue to be registered in the name o f the State and an oil
      palm project i s still being planned. However, there is no guarantee that an oil palm
      project will ever be carried out, and thus, the proposed clearance o f ancient forests for
      this purpose was perceived as a disguise by local people. The Environmental Plan
      prepared for the proposed oil palm project was also flawed and inadequate, and was
      approved without required consultations with area people and public. The landowners
      submitted their concerns to the Independent Forest Review Team on Collingwood, but,
      in their view, such concerns were not addressed adequately. The landowners are
      concerned that their customary landhas now beentransferredto the State and Keroro.

47. The issuance o f the TAs to the Deegold Company to log the Collingwood Bay area land
      was supported by the Departments o f Land and Agriculture. The TAs were issued in
      spite of the dispute over the validity o f consent o f the landowners to lease the land to the
      State. Later, however, the PNGFA declared these TAs void because the performance
      bonds provided by Deegold were set outside the required timeframe. Currently, the
      Collingwood landowners are concerned with the fact that private enterprises continue to
      operate within their TAs, irrespective o f the fact that the PNGFA has declared them
      invalid.

48. The only option available to area landowners to stop the logging operations i s through a
      Court action, which has proven to be very time consuming. It started inJune 1999 and i s
      expected to go to trial on May 9-10, 2002. Furthermore, local lawyers lack resources to
      adequately assist landowners in filing their complaints with the Court, and their lack of



49The Panel wishes to express special gratitude to local communities for their assistance and cooperation during
Panel's visit.


                                                       12

    means i s especially worrisome when compared with the resources available to the
    logging industry to hire their legal counsel. In practice, the Collingwood Bay
    landowners are being forced to do their own fighting and are involved in a very costly
    exercise to get back their customary lands. Assistance received by these landowners
    comes from localNGOs, as well as a donation from overseas to fundthe legal action.

49. Legal action was commenced by the landowners in June 1999 against the State,
    Registrar o f Titles and the PNGFA, inter alia, inan attempt to have the leases declared
    void and have the State titles rescinded inorder to returh the lands back to their original
    owners. In August 1999, the landowners began land mediation processes in the local
    Court in Popondetta Oro Province. This failed and the landowners were forced to take
    out Court orders to get the Senior Provincial Magistrate to conduct mediation. The
    landowners had to threaten contempt proceedings to get the mediation eventually to
    start. Finally, mediation was conducted and the Provincial Land Court in Popondetta
    approved the agreement reached. The agreement reached by the landowners, as part o f
   the mediation process was to clarify customary ownership and rights under the Land
    Disputes SettlementAct. It dealt with the issue o f whether the right owners gave consent
    to the lease-lease back arrangement. Therefore, currently there i s no logging operation
    taking place in the Collingwood Bay area, but the landowners ended up with a costly
    and complex litigation in order to get their customary land back. The demand for
    "customary land back" i s the center o f the National Court Action. The landowners
    expect the Court to quash the state lease over the customary land.

50. In conclusion, the landowners o f the Collingwood Bay area wanted to raise their
    concerns about violations o f their right to control their own land and resources. The
    landowners want to participate inthe decision-making process affecting development o f
    their land. Sworn statements taken and filed in Court for the purposes o f the legal action
    show a total disregard o f the wishes of the landowners. The landowners and NGOs have
    demanded consultation between the landowners and the various state authorities in
    charge of development projects. Further, they demand their customary land back. Until
    the dispute before the National Court i s resolved, they want no further deals involving
    their land.

51. The Panel's visit to PNG was o f great value for acquiring a first-hand appreciation o f
    the many problems faced by local landowners in dealing with forestry, environmental
    and economic issues resulting from illegal and/or unrestricted logging in otherwise
   pristine areas. The numerous meetings with NGO representatives also served to provide
   a better understanding about their views regarding the execution o f the Program, the
    Bank's conditionality, and the sustainability o f the reforms supported by the GPAL.
    Some specific examples o f these views are worth noting inthis Report.

52. On the matter o f the Government's review o f timber concessions, for example, the
    Requesters and other NGOs - after acknowledging the fact that there were quite a
   number o f consultations on the subject - questioned not only the limited number o f
   reviews but also their specific terms o f reference and the fact that only three field visits
   were made by the consultants in charge o f the reviews, mostly to validate the
   methodology. In their view, this was not acceptable in a country with 20 provinces
   where many important decisions related to timber concessions are taken locally. The
   manner inwhich the results o f the different reviews were consolidatedwas also a source

      o f concern, since, in several instances, it seemed to distort the findings o f individual
      reviews.

53. As for the sustainability o f the reforms (especially those which were conditions for the
      release o f the second tranche), the localNGOsnoted that the amendments to the forestry
      revenue regime consistedina mere adjustment o f a tax rate, inthe context o f the budget
      approval process, and that no amendments were made to the royalty regime in spite of
      its evident shortcoming^.^' They commented further that, even during the limited
      moratorium, several new timber concessions were granted. Moreover, inspite o f formal
      changes to the composition o f the Forestry Board its membershipbasically remained the
      same (the Panel was able to verify the legitimacy o f these claims.) Finally, they noted
      that these reforms may be short-lived, since several Government officials oppose them
      and the composition o f Government i s likely to change as a result o f the forthcoming
      elections.

54. During its visit, the Panel gained adequate insight into the many problems faced by
      interested Government officials and Bank staff when addressing these issues and the
      efforts made by them to provide technical and financial assistance to support sustainable
      improvements in governance. The visit also allowed the Panel team to confirm Bank
      staffs concem about the situation o f the Requesters. Bank Management has indicated
      that it will consider a number o f measures to assist the Requesters in dealing with
      present problems and their conservation and sustainable development efforts.

F.       Conclusion

55. Inthe Panel's view, the evident harm suffered by the Requesters i s not related to an act
      or omission o f the Bank,'* as required by paragraph 12 o f the Resolution. Indeed, the
      actions causing the harm are inflictedby private entities that have no relationship to the
      Bank's assistance program in Papua New Guinea. These harmful logging projects that
      pre-date the GPAL, cannot be regarded as the consequence o f an alleged failure by the
      Bank to supervise the execution o f the Program supported by the GPAL and/or the
      Borrower's compliance with the applicable tranche release conditions.

G.       Recommendation

56. In the light o f the foregoing and the provisions o f paragraphs 12 and 19 o f the
      Resolution, and relevant provisions o f the 1996 and 1999 clarification^,'^ the Panel
      does not recommend an investigation into the matters alleged inthe Request.

Annexes

Annex 1-Request for Inspection
Annex 2 - Management Response

~~




50See para. 28 ofthis Report.
51Paragraph 3 of the 1999 Clarifications states: "In its initial response to the requestfor inspection,
Management willprovide evidence that...iii. the seriousfailures that may exist are exclusively attributable to
the borrower or to otherfactors external to the Bank... TheInspection Panel may independently agree or
disagree, totally or partially, with Management's position and willproceed accordingly. ''
521996 Clarification o f Certain Aspects o f the Resolution, dated October 17, 1996 (the 1996 Clarifications).


                                                         14

     Annex 1


Request for Inspection


                WORLD BANK INSPECTIONPANEL

                     REQUEST FOR INSPECTION




                 Filed by certain named customary
                      ownersof forests in
                              Kiunga- Aiambak,
                              Western Province,
                              Papua New Guinea




                    "Governance has been particularly poor in the area of
                    forestry, with the side effect of promoting corrupt practices
                    and undermining environmental sustainability in logging
                    activities. The Government is committed to introducing a
                    moratorium on all new forestry licenses, extensions and
                    conversions, and to proceed with a review of all existing
                    licenses, to ensure that proper procedures are followed,
                    that logging practices are not carried out in an
                    unsustainableway, and that landowners get their share of
                    fair benefitsfrom resource use. "

                    -- Sir Mekere Morauta, Prime Minister of Papua New
                    Guinea




CENTRE FOR ENVIRONMENTALLAW AND COMMUNITYRIGHTS
INC. ,P 0 BOX 4373, BOROKO ,NATIONALCAPITALDISTRICT,
PAPUA NEW GUINEA,email: dase celcor@datec.com.pq, tel (67'5)
3234509, fax (675) 3112106




                         P A G E 1


                                UEST FOR INSPECTI

  TO: THE iNSPECTlQN PANEL: 1818H St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 28433,
  U.S.A.


  Executive Summary

  "They should leave us with good projects, we have a church but they didn't give
  us a church, they said they would give us houses, church, markets, but nothing
  was done."
  Baida Bamesa,Women's representativein Middle Fly.

  "Now when I see my bush I cry, In the past we had sago, pigs, cassowary, big
  trees everywhere. We used traditionalpaint from the bush. Now Aiambak is very
  different,life is very difficult.I cry for my village."
  Jerry lawe, Aiambak Villager.

  "We became spectators on our own land. When the company came in they sort
  of disturbed village life, so many youths when to Aiambak to seek employment
` with the company and some even became spectators on the project because
  there was no space for employment."
  Robert Polus,former employeeof Paiso LandownerCompany.

  This claim comesfrom landownerswho seek assistanceof the InspectionPanel
  becausethey have lost their land andforestsduringthe currencyof a loan by the
  World Bank to the PapuaNew GuineaGovernmentfor forest governance.

  Governanceof PapuaNew Guinea'srainforestsharply deteriorated in 1998,
  when the governmentdecidedto liquidatelargeforest areas in order to balance
   its budget.Corruptionunderminedenvironmentalsustainability,the law and
   procedureswere notfollowed, loggingpracticeswere deficient and customary
   landownerswere short-changedin the alienationof their timber re-sources.

   In 1990the World Bankand other donors beganto support the State in its
   attemptsto re-assertcontrol overthe loggingindustry.While new legislationand
   a series of donor -fundedactivitiesbroughtsome change, real changewas slow
   in comingand sometimesdifficultto see. Certainly, governancewas absent in
   1994,when a Ministerfor Forestsunlawfullyallowed a logging companyto begin
   a road-lineclearance of the claimants land: the origins of the current claim.

   A "road-lineclearance" is an authorisationto cleartress along the alignmentof a
   proposedroad. The authorisation(theTimber Authority) usually allowsthe
   builder of a roadto cut timber in a corridor, 40 metres either side of the road's
   centre-line. There have been a number of attemptsto build roads in PapuaNew
   Guinea,using a corridorwider than 40 metresandfunding the construction of the
   roadfrom sale of the timber. The result is generally a sub-standard roadthat
   quicklydeteriorates,and an uncontrolledloggingproject.

   This is what we have in the case of the Kiunga-Aiambakroad.

   This submissionwill demonstratethe failure of the Papua new Guinea
   governmentand loggingindustry participantsto fulfil or demonstrate goodfaith
   on every single conditionalityaimed at improving forestgovernance, imposed by
   the Bank on the StructuralAdjustmentProgrammeLoan (SAL).

    It will also refer to preliminaryresultsfrom the current review intoforest revenue
    and royalties, which show and industrythat is uneconomic.

    And this submissionwill dealwith significantinstancesof social, cultural,
    ecologicaland economic harm.

    The expropriationof the claimants'forests bythe State and the loggingcompany

                                           P A G E 2

has caused and will continue to cause, grave financial loss to the claimants. The
net value of the logstaken from their land since 1995can be calculatedas
US$36 Million.

There is symmetry betweenthis net loss to the Claimants of US$36 Million and
the Second Tranche outstandingto the State of US$35 Million.
 The Bank's disbursement of the secondtranche without:

     maintainingthe moratorium
     fully implementingthe findings of the partial review, including the
     requirementsseeking the remediation of illegal activities, and
     requiring a full review of the contractual provisions of the loan

     constitutes

     a violation of the contractual provisionsof the SAL by loaning to a borrower,
     who with bad faith, defaults to implement its own promises. There are very
     clear examples set out inthe body of this claim indicating the development
     objectives of the governance loan have not been met and are unlikelyto be
     met, if the disbursement of the second tranche is completed.

     a violation of Operational Directives 13.05on supervision and monitoring
     becauseof poor judgement and imprudent lending to a borrowerwho
     promotes illegal practices.

     A violation of the Bank'sforest policy OP 4.36 as the acts of the State show
     that it did not implement,follow, adhere to, or is in fact committedto,
     sustainable forest management,sustainableforestry, conservation-oriented
     forestry or good forestry practise.


 The Inspection Panel should address the need that arise from this claim:

                       The claimants needto have this illegal logging concession
                       stopped,

                       There needsto be a moratorium on new concessions in the
                       forests of Papua New Guineato allow a respite for reform,

                       The landowners need to be compensatedfor their losses,
                       and the institutional reform processes need to be put in
                       placefirmly.

                       The second tranche of the SAL should not be paid until
                       these matters are resolved.


 1.        The Claimants

 The claimants are the persons named in Appendix 1, customary landownersof
 land and forests in the Kiunga District of the Western Province of Papua New
 Guinea( "the Claimants").The individual claimants are requesting anonymity
 due to threats of reprisalsand they have given authorisation to the Center of
 Environmental Law and CommunityRights Inc(CELC0R) to representthem and
 file this claim on their behalf.These authorisations are attached as Appendix 1.
 The addressesand contact informationfor ciainiants are included in Appendix 1.
 The Claimants are living in the area betweenthe township of Kiunga and the
 international border of Papua New Guinea and Indonesia located in the Western
 Province of Papua New Guinea, and shown in the map at Appendix 2 (herein
 after referredto as (""theClaimants land").


 2.        TheLoan
 The InternationalBankfor Reconstructionand Development (hereinafterthe
 "Bank) has providedthe Governmentof Papua New Guinea (the State) with a

                                      P A G E 3

$90 million structural adjustment loan knownas the "Governance Promotion
Adjustment Loan." See the President's ReportNo. P-7374-PNG May 19,20001
(hereinafter "the loan"). The loan was approvedin May 2000, and it was
designed to be disbursed in three tranchesthe first tranche, a floating tranche,
and a second tranche. The first tranche and the floating tranche have been
disbursed and disbursement of the second tranche is believedto be imminent.

However, the conditions required for disbursement of the second tranche have
not been met by the State.

             The StructuralAdjustment Loan (SAL): Deterioratingsituation

The Claimants seek the assistance of the InspectionPanel becausethey have
lost their land and forests to bad forest governance,during the currency of a loan
by the Bank, specifically lent to the State for forest governance.

While the loan was tnade in May 2000, governance of Papua New Guinea'
rainforests deterioratedsharply in 1998,when the Governmentdecided to
liquidate large forest areas in order to balanceits budget. Corruption undermined
environmental sustainability, the law and procedureswere not followed, logging
practices were deficient, and customary landownerswere short-changedin the
alienation of their timber resources (see Prime Ministers statementfront page of
this Claim).

                     The Loan: Historyof forests in Papua New Guinea (PNG)

Before Independencein 1975 logging was largelyconfined to plantation
clearance, and saw milling by expatriate planters.The Australian administration
brought in three large Japanese investors in the 60s and 70's. Duringthe 1980s
Malaysian logging companies establishedthemselvesthroughout the country. By
 1989,the logging industry was out of control.The extent of the crisis was
described in the Report of a Commission of Inquiryby Mr. Justice T. E. Barnett.

 In 1990the Bank and other donors beganto supportthe State in its attempts to
 re-assert control over the logging industry.New legislation was introduced in
 1991, although it did not become effectiveuntil 1993,and subordinate
 regulations were not promulgated until 1998.A series of donor-fundedactivities
 under Bank guidance brought some institutionalchange, although, real change
was slow in coming, and sometimes difficult to see. Certainly, governancewas
 absent in 1994,when a Minister for Forestsunlawfully allowed a logging
 company to begin a road-line clearance on the Claimants' land: the origins of the
 current claim.

 A "road-line clearance''is an authorisationto clear trees along the alignment of a
 proposed road. The authorisation (theTimber Authority) usually allows the
 builder of a road to cut timber in a corridor 40 metres either side of the road's
 centre-line. Followingthese rules, it would not be economically feasible to fund
 the construction of the roadfrom the sale of the logs. There have been a number
 of unlawful attemptsto build roads in Papua New Guinea, using a corridor wider
 than 40 metres, and funding the constructionof the roadfrom the sale of the
 timber. The result is generally a sub-standardroad that quickly deteriorates, and
 an uncontrolled logging project.

 At the heart of the forest problem in Papua New Guinea are improper
 relationships between logging companies, the electoral system, polilicians,
 political parties, and officials. Papua New Guinea'sfirst past the post electoral
 system is very risky for intending candidates. Large numbers of candidates stand
 for elections. Electoralsuccess depends upon candidates spending large
 amounts of money campaigning, and on gift giving. Logging companiesfinance
 this. Then, the companies expect to be lookedafter by the successful Member of
 Parliament. This informal system dominates politics and official decision-making
 in Papua New Guinea, and affects the highest echelons of government. See
 Appendix 3, statement by Transparency international(PMG) Inc

 All these elements are present in the Claimant's case. However,the Inspection
  Paneljurisdiction may not grant the parties immunityfrom civil suit in Papua New
 Guinea, and Papua New Guinea has out-dated defamation laws that prevent us
                                      P A G E 4

  speaking with precision, at times in this claim.

  InAppendix 4, we show copies of a memorandumfrom Paiso Limited (the so-
  called landowner company in the Kiunga-Aiambakroad and logging project) to a
  middleman noting the payment of an inducementof K260,000 in order to obtain
  a tax exemption on the export of logs. Annexed also is a copy of a National
  3azette notice, signed by a Minister granting the exemption.The Minister later
  announced his resignation from Parliament citing the need to spend more time
  with hisfamily as the main reasonfor his resignation.


                                  The Loan: PresidentsReport

  The Presidents Reportto the Executive Directors does nottell the full story; it
  does not describe either the nature, or the extent of these political relationships.
  The important all-embracing political influence of the logging industry is not
  described. The Presidents Report, P-7374-PNGat pi8 para 75 does say:

                     Thesystem has been exploited in thepast by firms, whichhave
                     essentiallyexpropriatedforest resources through fraudulentdeals with
                     local individuals whohave misrepresented the wishes and intentions of
                     clan groups.Recfiljling this situationis a challenge.

  The officers who wrote the report were in possessionof many submissions by
  NGOs detailing the failure of forest reform and its impacton customary
  landowners, land-theft, police harassment, landownersdeprived of constitutional
   rights,their rights to the protection of the law, and the flagrant abuse of due
   process and unlawful practices. Further,the Reportdoes not fully describethe
   likely impact of proposed logging, and how the fate of the forest biosphere in
   Papua New Guinea hangs in the balance. The Reportsaid at para 76, p. 18

                      Significantlosses of foresfed areas, in an exploitativeand uncontrolled
                      fashion, will have major consequences for downstreamagricultureand
                      other activitiesand therehave been some localized examples of this
                      already.

   That sentence did not describethe likely consequencesof the lackof controlandthe
   exploitationonfragilesocieties already strugglingfor somecohesionin transition,on
   fragile environments, and onthe biodiversityicons of this treasure-houseof creation and
'  life,and the economic impactof the exploitation,expropriation andfraud onthe private
   propertyof the customary landandforest owners suchasthe Claimants. Heretherewere
   significantrisks. Itis unlikelythat the Executive Directorsappreciatedthese risks.

                           The Loan: Bankput on appropriateSAL conditionality

   Neverthelessthe thrust of the Bank's policy matrix was appropriate, in as far as it
   went. Itwas driven in the right direction.

    The Bank acted quite properlywhen it imposed forest conditions inthe SAL.
   Why was forest conditionality proper? Becausethe forests were in crisis, the loan
   was to improve"governance", and governance had been particularly poor inthe
   area of forestry (see Prime Minister's statement on the cover of this claim), hence
   the crisis, hence the appropriatenessof the conditions.

   The conditions imposed to improve forestry management on the SAL were:

        =    to reinstate the forestry log tax regime; and satisfactorily implement
             reformson the forestry revenue and royalty to landowners regime.

             to fund an independent inspection of log exports, pre-shipment

             a moratorium on all new timber concessions,pending a complete review
             of all existing concessions (but implementedas a review of
             new/proposedconcessions).
                                           P A G E 5

       new laws on forest clearancesfor roadsand agricultural schemes.

       new laws restraining powersof delegation.

       new laws insisting on a better balance on the Board of the PapuaNew
       Guinea ForestAuthority.

       new laws on transparencyand non-commercialdisclosure by the
       Forestry Board.

                             The Loan: The State's bad faith

   Log Revenues

   The State did reinstatethe forestry log tax regime, and a review is being
   carried out into forestry revenueand royalty. But that review is already under
   pressure. The consultantshave been told to fastract an interim reportto
   enablethe State to decreasethe tax burden on the loggers in the November
   2001 budget. Preliminaryresultsfrom the reviewshow :

                            a sharp decline in log prices;

                       a    a needto increase landowner royalties significantly;

                        9   a need to adjust the logtax,

                        1   but most importantly,for the purposes of this
                            submission:an industrywhose sales revenue is less
                            than its out-aoinas,an industry that is uneconomic.

   The uneconomic nature of the logging industry has been apparent for some
   time. Logging could only be justified invery narrow profit-and-lossterms,
   from the point of view of an export logger. In terms of real economy,
   externalitieswere nevertaken intoaccount. However, now prices are low,
   the industry is uneconomic,even in a narrow profit-and-loss sense. Good
   faith requires a government to look at the real, full, or true economic impact
   upon its economy of an activity.To ignore the true economic impact,for the
   sake of narrow sectoral interestsis irrational, and in our submission points
   towards ineffectiveness,and the unhealthy relationships that exist between
   the State and the logging industry.

   In our submission,the preliminarydata of the revenue review providesan
   importanteconomic justificationfor maintaining the moratoriumon new
   concessions. If an industry is uneconomic,then it does not makesense to
   expand the industry.
   The Bank is obliged properly to supervise loans and under OP 4.36
    (ForestryPolicies), not to loanfor an activity that is irrational, or to loan for
   forestry purposesthat cannot be managed on a sustainable basis.The
   uneconomiccharacter of the logging industry means that the industry is not
   sustainable.The Banks OP4.36 says:

             "(e)Sustainablemanagement of natural forests means controlled
                utilizationof the resourceto produce wood and non-wood
                benefits intoperpetuity, with the basic objectives of long-term
                maintenance of forest cover and appropriate reservation of areas
                for biodiversity protection and other ecological purposes. ``

The preliminaryfindings of the Revenue Review showing an industrywhose
outgoings exceed its income,do not comply with this definition of sustainability.
To seek to keep the industrygoing, without a respite for purposesof
investigationand restructuringis to managethe industry poorly.


    Fundingan IndependentInspectionof LogExports

Although funds have been providedfor the Swiss firm Social de General
Surveillance (SGS)to monitor log exports and the work is being done, the funds
                                    P A G E 6

are not part of the Papua New Guinea ForestAuthority's formal budget.The
funds have been donated through the EuropeanUnion. The PNG Forest
Authority has opposed the employment of SGS, and tried to give this work to a
local contractor.


 A moratoriumon all new timber c~ncessrons,pendinga cOmpkt@review
 of all existing concessions

The issue we wish to raise here is the lack of good faith of the State in honouring
this condition.The thrust of our submission here, is that as soon as the second

tranche is paid, the State will slip back into its old ways: business as usual.

 As will be seen from the text of our submissions the State broke boththe letter
and the spirit of the condition with the following logging concessions:

                              Pondo TRP,
                              Tuwapu,
                              Collingwood Bay,
                              Kamula Doso FMAs,
                              Amanab Blocks 1to 4 FMAs,
                              Semabo FMA,
                              Kula Dagi
                              Bakada
                              and on the Claimantsland within the Kiunga -
                              Aiambak Road.


 We draw attention to the schemes or arrangements by which logging
 concessionsfall into the hands of companies becauseof omissions by State
 lawyers. Due process is allowed to fall by the wayside, and then companies
 assert their rights through the law of contract, quasi-contract, and the use of ex
 parte orders and declarations, by the courts. All of this, whether it be
 misfeasanceor nonfeasance, pointstoward a situation where the Bank should
 draw the conclusion that as soon as the second tranche of the loan is paid out,
 the Statewill slip back into its old ways. Businessas usual. The State and
 logging companies connived at circumventingthe moratorium. Bank officials
 knew of these developments. As was reportedby the Review Team, the Vailala
 Blocks 2 & 3 Forest ManagementAgreement area had no legal basis. But the
 logging company, with the tacit consent of the Forest Authority and the State
 managedto obtain a declaration from the courts that a timber permit existed. A
 similar situation occurred in the Makapaconcession. Un-opposedby the Forest
 Authority or State, the logging company obtained a court order that regularized
 an otherwise irregular concession.

 The behaviour of the State prior to the loan, and during the currency of the loan
 shows a lack of good faith. The State was working against the conditions of the
  loan. The purpose of the loan was to promote governance. But, during the
 currency of the loan, there is poor and ineffectual governance;the antithesis of
 the conditionsof the loan agreement.

  Under these circumstances,the releaseof the second tranche of the loan
  constitutes not only acts of bad faith, but a violation of the loan agreement. The
  Bank responsibilitiesunder OD 13.05 to supervise the loan have been breached.
  Forfull submission on this point ,seeAppendix 5.

  New laws onforest clearancesfor roads and agriculturalschemes

  This is part of the substance of the Claimantscase and we make detailed
  submissions later in this Claim. The issuewe wish to raise here is the lack of
  good faith of the State in honouringthis condition. The required legislation has
  been put in place. But the Minister for Forests ignores it. There is evidence from
  the Review Team reportsthat the Ministerfor Forests gave approvalfor a major
  road-line clearance during the currency of the moratorium.The Review Team
  said:

                                      P A G E 7

          "Whilst in general policies, laws and proper procedures are being
          observed, there were four notable exceptions. Theseare:


                        Theapparent illegal issuanceand extensionof the so-
                        called Aiambak-Kiunga         Timber AUtlJOrity by      a
                        succession of Ministers since about 1995.Although the
                        PNG Forest Authority has made             attempts      to
                        closedown thisproject, it has been constrained by a
                        court order which bizarrely prevents the Authority from
                        exercising its powers under the Forestry Act Related to
                        theabove, the approval in December2000 by         the
                        Minis:er for Forests,of forest clearing for a 635km
                        "TransIsland Highway". Thisis outside the Minister's
                        authority.It was revoked by the Minister after receiving
                        advice from the Board.

                        Theissuance of a permission to "set up base campand
                        constructadvance roading" in the Pondo TRParea in
                        2001by the PNG ForestAuthority Managing Director in
                        the absenceof a TimberPermit or a TimberAuthority.

                   9    Theissuance of a permission to harvest logs in the
                        Tuwapuarea in 2001 by the PNG Forest Authority
                        Managing Director despiteadvice from the National
                        Forest Service.

                   Thelatter three are in direct breach of the Government's
                   current moratorium on the issuance of loqqinu oermits. In the
                   case of Pondo, the Managing Director later revoked his
                   permission,and his action was duly noted by the Board. In
                   the interimsome 8,500m3 of logs with a value of Kina 1.4
                   million were exported'. In the case of Tuwaputhe Board
                   correctly directed the Managing Director (Boardmeeting 73 of
                   22August 2001) to withdraw thepermission given. A legal
                   direction to ceaseoperations was issued on 20 September. In
                   the interiman estimated 13,008m3 of logs were exported.At
                   current log exportprices3this represents revenue to the log
                   exporter of some K 2.6million. Theseare not minor
                   amounts."(emphasisadded)

In our submission the failure of the State during the currency of the moratoriumto
stop the logging on the Kiunga-Aiambak is a clear.demonstration of its lack of
good faith.


New laws insistingon a better balance on the Boardof the Papua New
Guinea ForestAuthority

The intent of these reformswas to removefrom the Board the Forest Industries
Association (FIA) representatives,because they had come to dominate the
Board.The FIA representativeswere replaced by a member of the PNG
Chamber of Commerce.A woman's representativewas also providedfor inthe
new legisiation.
            m   A woman has not yet been appointedto the board.
                 Further,at the meeting held on Saturday 13'h of October 2001,
                the Chair of the Boardallowed a representative of the FIAto be
                 present in a Board meeting.
These matters show a lack of good faith on the part of the State.




                                    P A G E 8

New laws on transparency and non-commercia! disclosure by the Forest
Authority Board.

It was a condition of the loan that the State pass a law that would give
transparency to all alienations of forestland. The State has not passeda law to
require public notification (press advertisementsand public meetings)to the
intention of the ForestAuthority to establish a Forest ManagementAgreement.

Although other necessaryamendmentsto the Act were made, the Forest
Authority does not as a matter of practice follow the new law on transparency
and non commercial disclosure.

         Duringthe currency of the moratorium,the landowners in the
         Josephstaal FMA through their lawyers, requestedfrom the Forest
         Authority, a copy of the contract and maps which were said to alienate
         the timber rights from their land. This document is called the "Forest
         ManagementAgreement" (FMA). The landownersdid not know who had
         signed the FMA on their behalf.

         The ForesiAuthority refusedto hand over a copy of the FMA or the
         maps.

         The landowners made a Constitutional applicationfor freedom of
         information,to the courts.

         The Forest Authority consentedto the order. But gave illegible copies.

         Only when threatened with contempt, did the ForestAuthority give over
         the FMA and maps.

     This is a further example of the lack of good faith on the part of the State.


 2nd Tranche should not be paid untilfull review and Kiunga-Aiambak
 stopped

 In our submissionon this preliminary point which raises itself as we attemptto
 sketch the scene on behalf of the Claimants,the State has not acted in good faith
 during the currency of loan and prudencedemandsthe inference that it may not
 be trusted, at least until it can demonstrate its bonafide in such a way as to
 dissipate the distrust that must be seen to have accumulated.


  3.      World Bank Policiesand Procedures

  3.1     OD 13.05

  We understandthat the Sank has the following policy(ies) andlor procedures:

           3.1 TheBank's Supervisionand MonitoringPolicy,Operational
          Directive 13.05. "Projectsupervisionis one of the Bank's most
          important acfivifies. Its mainpurposesare (a)to ensure that the
          borrower implements theproject withdue diligenceto achieverhe
          agreeddevelopmentobjecfivesand in conformitvwith the loan
          aqreement".


This is a case where the Claimants respectfullyseek to implementthe
  safeguards, checksand balancesthat Bank managementhas prudently put in
  place in order to help the Bank to carry out its formal mandate.

  In so doing, the Claimantsseek to help the World Bank implement its own well-

                                      P A G E 9

founded policy prescriptions, that have been eroded through errors of judgment,
poor practice and inconsistent implementation.

The loan agreement for the 1999$90 million Governance Promotion Adjustment
Loan(GPAL) says that the,
            "proposedloan wouldsupport the Government'songoing efforts to
             redresspast policy and governanceshortcomings in a sustainable
             manner. Hence the loan includes componentslo improve. ..forestry
             management....A pervading theme is to strengthengovernancein
             public institutions through enhanced transparencyand
             accountability.

The Claimants allege that the disbursementof the secondtranche of the SAL
without the maintenance of the moratoriumand full review of logging
concessionswould constitute a violation of the contractual provisions of the
structural adjustment loan, and a violation of the Bank's obligation to supervise
and monitor its projects pursuantto the Bank's Supervisionand Monitoring
policy, Operational Directive 13.05. The very first paragraphof that policy says
that,

         "Projectsupervision is one of the Bank's most impottant activities. Its
         main purposes are (a) to ensure that the borrower implements the project
         with due diligence io achieve the agreed development objectivesAND IN
         CONFORMITY WITH THELOANAGREEMENT;'' (emphasisadded)



 The loan agreement's Matrix of PolicyActions says under "Actions
 Taken/OutcomesAchieved" that there was a "moratoriumdeclared on all new
 Forest ManagementAgreements (FMA),timber permits and geographic
 extensionsto timber permits.''

 A column entitled "second tranche", contains conditionsthat must be met before
 second tranche disbursement. That column includes,

              "Complete independentreview of all FMAs,timber permits and
              geographic extensionsto timber permits. "

 An explanationof the shifting positionof the State and the Bank over the
 Loanconditionrequiringa full review of existing concessions

 The condition requiring a moratorium on new logging concessions first appeared
 in a draft Policy Matrix of early October 1999.The draft Policy Matrix was linked
 to the internal Bank report titled, Papua New Guinea: Improving Governanceand
 Performance, unpublished dated October 1999.This report is not available to the
 Claimants.This condition was always linkedto the need for a review of existing
 projects.That was confirmed between Bank officials and NGO representatives in
 early November 1999, orally and in writing. See our submissions under the "time-
 line" below and also Appendix 6. It cannot be argued that there was an
 unfortunatecommunication error over this matter.This is so because the Prime
 Minister made it very clear in his budget speech that the moratorium was linked
 to a review of existing concessions.There was no unfortunate "communication
 error".

 The condition requiring a full review of existing concessions, in the policy matrix,
 made sense becausethere was no real dispute (betweenthe Bank, the State
 and NGO's) that the managementof Papua New Guinea's forests was in crisis,
                                     P A G E 1 0

hence the forest conditionality placed in the SAL. To proceedto pian and allocate
to logging companies more of the untouchedancientforests, without a respite
long enough to get the existing forest concessions undercontrol, would bring
about irreparable harm to society, the forest ecosystemsgenerally. Hence, it
makes sense to extend the moratoriumover the period of a review of existing
concessions.

The history of Papua New Guinea'sforests was one of poor governance and
corruption. There was a needfor a moratoriumon new concessions while a
review of all concessionstook place. It was necessaryto ensure that forests
were properly managed and benefits are shared fairly. These matters were
discussed by NGOs in detail with Bank officials and were included in the
conditions of the loan.

However on the Bank's web site "Papua New Guineaand Forests, Frequently
Asked Questions (FAQs)"there is a more limited statement of the scope of the
 review and moratorium,supporting a review only of pendinglproposedforest
concessions:

                  "Referenceto the moratorium and the need for a review of
                  applications for timber harvest, is made in the GPAL.A lack of
                  clarity in the language in the documentationhas resulted in
                  unintended ambiguity. Wordingin the loan agreement and the
                  matrix of policy conditions could be read to mean that the review
                  would cover all forest operations in PNG -including currently
                  operating logging concessions. However the Letter of
                  DevelopmentPolicy, as signed by the Government, is clear that
                  the objective was to focus the review only on pending
                  applications,and this was certainly the intent of the both the
                  Governmentand the Bank from the beainninq in this area".
                  (emphasisadded)

 See Appendix 7 for a detailed submission on FAQ's.
 This self-serving interpretationis directly contradicted by the language of the
 matrix included in the President'sReport on the GovernanceAdjustment Loan,
 the Policy Matrix sent to the State in November 1999,and the words of the Prime
 Minister, set out above and on the cover of this claim.

 The web site also says:

          `areviewof all currentloggingconcessionsin thefield wouldbea major
          task, and could not be achieved within the time frame of a structural
          adiustment operation.However, it can -and would -be done under the
          auspices of theproposed Forestry and Conservation Project {FCP). This
          is reflected in the ProjectAppraisal Documentfor the FCP and will be
          specified in the LoanAgreement for this project"

  In our submission, the last sentence here is quite misleading.

  The statementthat a review of current concessionscould not be achievedwithin
  the SAL time frame is incorrect.We submit that it would have been possibleto
  review some of the most critical existing concessions in the time frame allottedto
  the ReviewTeam. The ReviewTeam managedto review 32 new concessions
  over the same period of time.



                                      P A G E 1 1

A Time-line

We set out below in our submission, our version of how events unfolded:
    .  NGO concerns with World Bank forest policy in Papua New Guinea were
       raisedwith Bank representativeMr Pirouz Hamidian-Radin 1997. Mr
       Hamidian-Radrefused to accept the needfor a moratorium on the
       allocation of new logging concessions, and at that point NGOs broke off
       relationshipswith the Bank and began preparingan InspectionPanel
       Claim.

    a  On about the 11 or 12`h of November 1998, NGO's met with Mr. Douglas.
       The Individual and Community Rights Advocacy Forum Inc. (ICRAF) had
       prepared a letter of demand, leadingto an InspectionPanel Claim. But at
       the meeting Mr. Douglas said the Bank was preparedto support a
       moratoriumon new logging concessionsand a review of existing
       concessions. These matters are described in Colin Filer's book "The Thin
       Green Line" pp68-70.SeeAppendix 8.


    D  On the 2"dof November 1999,Greenpeacerepresentative Brian Brunton
       metwith Mr. J Douglas. Mr. Douglasconfirmedthat the Bank would
       requestthe State to include a moratoriumin the SAL and the FCP loan.
       And that "the Bank would supportlproposea review of all existing
       projectsduring the duration of the moratorium." See Appendix 6 (email
       messagesfrom Brunton confirmingthe conversationand Mr. Douglas
        reply not disputing that the Bank would supporb`propose a review of all
        existing projects during the duration of the moratorium").

    m   In the first or second week of November 1999,the National Executive
        Councilapproved the terms of the SAL, to include a moratoriumand a
        review of existing concessions (theClaimants have no documentation on
        this meeting because it was kept confidential.Our sources were oral, but
        confirmedby the Prime Minister's budget speech, see front page of the
    .   claim.

        Inthe time betweenthe Prime Minister'sspeech in November 1999and
        May 2000, when the National Executive Council (NEC) approvedthe
        terms of the loan, officials in the Prime Minister's Departmentcame
        under political pressureto roll-backthe commitmentto a moratorium and
        full review of all existing concessions, and substituted it with a limited
        review on new concessions. In particular,the Forest Authority, made a
        submissionto the NEC that, amongst other things, successfully sought to
        changethe reviewfrom a review of existing projects,to a review of new
        projects.SeeAppendix 9.

        Politiciansand loggers did not want a full review of existing concessions
        becausethey did not want any independentinvestigation into
        malpractices.Papua New Guinean officials were also uncomfortablewith
        a full review of existing concessions because it would require a lengthy
         process of about five years, and reveal their short-coming too.

     m   Politicians,and hence officials, were under pressurefrom their patron-
         logging companiesto removethe moratoriumand give as concessions to
         loggingcompaniesthe remainingareas of accessible untouchedforest.


     D  A detailed history of the process by which the World Bank came to agree
        to a moratoriumin Papua New Guinea is given in Filer et al The Thin

                                     P A G E 1 2

  Green Line: World Bank Leverage and Forest Policy reform in Papua
  New Guinea (Appendix 8).


9 Certainly Mr. Douglas, a Bank official key to negotiating the forest
  component of the loan, wavered over the needfor a full review of
  existing concessions.

* As early as November 1998, Mr. Douglas gave verbal undertakingsto
  Port Moresby NGOsthat he was willing to support the call for a
  moratoriumon the developmentof new logging projects, while a review
  of existing concessions took place.

  Later (seeAppendix 6),when confrontedwith the minutes of that
  meeting he changed his mind on his verbal commitment, althoughat the
  time the Bank's commitmentto extendthe moratorium until all current
  permits and extensions had been subjectedto review, had been included
  in a draft Policy Matrix. Mr. Douglas in a newspaper interview inthe
  Papua Ne-w Guinea Independent, 11 November 1999, highlightedthe
  needfor a moratorium on newtimber concessions,and a review of "all
  existing loggirlg operations and a far greater level of transparency in the
  deliberations of the National Forest Board".The NEC (cabinet)in
   November 1999 and the Prime Minister's budgetspeech, confirmed a
   review of existing concessions.

   Mr. Douglas and other officials believedthat industrial-scale-logging
   should proceed in Papua New Guinea. See Report No. PID6506May
.  29, 2001 paragraph 4.

   In May 2000, Mr. Douglas reachedan agreement with Mr. Paul Barker
   an official in the Papua New Guinea' Prime Minister's Department. Mr.
   Barker, who was respondingto the political pressure, negotiateda short-
   term moratoriumwith the Bank.This shortened moratorium was to be
   maintainedwhile 30 or so new projectswere vetted for complianceand
 . legality under a modified review.

   The Bank officials backtrackedto a weaker position, a short-term
   moratorium pending a compliancereview on selected new projects.This
   position did not comply with the matrix of loan conditionality and it
   endangeredthe forests of Papua New Guinea generally and the
   Claimantsforest in particular.

 m The "modified review" was no longera review of all existing concessions.
   It was a process arising from the political pressure of logging interests
   and threatened the Claimants' forests. Perhapsfrom the view of logging
   interests in Papua New Guinea, a limited review was preferable because
   it could be quickly implemented,paidfor by donors (the Government of
   Australia), and then ignored,while the new forest estate was prepared
   for allocation.

 m An additional strategy of Papua New Guinean officials, (withthe
   knowledgeof Bank officials - who were advised by NGOs of these
   developments),was to continueto prepareand process the allocation of
   new concessionsduring the time when the moratorium was supposed to
   be in place. Thus, the ForestAuthority proceeded to take stepsto have
   a number of concessions readiedfor allocation to particular logging
   companies during the currency of the moratorium. The government
   sought to expedite the allocationsof new concessions up to, but just

                              P A G E 1 3

        short of approval, with the objectiveof formalizing the new contractual
        arrangementsas soon as the moratoriumwas lifted. This in itself
        constituted a violation of the moratoriumand it is evidence of badfaith on
        the part of the government.



    B   Further,the State, in good faith, did not address the need for a
        substantial hiatus in new logging,to allow a complete over-haulof forest
        and conservation policy and implementationin Papua New Guinea. This
        was necessaryfor the effectivenessof boththe loan, and a proposed
        loan, called the "Forest and ConservationProject" (FCP) .

Consistent with the Policy Matrix, PNG NationalExecutive Council (NEC)
decision No NG 99/99 (a cabinet decision) ordered a moratoriumon all current
proposals (Forest ManagementAgreements (FMAs), Timber Permits (TP's),
Timber Authorities, (TAs) pending a review of existing concessions. The
Cabinet decision was made in November 1999.The Claimants do not have a
copy of the NECdecision. It is a confidential documentand was not made
available to us. But we are reasonablysure what was decided in the decision
because of a speechthe Prime Minister made in Parliament, and becauseof
references in other NEC documents,which did fall into our hands. The Prime
Minister of Papua New Guinea in his budget speech November 1999described
his government's policy thus:

           "Governancehas been particularly poor in the area of forestry, with the
            side effect of promoting corruptpractices and undermining
            environmentalsustainability in logging activities. The Governmentis
            committed to introducing a moratoriumon all new forestrylicenses,
            extensionsand conversions,and to proceed with a review of all
            existing licenses, to ensure thatproper procedures are followed, that
            loggingpractices are not carried out in an unreasonable way, and that
            landownersget their fair share of benefits from resourceuse."


In essencethe loan was to promotegovernance,and for the purposesof this
Claim, in particular,forest governance. The Claimants submit that Bank officials
behaved in an imprudent and irresponsible manner lending large sums of money
to a governmentthat is corrupt and irresponsible.Senior Government Ministers
on several occasions gave tax exemptionsto the logging company logging on the
Claimant's land.Although corruption in Papua New Guinea is knownto be
"systemic and systematic",to quote Sir Mekere Morauta, the Prime Minister of
 Papua New Guinea,the imprudenceand irresponsibility refers to irresponsible
acts that directly affectthe Claimantsand their land. Detailed submissionson
 imprudenceand irresponsibilityare at AppendixlO.


 3.2      OP4.36

 In addition, Bank decisions in Papua New Guinea forest matters are regulated by
 the Bank's 1993forest policy known as Operational Policy 4.36 (OP 4.36).

 In our submissionthe failure to secure the moratorium on new logging
 concessions, pending a review of existing concessions, was a breach of OP
 4.36, becauseit failed to implementthe policy objectives of OP 4.36. The loan
 allowed logging operationsto proceed (the new concessions) where there was in
 fact no sustainableforest management.

  OP 4.36 bansthe Bankfrom financing commercial logging operations or the
 purchase of logging equipmentfor use in tropical moist primaryforest. 0 P 4.36,
 para. 1(a), "Where a country has madea commitment to undertake
 "conservation-orientated"forestry, the Bank may finance improvementsin
                                     P A G E 1 4

planning, monitoring and field control of logging operations".

OP 4.36 promotes good forestry practice and sustainableforestry and limits
Wor!d Bankforest sector lending by requiring environmentaland social
assessments, avoiding loans for logging in areas of high ecological value,
requiring safeguardsfor forest dwellers rights.

In primaryforest where logging is ongoing, but where a government has made a
commitmentto sustainable management,the Bank may finance improvementsin
the planning, monitoring, and field control of forestry operations to maximizethe
capability of responsible agencies to carry out the sustainable managementof
forest resources.

Detailedsubmissions on breaches of OP 4.36 are at Appendix 11.


 4.     The Bank has violated or threatens to violate its
        own policies and procedures inthis way:

The Bank'sdisbursement of the secondtranche without:

           m     maintaining the moratorium

           ,,   fully implementingthe findings of the partial review, includingthe
                requirementsseeking the remediationof illegal activities; and

                 requiring a full review of the contractual provisions of the loan,

                 constitute

                             a violation of the contractual provisions of the loan by
                           loaningto a borrower,who, with bad faith, defaultsto
                           implement its own promises.The loan, amongstother
                           things was to give the State support for on-going efforts
                           to redress past policy and governance shortcomings in
                           a sustainable manner,with components to improve
                           forestry management. There are very clear examples
                           set out in the body of this Claim above, that affect the
                           Claimants land, and other examples referredto in
                           evidence, showingthe failures of the forest sector
                           generally, indicating the development objectives of the
                           governanceloan have not been met, and are unlikely to
                           be met, if the disbursementof the second tranche is
                           completed.

                          m a violation of Operational Directive 13.05 on
                           supervision and monitoringbecause of poor judgement
                           and imprudent lendingto a borrower who promotes
                           illegal practices.


                          9   a violation of the Banksforest policy OP 4.36.The
                           acts of the State show that it did not    implement
                           follow, adhereto, or is in fact committed to, sustainable
                           forest management,sustainableforestry, conservation-
                           orientatedforestry, or good forestry practice.


          5 Harm: The damage to the Claimants

               Harm: Governance

   5.1   The ReviewTeam report on the Kiunga-Aiambak Road said:

                 "At no time since the purported issuance of the TimberAuthority
                                     P A G E 1 5

                 in April 1994has any aspect of dueprocess keen observed. This
                 has arisen from matters beyond the direct control of the
                 PNGFA."

 Governance, then directly affects rights of the Claimants (and all Papua New
 Guineans') to protection of the law in a broad sense. The unlawful and
 uncontrolled activities of logging companies de-stabilises governance. In this
 case the logging company is able to effect political, judicial, and administrative
 checks and balances, to the end that it can log with impunity, along the Kiunga-
 Aiambak Road, and the feeder road known as the "Barramundi Highway".
 Thus, the administration of a country is,undone. When loggers can get their
 way, without "due process" being observed over a seven year period, in such a
 way that their actions are beyond the control of the regiilating authority, then
 the core of governance in a nation is put at risk.


e  The recent report by the ReviewTeam put in place as a result of the loan,
   describes the illegal nature of the KiungaAiambak concession imposed on
   the claimants land. The ReviewTeam also concluded that the Kiunga
   Aiambak concession is in violation of the World Bank's loan conditionality
    requiring a moratorium on all new concessions. A copy of the ReviewTeam
    report on the KiungaAiambak concession is attached as Appendix 12. The
    report hints at relationship between politicians and logging companies. The
    Claimants do not want to be more specific, at this stage, becausethe civil
    laws of Papua New Guinea which limit freedom of speech. Officiais in the
    PNG Forest Authority apparently lacked authority, or resolve, to intervene
    and protectthe Claimants' rights.

    Harm: A Kind of Genocide

    The claimants fear an impendingdestructionof their culture. The evidence of
    this harm will be given by the Claimantsto the Inspection Panel in the form of
    direct testimony on a video tape Exhibit1. The testimonies describe:

     1. The empty promisesthe loggingcompany made to the landowners
        to get their consentfor the logging projectto be developed on their
         land.

    2. The destruction that has being causedto the forest, wildlife and culture
         of the people as a result of logging.

    3. The impact of logging on social life of the people,

5.4 Papua New Guinea is the most culturally diverse place on earth. One fifth of
the world's languages are found there, with over 800 languages spoken. The
forest is held under customary land tenure by many indigenous tribes. The
culture and the forest are under threat. The Claimants are the lawful owners of a
forest of global significance. Their forest is part of the lungs of the Earth. It has a
major role in global climate, yet the State and Bank officials appear to tolerate its
liquidation.


5.5 Becausethe area is lightly populated, about one person per square kilometre,
logging is not the most effective, appropriate, or economic form of development
for the Claimants. The demographics of the area are not accidenta!. They arise
as the result of thousands of years of interaction between the land, forests and
the Claimants' ancestors, They were and are, hunter-gatherers, moving through
the forests, living from the forests. This is a delicate and complicated process of
human activity and biodiversity;an ancient balance, that is easily upset. But there
was never any attempt to involve the Claimants in any discussions about the
development options open to them. Although rich in culture and resources, in the
modern marketsthe Claimants are the poorest of the poor. Their iivelihoocis, food
security, depends upon the forests remaining intact. This is their wealth. They are
isolated, uncared for by the State, the Bank, and easy prey for logging
companies. The Kiunga Aiambak road, the centre of this Claim, drives through
the heart of this ancient forest, and has little justification, other than an excuse to
                                    P A G E 1 6

supply the logging company with raw logs. The road is of such a low standard
that it becomes impassable in the wet season. The jobs offered by the logging
company are unskilled, and temporary. The Claimants have no virtual experience
in the modern economy. That economy does not present itself to them as a level
playing field. They are disadvantaged, weak competitors, at risk from a form of
quasi-social genocide nowfamiliar to many indigenous peoples.


5.6 In the Constitution of Papua New Guinea, the National Goals and Directive
Principles place a duty on the State to use wisely and preserve the natural
resources and the nation's environment,for the use of future generations. There
is simply no way that the logging operations on the Kiunga- Aiambak Road
conform to this mandate. The same Goals and Directive Principles place a duty
on officials to protect Papua New Guinea's culture. If the forests die, there is no
food, the plant life, birds, animals at the basis of the diet wither away, water
becomes contaminated, building material for shelter, canoes-transport, slowly
become harder to find, and the physical rationality, the foundation of culture,
begins to disappear. Relations between groups, as has happened already, begin
to fracture. The young who can no longer make a living traditionally, migrate to
the cities, there to join the desperate cycle of urban poverty and crime. As the
young move, the old are left in rural poverty, the oral traditions begin to wither.
Then the langu`ages die. When your language dies you are no longer a people:
 by definition. It is not legally genocide, but nevertheless,a kind of genocide.

 5.7     The logging companies make their links with men. Women are never
 asked what they want. This is a society where womens' role in life is defined and
 subservient. Neverthelessa video tape was madewhich shows women, men and
 youthfrom the area talking about logging and the road. The video tape is Exhibit
 1. The following is a summary of the main points put forward by women in their
 oral testimonies:
     .    The integrity of the forest (bush) is importantfor the collection of housing
     .    material- particularly temporary houses used by women for giving birth

          Logging makes it harder for getting sago (the local staple) for food; the
          mud is now much deeper; the sago palms are shorter.

      m   Stocks of sago and fish are decreasing

      a   The company spoilt the bush

          Animals (protein)are now far away- before they were close

      a   The company gave the women nothing

      a   There was no consultation with women

      m   Women face hard problems. Logging did not benefit us with anything
           good

      a    We are happy about the road; it lets us get to Kiunga; but we have to beg
           rides on companytrucks; it is not maintained properly

      .
      #    They should have given us a church

           They said they would give us houses, a church, a market; but nothing
           was done

      m    Governmentservices are not coming through

      m    Nobody cares about this place, we are a forgotten people here and the
      .    government has not given us any services

           The BHP-Billitonl Ok Tedi Mining Ltd mine has contributed to the
       .   pollution

           Health problems in the area are caused by the mining pollution of mine
                                       P A G E 1 7

         at Ok Tedi, the Placer mine at Porgera, and the logging by Concorde
         Pacific

     m   People come to the Boboa Health Centre, Lake Murray with lots of
         gastric pain, it affects the chest, burning, blood in the fetes, typhoid, skin
         irritations; its from eating the sago and drinkingthe water

     1   They (the loggers) put chemicalsat the road-side

5.8 The forests of Papua New Guinea are crucialto the well being of the people.
The forests provide the peoplewith food, water, building materials, medicine and
are closely integrated into the everydayway of life. They are a resourceand a
life-support mechanism.The forests are also owned by the people. They are the
private property of customary clans or extendedfamilies. So the rightsto all the
necessitiesto life that the forests provideare also the property of the customary
owners. The arrangement by which foreign loggingcompanies, through the
State, accessed the forests and appropriatedlogs has been deteriorating over
the years. The current situation is that the industry is bankrupt. The costs of
logging exceed the f.0.b. prices. In 1998the then government made a
determined effort to access most of the availableand accessible un-logged
forests. There was widespread resistanceto that move.The source of that
resistancewas that people realised that the deals being offered them by the
loggers and the State were "bad deals".At one level,the financial returnswere
very poor. But they also realised that they were being mislead, and that there
were attemptsto induce them to enter into unfair agreements (seethe Report of
the ReviewTeam LandownerSpecialistsAppendix 13).The people were
worried abouttheir future. They understoodthat they had a responsibility to their
 children, andfuture generations. They understoodthat their ancestors had
 largely left the forests to them intact,and that they had a responsibilityto pass
 the forest resources on to the future generations without any undue waste. They
 were worried and concerned that the State was unable to keep its promises,
 unable to manage its own affairs, that some State representatives and officials
 were dishonest, manipulative and even corrupt.The people feared all these
 things. Bank officials were also aware of this deteriorating situation. That is the
 reason why they put the forest conditionson the loan. Both landownersand Bank
 officials were concerned about poor governance.The conditions on the loan
 were there to preventthings gettingworse. But then the State and the Bank
 officials did not follow the conditions; things will certainly deteriorate further if the
 second tranche is releasedwithout the Bank ensuring that meaningful reform has
 taken place.

 5.9 The social degradationthat accompaniesindustrial logging is not a figment of
 the Claimants' imagination. It is supported by scientists who work in Papua New
  Guinea. It was documented recently in researchcarried out by Brunios in the
  Wawoi Guavi TRP not far from the claimants' land and in the Sandaun Province
  in research done on behalf of the European Union by Schmid. See Appendix 14.
  Schmid said:

               "Industrialresourcesextractionnot only threatens the natural richness
                of theseareas of globally highest biodiversity but also deeply affects
                the local populations. Thesocial consequencesof the `Yrontiereffect"
                are numerous and detrimental:alcohol abuse, gambling,prostitution.
                Theinflux of cash as well as of migrant workersirreversiblydestroys
                thesocial fabric of the communitiesand subjects local people to
                forced and rapid social and culturalchange and reorientation,,
                Changeof diet from freshproduce to commercial food causes

                                       P A G E 1 8     *

             serious healthproblems whileintroduceddiseases (suchas malaria
             in Guyana) further severely affected local peoples health. The
             p3llr;tion of fresh water resources by iogghg and mining operations
             represents another serioushealth hazard"



5.10     Communityforestry: It is unfortunatethat methods of forest utilisation
that assist peopleto control their own development,such as communityforestry
are not well supported by the Bank, the State, or the PNG Forest Authority.
Communityforestry has been carried out almost exclusively by the private sector,
mainly NGOs and CBOs. Most of the work of the ForestryAuthority is in
promoting large-scale export logging concessions. Community forestry is an
economic link between the landowners,forest owners and their forests that
allows them to control their own forests. Communityforestry conformswith Bank
policy, see OP 4.36:

           TheBank`s lending operationsin the forestsector are conditional on
          government commitmentto undertakesustainable managementand
          conserVation-orientedforestry. Sucha commitment (whichmay be
          reflected in specific conditionalities;see Good Practices 4.36 for
          examples)requires a client country to

                        (gadoptpolicies and a legal and institutional framework to:

                             (a)   ensure conservationand sustainable
                                   managementof existing forests,and
                             (b)   promote active participation of local people and
                                    theprivate sector in the long-term sustainable
                                   managementof natural forests (seeparas. 19-
                                   20 of OD 4.01, EnvironmentalAssessment);

                   (ii) adopt a comprehensiveand environmentallysound forestry
                       conservationand developmentplan that clearly defines the
                       roles and rights of the government, the private sector,and
                      local people (including forest dwellers) (see OD 4.20,
                      Indigenous Peoples; "(emphasisadded)


5.11 The Claimants have never beenassisted bythe State to participatein
 communityforestry. With larger-scaleactivities, such as the activities on the
 Claimants land,the State is in breach of these policies because there is no legal
 and institutionalframework in Papua New Guinea to promote the active
 participation of local people in the long-termsustainable managementof existing
 forests concessionsover 5000ha all timber rights are surrendered to the Forest
 Authority through a standard Forest ManagementAgreement. No negotiationon
 the terms of the FMA is tolerated. There is no legal relationship betweenthe local
 people and the developer.They have no privity of contract with the developer.
 The partiesto a project agreement or timber permit are the ForestAuthority and
 the logging company. So, the local people cannot sue if there is a breach of the
 concession agreement, becausealthoughthe timber resource is based on their
 land, they no longer own the timber rights and they are not parties to the
 operating contracts. If there were any legally binding contracts betweenthe
 Forest Authority and the logging company operating on the KiungaAiambak
 road, then the Claimants or other landownersare not parties to them.

   Harm: The Degradationof Forests

   5.12 There are real threats facing landownersin Papua New Guinea who
   haveforest concessions imposedon their lands. But in this case,the people
   affected and their forests, have wider significance. New Guinea's vast Paradise
   Forest is part the world's third intact largesttropical forest. This forest stretches
   across the international border between IndonesiaWestPapua and Papua
   New Guinea. It runs through Papua New Guinea and West Papuafrom the

                                      P A G E 1 9

 south coast, over the central mountains,and down to the north coast. The
 Claimantsforests were, until recently,completely unspoilt.The icon for this
 forest is of course the Bird of Paradise(32 species of these stunningly beautiful
 creatures are endemic to Papua New Guinea),which is also the national
 symbol of Papua New Guinea. Butthe forests bursts with biodiversity.The vast
 forests that run along the western border between Indonesia'sprovince of lrian
 Jaya and Papua New Guinea, comprisethe heart of PNG's remainingancient
 forest landscape (about 5 million ha.), containing 5-7 % of the earth's bio-
 diversity. The Claimants forests are in the heart of this area.

5.13     Forest management is so poor as to cause actual harmto the forests.
The Bank made the loan knowing that the State had no effectiveability to protect
the forests of the claimants through the implementationof management policies
or practices on fragile forests, 10% conservationset-asides,rotationcycles.
There is no "National Forest Plan" This was a risk for the Bank.
     .   On the one hand it sought to improve the governance of forests through
         the loaR.


     m    But on the other hand, by riot insisting on pr-operadherence to the
         conditionality,

          not ensuring that the moratoriumstayed in place until the
     .    recommendationsof the partial review were fully implemented,and

          a full review of existing concessionscompleted,

it ran the risk of harming landownersand in particularthe Claimants'.

5.14      These issues are well known amongstforest policy-makersbut were
recently revisited on the State and the Bank by the ReviewTeam. Devastation to
intact mixed species of tropical forests can be profound. Bankforest experts
should be aware of this because it has been demonstrated in the literature see
 Bowles, et al, "Logging and Tropical Conservation''Sciencevolume 280, 19June
 1998,p1899,see Appendix 15. Closely associatedwith the degradation of the
forest, the degradation of the culture we have referredto above. As Schmid
 notes at Appendix 14, the immediate impacts of selective logging may not be
 visible. High grading sees the removal of select trees only and the lower value
 softwoodsare left in place. The appearance is that an intact forest is still there.
 The under-growthand vines quickly re-establishthemselves. In reality a profound
 change has taken place, althoughthere may be little or no perception of the
 change. The Claimantsfears of this global phenomenonmay have a basis in
 Papua New Guinea. Here,the fears are well established,and have been
 documented.


 5.15     Rotationcycles. The PNG ForestAuthority bases all its forest
 managementon a 35-year forestry cycle or rotation period. There is no scientific
 evidence to support the propositionthat mixed speciestropical rainforest will
 regeneratewithin a period of 35 years after they have been logged. The
 evidence is to the contrary. High value tropical hardwood species invariably take
 longer than 35 years to regenerate.The ReviewTeam has recommendedthat
 the Forest Research Institute be asked to advise the State on the issue of
 rotation period. But that is not enough. There needsto be a breathing space long

                                      P A G E 2 0

enough for all stakeholders to view and discuss the data. That would take time.
Certainly no new concessions should be allocated untilthe rotation period is
scientifically estabiished, to the satisfactionof stakeholders.This issue is linked
to Bank policy in OP 4.36. The definition of "sustainablemanagement" inthe
Bank's Policy is:

             "(e) Sustainablemanagementof natural forests means controlled
                utilization of the resource to produce woodand non wood benefits
                into perpetuity, with the basic objectives of long-term maintenance
                of forest cover and appropriate reservation of areas for biodiversity
                protection and other ecological purposes."


  If the resource is to be used in perpetuity,then the rotation period must reflect
  the life cycle of the slow-growing species. It must be scientifically based,and
  not an arbitrary figure such as 35 or 40 years.


5.16      "Sustainable"managementof naturalforests. The policy mandatein
 OP 4.36 of sustainable management of naturalforests, is problematic in Papua
 New Guinea's mixed-speciesforests. The evidence points to industrial scale
 sustainable forestry not being either economicallyor ecologically feasible. One
 reasonfor industrial-scaleforestry not beingfeasible, is that the cost of putting
 back the forest into its original form is very high.True sustainable forest
 managementin mixed species tropical forests has a very high cost of
 managementto make it work. This is so for example, with the Mil Madeiras
 experiment inAmazonas, and other Brazilian examplesthat are Forest
 Stewardship Council certified. The claimants assertthat there are no examples
 in the world where industrial logging in a mixed-speciestropical forest has been
 shown to be ecologically or commerciallysustainable. Papua New Guinea
 forests and their owners are being usedfor experimental purposes, at great risk
 and without scientific or economicjustification.


 5.17     Selective logging. Another reasonwhy the sustainable managementof
 naturalforests is problematic in Papua New Guinea, is that selective logging, on
 an industrial scale, tends to kill-off the high value slow-growing hardwoods.The
 Bank policy in OP 4.36 :


           "TheBank's lending operations in the forest sector are conditional on
          government commitment to undertakesustainable managementand
          conservation-orientedforestry':


  is not followed in that the selective logging destroys between 53 to 79 % of the
 high value trees. Ittherefore cannot be called "conservation-orientatedForestry",
 see paras 5.23-24 supra.


 5.18     The standard logging method of operation used by the PNG Forest
 Authority is to employ a technique known as "selective logging". This technique
 was used on the Claimants land without their consent, along the alignment of the
 Kiungakiambak road, and will be used along the alignment of the Baramundi
 Highway.


 5.19      The term "selective logging" is a eEphemismfor "high-grading".With
                                      P A G E 2 1

 Iilyri-graaing"the logger removesthe high-valuedtropical hardwoodspecies,
which are generally slower growing. The effect of this is to give living space to
the faster growing, but commerciallyless valuable, softwood species. The
ecological balance of the forest is disrilpted and a systematic degradationtakes
place into secondary growth.



5.20      Logging companies, with the PNG ForestAuthority, turning a blind eye or
in connivance,then carry out a second cut, even though a second cut would not
be in accordancewith the law. The implementationof the Logging Code of
Conduct is poor. Forest managementis poor. There has never been a
prosecutionof a logging companyfor violation of the Logging Code of Conduct. A
second cut would not conform to environmentalstandards. Environmental Impact
Statements are routinely signed-off by Ministersfor Conservationand
Environmentwithout regard to standards. The Office of Environmentand
Conservation has closed its sectionfor monitoringforests. There has never been
a prosecution 07 a logging companyfor infringementof environmental
regulations. Following the second-cut,the forest is so degraded,the logging
company then recommendsto the State, generally through the Departmentof
Primary !ndustry,the clearance of all trees, and the planting of oil palm.The
 logging company, the Departmentof Primary Industry,the PNG ForestAuthority,
the Office of Conservationand Environment,the Departmentof Lands and the
 Provincial Governmentthen work together to set up an "oil palm scheme".
Agricultural clearances are not "selective logging. They are clear-fell operations.
 They are therefore profitable for loggers,who can fell all the trees.


 5.21     Collingwood Bay Case: 38000 ha "stolen".A specific example of this
 attempt at a clear-fell operation, occurred in 1999, at Collingwood Bay. There,
 State entitiesworking together, unlawfullyalienated 38,000 ha of customary land
 and placed it under indefeasibletitle. The customary landowners obtained interim
 injunctions stopping actual logging, but the matter is still before the court. And the
 title over the land is still in existence,although disputed.


 5.22      In 1999,the State permittedthe alleged fraudulent acquisition of
 38,000ha of forestsfor an illegal oil palm project at Collingwood Bay, in the Oro
 Province of Papua New Guinea. This illegal acquisition undermined attempts by
 local communities to protect their forests and pursue alternative sustainable
 development paths. The Maisin peoplewere able to establish amongst
 themselves local control over their lands and their forests. Their leadershipwas a
 combination of traditional leaders, and educated people who had either returned
 from work inthe modernsector, or kept close links with home, while still at work
  in government or commerce. The leadership,working though a complex system
  of local consultationarrived at a practiceof forest conservation. No cutting the
 forest, not even with portable sawmills. As an alternative, they developed links
 with NGOs to markettraditional bark-cloth-known as tapa-cloth, When the
  landowners learntabout the leases, they successfully sued for interim orders
  preventing any trespass.The action is still before the courts. Landowners
  sought and obtained interim injunctions to stop logging in 1999. The loggers
  through their lawyers brought a series of interlocutory applications, culminating in

                                        P A G E 2 2

Forest Authority, although defendantsin this action, have done nothing to defend
the rights of the landowners in that case. The landowners' lawyersgave a full
brief on the case to Bank officials.


5.23     "70%of stems left mortallywounded" Mr. T R Vigus, a respected
forester and conservationist in Papua New Guinea, undertook research inthe
1980s and 199O's,which empirically shows the high loss of commercialtrees
after selective logging has beenthrough a forest. The data was obtainedfrom
plots within commercial timber concessionsin Papua New Guinea, and show
between a 53% to 79% loss of commercialtrees after selective logging. See
Appendix 16.


5.24     Vigus work is cited and supportedby other scientists. C. K Schmid says:

                  "In selective logging those big mature trees whichare anyway
                   not used by local people are removed by the loggers and paid
                    for. Thisprocess is often unprofessionallycarried out by poorly
                    skilled personnel operating heavy equipment.

                   "In research plots in WestNew Britain it was shown that more
                    than 70% of the stems wereleft mortally wounded (Cameron
                    and Vigus 1993),not to mention collaterai damage to other
                    forest organisms and trees. Withinthe WawoiGuavi Timber
                    Concession in the SouthernHighlands, Brunios concluded that
                    an average of 119trees were damages in every 10,000square
                    metres of selectively logged forest (Brunios 1999b,9), or, that
                    for every selectively felled tree, 45 others were mortally
                    wounded." (Brunios1999b,31).

 5.25     In our submission, the State does not have the ability to manage and
 conservethe rainforests in the country. The Bank's own documents show that:

                 Theforestry sector experienceda number of reversals with
                 respect to important initiafives that had been introduced in 7995-
                 97. These events raised the spectreof deterioration in sector
                 governance that had thepotential to lead to unsustainablelogging
                 .See Presidents Reportto the Executive Directors, Report No. P-
                  7374-PNG p3 para 12.

   5.26 There had been previous, andfailed, Bank attempts to bring
   "governance"to the forestry sector. The Bank's President's Report failed to
   adequatelycapture the degree of risk in the sector. One Bank document (see
   Appendix 17)describes the risks invery general terms, insufficiently so, in our
   submissionto be of useto decision-makers:

                   "Therisks to attaining the objectives of the loan stem from a
                  number of factors:political oppositioncould compromise the
                  reformprogram; sustaining the wide ranging reform effort may be
                  constrainedby weaknessesin implementationcapacity; PNGs
                  vulnerability to commoditypiice fluctuationsand natural disasters
                  could underminegains from improved policy; and high crime rates
                  could weakenthe supply response from ongoing reforms"

                                      P A G E 2 3

 5.27 The situation, was, in fact, far worse than a mere potentialityto lead to
 unsustainable logging. As Vigus's work shows, namely 70% of the residual
 forest may die. Independent commentators (Filer et al) recorded Bank officials
 as being of the opinion that:


               enforcesustainabilityguidelines'; while DEC was `highly
                "The PNGFA was still seen to have a "limitedability to actually

               constrained"in its capacity to establish conservationareas or carry
               out its other core functions".


  5.28   We make two observationsabout this statement:
  First, we are forced to rely on statements made in documents not in our
possession,but referred to in a semi-official publication. The Claimants are faced
with a major problem that there is no discovery process in this claim. Filer et al,
working in a State-funded research institute had access to original State and
Bank documents. We do not havethat privilege.The Bank document cited by
Filer et al, would have been categorisedas "confidential". Indeed most Bank
documentsto do with SAL, beforethe formal press announcements,are so
categorised.The Claimants would not have had access to it in the normal course
of business. See Filer et a1id 52, citing World Bank PNG Forestry and
ConservationProject: Project ConceptDocument unpub. 1997, 5

  Second, again, the remarkswere understatements.The statements are
neverthelesscogent. They are assessments by Bank officials. They go to the
issue of whether or not a country is willing or able to implementforest
conservationand sustainableforest management,which is a precondition of
lending by the Bank.The Bank's OP4.36 says:

             1.  Bank involvement in the forestrysector aims to reduce
                  deforestation,enhance the environmentalcontribution of
                  forested areas,promote afforestation,reducepoverty, and
                  encourage economic development,In pursuit of these
                  objectives,the Bank applies the following policies:

                     (b)     TheBank doesnot finance commerciallogging
                     operations or thepurchase of logging equipment for use in
                     primary tropicalmoist forest. In borrowing countries where
                     logging is being done in such forests, the Bank seeks the
                     government's commitment to move towardsustainable
                     managementof those forests, as described in para. 1(d)
                     below, and to retain as much effective forest cover as
                     possible. Wherethe governmenthas made this commitment,
                     the Bank may financeimprovementsin the planning,
                     monitoring, and field control of forestry operations to
                     maximize the capabilityof responsible agencies to carry out
                     thesustainablemanagement of the resource.

  Empirical researchcarried out by Dr. P Erskine, on behalf of the Individual and
 Community RightsAdvocacy Forum Inc. in 1998, showed that the real threats to
the integrity of the forest still existed despite the Implementation in 1996 by the
 PNG ForestAuthority of the Logging Code of Conduct. The Logging Code of
 Conduct containsforest management and conservation standards to be applied
 during selective logging operations. Dr. Erskine's research showed that in the
 two most importantconcessionsin Papua New Guinea, the Code was breached
 in many ways. Inthe Wawoi Guavi Timber Rights Purchase area (TRP) (see
 Appendix 18operated by the RimbunanHijau group and the Vanimo TRP (see
 Appendix 19operated by WTK group, there were numerous breaches of the
 Logging Codeof Conduct. Copies of these reports were passed to the PNG
 ForestAuthority.The Wawoi Guavi concession is close to the claimants land. Dr.
 Erskine'swork is included in the Claimants submissions fGr the following
 reasons:
                                       P A G E 2 4

operated by WTK group (see Appendix 59), there were numerousbreaches of
the Logging Code of Conduct. Copies of these reportswere passedto the PNG
Forest Authority. The Wawoi Guavi concessionis close to the claimants land. Dr.
Erskine'swork is included in the Claimantssubmissionsfor the following
reasons:

        To our knowiedge, it is the only recent,competent and informed
        assessment conducted by a scientistinto the impactof loggingand
         compliance of logging with the Logging Code of Conduct in the public
         domain.


m        It is relevant because it shows the likely impactof loggingin the
         Claimants'forests. These reportsgive rise to the basis of the Claimants'
         apprehension that if a similar competentresearchwas carried out in their
         forests, it would reveal similar resultsand conclusions. It is this
         apprehension that makes so importantthe failure of the Bank to secure a
         commitmentto ensuring the moratorium stays in placewhile there is a
         full review of the impact of logging in existing concessions.


n        In the case of the Dr. Erskine'swork in Wawoi Guavi, that forest is in the
         same province as the Claimants land, is near to the Claimants land.


 m       In the case of Dr. Erskine'swork at Vanimo, his report shows, similar
         poor practicesto those described inWawoi Guavi. The report is
         important because it shows that poorforest management, and non
         existent environmental controls are wide-spread in Papua New Guinea.


 I        Furtherthe work of Dr. Erskine on the lack of forest managementin
         Vanimo, complements the work of Dr. Schmid at Appendix 14who
          examines the social impact of logging.

 5.31 These independent assessmentsof the ability of the PNG ForestAuthority
 to enforce the Logging Code of Conduct,are important.They reflect empirically
 the physicalimpact of logging in the largest concessions.They show that
 objectivelythe State cannot protect the private propertyof land owners once the
 State passesthe timber rights to a loggingcompany.

  Harm: Ecsnomic Loss


  5.31 The claimants' forest assets have been irreversiblydamaged by the
  decisionto allow logging on their lands, the omission during the currency of the
   loanto remedy the illegal logging , in violation of the laws of Papua New
  Guinea, and also a violation of the conditions of the Bank`s loan.These illegal
  activities have caused and will continueto cause , and is still continuing to
  cause economic, environmental and social damage to the landowners.

   5.32 The Claimantsdo not know the full extent of the value of damage to their
   forests. Nevertheless,they have suffered very large losses and are continuing
   to suffer those losses. The State and ForestAuthority do not publish statistics
   of log exports on a concession-by-concessionbasis. Such statistics are only
   releasedfrom time-to-timeand are published province-by-province.In a
   provincelike the Western Province,where there is more than one logging
   concession,it is not possiblefor landowners,or members of the public to know
   how much was exported from a particularlogging concession.The Claimants
   have had to gather material for a valuation of their losses from a number of
   sources, informaliy.


                                    LIPAGE U25U

the concession,timber that beiongedto the claimants, inthe year ending March
2001. If this figure was extrapolatedover the life of the illegalconcession, at an
average price of US$70per cubic metrethe commercialvalue of the logs would
have been US$ 11,235,920.This sum grosslyunderestimates the value of log
exportsfrom the concession,becauseover the life of this concessionlog prices
have been much higher,althoughinthe periodsince March2001, they have
slippedfurther and log pricesare now at an all time low. Exportshave beenon-
going since 1995.

5.34     Another set of figures we have obtainedare:

  ExportsbyConcord Pacific Ltd 19942001(part)

                                      1999              2000 2001 (Jan-

  No of Ships                          21               25       Sept)     19
  Volume (m3)                  77,030.454         151,458.843       107,208.619
  %age of total                       3.9%              7.6%               9.4%
  volume
  Value (kina)             15,902,285.440     29,355,692.190     20,001,706.580
  %age of total value                 4.1%               7.6%               9.7%


  We are still attemptingto obtainthe export figure on behalf of the claimantsfor
  the years 1995to 1998. At presentthe value of the kinaagainstthe US dollar is
  at an all time low of US$ ,2735 to the Kina:source PNG BankingCorporation,
  as publishedinthe PNG PostCourier9 November 2001,page 37.

   5.35 The expropriationof the claimantsforests bythe State and the logging
  company,have caused and will continueto causegrave financial lossto the
   claimants.Commercialvalue of logs removed from their land and the land
   belongingto other customarylandowners,maybe calculatedthus: the
   concessionholder exportedat least 160,556cubic metres of logs from the
   concession,timber that legally belongedto the claimants,inthe year ending
   March2001.

 We can attempt an estimateof the loss from the f.0.b value of logs. Obviously,
 in reality,if the actualinputs were known, the real losswould be different,but
 this calculation gives a reasonableideaof the gross amountof moneyforegone
 by the Claimants:

 Exportshave been on-goingsince 1995, say 6 years x 150,000cubic metres of
 logs per year x US$90 per cubic metre( averageestimatefor f.0.b log prices)
  = US$81,000,000

 If we wanted to look at the loss to the Claimantsin terms of thenetvalue of logs,
 with the cost of productionsubtractedfrom the grossvalue, the calculationwould
 be (usinga cost of productionfigure of $US 50 per cubic metre):

 $US81 million- (6 years x 150,000 cu mtrsx US$50) = US$81millio%- US$45
 million= US$ 36 million.

 There is a symmetrybetweenthis net lossto rheClaimantsof US$36 million,
 andthe SecondTrancheoutstandingto the State of US$35 million.

 5.36     Other lossesinclude:

           damageto the land, herethe Claimantsare entitledto be compensated
           to the value of the cost of repairsto the landto re-instatethe land in the
           conditionitwas beforelogging

           damageto the environmentincludingloss of species; the quantumof
                                     P A G E 2 6

       these damages is yet to be ascertained. The principle is that where
        damages are general, and not special or readilyquantifiable by market
        values etc, then assessors have to do the best they can with the
        materialsavailable. It will depend upona scientific assessment of the
        impact of logging on the environmentand species. Such a qualification
        will be difficult because no base-linewas done beforethe illegal logging
        commence. Neverthelessthese damages are recognisedat law, and in
        principle,the calculation would proceedon the basis of such factual and
        scientific material as was availableat the time of assessment.They
        would include damagefor the proven absence of riverinecreatures,
        birds, mammals, and flora, irrespective of whether or not the species
        had an economic use. In addition, where the species had an economic
        or social use, then the damagewould need to be assessed on the loss
        of the value of that use.

    =    damagesfor adverse social impacts may includethe value of extrawork
         needed to carry water, find food, collect building materials;a developer
         in a remotearea should exercise a duty of care in respect of the impact
         of introduc`ed exotic diseases, particularlyvenereal diseases and AIDS.
         Both are known to follow "highways" into remote areas, particularlyif a
         developer can be shown to have neglectedto providefor employee
         codes of conduct, the banningof drugs and alcohol, and non-
         fraternisationpolicies, as can be seen in the practices of other socially
         responsible industries.

         damages for trespass per se. The Claimantsare entitled to a sum
         irrespectiveof compensationfor puttingthem, and the land, backto
         where it/ they were before logging.This sum is for the trespass, in the
         natureof punitive damage.

The Claimants'rightsand interestsare damaged because Bank officials have
not ensuredthe loan conditions promotedgood governance in their forests, and
 have been implemented by Bank officials in such a way as to permit the State
to cause damage and harmto our clients. The actions and omissions of the
 officials in violation of Bank policy have caused, and are likely to continueto
 cause,the claimants to suffer harm.


6.       responsibilityof the Bank.
         We believethe actionlomissionisthe

The issues of:

    .
    1    the Kiunga-Aiambak Road, and

         the absence of sustainableforest management practices in Papua New
                                                                                   I

         Guinea

are well knownto World Bank staff and management including Klaus Rohland,
Andrew Bond, IanJohnson, and Jamil Kassum.

The Bank officialsare aware

     1   that the State is politicallycompromised over the Kiunga -Aiambak Road,

     1   that the TA holder in the Kiunga-Aiambak concession was allowedto
         continue logging in violation of the loan conditionality,

     1   that the loggingposes great risk to the claimants rights and interests,
         and


                                     P A G E 2 7

       that it is in completeviolationof the purposeof the governance loan,
      thereby also subvertingthe goals of the World Bank'sinvestmentsin
       PNG. This is especiallytrue in light of the factthat the ReviewTeam,
       constitutedunderthe auspicesof World Bank conditionali?, specifically
       recommendedthat the illegalitiesbe cured.

       the Bank had insisteduponconditionsto the loanthat requiredthe State
       10enact legislationto closethe loop-holesin respect of road-line
       clearances

       the ReviewTeam, constitutedunder the auspicesof World Bank
       conditionality,specifical!yrecommendedthat the illegalitiesbe cured.

       Under these circumstances,itwould constitutea failureto supervisethe
       loanto disbursethe secondtranche to the State.

       Globally, primaryforestsare in crisis. It should be clear to any right-
       thinking personthat now is notthe time to expandthe loggingindustry.
       Now is the time to pull-up,stop expanding,reflect,reformand re-
       structure,_beforeit is too late.

       Bank officialswere cavalierin developingtheir forest policyand
        practices.

        Bank officials under-estimatedthe politicalrisksin PapuaNew Guinea
        arisingfrom forest conditionalityand mademistakes.


        The experiencein Indonesia,where the Government of Indonesiahas
        committedto a moratoriumon new loggingconcessionsshould have
        been noted.

        The secondtrancheshould not be releaseduntilthe Kiunga-Aiambak
        concessionis cancelled, and any companythat was found to be in
        violation of the law has its ForestIndustryParticipantStatus revoked,
        pursuantto the Forestry Act.


        The State shouldalso be requiredto compensate the claimants, at the
        very least, for the lost economicvalue of the illegally loggedtimber.We
        submit,on the basis of the calculationsat paragraph 5.35 above,that the
        netvalue of the damageto the Claimants is a sum similar to the value of
        the Second Tranche.

        Bank officials havethe power to withholdthe secondtrancheof the loan
        andthereby inducethey could inducethe State to stop the illegal activity
        on the claimants landand simultaneouslyupholdthe integrityof the loan
        conditionality.

        Bank officials and the State are aware of the issues pertainingto the
        Kiunga-Aiambak road-lineproject,the World Bank ReviewTeam Report
        outlinesthe issuesand recommendationswhichare in linewith the
        above points. SeeAppendix 12.

7.We have made an effort to complainto Bank staff.

The NGOs and landownershave continuallycampaignedwith Bank officials
since 1997for a moratoriumon new concessionsto allowa breathingspacethat
would permitactionbeingtaken to end illegal logging.

Inthis respectthe issueof the Kiunga-Aiambakroadwas fundamental inthe
Bank proposingconditionson the loanthat requiredthe Stateto pass

                                    P A G E 2 8

amendmentsto the ForestryAct to close the loopholes on road-line clearances.
Duringthe period November 1998to November 1999, NGOs met with Bank
officialsformally and informallyon manyoccasions,becauseat that time there
was a spirit of cooperationfollowingthe statementsby Mr. Douglasthat the bank
supportedthe moratoriumand review of existingconcessions. Detailedrecords
were not kept. Itfollows that the knowledge aboutthe illegalityof the Kiunga
Aiambak roadwould have been current with Bank officials inthe periodupto
November1999,when the conditionsof the loan werefinally settled. NGOsdid
not knowthat the conditionsof the loanwere beinginterpretedto meana review
of new concessionsonly, until about June 2000.

After June 2000, in particular,CELCOR andWWF in ajoint submissionto the
Banks ReviewTeam madea detailedreporton the specific issues arisingfrom
the illegalityof loggingalongthe Kiunga-Aiambak road see Appendix 20.

Manyof the wider issues being broughtto the attentionof the Panelare common
knowledgeamongstthose who follow forest issuesin Papua New Guinea.These
issuesare of the kindthat should be knownto Bank staff personsworkingwith
forest issues in PapuaNew Guinea,actingwith due diligence, reasonablecare
and prudence.

We enclose a copy of the Iko ForestryNiusfor August 2001, the quarterly
newsletterof the Eco-ForestryForum (EFF). SeeAppendix 21. This publication,
widely distributed,covers a variety of relevantmatters. In particular,you will see
from pages 18-19 how NGOs have been pressingfor a variety of specific reforms
since November2000. We also make availablethe full report of the Eco-Forestry
Forum (EFF).SeeAppendix 22. This pressurecoincidedwith the investigations
of the ReviewTeam and was therefore materialavailableto Bank officials.This is
 because, althoughformally workingfor the State,the ReviewTeam was selected
 under a Terms of Referenceoriginally drafted by Bank officials, in accordance
with the SAL conditions.The reformagenda of NGOsand communitybased
 organisationswas set out very clearly in the Eko-ForestriNius, see Appendix
 21:

 In November 2000 NGOspresented to Government their analysis of thestate of
  forest management in PNG. Thisanalysis identifiedsix priority actions for
  reform:                            .    Full implementationof the
                                          recommendations of the review of
                                         proposed concessions

                                         A review of all existing forest operations

                                          A new and effective method of
                                          monitoringand enforcement


                                     S    An effectiveand independent system to
                                          ensuresocially appropriate and
                                          economicallyand environmentally
                                          sustainableforest management

                                          A new nationalplanning process

                                          A changein the focus of the Forest

                                   P A G E 2 9

       he current Moratoriumon the issue of any new timberpermits or TA's
       must be extendedto allow the operatingspace for the findings of the
        Review Teamto beproperly analysedand for therecommendationsthat
       have been made to be implemented,

NGO'sand lawyersacting on behalf of the landowners, metwith Bank officials,
P. Hamadarian-Rad,Jim Douglas, DanWeis, SilasTalati,Andrew Bond, Klaus
Rohlandon many occasions.Frankly,they did not keepa close notationof these
meetings,but they were numerous. They included:

9 August 1997          ICRAF, PNGTrust and Greenpeace meetwith Perouz
                       Hamadarian-Radand are told there will be no
                       moratorium
10November1998         meetingDouglasand PNGNGOs
                       letter ICRAFto Douglasin preparationfor Inspection
                       PanelClaim.
13November 1998        Douglasletter in responsegoes astray,wrong address
11January 1999         Douglasfax sends letterof 13 November 1998.See
                       Appendix 23.
19August 1999          meetingGreenpeaceRohland
13 October 1999        Greenpeaceemail to Klaus Rohland.Appendix 24.
21 October 1999        Douglasemail respondsto Greenpeace.Appendix25.
2 November 1999        Greenpeaceemail to Douglasand Douglasresponse.
26June2000             Greenpeaceemail to Rohlandand Douglas
7 July 2000             Rohland letter respondsto numerousemailsfrom
                        Greenpeace .SeeAppendix 26.
4 July 2000             Rohlandemailto Greenpeace
31 July 2000            Greenpeaceemailto Rohland
15August 2000           Greenpeacehold discussionswith Klaus Rohland in
                        Sydney.
6 September 2000        Rohlandletterto Greenpeacere 15`hAugust
                        meeting.See Appendix 27.
13September 2000        letterfrom EnvironmentalLaw Centreto Dan
                        Weisse.See Appendix 28.
29 September 2000       emailfrom EnvironmentalLaw Centreto Dan
                        Weisse.Appendix 29.
29 September 2000       emailfrom Greenpeaceto DanWeisse
30 October 2000         letterfrom PNG Eco-ForestryForumto Ian
                        Johnson.Appendix 30.
1 November2000          letterfromthe EnvironmentalLaw Centreto IanJohnson
                        see Appendix 31.
1 Febuary2001           submissionbyWWF and CECLOR to the ReviewTeam
                        on the KiungaAiambak Road, see Appendix 20
5 February 2001         letterfrom Greenpeaceto Rohland
30 October 2001         final letterof CELCOR on KiungaAiambak to Rohland,
                        see Appendix 32.

Landownersand NGOs havewarnedWorld Bankofficialson many occasions.

In2000, concernedpersonsfrom all over the world sent thousandsof messages
to KlausRohland,the Country Directorfor PapuaNew Guinea,andto Ian
Johnsonwarningthem notto go aheadwith payingout the secondtranche of the
loan,unless it was clear that the forests were sustainablymanaged, and a review
of all existingconcessions carried out.

                                   P A G E 3 0

Specifically,at Port Moresby,in November2000, NGOsactingon behalf of
iandownei's described in detail these issueswith Janil Kassum,at a meeting
held in the Banksoffice.

Lawyersactingon behalf of the landownersgave a briefto the Bank's Review
Team in December2000.

The ReviewTeam report at Appendix 12 has been in the inthe possessionof
the Stateand Bank officials since September 2001. Yet they havefailed to act in
defenceof the Claimantsrights.The Claimants'waited a monthto see if the
State or the Bank would beginto act on the recommendationsof the Review
Team. Nothingwas done. In particular,the recommendation"That court
proceedingsmust be broughtto a conclusion"was left unattended.The
Claimantsthenwrote a formal letter of demandto Mr. Rohlandon 1'` of
November 2001.

The Claimantsare under pressurebecausethey have beentold that if the Bank
pays out the secondtranche beforethe Claimants'concernsare addressed,that
they may losetheir opportunityto approach the InspectionPanel, because Bank
 lawyerswill arguethat "the projectis complete".

 There is an alternativeview that the loan is only complete,when it is repaid,
 twentyyears hence.

 To holdthe view that a loan is completeafter loanfunds are disbursed is
 artificial, goes against commercialpracticeand common sense.At law and in
 common commercialpractice,loansare completewhen they are repaid.

 Whatever the legaleffect of theseviews, the Claimants are hard-pressedto
 invokethe assistanceof the Panelbecause there is a view that once the second
 tranche is paid out they have no recourseto the Panel.

 Customarylandownersand nongovernment organizationshave continuallyand
 repeatedcalled on Bank officialsto ensure a moratoriumon newforest
 concessionsis imposed, as partof the conditionsof any loan, while a review of
 all concessionstakes place. This is necessaryto ensure that forests are properly
 managed, benefitssharedfairly and irreparabledamage does nottake placeto
 the Claimants'forests.


  8.       We believethat the Bank'sresponseto our
            concerns has been unsatisfactory

  Becausethe Bank officialswill not give bindingundertakings,that addressthe
  mainconcernthat the loan is beingdisbursedwhile damageto the claimants
  land is on-goinginviolation of the purposes and conditionsof the loan. The
  damageto the forests and landsof othersin PapuaNew Guinea can be
  reasonablyanticipated.

  Bank officials maintainthat they cannotdo anythingaboutthe failure of the State
  to take action inthe courtsto stopthe illegal logging. Our answer to that isthe
       .
  State's omissionconsti:ules:

             gross negligenceto protect its own citizens;the road has been built on
             privatelandwithout agreement. The State hasa responsibilityto protect

                                    PAGE 3 1

          landowners,and enforce its laws, in relationto the unlawfulalienationof
          land.

          badfaith; the failure of the Forest Authorityto pressfor the removalof
          interimorders madeagainstit in 1999,goes beyondgross negligence.
          ForestAuthority officials werefrightened of political retributionif they
          pushedtoo hard in the courts, becausethey knew their own Minister
          was supportingthe unlawfulloggingoperation by grantingtax
          exemptionsto that company. There was simply no politicalwill to stop
          the unlawfuloperationsbecause officials were frightenedof political
           action beingtaken againstthem

           a breachof the basicpurposeof the loanwhich is to achievegood
           governancein forest managementby enacting and implementing
           specific legislationto control road-lineloggingoperations.Bank officials
           shouldwithholdthe loan untilthe out-comeof the court processeshave
           beenfinalised.

Recent DevelopmentsRegardingThese Issues

The State hasannouncedthat the moratoriumwill be lifted as of 30thNovember
2001.

There is no NationalForestPlan,'no properforest inventories,and no informed
consentover the alienationof timber rightsfrom traditionallandownersand very
little abilityto manageforests or the environment. All these mattershave been
confirmed by the ReviewTeam. Inthese circumstances,it is irresponsibleto
proceedto allocatemoreforests to the loggers.

Bank officialssay they have reachedagreementwith the Statethat the
recommendationsof the ReviewTeamwill be enforcedthroughthe Forestand
Conservation Project.Similarly, Bank officials say that no new projectwill go
`orward without an independentreview. We have not seen the text of that
agreement,and are not preparedto acceptthose assurances,for two reasons.
First,the State has a bad recordof honouringits agreementsinforestry andthe
Bankhas a poor record in enforcingthem. That is what this claim is really about.
Secondly,the State is proceedingto allocateconcessionswithout independent
review.

Receiptof correspondencefromthe Bank has informedus that the liftingof the
Moratoriumwill go aheadand for us to raise our concernswith throughthe
Governmentand or the PapuaNew GuineaForestAuthority.The Bank did not
haveany standingto intervenein a matterthat came under PapuaNew Guinea's
jurisdiction.See Appendix 33.

 In light of the reasonablelack of trust explainedabove,vague assurancesare
 unsatisfactory.The claimantscall on the World Bank to withholddisbursementof
the trancheof the SALand requirethe Governmentto maintainthe moratorium
 until:

       1. The KiungaAiambak road is cancelledand any companythat was found
           to be in violationof the law has its ForestIndustry Participantstatus
           revokedpursuantto the ForestryAct.

       2. A full review of existing loggingconcessionsis completedand it's
            recommendationsimplemented.

       3. The findings andthe recommendationsof the World Bank Review
           Team's Reporton pendingloggingconcessionsmust befully
            implementedand there must be ongoing independentreviewof any
            Timber Permit applications.

 9.         In addition we havetaken the followingsteps to
            resolveour problem:
                                      P A G E 3 2

In 1998,an NGOcalledthe Individualand CommunityRightsAdvocacy Forum
madea formal complaintto the PNGOmbudsmanCommission. About the
unlawful natureof loggingon the KiungaAiambak Road.Therewas evidence of
an inducementbeingpaidfor an exemptionto the export logtax. A notice
Tppeared in the NationalGazetteof the logtax\ exemption. The Ombudsman
;ommission began itsformal investigation.The ministerresignedhis ministry
and seat in Parliamentciting his needto spend moretimewith his family. The
OmbudsmanCommissiontook the view that the matter was better handledby
the police,and stopped its investigation.The policenever pursuedthe case.

In2000, a law suit instituted by land owners otherthanthe Claimants, led by
PaulSingi, engaged privatelawyers,and sought orders from the NationalCourt
to stop loggingon the KiungaAiambak road.The ForestAuthority and the State
were amongstthe defendants in that action. The loggingcompaniessuccessfully
obtainedan orderto strike out ihe landowners'action,on the basis of procedural
error. Costswere awardedagainst the landownerplaintiffsin an amount of K19,
462.75. SeeAppendix 34. The Claimantshave been informedby the lawyersfor
Mr. Singi,that the lawyers representingthe loggingcompanieswere assisted
out-of-courtby a very senior governmentlawyer.

On the 4th of September 2001 a policeman,who is-anativeto the area,filed a
formal complaintwith the OmbudsmanCommissionand calledfor an
investigationintoallegationsof unlawful and improper policeactivitiesassociated
with the loggingproject.See Appendix 35.

 In 2001, the Claimants'and their lawyers have receivedanonymousthreats, and
are currentlyseekingways of bringtheir complaintsto courtwithout exposing
themselvesto'violence. Attempts are beingmadeto engage a largefirm of
 lawyersto take on the case.

 We authoriseyou to makethe text of this Requestpublic,butwe as you to keep
 the names and addressesof the landownersa secret,becausewe fear theywill
 be attackedor intimidated,either bythose who support the loggingcompany,or
 -tythe police.

 Appendices and exhibits

 We enclosewith this claimthe followingmaterial:

                                   Appendices

              names and addressesof Claimants, andtheir lawyers

              map of the Claimants' land

              Statementby TransparencyInternational(PNG) Inc on corruptionin
              the loggingindustry

              Copy of memorandumof inducementand NationalGazette notice on
              logtax exemption

              Breaches of Moratoriumon new concessions.

              Email messagesfrom Brunton(Greenpeace)to Douglas (Bank)
              confirmingconversationsof 2 November 1999,and the reply by
              Douglas

              Frequentlyasked questions:PNGandthe Forests

              FilerC et al The Thin Green Line,World Bank Leverageand Forest
              PolicyReformin PNG NRf/ANU, NRI Monograph37, Port Moresby,
              June 2000

              NECendorsementof ForestryRecommendations

                                   P A G E 3 3

a




                                                                  National Capital District  Fax:    675+ 3112106
                                                                  pap^ New Guinea            Email. tolcor@dotec.tem   pg

                                                                                             Suite 1, tevell, Molanyon Hour,
                                                                                             Boroko, Port Morerby




     29`hNovember2001

     Mr. JamesMacNeill
     Chairman
     The InspectionPanel
     1818#Street, NW
     WashingtonD.C. 20433
     UnitedStates

     Dear ChairmanMacNeill,

     faE: INSFECTIQNPANEL CLAIMBY KIUNGA-AIAMBAK LANDOWNERS,WESTERN
     PROVINCE, PAPUA NEW GUINEA.

     Pleasc find attached the request by the landowners in thc Kiunga-Aiambak logging project area,
     Western Provincc,PapuaNew Guinea.

     The rcquest to the Inspection Panel is based on IBRD Resolution No: 93-10 and IDA Resolution No:
     96-6 as a local representative. This is because of the rcmoteness of the area and the fact that the
     claimants do not have proper means of support to bring the claimon their own. Moreover, the Center
     or EnvironmentalLaw and Community Rights Inc a national public interest law NGO has been
     working with the affected communities and as such has becn rcquestedby the landownersto bring the
     claimon their bchalf.

     Both us and other NGO's have contacted the World Bank on several occasions regarding the illegal
     loggingon our clients land but the Bank has so far ignored our request to get the GOPNG to keep the
     moratorium on logging in new concession areas and to ensure that the Kiunga-Aiambakproject is
     closed immediately. We have a lot of well documented materials, which goes to show that the PNG
     governmenthasbreachedthe terms of the StructuralAdjustment Loan(SAL) and as a result has caused
     irreparable damage to our client's forests. We will be making additional materials available in thc
     comingweeks. Andwe especially wouldlike to havean open communicationwith the InspectionPanel
     and look forwardto providingwhatever supplementalmaterialthe Panelmay need.

     Due to wcll documented human rightsabuses by Police Task Force members in the arca and pursuant
     to the operatingprocedures of the Panelwe are requestingthat some of the cnclosedmaterialsbe kept
     confidential by the Panel, including identifying anonymity of those who have given CELCOR the
     authority to represent them. We specificallyrcquestthat the names of the landowners in this claim be
     kept secret.

      Our agent in the UnitedStates of America is Ms. Dana Clark. Her contact address is phone/fax (510)
     5275246 ande-mail danaclark7(2jmindspring.com.

      We looklorwardto cooperatingwith you in this request.

      Y


      D
      ExecutiveDirector


                                                   P.0. BQX4373, BQROKQ     Phone: 675 +3234509
                                                   NationalCapitalDistrict  Fax:   675 3112106
                                                                                       +
                                                   PapuaNewGuinea           Email: celco@datec.com.pg

                                                                            Suite 1,Levell, Malangan
                                                                            Haw, Boroko, PoltMoresby




29 November 2001

The Inspection Panel
1818# Street, N.W
Washington D.C 20433
United States

Dear Panel Members,

RE:    AUTHORIZATION TO BRINGINSPECTION PANELCLAIMAN BEHALF
       OFKPUNGA-AIAMBAKLANDOWNERS

The Center for Environmental Law and Community Rights Inc. (CELCOR) is
authorised b y claimants to file an Inspection Panel claim on their behalf. Refer to
Appendix 1for the duly executed authority by the claimants.

Moreover, CELCOR has been providing legal assistance to the claimants since its
establishment. The claimants believe that CELCOR is in a better position to file the
claim on their behalf. CELCOR is also in regular contact with the claimants and are
briefed regularly on this claim.

Thank YOU.


              E
Executive Director


 /
/                                                                              Page 1of3

 /
    From: Brian Brunton<greenpeace@png.pactok.net>
    To:       WWF.SPP (PNG) <wwfpng@dg.com.pg>
    CG:       Wep Kanawi <wkanawi@csi.com>; Guy Kula<ci-png@conservation.org>; Dan
              McCall <dmbf@chevron.com>;DarrenGladman
              <darren-gladman@datec.com.pg>; Phil Shearman
              <shearma@ozemail.com.au>; elc <elc@png.pactok.net>;AlrnahTaratia
              <quince@png.pactok.net>
    Date:     Friday, 19 November I999 13:47
    Subject: Fw: PNGforests andthe World Bank



    ---Original Message---
    From: JdoualBs(Z@worldbank.org  <Jdoualas@worldbank.org>
    To: BrianBrunton<greenpeace@pnu.pactok.net>
    Date: Thursday, November 18, 19997:04 AM
    Subject: Re: PNGforests andthe World Bank


    >
    >
    >
    >Brian;                             i
    >
    >Thankyoufor your message. A responseto a few of your points:
    >
    > We are talking to the Governmentabout the moratorium,and associated
    review
    > of recentapplications. Itwill appear inour conditionality;
    >
    > We are discussingwith Governmentand among ourselvesthe export tax
    > situation. My view has been, and remains,that the exporttax scales,
    as
    > theywere in 1995when they werefirst introducedintothe Budget,
    should be
    > maintained. The bracketswould need adjusting, inKinaterms, to offset
    the
    > currencyshift since then, so that rent recovery is alignedto the scale
    as
    > originally set. The Treasury peopleare clearly concernedthat the basic
    Weprojectionsof   tax revenuethey havemade are maintainedfor year 2000.

    > are rejectingindustry'sargumentthat at current pricesand costsX
    taxes
    > should be at zero: inthe originaltax scalesestablishedin 1995there
    was a
    > minimumthreshold of tax of 15%of f.o.b, and our view is that that

                                                                              Page2 of3

   should
   > remainno matterwhat;
   >
   > Inthe short term giventhey they are goingto bringdown a very tough
                         -
   > budgetoverall -we agreewith the Treasuryand Financepeoplethat the
   > revenuefrom forests should be maintainedat levelsthey project(which
   in
   > fact are not very high,and are basedon quite low levelsof aggregate
   log
   > output) but our advicewill bethat we want to have as soon as
   possible -                                            -
   > a major review of thewhole basisof the sector, involvingstakeholders

   > we discussedwhenwe met earlierthis week), and after that we would
   (as

   expect       -
   > the whole revenue-incentiveand participatorystructurefor the sector
   would
d  > change. On that general score, incidentally,Idid putto the Minister
   for
   > Forestry(I met himfor thefirst time afew days after meetingwith
   YPU)
   > that a major consultationwith all legitimatestakeholders in the sector
   was
   > now an urgent necessity,and hevery strongly agreed. Heofferedto host
   such
   > a gathering himself, andwe offered as muchassistanceas we can provide
   for
   > it. Isuggestedearly inthe new year as a goodtime, at leastto begin
   the
    > process, and he agreedwith that also. Ithinkwe shouldusethis
    opportunity
    > to put down as muchof an agendafor consensusbasedreformas we can ;
    >

t   > On Kamula-Doso: Iguesswe agree that the best outcome herewould befor
    RH
    > to basicallyrepudiatethe original extensionapplication and take its
        chances on a new FMAapplicationdonethe properway. Ieven putthat
    > suggestionto the Forest IndustriesAssociation, andto the General
    Manager
    > of RH:we will seewhat they makeof it;
    >
    > Thanks for the wordingon notificationof intent: Iwill check the
    content
    > with our lawyers(who haveto vet ail conditionalityanyway) andwe will
    give
    > it a run;
    >
    > My overall impression(thistime) is that there may now be some real
    > prospectsfor change inthe sector. Ithink industiyiswilling to talk
   -.>--.about a restructure,and presumablythey mustknowthat at the present

                                                                            Page3 of3

state
> of the sector, their leverageOver a newgovernmentis lessthan it has
been
> inthe past- they are reallynot producingmuchoutput, and even less
in
> revenuesfor GOPNG rightnow, so they would not perhapsbe missedto
quite
> the extentthey might havebeensometime ago. Iwould suggestthey be
given
> the opportunity to presentand discusstheir ideasonwhere the sector
is
> going, as should all other interestgroups.
>
>I guessyou will have returnedfrom your travel by now: let's stay intouch
via
>em.
>
>Regards
>
>
>Jim D
>>
>
>
>
>


                                                                           Page 1of2


From:      Brian Brunton<greenpeace@png.pactok.net>
To:        James Douglas <jdougIas@worldbank.org>
Date:      Thursday, 4 November 199916:37
Subject: PNGforests and the World Bank


Jim,

this is my version of a summary of our conversationon Tuesday2nd of
November 1999inthe World Bankoffice, Islander,PortMoresby.

1. The Bankwas concernedabout the deteriorationinforest managementin
PNG, andwould requestthe GoPNG, as part of conditionalityon both SAP and
forest loansto introduce a moratoriumon all newforest projectswhether in
the form of FMAsor agricultural clearancesor road-lineclearances

2. the Bankwould supportlproposea reviewof all existingprojects
during the duration of the moratorium.

3. the Bankwas very clearthat thereshould be no relaxingof the export
tog tax.

4. Greenpeace askedthe Bankto conveyto the PrimeMiinisterthe
concernsover the allocationof the Kamula Dosoconcessionto RH in February
1999.We notedthe on-goingOmbudsmanCommissionInquiry into this matter.

5. Greenpeace madea similarrequestin relationto the Collingwood Bay
lease-leasebackarrangements.

6. Itwas notedthat therewas a needfor the GoPNGto publicallynotify
its intentionto commenceany forest activity (FMAor agricuItural/roadline
clearance, or lease-lease back underthe LandsAct, andto holdpublic
hearingson any proposals. Such a clause may readalongthese lines:

"The GofPNGwill implementadministrativearrangementsimmediately, to be
followed by prompt legislativeenactment, to hold public hearingsinrespect
of the entering into of any ForestManagementAgreement, TimberAuthority
for the purposesof any agricultural clearance,or road-lineclearance under
the ForestryAct, or the execution of any lease-leasebackagreement
involvingmorethan 500 ha of customary land, which may involvethe
clearance of forests. The administrativeand legislativeregimesshould
refect a process similar to that at section30 of the Water ResourcesAct
(copy of text to befaxed to you), givingthe publicat least28 days clear
noticeof the publichearings inrespectof all such activities".

7. Greenpeaceraisedthe issueof the needfor a comprehensiveplanto
conserve and provide appropriatedevelopmentconsistentwith maintainingthe
.integrityof the forests inthat geographicarea betweenthe HekikoRiver
  --._ -

                                                                          Page 2 o f2

(northof Mt Bosavi)to the south coast, andfrom the Gulf Provinceborder
to the StricklandRiver. Greenpeaceindicatedthat itwas in contactwith
landownersinthis area, and inthe Lake Murrayand UpperStricklandareas
250 kmx 250kmvery roughly600,000 sq kmx 1000to bring itto ha, some
else needsto do the measuring,as that would be62 millionha?? )

8. of prime concernwas to conservethe integrityof this rainforest,
which stretchedthroughout the Western & SandaunProvinces, into lrianJaya,
while providingsustainable livelihoodsfor the small groups of peoplewho
live in this lightly populatedarea.

9. Some of the peopleinthese areas hadshown interest inthe ideaof
carbonsink. Mr. Douglasundertookto providethe email address of a
suitable broker, knownto the Bank,who could assist inthese matters

10. I undertookto examinethe processesbywhich suitablesecurity of
tenure could be achievedfor any carbonsink proposal

11. A numberof alterativeways of funding UNEP/UNDPetc, and Bank
support for such a proposal,were discussed. Greenepacewas assistingthe
Environmentallaw Centre ina BlockA UNEPlUNDP scopinggrant.
 *
Brian Brunton

                                                                             Page 1 of3


 From:    Brian Brunton<greenpeace@png.pactok.net>
 To:      WWF.SPP (PNG).=wwfpng@dg.com.pg>
 CC:      Wep Kanawi<wkanawi@csi.com>; Guy Kula<ci-png@consen/ation.org>; Dan
          McCall<dmbf@chevron.com>; DarrenGladman
          <darren-gladman@datec.com.pg>; Phil Shearman
          <sheama@ozemail.com.au>;elc <elc@png.pactok.net>;Almah Taratia
          <quince@png.pactok.net>
 Date:    Friday, 29 November 199913:47
 Subject: Fw: PNGforests andtheWorld Bank



--Original   Message--
From: Jdouslas@worldbank.om <Jdoualas@.worldbank.org>
To: Brian Brunton<greenpeace~~nn.pactok.net>
 Date: Thursday, November 18, 19997:04 AM
 Subject: Re: PNGforests and the World Bank


 >
 >
 >
 >Brian;
 >
 >Thank you for your message. A responseto afew of your points:
 >
 > We are talking to the Governmentabout the moratorium,and associated
 review
 > of recentapplications.Itwill appear in our conditionality;
 >
 =-                                                                               t
    We are discussingwith Governmentand amongourselves the export tax
 > situation. My view has been, and remains,that the export tax scales,
 as
 > they were in 1995when they were first introducedintothe Budget,
 should be
 > maintained. The bracketswould needadjusting,in Kinaterms, to offset
 the
 > currency shift since then, so that rent recovery is alignedto the scale
 as
 > originally set. The Treasurypeopleare clearlyconcernedthat the basic
 > projectionsof tax revenuethey have madeare maintainedfor year 2000.
 We
 > sire rejectingindustry'sargumentthat at current pricesand costsX
 taxes
 > should be at zero: in the originaltax scales establishedin 1995there
 was a
 > minimumthresholdof tax of 15%of f.o.b, and our view is that that
-.--.- -

                                                                            Page2 of 3




               term giventhey they are goingto bringdown a very tough
                   -
         t overall-we agreewith the Treasury and Financepeoplethat the
   revenuefrom forests should be maintainedat levelsthey project(which
in
> fact are notvery high, and are basedon quite low levelsof aggregate
log
> output) but our advicewill bethat wewant to have as soon as
possible-                                               -

~1 a major reviewof the whole basisof the sector, involvingstakeholders

> we discussedwhen we met earlierthisweek), and after that we would
(as

expect
> the whole revenue-incentiveand participatorystructurefor the sector
would
> change. On that general score, incidentally,Idid putto the Minister
for
>, Forestry(Imet himfor the first time afew days after meetingwith
YOU)
> that a major consultationwith all legitimatestakeholders in the sector
was
> now an urgentnecessity, and he very strongly agreed. He offeredto host
such
> a gatheringhimself, andwe offeredas muchassistance as we can provide
for
> it. Isuggestedearly inthe new year as a good time, at least to begin
the
> process,and he agreedwith that also. Ithinkwe shouldusethis
opportunity
> to put down as much of an agendafor consensusbasedreform as we can ;
>
> On Kamula-Doso:I guesswe agreethat the bestoutcome herewould befor             .
RH
> to basically repudiatethe originalextensionapplication andtake its
> chanceson a new FMAapplicationdonethe properway. Ieven put that
   suggestionto the Forest IndustriesAssociation, andto the General
Manager
> of RH: we will see what they makeof it;
>
> Thanks for the wordingon notificationof intent: I will checkthe
content
> with our lawyers (who haveto vet all conditionalityanyway) andwe will
give
> it a run;
>
> My overall impression(this time) isthat there may now be some real
   prospectsfor changeinthe sector. Ithink industry is willing to talk
> about a restructure, and presumablythey must knowthat at the present

                                                                             Page 3 of3

   state
   > of the sector, their leverageOver a newgovernmentis lessthan it has
   been
   > inthe past - they are really not producingmuchoutput, and even less
   in
   > revenuesfor GOPNG right now, SO they would not perhapsbe missedto
   quite
   > the extent they might have been sometime ago. I would suggest they be
   given
   > the opportunityto presentand discusstheir ideasonwhere the sector
    IS
   > going, as shouldall other interestgroups,
   >
    >Iguessyouwill havereturnedfrom your travel by now: let's stay intouch
i   via
    >em.
    >
    >Regards
    >
    >
    >Jim D
   2
    >
    >
    >
    >


                                                                              Page 1of2


 From:      BrianBrunton <greenpeace@png.pactok,net>
 To:        James Douglas <jdouglas@worldbank.org>
 Date:      Thursday, 4 November 199916:37
 Subject: PNGforests and the World Bank


Jim,

this is my version of a summaryof our conversationon Tuesday2nd of
November 1999inthe World Bankoffice, Islander, Port Moresby.

 1. The Bankwas concernedaboutthe deterioration inforest managementin
 PNG, and would requestthe GoPNG, as part of conditionalityon bothSAP and
forest loansto introduce a moratoriumon all newforest projectswhether in
the form of FMAs or agricultural clearancesor road-lineclearances

 2. the Bankwould supportlproposea review of all existing projects
 during the duration of the moratorium.

 3. the Bankwas very clear that there shouldbeno relaxingof the export
 logtax.

 4. Greenpeaceaskedthe Bankto conveyto the PrimeMiinisterthe
 concerns over the allocationof the KamulaDoso concessionto RH in February
 1999.We notedthe on-going OmbudsmanCommissionInquiry into this matter.

 5. Greenpeacemadea similar request in relationto the ColtingwoodBay
 lease-leaseback arrangements.

 6. Itwas notedthat there was a needfor the GoPNG to publicallynotify
 its intentionto commenceanyforest activity(FMA or agriculturaVroadline
 clearance, or lease-lease back underthe LandsAct, and to hold public
 hearingson any proposals. Sucha clausemay read alongthese lines:

 "The GofPNGwill implementadministrativearrangements immediately,to be
 followed by prompt legislativeenactment,to holdpublic hearings in respect
 of the enteringinto of any Forest ManagementAgreement, Timber Authority
 for the purposes of any agriculturalclearance,or road-line clearanceunder
 the ForestryAct, or the executionof any lease-leasebackagreement
 involvingmorethan 500 ha of customary land,which may involvethe
 clearanceof forests. The administrativeand legislativeregimesshould
 refect a processsimilar to that at section30 of the Water ResourcesAct'
 (copy of text to be faxed to you), givingthe publicat least 28 days clear
 noticeof the public hearings in respectof all such activities".

 7. Greenpeace raisedthe issueof the needfor a comprehensiveplanto
 conserve and provide appropriatedevelopmentconsistentwith maintainingthe
-.integrityof the forests inthat geographicarea betweenthe HekikoRiver
   -_.- -


                         Evidenceofcorruptioninforestry sector
                         concerns Transparency ~~~~~~~~~~a~                  BNG

PORTMQRESBY:The ancientrainforestsofPapaNewGuineaare oneofthe country's greatest
assets, bringinginvitd export earningsfrom loggingwhile providingmuchneededjobs for rural
people.The potentid o fthe forests' biodiversity promisesevengreaterwealth. Moreover, dike mining,
the forests are arenewableresource, which, ifmanaged properly, canconhue to sustahgenerations, as
they have done for 60,000 years.

TransparencyInternationalPNGis, therefore, very concernedthat the IndependentReviewTeam,
establishedby the Government to lookat dnewproposalsfor loggingconcessions, hasfound wide-
spreadevidenceofpoliticalinterference, usuallybyministers, andrepeatedfailure to follow dueprocess
and to comply w&hthe lawof&e land.

Ofevengreater concem arethe suggestions ofcorruption uncovered bythe ReviewTeam, including
instances offraud and forgery onthe part ofpoliticians andbureaucrats.Butperhapsmostdisturbingis
therepeatedcriticismbyths?ReviewTcamthat landownersarebeingkept inthe dark unawareofthe
deals they are entering into, despitelegal requirementsthat they be properly irrformed. Such
transparencyis essentialiflandowners areto reapthe benefitsto whichthey are rightfdlyentitled and
notbe cheated oftheir heritage.

The Mhister ofForestsandthe director oftheNationalForest Servicehave emphatically deniedthese
allegationsandthe wsterances they have offered that there isno illegallogginginPNGare welcome.
Also encouragingis Phe Gwement's assertionthattheForest Authority is wenpullbya"dedicatedmd
hardworkings t a andthat "the floodgate of ill-plannedprojects" has beenhalted.

However, these a~smmcesare undermhedbyrepeatedefforts ofthe current forestry minister to grant
tax concessionsinlbreach o fthe Forestry Act andbyhisattempt to award aForestManagement
 Agreementto aforeign loggingcompany althoughhe didnot havethe authority to do so. The forestry
 industryhasahistory ofmismanagementand abuse: apastrifewithcomption, wlajchmustnotbe
 allowed to repeat itself

Inorderto ensurethat itdoesnot, TraixparencyInternationalsupportsthe Government'sintentionto
 establishan on-gohgprocedureto reviewfuture newprojects andto ensurethat the projectsjust
 reviewed comply with all laws andregulations.

 "'fie forests are our future. They have sustained usfor ccmttaries, &aping our cultme and providingus
 with allthingsnecessary orlife," says Sir AnthmySiagwu, TIchairman. "Emanaged properly they
 will continueto providefor our children md their childrmafter. The forest shouldnotbeexpbited
 strictly for short-term gains, regardlessoftheir immediateeconomic benefits.They mustbe managedint
 asustainableway."



 Chair"    Sir. Anthony Si q         SecxetaryRrwsurer: FloraCmtheru
 BoardMemhrs: PeterAilsi,VmcentBull, RichardKassman,AWE Kerepia, MikeManning,JohnNonggm& Me1 Togolo
 Mamger: CharlesDdton


Theloanagreement's Matrixof PolicyActions says under"ActionsTakenlQutcomesAchieved"
thatthere wi?sa "morztorium declaredona!l newForestManagementAgreements(FMA),timber
pennitsandgeographicextensionsto tirriberpermits."

Rawever,this moratoriumwas repeatedlyviolatedbythe gowernmentandthe loggingcompanies.
Exampiesof concessionspreparedor loggeddespitethe moratoriumare:


    1. Pondo: Duringthecurrencyofthemoratorium,theManagingDirectorof the
        ForestAuthority gavean insimctiontoa loggingcompanyto loginthe Pondo
       TRP. Loggingtookplaceandthe landownerslosttimberworth Kina 1.4miilion
        andhavenever beencompensated.We appendthe commentsof the Review
       TeamOR this matter.

        "Sincethe preparationofthefirst draft of this reportinMarch2001, despite
        advicefromthe NationalForestService, the PNGForestAuthority Managing
        Directorissuedpermissionto a loggingcompany to "set upbasecampand
        construct advanceroading"inthe PondoTRP area. Thiswas illegalastherewas
        neither aTimber Permitor aTimberAuthoritythroughwhich anyrightscouldbe
        given. Inadditionthe permissionwas indirect breachof the Government's
        wrrent moratoriumonthe issuanceof loggingpermits.

        The ManagingDirectorlaterrevokedhispermission, andhisactionwas duly
        notedbythe Board. Inthe interimsome8,500 m3of logswith a value of Kina1.4
        miilionwere exported. Source:SGS data"

        As a further update, it appearsthat the ReviewTeamwas misledas logginghas
        notbeenstoppedandfurtherillegalexportshipments arestill beingmade.


    2. Tuwapo: The ReviewTeam notea numberofdefectsinthis concession, andin
        an interimreportdrewthemto the attention ofthe State. Butthe Managing
        Directorofthe ForestAuthority duringthe currencyofthe moratorium, gave
        instructionsto 8 loggingcompanyto loginthe area. The landownerslosttimber
        worth Kina2.6 millionandhaveneverbeen compensated.The ReviewTeam
        finalreportsaid:

        "Since the preparationof thefirstdraft of this reportinMarch2001, despite
        advicefromthe NationalForestService,the PNGForestAuthority Managing
        Directorissuedpermissionto undertakeloggingintheTuvtlapuTRP area. This
        was illegalastherewas neitheraTimber Permitor aTmberAuthoritythrough
        which any rightscouldbe given. Inadditionthe permissionwas indirect breach
        of the Govemment's cumntmoratoriumonthe issuanceof loggingpermits.

        The Boarddirectedthe ManagingDirectorto revokehispermission.Inthe
        interimanestimated 13,000m3of logswith a value of Kina2.6 millionwere
        exported"

3. EastAGn: The ReviewTeam reparts confirmthat there has been recent loggingwithin
  the proposed East Awin FMA area ("togging appearsto have moved intothe East Awin
  Forest ManagementAgreement area without due allocation process being observed").
  This is a new operation that is in direct breach of the moratorium. Although the logging
  d@esnot have overt State approval, the fact that no steps have been taken to stop this
   illegaloperation, inour submission,showthat covert approval canbeassumed.

4. CaftingwwdBay: Inoursubmission,byomission, duringthecurrencyof the
   moratorium, theStateacquired38,OC)Ohaof forestfor a clear-feil logging
   operation. Leaseswas obtainedover 38,000 haof customary landwithout
   informedconsentTimberAuthorities fielicenses)were issuedby the Forest
  Authority. Whenthe landownerssued, the Governmenttookno stepsto protect
   the landrightsofthslandowners, and aninfeasibletitte is noweffectively
   crri3rolfedbya Malaysialoggingcompany.

    Althoughthe ForestAuthority wroteto the holdersoftheTimber Authorities,
   sayingtheTimberAuthorities (?A's) were invalid(becauseof non-compliance
   withsecurity-bondconditions), that issuehasnotbeenadjudicated. More
   importantlythe leaseshavenot beendeclaredvoid by thecourts. Thecase is
   outstanding, andthe landrightsof the customary ownersare stillthreatened
   becausethe Statetook nosteps inthe courtsto intralidatethe Ietzses, andthe
   timber authority, beforethecourts.

   These omissionswere over-looked bythe ReviewTeam. Ittook theviewthat the
   TAs hadbeencancelledbythe ForestAuthority. Butasthere hadbe,an RO
   adjudicationonthat issuebythe courts, and the ForestAuthority andthe State
   omittedto seektheir formal invalidation, theview of the TA fialdet-swas they held
   validTAs. The omissionsof the Stateoccurredduringthe durstionof the
   moratorium. Bankofficialsandthe ReviewTeamwere providedwith an
   extensive brief bythe lawyersfor the landowners.

5. KamulaDoso: Duringtheperiodof the moratorium,the Boardaf the Papua
   NewGuinea ForestAuthority purportedto extendan existingconcessionand
   passthis 800,000ha forest directly to a loggingcompany,without competitive
   bidding. Thereis anon-going investigationbythe PNGOmbudsman
   Commissionintothis extension.We are instructedthatthe loggingcompany
   wrote to the Boardofthe PNG ForestAuthority andthreatenedto suethe
   Authority, iftheAuthority didnotallocate KamulaDosoto them.

5. Amnab FMABbcks 1to 4duringthe currencyof the moratorium,the PNG
   ForestAuthority proceededto advertisethese concessionsas beingopenfor
   competitivebidding. The PNGForestAuthority begantoevaluatethetenders.
   The Ministerfor Foreststravekdto Jayapurainthe company of the CEOof one
   of the biddersfor thisproject(WK), white bidswere beingevaluated.

6. @anabo:Duringthecurrencyofthe moratorium,thePFaGForestAutharity
   proceededto advertisethis cancession as beingopsnfor competitivebidding. In

        our submissions,theadve-ertisingoftheAmanab FMA andthe Semabo Ft"vlAas
        beingopenio competitivetenders, constitutedabreachof the conditionalityof
        the SAP loansbythe Governmentof Papa NewGuinea.

        When these matterswere raisedby MGOswith Bankofficials, they took the view
        that conditionalitywas notactually breached, unlessbindingcontractualrelations
        were enteredintobythe parties.Thisview ignoresthe lawof impliedcontracts,
        quasicontract, quantum merit,agency,anda numberof casescurrentlybefore
        the courtsinwhich companiesseekto enforceagainstthe State, otherwise
        unlawful andillegalcontra&.

        Itisaviewthattosaythe least, lacksprudence, isotherwisenegligent,and
        ignoresthetnrepurposeofthe loanconditionality. The true purposeofthe
        conditionality wasto stopanynewallocationof tfieforestestatewhilethe review
        was goingon. The interpretationputonbythe Bankofficialsisattenuated,
        unrealistic, inthe lightof the taw of contract, andimpliedcontracts.


     6. KutaDagi: This isatimber auiliorityreviewedbythe ForestryTeamandfoundto be
        "unfair to the landowners". Despitethe moratorium, logginghasbeenallowedto begin
        sometime inthe lastthree months.


     7. Bakada: Despitethe morzitorium,the Statehasrecently(withinthe last3 months)
        alloweda new loggingoperationto beginat Bakadainthe OpenBayarea of EastNew
        BritainProvince.The States complicityinthis operationisindicatedbythe issueof log
        export licences andthe monitoringof logshipments.


All thesebreachesandattemptedbreachesofthe moratoriumshow a gross lackof goodfaith
andcommitmentto the reformprocessandloanconditionalityby senior publicsewantsand
gavemmentministers.This shouldhavealertedthe bankofficialsto a lackof goodfaithonthe
partof the gcfvernmentandtherefore ledtoasuspensionof negotiationsuntilthesematterswere
addressed.


DetailedSubmissionson Imprudenceand Irresponsibility


Inour submission, Bankersshouldnot lendmoneyto personswho levelof competency is so
pcurasto raisereasonableinferencesovertheirhonesty.Bankersprudencerequiresa
reasonablelevelof inquiryandcommonsense.

Bankreportsanddocumentsshowa historyof corruptionandillegalityinforest management
andconmation in PapuaNewGuinea.Thistrendwas consistentwithexperienceelsewhere
andshould havebeenwell-knownas danger-signs to officials:

      "illegalforestryactivities serveto directlyunderminethe bank's objectives of
     povertyreductionand sustainabledevelopment indeedthey havehad"a range
     of negztlveeconomic,ecologicaland social impactsandact as a direct
     impedimentto achievingsustainableforest managemenr'

     (Callister,DJCompfionand IllegalActivitiesintheFomstrySecfor:CUlTenf
     undersfandings,andimpficafionsfor WorldBank ForestryPolicy,World BankGroup
     ForestPolicyImplementationReviewandStrategy DevelopmentAnalyticalStudies,
     WashingtonDC, May 1999p6)


Thecorruptionin Papua NewGuineawas "grand corruption"andthe Bankwas awarethat in
the industry "facilitationfees" were routineinAsia (id 23)-andthatAsian companies
dominatedthe PNG markets (seefor examplefn 16GreenpeaceBuying Destruction),and
thatthe effectofforest industrycorruption in PapuaNewGuineawasto destabilize
govemance. Corruptionin PapuaNewGuinea's forestserodedpublictrust inthegovernment
jib 29)

The Prime Minister, Sir MekereMorautahasstatedopenlythat corruption is bothsystematic
andsystemic.

Inour submission, Bankofficialsmisjudgedthe amount andquality of corruptionassociated
with PapuaNewGuinea's rainforests. Loggingcompaniestraditionally fund politicians,
politicalpartiesandelections.The electioncycledrivescandidatesto enter indebtas they
canvassandcampaign. The needtofund electionexpenses, andthe debt makesthem
vulnerable to loggingcompanies. These pressures are curentlystrong because2002 is an
electionyear inPapuaNewGuinea.

In 1999theWorld BankleePapuaNewGuineabecausethe levelsof corruption, andthe
presenceof anex-WorldBankstaff, employedbythe PapuaNewGuineangovemmentas a
consultant.All inall, at thatpointintime, illegality,andpoorgovernancewere so high
generally that itwas seento be imprudentto continue bankingbusiness see Fileret a1idpp
70-73. InMid1999,the govemment of the HonW Skate, lost officeonthefloorof
Parliament. Theex-Bankstafferkonsultant,was sacked(andsubsequentlyjailed); andthe
Bankreturnedto PapuaNewGuineatodo business.

Bankofficialspersuadedthemselvesthat the new prime ministershouldbe supported.
Howeverthey misjudged, amongst other things, the extent towhich the logging industrywas
ableto infiuencedecision-makingwithinthe new PrimeMinister'scoalition.

InFebruary 1999,the Boardof the PNGForestAuthority, withoutgoingto publictenders,
granted KamulaDosoFMA (8OO,OCBhaj,as anextensionof the adjacent340,000ha
concession. The Boardwas forcedtocancelthat extension,andan Ombudsman Commission
investigationis still proceeding. The logging company threatenedto suethe PNGForest

Authority.The unlawfulallocationof Kamula Dosowas one of the main reasonsfor Bank
Hicials acceptingthe needfor a moratorium:see Fileret a1idp82 .

Onthe 14thof November2000, BankVice PresidentJemai-ud-din- Kassum,Country Director
Klaus Rohland,and ResidentCoordinator DanWeise, helda pressconferenceand
announcedthe releaseof the SAPfloatingtranche. They praisedthe current governmentfor
its economicmanagement

Onthe 24thof November2001the acting PrimeMinister( also Ministerfor Forests) paidan
unofficialvisitto Jayapura, intheWest Papuaprovinceof Indonesia. Hewas accompaniedby
officialsfromthe PeoplesDemocraticMovementParty, andthe CEOof a largelogging
operationin PapuaNewGuinea,WTK (VanimoForest Products). Thisjunket shouldhave
causedgrave concemby bankofficials, as it providedevidenceof improper collusion
betweena corpsratisnwith a Fendingmztter beforethe rr.inis+~ imp!ied the mrmptiol?of
                                                               and
the governmentofficialresponsiblefor the forests of PNG. Earlierthat month,the company
hadsubmittedto the Forest Ministrya tender for theAmanab block 1-4FMlAlogging
concessions. Tenders haddosed, andwere beingevaluatedat that time bythe minister's
department, the ForestAuthority (whichinadditionto beingevidenceof corruption also
constituted, inour submission, a breachofthe moratorium.)

Bankofficialsfailedto give properemphasisto the problemsof illegalityandcorruption as a
problemof forestmanagement(idBj, anddecidedto cany outforestoperations inspite of
the illegalityandcorruption.This promotionof industrial loggingoccurredin a contextwhere
"bribery byforestry companiesof localcommunitymembershasledto conflictwithinthe
community, particularlywhere there are conflictingviewsonwhether or notto grant logging
companiesaccessto community lands" 13id24.

Inparticular the Bankhasfailedto deal withthe issuesof tax evasion andtransferpricing
nearlya dozenyears aftertheywerefirst identifiedin PNGin 1989(seeBamettTE
CommissionofInquiryinfoAspects of theForestry /&usfry, PortMoresby 1989).These are
stilla major issue (seeHuntC letterto J. DouglasWorld Bank, NationalResearchInstitute,
PortMoresby2000). Bankofficialshavetoleratedthe lackof markettransparency that exists
betweenPapuaNewGuineaandJapan, PNGsmajor marketfor round logs.

The Bankwas awareof the lossof revenuegivenasfar backas 1993as Kina193million
(seeCallister id21). 8ut in 1999,Mr. Douglasandother officials actually recommendeda
decreaseinthe logexport tax, so as to "help" the industry.At thetimetherewere very large
amountsof tax unaccountedfor inthe trade betweenPapuaNewGuineaand Japan (see
letter D.WeisseWorld Bankto PrimeMinister's Department, 10December I999andPNG
FCP: Post -Appraisal MissionAide MemoiE p 1025). Fortunatelythe governmentrejected
this advice inmid2000, and increasedthe export logtaxes inthe 2001 Budget.

Bankpoliciesandpractices, insofaras they didnotpromoteand support small-scale and
mediumscalelocally-mn forestryactivities, failedto addresspovertyat the locallevelas both
a Muse andeffect of corruption. Bankpracticewas to supportindustry activity,andhopefor a
trickledownof the investmentstrategy, to locallandownersandcommunities. Modemand
informedresearchshowsthat "industrial resourceextraction not onlythreatensthe natural
richnessof theseareas of globally highestbiodiversity btialso deeply affectsthe local
population.The social consequencesof the "frontiereffect are numerousanddetrimental",
(KocherSchmidC, IndustrialResourceExfraction:Logging and Mining Operations, Thematic
Report 12,APFT, Paris,2000).

Inour submission,the Bankhaspromoted industrialforestryandhastoleratedandworked
within%eov~raflsysiem of patron-ciienfrelationshipsthat fundamentally underlietheforestry
industryin PapuaNewGuinea.Althoughthe Bankbroke4loannegotiationswhen its
leadingadviser in PapuaNewGuineaswitchedrolesandbecamethe chief adviserto the
Skate Government(notoriousfor itspatronzlientrelationships), it haduntilthen worked
closelywiththat government,andother govemmentsof a similardisposition

The Bankfailedimplementbest bankingpractice responsibly,to assert itsmoralauthority,
andleadership,thus deprivingthe Ownersof theforestsof the protectionof intemational
scrutinyandcommitmentto tackle cormption and illegalityinforest management in PNG.
Insteadthe Bankleftthe difficult tasks of confronting illegalityin PNGsforests, too largely to
local NGOS. indeed, the Banksresearcher(Caiiister id20), noted "Non government
organisations havebeenthe principalsourceof compilationsof informationonillegalforestry
activities".

Inthe PapuaNewGuineacontext seefor exampleGreenpeace InternationalBuying
Desfmcfim,Amsterdam 1999.The IndividualandCommunityRightsAdvocacy ForumInc
between 1993and 1999providedlegal servicesto landownersindefenseof their forests. In
1999thiswork was assumedbythe EnvironmentalLawCentreLtd, and in2000,the Centre
for EnvironmentalLawand CommunityRightstook upthisrole.


DetailedSubmissionson Breachesof QP4.36

Bankdecisionsin PapuaNew Guineaforest mattersare regulatedbythe Bank's 1993forest
policy knownas Operational Policy4.36 (OP 4.36). The policy statesthat:

     "Bankinvolvementintheforestry sector aimsto reducedeforestation,enhance
    the environmentalcontributionofforestedareas, promoteafforestation, reduce
    poverty, andencourageeconomicdevelopment".

Thisbindingpolicy document prohibitsthe Bankfromfinancingcommerciallogging
operationsor the purchaseof loggingequipmentfor useintropicalmoistprimaryforest such
as in PNG. Where a country hasmadea commitmentto undertake"conservation-orientated"
forestry, the Bankmayfinanceimprovementsinplanning, monitoringandfieldcontrol of
loggingoperations.

The implicationsof this policyfor BanklendinginPNGarethat the only lendingthat the Bank
should permit isfor improvingthe planning,monitoringandfieldcontrolof loggingoperations,
andthis is only permissibleif the PNGgovemmenthasmadea credible commitmentto
conservationorientatedforestry.

InPNGthe govemmenthasmadenocrediblecommitmenttoconservationorientated
forestry, indeedforestmanagementisso poorasto causeactualharmtotheforestsandto
thequalityof lifeof localpeople. This harmresultsina degradationof the ancient rainforest,
tumingthem intopoorsecondaryforest.

1. The PNGForestAuthority basesall itsforest managementon a 35 yearbrestry cycleor
    rotationperiod. There issimplynoevidenceto supportthe propositionthatmixedspecies
    tropical rainforestwill regeneratewithina periodof 35 years after they havebeen logged.
    The evidenceisto thecontrary. Tropical hardwoodstake longerthan40 yearsto grow to
    maturity.The ReviewTeam recommendedthat this issuebestudied bythe Forest
    ResearchInstitute. Thisstudy should beconductedinconsultationwithlandownersand
    NGOsandthe resultsimplemented inpolicyandpracticebeforeany newconcessions
    areallowed

2. Bankofficials, andMr. Douglasinparticular,wereconcemedtoensure continuity in
    industriallogging inPapuaNewGuinea. These officialshistoricallywere committedto a
    dogma of logginginmixedspeciestropical forests, eventhoughthe preponderanceof the
    weight of the literature,science, andcommercial practice,tendedto showthat industrial
    applications inthesecircumstancesarenot sustainable. The positionof Mr. Douglasand
    BankofficialscontradictedtheBank's policy OP4.36 asthere is nocredible evidenceto
    suggest that industrialloggingin PNGcontributestothe policy aims of reducing
    deforestation, enhancingthe environmentalcontributionof forestedareas, promoting
    afforestation, reducingpoverty andencouragingeconomicdevelopment.

3. The fact that the PNG govemment has no credible commitment to conservation
    orientated forestry is indicated by the Review Team findings on fragile forests,
    conservationset-asides andreliableresourcedescriptions. The ReviewTeam found that
    currently there is no policydecision preventing !egging infragileforest areas, a provision
    for conservation set-asides is not beingimplementedandthere is no amrate or reliable
    resourcedata beingused.

4. The lack of a crediblecommitmentto conservationorientatedforestry is also indicatedin
    the governments failure to planfor forestry operations ai either a national or provincial
    level. Despitethe fact that the Foresfry Act section54 mandates that there be a National

ForestPlan, beforeanyconcessioncan beallocated, there is no current NationalForest
Plan.The ReviewTeamalsofoundthat:

   "Theexisting (sic, thepianbasinfact expired) National Forest Planwas preparedby
   a committee set up by the Minister in 1996, rather than by the PNG ForestAuthority
   as required under the A d It would appear that the main reason for taking
   independent action was the Minister's inability to issue new timber permits in the
   absence of a National Forest Plan (s54). The Plan has not been updated, and
   projectsnot listedintha Plan have been recommendedto the PNG ForestAuthority
   Board for development. This review of "in progress" forestry projects identified a
   numberofthese indicatingthat s54 iseffectively beingignored."

   (Review Team ReportAppendix 4 foresffyandPlanningp7)

                      PNG FORESTRY REVIEW TEAM

      AUDITING FORESTRY PROJECTS CURRENTLY "INPROCESS" FOR
COMPLIANCE WITHTHE REQUIREMENTS OF THE POLICY, THE FORESTRY ACT
                   AND OTHER REGULATIONSAND GUIDELINES



To:                   Governmentof Papua New Guinea
                      C/-The InteragencyForestryReviewCommittee
                      Office of the Chief Secretaryto Government

From:                  ReviewTeam

Date:                 5 March2001

Re:                    INDIVIDUALPROJECT REVIEW REPORT NUMBER 31

                       AIAMBAK-KIUNGA ROADTIMBER AUTHORITY
                       (WESTERN PROVINCE)




AUDIT CONCLUSIONS:

RESOURCEISSUES:

This project is in breach of the National Forest Policy 1991and the current provisions of
the Forestry Act 1991 (as amended) in that the logging taking place either side of the
road corridor is not regulatedthrough either a proper Forest ManagementAgreement or
a proper Timber Authority. The project cannot be consideredto be a forestry project in
any proper forest management sense. The project is also in breach of the Act in that
loggingappears to have moved intothe East Awin Forest ManagementAgreement area
withoutdue allocation processbeingobserved.

LEGAL ISSUES:

At no time since the purported issuance of the Timber Authority in April 1994 has any
aspect of due process been observed. This has arisen from matters beyond the direct
controlof the PNGFA.

LANDOWNER ISSUES:

There has been no landowner mobilisation for this project. The holder of the Timber
Authority claims to be a landowner company but is a foreign company (50% foreign
owned). The logging contractor Concord Pacific Ltd continues to pay less royalty than
K10 per cubic meter despite a letter from PNGFA directing the company to pay the

                                                                                         -
Review of "In Process" ForestryProjects
IndividualProject Report3I -Aiambak-Kiunga Road TA

legally mandated rate of K10 per m3 from the beginning of logging. Landowners
complainof harassment(includingfrom `Police')and threats with firearms.

RECOMMENDATIONS(INCLUDINGCORRECTIVEMEASURESIF REQUIRED):

   That Court action should be taken forthwith to review the Orders permitting the
    loggingoperationssince November 1999.

   That any application to extend the scope and term of this Timber Authority be
    soundly rejected.

    That any further application for road line clearing should be properiy considered
    underthe ForestryAct 1991in lightof the Amendments madeto the Act in 2000 and
    certifiedin January 2001.



Note: The individual project reports summarise the findings of the Review Team
 regardingmaterialcomplianceissues, and present project specific recommendationsfor
the consideration of the Interagency Forestry Review Committee. Separate reports
 produced at the end of the review process set out in more detail the audit procedures
 applied, and comments and recommendations regarding existing policies, legal
 requirementsand projectdevelopment processes.




                                                                                      -
 Review of "InProcess" ForestryProjects
 IndividualProject Report31 -Aiambak-KiungaRoad TA

 REVIEW REPORT

 SUMMARY PROJECT DETAILS:


 Projecttype:                          Timber Authority -Forestclearingfor road
                                       development.


 Processingstage:                      Has been operatingfor some 5 years. PNGFA
                                       havetried to shut itdown but are constrained by a
                                       Court injunction.The operatorshave applied to the
                                       National ExecutiveCouncilfor an extensionof the
                                       scope and the term of the Timber Authority.

I                                    1 Not applicable
 Gross area:

 Gross loggablearea:                   Not applicable


 Potentialsustainabletimber yield:     Not applicable
I                                     I


 A. FORESTRY AND PLANNINGASPECTS

 The clearing of forested landfor roadingdevelopmentdoes not requirethe applicationof
 the same sectoral planning and control measures as are required for long term
 sustainable forestry projects under the National Forest Policy 1991, the Forestry Act
 1999 and the National Forestry Guidelines 1993. The key issues for road line clearing
 Timber Authoritiesare:

     To ensure that the proposed roading development is consistent with the National or
     Provincialtransportplans;that the funds for roadconstructionare availableand have
     been committed; and that responsibilityfor road maintenance is clearly defined and
     accepted;

     To ensurethat clearingthe road line of forest is undertakenin a progressivemanner
     in accordancewith the road constructionprogramme,thus protectingas much of the
     forest as is possibleagainst the potential non-performanceof the roading contractor;
     and

     That the road line clearing and road Construction is undertakenin an environmentally
     responsiblemanner.

 In this case the Timber Authority was allegedly issued in April 1994 before detailed
 procedures and requirements for Timber Authorities were developed. These
 requirementswere developedduring 1995,and recognisedthat the timber revenuefrom

 Review of "InProcess"forestry Projects
 individual Project Report 3I -Aiambak-Kiunga Road TA                               Page 1

a road line clearing operation would not meet the cost of road construction unless
logging of a much wider corridor was allowed. A maximum road line clearance of 40 m
was imposed and supported by a National Executive Council decision (113/96). To be
compliantwith the Act, any logging outside of this 40 m road line must be under either a
ForestManagementAgreement,or a Timber HarvestingTimberAuthority.

The Timber Authority procedures and requirements developed by the PNGFA also
required observance of environmentalstandardswhich for roadingconstructionwere set
out in the PNG LoggingCode of practice 1996.

The Aiambak-KiungaRoadTA does not meetthe current requirementsof the Act in two
key aspects:

    It allows logging outside of the 40 m wide road line without a Forest Management
    Agreement or a Timber HarvestingTimber Authority. The original Timber Authority
    document provides that "harvesting [may take place on] both sides of the proposed
    road alignment". The Logging and Marketing Agreement between the TA holder
    (Paiso Company Pty Ltd) andthe logger (Concord Pacific Pty Ltd) is more specific in
    that it providesfor logginga forest corridor up to 2 km in width, and the harvestingof
    4,200 m3 of logs for every kilometreof road constructed (or a total of 1.O million m3
    of logsfor the 246 km long road).

    Itdoes not requirefull observanceof the environmentalstandardsfor roadingset out
    in the PNG Logging Code of Practice 1996. The TA document provides for some
    rudimentaryobservanceof environmentalconcerns by requiringthe holder to "avoid"
    certainspecified impacts.Howeverthese obligationsare not clearly passed on to the
    logger in the Loggingand MarketingAgreement.

 The roading standard specified in the Logging and Marketing Agreement is a "dry
 weather 4x4 road. A road of this type in this wet part of PNG is unlikely to be usablefor
 any significant periods, or to last long without significant expenditure on road
 maintenance. It is difficult to see the demand which would justify this type of road.
 Generally this project is seen as a thinly disguised method employed by a logging
 companyto gain accessto logsfor export.

 RECOMMENDATIONSREGARDING FORESTRYASPECTS:

 1. That any application to extend the scope and term of this Timber Authority be
     soundly rejected.

 2. That any further applicationfor road line clearing be subjectedto the requirementof
     the Act as amended.


 B LEGALCOMPLIANCE
   ,

 SUMMARY OF LEGALCOMPLIANCE:

 Since Minister Neville purportedto approve TA No 24 in April 1994 no procedural step
 under the ForestryAct 1991 has been duly observed. In giving his approvalthe Minister


 Review of "In Process" Forestry Projects
 Individual Project Report 31 -Aiambak-Kiunga Road TA                               Page 2

exceededhis powers. Underthe Act Ministershave no proceduralrole to play in relation
to TimberAuthorities.

TA No 24 was signed by the Regional Forestry Inspector "as a delegate of the Board".
Under the Act it was the Provincial Forest Minister at that time who was empoweredto
grant a Timber Authority. Howeverthe Act prescribesa lengthy procedureto be followed
before such a grant can be made. That procedurewas completelyoverlooked in relation
to this project.

The subsequent decisions by Acting Minister Philemon and Minister Pok to grant
extensionsto TA No 24 are also not supported by provisions of the Act. The Act states
that Timber Authorities are to bevalidfor the stated period and makes no mentionof any
power to extend them. It seems that a new application must be made when a Timber
Authority expires. In any event there is no provision made at all for any power to be
exercisedbythe NationalMinisterfor Forests.

Logging operationsare proceedingon the basis of a far-reaching Court Order made on
26 November 1999.This Order permitsthe operations to continue under TA No 24 and
restrainsthe PNGFAfrom seizing logs or delaying export permits.

The current Managing Director and PNGFA staff have demonstrated a clear
determinationto see that some controlsare exercisedover this remarkableproject.Their
attempts to apply the provisions of the Act have been thwarted at every stage. The
 serious ramifications of the project affecting the rights of landowners and the good
 governanceof this country cannot be attributedto the current staff of the PNGFA in any
 way.

 NEC Submission 73/2000 (9 May 2000) seeks, inter alia, the approval of the NECfor a
 15 year extension to TA No 24. The Submission suggests that there are no legislative
 implications.This is incorrect and NEC should be aware that the Submission effectively
 invites Cabinet to breach the statutory procedures that are prescribed in the Forestry
 Act.

 RECOMMENDATIONSREGARDING LEGALASPECTS:

 1. That the court proceedingsmust be broughtto a conclusion.The substantive issues
     must be finally determined. It should be noted that the Attorney General has
     previouslyacted in a private capacityfor the logging operator (ConcordePacific Ltd)
     in relationto these proceedings.




 Review of "In Process"Forestry Projects
 IndividualProject Report31 -Aiambak-KiungaRoad TA                               Page3

 C. LANDOWNER ISSUES




 1. LandownerAwareness


 The Review Teaman  was lookingfor      'he TA for this "project"was originally issuedby
 evidence     of          awareness     he ForestMinister in 1994. Normallya TA
 package containing information         vould affectonly one small group of possibly
 explaining the purpose,expected
                            benefits    me or two landgroups. This TA has gone on
                                        or some years beyondthe confines of any
 from the project.
 and otherwise to beThis
 include general conditionscould        orestry legislationor policy.
                                 that
 could be used for all prospective      The TA holder, PaisoCompany Limited,
 projects.                               raudulentlyrepresenteditself as a landowner
                                        :ompany. It is owned equally by one landowner
                                        2nd an expatriate.

                                         t hastakenyears of operationof Paiso/Concord
                                        'acific beforethe landownershave cometo
                                        -ealisethe extent of the damage and deprivation
                                        :hatthey have suffered.The landownersonly
                                        Decamemobilisedbecauseof the advent of the
                                        EastAwin FMAadjacentto the Aiambak-Kiunga
                                        `project".

                                        Inthe meetingheld at Kiungaon the 14thof
f                                       Februaryin the presenceof two members of the
                                        reviewteam, the Aiambak landownersdenied
                                        having been sufficientlyconsultedduring the
                                        discussionphase of the project, nor were they
                                        representedin the PFMCmeetingwhen the
                                        decisionwas madeto proceedwith the project.

I 2.
I
     Landowner Mobilisation
I


  Landownersare requiredto be           There is no requirementfor ILGsfor a TA
  mobilised by meansof the Land         howeverthere is a requirementto identifythe
  Groups IncorporationAct. The           landownersand identify agents and pay
  ReviewTeam was lookingto find          royaltiesand other charges. The fact that the TA
  evidence of full participationby       becamea rollingTA extendingover 130km
  landowners inthe ILG process           meantthat a large number of landownersshould
  particularlywith regardto:             have been identifiedand formally involved.



  Review of "in Process" forestry Projects
  IndividualProject Report 31 -Aiambak-Kiunga Road TA                                Page4

      Recognitionthat the              Complaintsby landownersindicatea very
      resourcesare owned by            unsatisfactorysituation.One landownerstated
      individualland groupsand         that Paiso undertookto register ILGsbutthe
      not collectivesof land           documentationwas notcompletedor not
      groups                           handedover to the landowners. One group of
                                       the Eiwalandownersfinally undertooktheir own
0     The formationof                  registration. The matter is confusedwith royalty
      representativebodiesfor          payments beingmadeto differentpeoplewith
       projectconsultationsand         the same ILG number. (This could be a clerical
       negotiations.                   error)


Some additionalnotesare presentedin Appendix 1.

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING LANDOWNER ASPECTS:

  That this so called projecthas beena disasterfrom day one.

RECOMMENDATIONSREGARDINGLANDOWNER ASPECTS:

1. If at all legally possible this project should be shut down and assets seized to
   reimburselandownersfor loss of their standing crop




Review of "InProcess"forestry Projects
IndividualProject Report31 -Aiambak-KiungaRoad TA                                 Page5

APPEuvDIXl : llOTES ON LANDOWNER lSSl                  !

14 Feb 00    Technical Services and Inventory investigated the Aiambak Road and
             confirmedallegationsmade by landownersthat Concorde Pacific Ltd was
             8.6 km intothe EastAwin FMAarea.

12 Mar 00    Landownerssay that Paiso Ltd is a family company and must be knocked
             out of the area altogether. The fact is that Paiso Ltd. is owned 50% each
             by two individuals, one landowner from nowhere near the road and one
             foreigner, Mr Philip K S Lee, who represent themselves and not the
             landowners.

Feb2001       One Aiambak landowner leader with pending court cases against
             Concord Pacific Ltdhas soughtto have Mr PhilipK S Leedeported.




Review of "InProcess" Forestry Projects
IndividualProjectReport31 -Aiambak-KiungaRoad TA                                 Page 1

        $1BROAD DISCUSSIONON LANDOWNER
     3



ISSUES INCLUDINGSUGGESTEDIMPROVEMENTS

    IN DEALINGSWITH LANDOWNERSAND

           THEIR ORGANISATION




                                          t


BROAD DlSCUSSiONON LANDOWNER ISSUES INCLUDINGSUGGESTED
IMPROVEMENTSIN DEALINGSWITH LANDOWNERSAND THEIR
ORGANIZATION

                                    ExecutiveSummary

The Landownerand Community NaturalResourceSpecialistshaveexaminedallthe
projects on the list and have consulted with communities in a few of the project
areas. During the consultationwith communities there was occasion to review the
impact of priorloggingactivitiesinthe projectareaor inadjacentareas. Thiswas the
case in Rottock Bay, East Awin, Aiambak Road. One of the consultants has
previouslyconducteddetailed audiis of lartdownercompany perSormaneein several
existing projects,(See Samol and Romaso, 1997 and Romaso 1998). In addition to
these sources the Review Team received representationsfrom several NGOs with
detailedfeedback from land groups in many projects.

The reportbegins with an analysis of the Terms of Referenceto establish the
frameworkfor analysis, beginningwith an analysis of "consultation"andthen
developingthe implicationsof signing an FMA bothfor landowners andthe PNGFA.
Then follows an analysis of the impliedpolicies enfolded inthe ForestlyAct and
PNGFA administrativepracticesin relationto forest management for longterm
development.

The conclusion is inescapablethat the present FMA is flawed inthat there is no
partnershipbetween PNGFA andthe resourceowners. Indeedthe processexplicitly
excludes resourceowners from participatingin any agreements subsequentto the
FMA being signed. They enjoy the rightto be consulted only. Inthe opinion of the
ReviewTeam LandownerSpecialistswhere there is no explicit partnershipno sound
basis is provideduponwhichto managethe landownersforest for the longterm.

Specificallythe LandownerSpecialistsconcludedthat:

1      Landownersare in noway capable of makingan informeddecision regarding
       the 50 yeartransfer of their forest rightsto the Papua New Guinea National
       ForestAuthority. All FMAs signedto date as seen by the ReviewTeam are
       deficient from the point of informedconsent,
       s         given the very poor level or awareness regardingthe "project" and
                 purported"development";
                 given that there is no actualarea planfor developmentof the FMAfor
       *        them to understandand agreeto anyway;
                 given the confusionandthe almost completelack of empowerment
                 accomplishedbythe presentlandgroup incorporationprocess as
                 seen inthe forest sector; and
                 given that correct protocolsfor consultationand signing of the
                 documentation have neverbeen implemented.

2      There is noway that PNGFAcan accomplishwhat it purportsto via the FMA ,
                 giventhat development boils down to merelystagedharvestingof the
                 forest over 35/40 years accordingto five year rollingforest working
                 plans for round log export:



Review of "In Process" Forestry Projects -Observations and Recommendations
Avoendix 6                                                                         Pape 1

       e        giventhatthere is no actualdevelopmentplan for the forest and the
                forest dwellers, not a five year plan let alone a 50 year plan;
       e        giventhat there is no actualbusinessplanto involve landowners;and
       0        given that there is no actualsocioeconomicinfrastructureplan other
                than awatered down landownerwish list with little or no Local-level
                Govemmentbuyin.
       e        Giventhatthere is no partnershipbetween landownersand PNGFA.

Recommendations

Thus the ReviewTeam LandownerSpecialists concludethatthe present protocols
for mobilizingthe forest underthe FMA s needs to be seriously reconsidered and
modifiedto makethe forest owners part and parcel of the process and part and
parcel of the development. Specifically,

       Full development planningof the FMAwith full involvementof landowners
       needs to be conductedpriorto any agreementsbeingsigned. A good start
       would be to followthe requirementsof the 1993 NationalForestry
       DevelopmentGuidelinesandthe requirementsofthe EnvironmentAct. These
       plans must be fleshed out to includebusiness plansthat fully involve the
       forest ownersfrom day one as part of a full awareness programme.

       Landownersmust be mobilizedexpertlyusingthe provisions of the Land
       Groups IncorporationAct which itself must be expertly managed by the
       govemment instrumentalityresponsible. This mobilizationwill include
       ongoing extensionservicesinthe fieldwhile project planningand preparation
       is being carriedout.

       Given that there is no expert capability in DLPPto implement the Land
       Groups IncorporationAct, serious considerationneedsto be given to
       establish an arm of govemmentthat can fulfill this role. See separate
       recommendation.

       The FMA must be modifiedto follow morethe modelof the MOUs being
       signed betweenthe project area people andthe State in the non-renewable
       extractive resourceprojects.The forest owners must become full partners in
       the planned development, not bystanders.

The LandownerSpecialistsproposea developmentmethodologythat will embrace
the aims of the ForestryAct in a way that will addressthe requirementsof longterm
forestry and landowner equityand development. Of central importanceisthe
proposalto form a Forest ManagementArea Corporationto take on responsibilityto
work with all stakeholdersincludingPNGFAto plan and implement development in
the Forest ManagementArea. It is proposedto expandthe present FMAagreement
to embracethe requirementsof a comprehensivedevelopmentMOU.

Finally,a comprehensivereformof the implementationof the Land Groups
IncorporationAct is criticalto landowner developmentin a Forest ManagementArea
as anywhere else. Specific recommendationsare made for the empowermentof
governmentto implementthis importantlegislation, not only for forestry but for all
forms of resource owner development.




Review of "In Process" Forestry Projects-Observationsand Recommendations
Auvendix 6                                                                         Page 2

                                                       1




         AN ENVIRONMENTAL          IMPACT  ASSESSMENT

                                 OF

                         LOGGING OPERATIONS
            INBLOCK3 OFTHEWAWOIGUAVITW,
                   KAMUSI,WESTERNPROVINCE,
                         PMUANEWGUINEA




                             Preparedby:

                         PeterD. Erskine Ph.D.


        Independentconsultantto the Individualand
 CommunityRightsAdvocacy ForumInc. (ICRAF) and
                          Greenpeace Pacific               I




[EIA ofWawoi GuaviBlock 3


                                                                2




                                                         Page

Title Page                                                1

Table of contents                                         2

 Introduction                                             3

 Study site                                               3

 Methods                                                  4

        Incidentallosses                                  4

 Results                                                  4

        Incidentallosses                                  9

 Discussion                                               9

        Damage from roads and log landings                9

        Fire damage                                       10

        Soil erosion                                      10

        Logging damage comparisonswith other studies
                          -                               10

        Damageto excluded produce                         11

        Effects on wildlife                               11

        Effects on keystonespecies                        11

        Effectson landowners                          - . 12

  Conclusions                                             12

  References                                              13

  Figures                                                 15

 Appendix 1                                               19


I EL4ofWawoi GuaviBlock 3                                         1


                                                                                  3




Sustainable harvestingof rainforesttrees under a selectivelogging system is
recognised as ecologicallyand economically preferableto clear fell timber
extractionwhen the whole rangeof values of the forest is considered(Leslie
1987; Perry & Maghembe1989). Indeed,the Papua New Guineagovernment
believes selective logging of rainforestsand a policy of sustained yield            .)
managementshould provide longterm benefitsto the communitieswho own the
forests. With the implementationof the LoggingCode of Practice(1996) the PNG
government consolidated and simplifiedthe conditionsfor timber extractionfrom
a previously largerangeof documentsconcernedwith logging. The code
prescribes best management practicesfor selection loggingand aims to reduce
the adverse impacts of loggingon the forests andthe communities living in them'.

The Wawoi GuaviTimber Company (WGTC)also recognisesthat sustainedyield
managementis beneficialto the longterm economic viability of their Kamusi
based project(see WGTC 1988)and have prescribedthemselves to the
selective harvestingmethodof timber extraction.This company should be guided
by the PNG LoggingCode of Practiceto ensurethat they have a sustainedyield,           .
while independent monitoringof loggingactivities isthe responsibilityof the PNG
ForestAuthority (Nadarajah 1994).However, customarylandownersof the
Wawoi Guavitimber area believethat WGTC and the ForestryAuthority have not
ensured that negligent practicesdo notoccur. This report presentsan
assessmentof these allegations and the environmentalimpacts of logging in
Wawoi Guavi Block 3.




 Block3 of the Wawoi Guavitimber area covers 206 310 hectaresof mixed
 lowland rainforestsome 140 kilometresnortheastof Daru, inthe Western
 Provinceof Papua New Guinea. The forest is generallytall (30-35 metres high),
 structurally complex and floristically rich (Paijmans 1976).It is the customaryland       u
 of 10clanswho live in surroundingvillages and it contains anumber of gardens,.
 sacred sites and forest resourcesthat are utilised by landowners.




[EL4of Wawoi GuaviBlock 3

                                                                                   4




An assessmentof the WGTC loggingoperationsin $lock 3 was undertakenfrom
the 23rd - 26thof February 1999. Loggingand roadconstruction practiceswere
examinedto determine compliancewith the PNG LoggingCode of Practice
(1996). Excludedproducefrom Schedule6 of the Wawoi GuaviTimber Rights
Purchase(seeAppendix I)       which had been affected by loggingoperationswere       -
also located.A further examinationof road maintenanceand decommissioningof
logging sites in Block 2 of the Wawoi GuaviTRP was used to predictthe long-
term environmentalconsequencesof loggingand road building.All sites
examined were locatedwith a MagellanColorTRAKGlobalPositioningSystem
(GPS)which is accurateto 25 metres.The slopesof tracks were measuredwith
a Suunto clinometer.


 Incidental loss

At the end of different snigtracks (alllessthan 2 monthsold) an estimateof the
total number of killedtrees was made in six plots rangingin size from 500 to
 1050m2.Any stem over 10 cm diameterat breast height (dbh)that had been
 logged, uprootedor pushedoverwas defined as havingbeen killed. Itwas not
 possibleto determineconsistentlywhether a tree had been lost to roadworks or
tree falls so all killedtrees were classifiedas `incidentalloss'.




 Conditionsfrom the Timber RightsPurchase(TRP), the agreed criteriaand key
 standards from the PNG LoggingCode of Practice are written in boldtext in this
 section. Violations of these conditionsand standards are in normaltext.


 Agreed criteria: logging on slopes greater than 30 degrees and extraction of trees
 with a diameter at breast height @BH) of less than 50 cm is prohibited.

      Trees had beenextracted and hauled up slopes measuredat 31 and 34
      degrees (07'14'12"S, 142'47'1 5"E).

      A number of undersizedtrees were found bothon sniggingtracks and in log
      landings. On one snig track there were 4 logs ranging in size from 28 to 43
      cm dbh and in a nearby log landing2 undersizelogswere found



I EL4ofWawoi GuaviBlock 3

                                                                                 5


       (0707'20"S, 142'49'22"E). A previous survey of four roadside log landings
       by Gebia (1998) found three undersize logs.


 Key StandardNumber 2: MinimumBuffer Zone Widths

 2a. Minimumbuffer zone for culturalsites, reserves, conservationandgarden areas
 i s 100 metres.

       A garden owned by John Tanaiye was removed during road construction
       (0709'36"S, 14251'58"E).All that presently remains is a small patch of
       bamboo to the west of the road.


 2c. Minimumbuffer zone for lakes, lagoons, swamps (surface water presentfor 6
 months of the year) is 100metres.

       A tree was felled directly into a swamp damaging four sago palms
       (0710'25"S, 14251'39"E).An example of the damage to one of the sago
       palms can be seen in the foreground of Figure 1. The felled tree was rooted
       only 25 metres from the swamp and the required 100-metre buffer zone
       was unmarked and therefore ignored. Logging activities had disturbed
       another sago swamp that was unable to be reached due to poor road
       conditions.


 2d. Minimum buffer zone for a Class 1permanentstream(riverbedis more than 5
 metres inwidth) is 50 metres.

       Trees were felled within 10 metres of a Class 1 permanent stream near a
       bridge crossing (0714'21"S, 142'46'46"E).


 2e. Minimumbuffer zone for a Class 2 permanentstream(riverbed i s between 3
 and 5 metresinwidth) is 10 metres.

       Figure 2 illustrates one of many examples (0708'38"S, 142'51'45"E;
       0707'37"S, 142'49'21"E; 07'07'24"S, 14251'01"E; 0709'47"S,
        142'48'48"E) of clearing and logging into Class 2 permanent streams while
       the flow of one stream (Figure 3) was completely restricted by debris
       (0710'10"S, 142'48'42"E).




[EIA of Wawoi GuaviBlock 3

                                                                                  6




 2i. Markinginthe field (all bufferzones are to be markedbeforeapprovalto log a
 set-up is given).

      There was no evidence of bufferzones being marked in the field. Chainsaw
      and bulldozeroperators also suggested that buffer zones were not being
      marked.


 Key StandardNo. 4: N o more than 3 log landingsper set-up, maximumsize 2500 sq.
 metres each.

      Two examples of log landings larger than the maximum allowable size were
      found. One was 3300 m2 (07'08'35"S, 14251'15"E)and the other 2835 m2
      (07'1 0'16"S, 142'47'33"E). Furthermore,within a kilometer from the second
      oversize log landing there was 8 other log landings.


 Key StandardNo. 7: Use of compactionequipment (rollers) duringroad
 construction.

      The Wawoi Guavi Timber Company'sroller has not operated in over 6
      years and presently lies abandoned and overgrown with vegetation just off
       road 1.Therefore, tractor bulldozers and graters have constructed all of the
       roads in Block 3.


 Key StandardNo. 9: Maximumcleared forest roadwidth is 40 metres.

      The width of feeder roads and main road was greater than 40 metres at
       many locations. Two locations were measured to demonstrate this. At one
       point (07'09'28"S, 14252'00"E)on recently constructed feeder roads the
      width was 53 metres and at another point (07'10'23"S, 142'50'28"E) the
       road width was 61 metres. Furthermore,following fires lit by WGTC to clear
       roadside vegetation in 1997the width of the main road increased to more
      than 100 metres in many areas (see Figure4).


 KeyStandardNo. 10: N o soil in streams fromroadconstruction or skid tracks.

      There were several examples (07'09'28"S, 142'52'00"E; 0707'24"S,
       142'51 '01"E; 07'09'47"S, 142'48'48"E; 07'1 0'1O"S, 142'48'42"E) of soil
       being pushed into the streams during road construction.




1EIA of Wawoi GuaviBlock 3

                                                                                 7




 Key Standard No. 12: Soil on log bridges.

      Soil was used as decking material on all bridges that were found in Block 3.
      The requirementto use rot resistant decking materialto ensure longevity of
      the bridge and to prevent soil enteringthe streamseemed to be universally
      absent. None of the bridges located used rot resistant material between the
      log base and soil fill (07'08'38"S, 142'51'45"E; 07'07'37"S, 142'49'21"E;
      07'07'24"S, 142'51 '01"E; 07'09'47"S, 142'48'48"E; 07'14'21 "S,
      142'46'46"E; 07'1 0'1O"S, 142'48'42"E).


 KeyStandardNo. 13: Log clustersare not permitted.

      A lo cluster consisting of 140 logs underthe road (07'1 1'46"S,
       142 56'30"E) was found in Block 3 (see Figure 5).
          #

 Key StandardNo. 15: Directionallyfelltrees intocanopy gaps.

      Trees were often felled into the forest ratherthan towards the road or
       skidding tracks. At a pointwere the roadwidth was 61 metres (07'1 0'23'3,
       142'50'28"E) trees were felled into the forest (Figure 6).


 Key StandardNo. 17: Do not fell into or skidinsidebuffer zones or excluded areas.

       Examples of felling or skidding inside bufferzones are under Key Standards
       2a to 2e.


 Key Standard No. 19: Decommissioningforest roads (remove log culverts and
 temporary bridges).

       A bulldozer operator claimed that the WGTC did not remove log bridges
       when decommissioning roads. Road access to these abandoned bridges in
       Block 3 was impossible due to road conditions but one bridge crossing the
       Dawabi River (a Class 1 stream) in Block 2 was found. Over 50 individual
       logs were blockingthe river at this point becausethe bridge had collapsed
       after the road had been decommissioned (Figure7).




1EIA of Wawoi Guavi Block 3                                                        I

 Key StandardNo. 20: Removedebris fromstreams.

      An old bulldozertractor track was found discarded in a stream (07'1 6'34"S,
       142'55'07"E) and an old log barge has been left in the Guavi River near the
      town of Kamusi.


 Key StandardNo. 22: Rip loglandings.

       Log landings did not appear to be ripped up when they were abandoned.
      The compacted soil in one old log landing (07'1 1'12"S, 142'52'42"E) was
      closely examined and the soil compaction and erosion channels on many
      others were noted.


 Key StandardNo. 23: Remove rubbishfrom log landingsand roads.

       Several metresof metalwinch cable from a tractor bulldozerand an old oil
      filter were found discardedon the side of a decommissionedroad
       (07'07'52"S, 142'50'35"E).


 The company mustensurethat camp personnelare aware that they are not able to
 garden, hunt, fish or erect buildingsfor personaluse on land, river or sea.

       Several of the WGTC employees were seen fishing in a river near the
       Kisobi logging camp (07'1 3'18"SI142'44'29"E) and land owners also
       believe that the employeesand their dogs (kept at the logging camps) go
       hunting often.


 Excludedproducefromthe Timber RightsPurchase

       From the list of excluded produce (Appendix I ) a breadfruittree (Adocarpus
       aMs)was cut down and left by the side of the road (07'9'28"S,
       142'52'00"E), at least four sago palms (Mefroxy/onspp.)were damaged or
       killed by a felled tree (07'10'25"S, 142'51 '39"E) and bamboo (Bambusa
       spp.) from a garden was removed during road construction(07'09'36"S,
       142'51 '58"E).




1EL4o f Wawoi Guavi Block 3

                                                                                       9


 Incidental losses

 The average number of trees (>lOcm dbh) that were lost during timber extraction
 was higher in the Wawoi Guavi logging operations than other studies on
 selection logging (see Table I). incident loss during logging operations at
                                    The
 Wawoi Guavi were more that 6 times that of the Australian study.


 Table 1. Data from various studies conducted at selective logging sites for comparison
 withdata from the Wawoi Guavi logging area.


  Place                          Average number of trees
                                 (>lo                        Study
                                      cmdbh) lost per
                                 tree extracted

  Amazonia, Brazil                           4.9             Uhl&Viena (1989)
  Kalimaiitan, Indonesia                     5.7             Abdulhadi et al. (1981)
  Queensland, Australia                      2.7             Croine et a1(1992)
  Sabah, Malaysia                           15.6             Nicholson (1958)
  Wawoi Guavi, PNG                          16.7             This study (1999)




 Damage from roads and log landings

 It was observed that the WGTC had ignored many of the key standards from the
 PNG Logging Code of Practicewhen constructing,maintainingand
 decommissioning roads and log landings. Newly constructed roads in Block 3
 were often wider than 40 metres,while the width of some of the older roads in
 Blocks 2 and 3 were more than 3 times the allowable limit (ie. 125 metres wide at
 07'1 0'25"S, 142'51 '39"E). During road and log landing construction, trees were
 frequently pushed into the forest ratherthan felled towards roads or clearings.
 Furthermore, when roads and log landingswere decommissionedthe soil was
 not ripped and remained compacted. At other logging sites in PNG Lamb (1990)
 reports that forest regrowth was poor and stunted unless soil was deeply ripped
 by bulldozers at the completion of logging.The absence of active
 decommissioning practices will retard forest regeneration,while poor
 construction and maintenance practices have increasedthe incidental tree loss
 and disturbed large sections of the forest canopy.

1EW of Wawoi GuaviBlock 3                                                                 1

                                                                                   10




 Fire damage

 Roadside fires spread more than 100 metres into the forest and killed many trees
 during the 1997 droughts. Rainforesttrees generally have a low tolerance to fire
 and the long-term regenerationof rainforests depends on the exclusion of wildfire
 (Lamb 1990). Fire preventionis one of the key strategies in the WGTC
 environmental plan (1988) yet the fires, which burnt many hectares of forest in
 Wawoi Guavi TRP, were lit by the company to keepthe roadside vegetation
 down. By burning roadside vegetation during a drought the WGTC has not
 ensured that its environmental strategies were followed and has damaged the
 regeneration capacity of the forest.


 Soil erosion

 Soil erosion affects the water quality of streams by increasing nutrient levels and
 turbidity. By logging into streams, not using a rollerto compact road surfaces nor
 using rot resistant material in bridge construction, the WGTC has allowed
 excessive quantities of soil into many of the streams. Long-term effects are hard
 to predict, but in the short term the flora and fauna in many streams will be
 negatively affected, as they are generally adapted to low levels of nutrients and
 low turbidity.


 Logging damage - comparisons with other studies

 The problems associated with inventorywork in rainforest logging sites are
 rarely, if ever, properly addressed. In gathering the data in Table Ithere
 appeared to be an array of methods and little analysis of sampling biases.
 Nevertheless the data are probably robust enoughto accept the observation of
 relatively high incidental losses at the Wawoi Guavi timber area in comparison
 with the other studies. This appears to be the result of poor management
 practices rather than any significant difference between forests. Particularly, by
 not logging towards gaps, road or tracks, and bulldozerscircling logged trees,
 incidental losses would have increased.The only study that had similar levels of
 incidental losses was conducted in 1958 (see Table 1)when logging guidelines
 were not carefully regulated.The end result of the present management
 practices in Wawoi Guavi Block 3 is that fewer potentialtimber trees are kept to
 ensure sustainable long term harvests in this forest.




1EIA of Wawoi GuaviBlock 3

                                                                                   11




Damage to excludedproduce

Sago is a very important building material and the staple food for many of the
landowners in this region. Paijmans (1976) suggests that harvesting sago for
food and building causes little damage to the environment, as only the stems
about to flower are removed.As this species takes up to 15 years to mature, the
loss of many plants due to poor logging practices representquite a loss to the
landowners. If the WGTC had followed the loggingguidelines, there should have
been 100-metre buffer around each swamp and the timber trees should have
been felled in the opposite direction. Furthermore,as sago is listed in the
excluded produce section of the TRP, the WGTC has been particularly negligent
in damaging these palms.

Breadfruit, Artocarpus altilis, is an extremely importantfruit tree and wild plants
are often individually owned and tended (Paijmans 1976). Inthe rainforest the
large and unique leaves of breadfruittree make it difficult for it to be mistaken as
a different species. Therefore, although only one breadfruittree was seen cut
down, it represents another significant act of negligenceon the part of the
WGTC.


Effects on wildlife

While selective logging directly harms some wildlife, others are endangered by
the hunting that follows. Particularly, populationsof the larger birds such as
cassowaries (Casuarius spp.) and hornbills (Aceros spp.) are reduced with the
increased use of logging roads and shotguns (Lamb 1990). Furthermore, canopy
and understorey birds are known to decrease in numberswithin a disturbed
habitat (Driscoll 1985). Illegal hunting by WGTC employeeswould decrease the
number of birds and animals near the timber camps and may lead to the local
extinction of some species.


Effects on keystone species

Some plant and animal species are critical components in the maintenance and
regeneration of different ecosystems. Becauseof their important role to
ecosystem function they are known as keystone species (Begon et al. 1996).
Figs (Ficus spp.) are one of the most important keystone species in rainforests
as they provide a year-round fruit supply to many species of mammals and birds
(Lambert & Marshall 1991, Nason et al. 1998).The large numbers and range of
animals that visit figs disperse a variety of seeds around the base of each tree.
Figs therefore have a central role in the regenerationof disturbed rainforest sites
by allowing the reintroduction of many different plant species. Fortunately, the
branch architecture, variable growth form and poorwood quality of figs make it



EL4 of Wawoi Guavi Block 3                                                            ,I

                                                                                    12


 an undesirable timber species. Nevertheless,it was observedthat several figs
 were cut down in Block 3 but not taken for timber purposes.They may have been
 logged to make room for timber trees, but the loss of these trees will have
 damaged the regeneration capacity of the Wawoi Guavi forest.

 Cassowaries (Casuarius spp.) are also known to be a keystone species in Papua
 New Guinea rainforests as they ingest and disperse a large numberfruits
 (Lamothe et al. 1990). Furthermore, passagethrough the gut of the cassowary
 removes fruit flesh and enhancesthe germinationof seeds, while faecal deposits
 confer considerable ecological benefits by promoting seedling recruitment (Noble
 1991). The germination of several PNGtimber species are enhanced by
 cassowaries (Lamothe et al. 1990)and therefore the loss of cassowaries through
 hunting will ultimately harm the long-term sustainablity of the Wawoi Guavi timber
 project.


 Effects on landowners

 The loss of sago palms, breadfruittrees and gardensthrough negligent logging
 and road construction practices all represent a major nutritional loss to the
 landowners of Block 3. The activities of WGTC have also increased soil erosion
 and stream turbidity, which decreases fish and crayfish recruitment. Hunting of
 wildlife by WGTC employees has killed a number of animals and some of these
 animals, such as the cassowary, represent a significant economic loss to the
 landowners (Winslow 1977).

 Logs used to construct bridges and clusters, and logs discarded in the forest,
 were reportedly not paid for by WGTC. The WGTC informedthe landowners that            .
 the royalties received for logs were calculatedfrom the number of logs taken to
 Kamusi and not at stumpage. The loss of royaltiesfrom this practicewould be
 extremely large as one small bridge (07'1 1'12"S, 142'52'42"E) contains at least
 56 logs while the observed log cluster had 140 logs.



 CONCLUSIONS


 The WGTC has not complied with many of the key standards and criteria in the
 PNG Logging Code of Practice and has negligently killed plants that are listed as
 excluded produce in the TRP. Furthermore,they have allowed keystone species
 to be killed and roadside fires to spread ir;to the forest. The cumulative effect of
 such a number of poor management practices has compromisedthe long-term
 sustained yield of this forest.




1EIA of Wawoi GuaviBlock 3

 R


 Abdulhadi R, Kartawinata K & Sukardjo S (1981). Effects of mechanised logging
 in the lowland dipterocarp forest at Lempake, East Kalimantan Indonesia.
 Malaysian Forestry44 (213): 407-418.

 Begon M, Harper JL & Townsend CR (1996). Ecology. Blackwell Science,
 Oxford.

 Chrome HJ, Moore LA & Richards GC (j992). A study of logging damage in
 upland rainforest in north Queensland. Forest Ecology and Management 49: 1-
 29.

 Driscoll P (1984). The effects of logging on bird populations in lowland New
 Guinea rainforest. Ph.D. Thesis, University of Queensland.

 Gebia 0 (1998). A preliminary assessment report on impacts of logging
 operations by Wawoi Guavi Timber Company (WGTC) in Block 2 & 3 Wawoi
 Guavi TRP, Kamusi -Western Province.World Wildlife Fund, Kopi, PNG.

 Lamb D (1990). Exploiting the tropical rain forest. Man and the Biosphere Series
 Volume 3 (ed. JNR Jeffers). UNESCO.

 Lambert FR & Marshall AG (1991). Keystone characteristics of bird-dispersed
 Ficus in a Malaysian lowland rainforest. Journal of Ecology 79: 793-809.

 Lamothe L, Arentz F & Karimbaram R (1990). Germination of cassowary egested      I


 and manually defleshea fruit. Papua New Guinea Journal of Agricultural Forestry
 and Fisheries 35: 37-42.

 Leslie AJ (1987). A second look at the economicsof natural management
 systems in tropical mixed forests. Unasylva 155: 46-48.

 Nadarajah T (1994). The sustainability of Papua New Guinea's forest resource.
 The National Resource Institute Discussion Paper Number 76.

 Nason JD, Herre EH & Hamrick JL (1998) The breeding structure of a tropical
 keystone plant resource. Nature 391: 685-687.

 Nicholson DI (1958). An analysis of logging damage in tropical rainforest
 Northern Borneo. Malaysian Forestry 21:235-245.

 Noble JC (1991). On ratites and their interactionswith plants. Revista Chilena De
 Historia Natural 64: 85-118.


1EIA of Wawoi Guavi Block 3

                                                                                14


 Nicholson DI (1958). An analysis of logging damage in tropical rainforest
 Northern Borneo. Malaysian Forestry21: 235-245.

 Noble JC (1991). On ratites and their interactionswith plants. Revista Chilena De
 Historia Natural 64: 85-118.

 Paijmans K (1976). New Guinea vegetation. CSiRO, Canberra.

 Papua New Guinea (1989).Timber Rights PurchaseAgreement relating to
 Wawoi Guavi Block 3. Department of Forests.

 Papua New Guinea (1996). Logging Code of Practice.First Edition. Forest
 Authority and Department of Environmentand Conservation.

 Perry DA & MaghembeJ (1989). Ecosystemconcepts and current trends in
 forest management, time for reappraisal. Forest Ecology and Management26:
  23-140.

 Uhl C & Vieira ICG (1989). Ecological impacts of selective logginginthe Brazilian
 Amazon, a case study from the Paragominas region of the state of Para.
 Biotropica21: 98-106.

 Wawoi Guavi Timber Company (1988). FiveYear working plan 1987-19%. PNG
 Department of Forests.

 Winslow JH (1977). The Melanesian environment.Australian National University,
 Canberra.




1EIAof Wawoi GuaviBlock 3                                                             ~

Figure 4 . The stump of a sago palmkilledby a felledtl




                                                                                           .. ..
                               . -...                           ..... .
                                                                     .          __ -.. .
                                                                                      .
                                -..                                                   . .  . .
J:. I.'\                                                             ,. - ..-.
                                                                       .
                                ... .        .       .. .. ..- --.

                                                                16




Figure 2. Clearing and loggingintoa Class 2 permanentstream.




Figure 3. A Class 2 stream blocked by loggingdebris.

                                                                                                                   17




   Figure4. Fire damagefrom 1997.




                                                                                                                          ,




   Figure 5.A tog cluster under road (comprisedof 140logs).


1! 51.4 of __._IIWawoi Giiavi 13lock 3 l_l--~              -.I__F     _II                                   ~.       _.-l
                                                                                                                      Ii
                    II_   _________I__-__^___.__t__._I__I_I____.___.._.._----1   1__.--
                                                                                      -_...-.-___l____~._,,.I__.__

Figure6. Trees felled intoforest insteadof towardsthe road.




Figure 7. Loggingdebris blocking a Class I stream becausedecommissioned
bridge not removed.

                                                                          19



 APPENDIX1                   1..




 From the Timber Rights PurchaseAgreement relating to Wawoi Guavi Block 3.
 PNG Department of Forests (1989).


 Schedule 6.

 Excluded Produce: clause 6.3 (a) (i)

 Common Name                           Botanical Name

 Mango                                 Mangifera minor
 Laulau                                Eugenia malarcense
 Banana                                Musa sp.
 Breadfruit (Kapiak)                   Attocarpus sp.
 Sugar Cane                            Sacchanum sp.
 Pandanus (Screw Pine)                 Pandanus sp.
 Kanda (Rattan Cane)                   Colamus sp.
 Bamboo (Mambu)                        Bambusa sp.
 Sago (Sak Sak)                        Metroxylon sp.




1EW of Wawoi GuaviBlock 3


                                                                             APPENDIX a0

                              WWF FORESTRYREVIEW
                                      SUBMISSIONS




PROJECT : KIUNGA AIMBAK ROAD
PROVINCE: WESTERN PROVINCE

1.      Backmound Facts

This i s ajoint submission with the Center for Environmental Law & Community Rights Inc.


The Kiunga Aimbak forest project was brought about either by default or by design in 1994. It
started from a Timber Authority (TA) operation but has resulted in a full scale industrial
1oggingoperation.


The project was initiated by Paiso Company Pty Ltd, a purported landowner company
representinglandowners o f the project area. Paiso had the political backing o f the member of
Parliament for Middle Fly, Honourable Cosmas BitanKuok.


The project commenced as Kiunga Aimbak RoadLineProject basedon the needof the people
inthe Middle Fly area for infrastructure) social andeconomic development. They saw the road
as the priority infrastructure to provide and create access to other social, economic and
infrastructural development and services. The Government was money strapped and totally
incapable o f helping. Paiso was incorporated in 1991. It saw the forest resource as the ideil
opportunity for the people to begin with the construction o f the road project from Aimbak to
Kiunga with funds generated from logs cut and sold by road line clearing.


In June 1993, Honourable Kuok and Mr David Kaya, Chairman of Paiso, organised the
feasibility assessmento fthe road.


In October 1993, the then Minister for Forests endorsed the proposal for the road line forest
clearing project.


InNovember 1993, the Fly RiverProvincial andLocal Level Government endorsed the project
proposal.


Then, after the National Transport MinisterhadvisitedAimbak and announced the Government
approval o f the project in April 1994, application for Timber Authority (TA) was submitted to
the PNGForest Authority (FA) by Paiso.

                                                 2


The TA was approved and issuedunder the then Forest Minister, Honourable Tim Neville to
Paiso Company Pty Limited on lgth April 1994, for a period of one (1) year. Upon the
expiration o f the one (1) year period, the TA was renewedfor a further period o f five (5) years
under the Acting Minister for Forests, Honourable Titus Philemon. The TA was to run until
April2000.


Under the TA and other contractual obligations, Paiso was to construct 240 kilometres of road
from Aimbak to Kiunga.


Paiso entered into a log extraction and road construction agreement with Concord Pacific Pty
Limited of Malaysia on 24" October 1994 to undertake the TA and other contractual
obligations of Paiso with the State.


It is now obvious that the Kuinga-Aimbak roadline project was a smartly mobilised large scale
forestry project under the convenience o f a TA roadjine project. The provisions o f the Forestry I
Act 1991on the extraction o f timber under TA for roahline clearing was cleverly manipulated
by the contractor under the guise of a major road project. The member for Middle Fly and the
local principal o f Paiso were either accomplices or mere conduits inthe successful mobilisation
for a further period of five (5) years under the then acting Minister for Forest, Honourable Titus
Philemon. The TA was to rununtilApril 2000.


Honourable Cosmas Kuok secured the approval o f Parliament on 9thJune 1994, for this project
to become part o f Trans IslandHighway linkingKomo inthe Southern Highlands Province.


With such strong political and bureaucratic support from the Parliament, Departments of
Transport, Works, Agriculture and the Forest Authority, TA approval process was hastily
pushedthrough in 1994without due regardto the applicable laws andprocedures.


Itappearsthat the environmentalplanwas also submittedandapproved in 1994or 1995.


2.      Proiect Planningand Management


The project was not a planned forestry project. It would therefore not have been inthe National
Forest Plan or the Provincial Forest P h i . Except for the Environmental Plan which is said to
have been approved (Paul Maliou, OEC) the only forestry guidelines for the operations are as
contained inthe terms and conditions of the TA.


The TA conditions are the standard terms and conditions on log harvesting quota; logging
returns and records; road and bridges; environmental precautions; numberingand measuring of

                                                3


forest produce; right o f landowners; rights of forest inspection and compensation for any
damages, etc.


The TA allows the holder to harvest up to a maximum of 5,000m3every TA. The TA is subject
to review after 5,000 m3have beenharvested.


The TA holder is authorised to export the logs harvested underthe TA.                           I
As the project was allowed under TA, issues of allowable cut within the limits of sustainable
yield, areas of fragile forest, environmentally sensitive areas and conservation set asides have
been completely ignored. The two companies intheir Environmental Planproposal admit that
no attempts were made to determinethe existingbiodiversity inthe forest area.



3.     Legal and ProceduralCompliance


This project has deliberately and completely ignored and circumvented the legal process
required o f a forestry project.


Itbeganby disguisingitself as a major road project through the Member for Middle Fly, Works
Departmentand the Transport Department. Forest Authority was manipulated to grant the TA
without the necessary processes for a forestry project. The compinies capitalised on the
loopholes under the TA provisions ofthe Act.


The Holder Of Timber Authority - Paiso Company Pty Limited is the holder of the TA.
Paiso has contracted all its TA and road construction obligations to Concord Pacific Pty
Limited under a Road Constructions and Log Extraction Agreement dated 24'h October 1994.
Subcontracting is not permitted under the standard terms and conditions o f the TA. Where
customary groups propose to subcontract the harvest o f timber under a TA, they should arrange
for the contractor to apply for the TA (Guidelines for Issuingo f Timber Authorities 1995, pp.4)
TAs are non-transferable under Section 87(4) of the Act. Here Concord Pacific should have
beenthe TA holder, not Paiso.


Paiso a foreign company - Paiso may have applied for the TA as a national company
representinglandowners of the resource area. A company search inJuly 2000 by lawyers of a
landowner litigant showed that Paiso upon its incorporation on 16'h October 1991,'was owned
by only two persons with ten (10) shares each - David Kaya (landowner and chairman of
Paiso) and Philip K.S.Lee (Malaysian and General Manager o f Concord). All of Paiso's postal
addresses, telephone and facsimile numbers are shared with Philip Lee.         David Kaya has

                                                4


merely been a front and a stooge for Philip Lee and Concord. Paiso has not been a landowner
company as claimed (Affidavit of Paul Singi- OS No. 384/2000).


Paiso is not a national company. It is a foreign company once it has 50% foreign ownership
within the definition of fforeign enterprise' under the Investment Promotion Act 1994 (as
amended). Therefore, both Paiso and Concord cannot carry on business unless they have been
granted approval under the IPA Act.        Forest Authority should not have issued any TA
approvals without the required IPA approval. If the companies and their principals have
misrepresented themselves to the Forest Authority intheir applications for the TA, they should
be penalised under Sections 85 and 90 o f the Forestry Act 1991 (as amended) and other such
relevant laws including the IPA Act.


Forest Industry Participant Registration - It is not known if Paiso and Concord were
registered forest industryparticipants before they were granted TA.

The Grant of Timber Authority was unlawful -           First, the grant of timber authority was
unlawful. Under Section 143 of the Forestry Act 1991 no timber authority could have been
granted after 31St December 1993
o f the Act. The NFP has to be drawn up and presented to Parliament under Section 48 o f the
Act.


The TA for Kiunga Aimbak was first issued by Minister Tim Neville on 1St" April 1994, about
two years before the NFP was preparedinMay 1996. It is not known ifthe plan was presented       I
to Parliament. Obviously then, ifthe TA was issued after 31StDecember 1993, and before the
NFP has been drawn up and presented to Parliament, it would be unlawful. There would not
have been a valid grant of TA. Any subsequent renewals of such TA would in themselves be
unlawful, bc&&-t-he--              -
                                   The Act &does      not allow for             .the renowal of`
Timber Authorities.


The Forest Authority has therefore allowed and has all this time been sitting on an unlawful TA
operation by the TA Holder and its contractor. See the similar interpretation o f Section 143 by
the Ombudsman Commission on page 102 o f its final report on Turama Forest Industries
(August 1997).


Timber Authority was not approvedby the AppropriateAuthority-TA No. 024 dated ISth
April 1994, was signedby Regional Forest Inspector, Mr Andrew Tagamagau as a delegate of
the National Forest Boardunder Section 143 o f the Act.


The Forest Authority should not have used the excuse of the non-availability o f a National
Forest Plan to have usurped the powers and process stipulated under the Act to issue the TA

                                                5


under the transitional provisions o f Section 143. These provisions only applied to the extension
          permits and licenses. The processing and grant o f TA for new projects such as this
should have gone through the requirements o f the TA process under the Act, which should have
             hthe ProvincialForestMinister of WesternProvince.


Again the subsequent approvals for renewals o f the TA in April 1995 (by Minister Titus
Philemon) and in September 1997 by both Dr. FabianPok (then Forest Minister) and Mr.Guao
Zurenuoc (former Managing Director) have also usurped and circumvented the powers and
processes for the grant of TAs under the Act. TA renewals are not allowed under the Act.
There is no provisioninthe Act for TA renewals. Once a granted TA expires, the Holder of the
expired or expiring TA should apply for a new one and the application will have to be
processed and granted in accordance with the Act. The National Minister for Forest and the
Managing Director do not have power to grant or renew TA. TA can only be granted by the
Provincial Minister for Forest uponthe recommendation of the PFMC and consent o f the Board
(Section 87).


Allowable Cuts -The TA for this project allowed a harvest rate o f 5,000m3 for each TA to be
reviewed after each 5,000m3 has beenharvested. This appears to -=-that              there would be I
successive renewals o f a 5,000m3 allowable cut TAs untilthe 240km road is completed.


The guidelines for the roadline clearance sets the maximum length o f road corridor clearing to
be permitted at any one time at 5km along a corridor o f not more than 40m width. There has
been report o f a cut and run operation o f an extraction rate o f more than 5,000m3 every month.
The companies have been allowed by Forestry to harvest on 1,000 metres (1km) on either side
o f the road well inexcess o f the 40 metres width providedunder the guidelines. They have also
been cutting adjacent areas to the lkm roadsides to make up the total volume they were unable
to obtain from the approved lkm area. The harvest quota has been 210,000m3 per annum
which is about 17,500m3 per month. It has also been claimed that the companies have been
allowed additional 2 km on either sides o f the road (letter by N F S Officer, Tunou Sabuin dated
29thJanuary 1998, to General Manager ofN F S recommending suspension).


The Forest Authority appears to have gone against its own TA guidelines on road line clearing
by allowing an allowable cut beyond the rate stipulated under the guidelines. Clearly, the
project has not been a genuine road project. Forest Authority has now found itself incapable of
complying with and enforcing the forestry laws, processes and guidelines.


Landowners Consultation and Consent - We have not sighted evidence of any landowners
mobilisation, awareness, consultation and consent. Section 88(2)(c)(vi)(vii)    of the Act requires
verification o f ownership and written consent o f landowners. In the absence of incorporated
land groups (ILGS), the guidelines on TA (clause 6.3) prov.ides for clan agency agreements as

                                                 6


the basis for landowners consent. The clan agency agreementsmustbe signedinthe village in
the presence of all villagers, village court magistrate and land court mediators, and the NFS
staff should undertake a site visit to confirm that the consent was properly obtained. We doubt
this process has been satisfied. Inthe first place, Pasio Company Pty Ltd was misrepresented
as a genuine landowners company, when it was not. It appears the entire proposal and the TA
applicationwas perpetrated by Philip Lee, takingDavid Kaya around as a mask for landowners.         I

FinancialBenefits- Unlikethe timber permits, royalty for landowners are not fixed under a
TA. Under the guidelines for TAs, royalty equivalent payments are fixed in the sale and
purchase agreement between the landowners and the con.trtractors. Under the revenue system,
the proposed royalty equivalent for road line clearance is a gross o f K1O.OO on all logs scaled
(regardless o fwhether or not the logs from the harvest are exported), K5.50 payable to PNGFA
operations levy and K1.50 (on all logs exported) as log export surveillance levy. The K1O.OO
royalty equivalent i s shared with the provincial government getting 15% and 5% withholding
tax to the Internal Revenue Commission.         In other words, of every K1O.OO from all the
harvestedand scaled logs, K1.50 goesto the provincial government, K0.43 goes to the IRC and
the balance of about K8.00 goes to the landowners.


Under the road constructions and log extraction agreement, Paiso and Concord agreed that for
all trees over 44cm                                  k royalty for all premiumspecies were to be
at K4.50m3 and non-premiu                             N o royalty rate i s specified inthe terms and
conditions o f the TA except to say that royalty means monies paid for the harvesting o f every
cubic metre o f logs by the company or as is shown in schedule 1 (not sighted on the copy
checked). The only financial benefits package i s as stipulated inthe Road Construction and log
Extraction Agreement and the Environment Plan Concord prepared and submitted to the
Government. How much the Government is benefiting from the premium and various levies is
a matter for it to determine. As far as some landowners are concerned, the companies have not
lived up to their promises. Concord has been paying landowners royalties well below the
royalty equivalent rate o f K10m3 set under the TA Guidelines. Landowners have been paid
K2.40m3 and K3.60m3. Forest Authority Officers have not been monitoring these payments
although they are requiredto do so under the TA Guidelines. Concord i s also claimed to be
exportingpremiumspecies as non-premium species (Pa                                      000).


4.      Lackof Monitoringand Enforcement


There has been total lack o f monitoring o f this forestry project after the grant o f the TA by the
Forest Authority and the approval o f the Environment Plan by the Department o f Environment
& Conservation (now OEC).          Both government offices had the power under their own
legislations to enforce but have remained ignorant until the landowners and NGOs woke them
upto the reality.

                                                 7



A Complaint about this project is reported to have also gone to the Ombudsman Commission,
which must have prompted the Forest Authority to issue the companies notice o f suspension
and Notice To Cease Operations in 1999. The companies responded by taking out restraining
Orders (OS No. 739 o f 1999) and filed for judicial review on 3'd August and 14 December
1999, respectively.


The landowners have through Paul Singi also taken out court proceedings against the
companies (OS 384 of 2000) claiming damages for non-payment o f royalties, environmental
damage, and restraining orders against the companies from further operations.       The case is
pendingCourt hearing.


The companies have been allowed by certain politicians and bureaucrats to operate in total
disregard o fthe environmental and forestry laws o fthe country.


5.     Future of the Project


Concord Pacific Pty Ltd has already prepared an NEC submission on gthMay 2000, seeking
extension o f its road line clearing forestry project under the same TA for another fifteen (15)
years. It promises to build 240km from Kiunga through to Nomad, Gredrimgas, Wakina-
Noimad. Then another 635km road from Nomad-Wawoi falls - Ali Levame-Mugumugu-
MakapaKawito and connect to Komo in Southern Highlands and Kerema in the GulfProvince
as part o f the main Trans Island/Highlands Highway project. It seeks to finance the project
through a massive 75% export tax exemption for all round logs. The NEC submission is
sponsored by Bart Philemon, MP, Minister for Transport & Civil Aviation; Michael Ogio, MP,
Minister for Forests; Alfred Pogo, MP, Minister for Works & Implementation; and Mao
Zeming, MP, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Agriculture and Livestock. Mr Ogio in
March 2000 overruled Prime Minister Morauta to grant Concord 50% tax exemption when Sir
Mekere was overseas and Ogio was acting Prime Minister. However, under pressure from the
industry, Sir Mekere upon his return overruled Mr Ogio. Mr Ogio embarrassingly conceded
that he acted on wrong advice.


Meanwhile the companies court action for judicial review and the injunction against the
Forestry Authority i s really aimed at buying time for it to secure an executive decision in its
favour at the political level. Forest Authority should instruct its lawyers to move the Court to
immediately vary the injunction orders and to expedite hearing o f application by the
companies. The Forest Authority through the Board should make a strong representation to the
Minister for Forest and the NEC not to approve any hrther proposals by Concord Pacific. It
should be black listed for any fhrther or continued forestry activities in the country. The
country is buying time with the court proceedings to push through its NFP submission of gth
May 2000.

                                                8



The Ombudsman Commission should also be supplied with information to investigate the
circumstances under which the Company ifts pushingits NEC submission.

Forest Authority lawyers should move the Court for orders to prevent the company and the
NEC entertaining any submissions by the company concerning this project andlor the extension
o f the project as wadsought inits gthMay 2000, NEC submission. At the moment there are no
such orders from the Court inboth cases by the Forest Authority (OS 739 o f 1999) and the case
by Paul Singi (OS 384 of2000).



        Conclusion and Recommendation

        Concord Pacific Ltdhas manipulated the system to secure a clear fell industrial logging
        operation inthe pretence o f a road construction project.

        The intent andpurpose o fTimber Authority under the Act and the Guidelineshave been
        abused.


        The landowners have been cheated and denied their informed consent and benefit from
        the project. Paiso Company Ltd was not the landowner company. It was a foreign
        company owned by David Kaya and Philip Lee. Forest Authority has been misled and
        misrepresented into granting the Timber Authority. The landowners did not give their
        consent to the TA operation and Forest Authority did not verify these facts when they
        processedthe application for the TA.

        The TA was not granted in accordance with the Act. The Regional Forest Inspector,
        Managing Director and the National Minister for Forests did not have the powers to
        grant TA. The TA application processes were not followed before the grant o f the TAs.
        The subsequent renewals o f the TAs by Ministers Philemon and Pok and the Managing
                                                                                -  .-*e

        Director, Guao Zurenuoc were unlawful. There is no provision for renewalLunder the
        Act. Eventhen, the Minister and the Managing Director did not have power to grant or
        renew the TA.


        The Forest Authority has failed to monitor and enforce the forestry laws, regulations and
        guidelines on TA. It has breached the guidelines on TAs for road line clearing by
        allowing the company to harvest logs lkm width and more when the guidelines
        provided for only 40 metres on each side.


        Both the Works department and the Forest Service have reported that the companies
        operations have not been in conformity and compliance with the TA guidelines, logging

                                            9


    code o f practice and the Works Department requirements. The NFS has recommended
    suspension and cancellation o fthe operations.


(7) The project has to be immediately terminated. The Forest Authority should instruct its
    lawyers to move the Court to expedite hearing of the case by Concord and Paiso. The
    injunction orders against the FA from taking further administrative decision on the
    project should be varied. Concord is not a member o f the Forest IndustriesAssociation
    and it will not get the support ofthe FIA inits flight to continue its TA operation.


(8) The TA operations has to be terminated because it has been unlawfully authorised to
    operate from day one (1). Forest Authority had no power to grant the TA after 31St
    December 1993 and before the drawing up o f the National Forest Plan and presentation
    to Parliament under Section 143 o fthe Act.




                                                                                        mnh00112.d




                                                                                                t


            The Forest Industry
   .     Moratoriumand Reviews


                      I

         A Submissionto the
Government of Papua New Guinea
                          from

  The Papua New Guinea Eco-Forestry Forum
                     November 2000




 Presented On behalf of:

   Aitape Conservation Programme
   Centre for Environmental Law and Community Rights
    Conservation Melanesia
    East New Britain Social Action Committee
    Environmental Law Centre
    Foundation for Peopleand Community Development
    Foundation of the Peoplesof the South Pacific
    Greenpeace Pacific
    Islands Region Environmental and Community Development
    Programme
    Pacific Heritage Foundation
    Partners with Melanesians
    Research and Conservation Foundation
    The Nature Conservancy
    Village DevelopmentTrust
    Wau Ecology Institute
    World'Wide Fund for Nature


The Moratoriumon New Timber Permits, Extensionsand
Timber Authorities




Executive'summary
This submission is presentedto the Governmentof Papua New Guinea by a
broad coalition of organisations that work for rural community development
and sustainable resourceuseat the grassroots level.
This submission sets out a development of the ideas that were outlined in a
PreliminarySubmission made inApril 2000.
The Forest Industryin PapuaNew Guinea isfrankly in a mess. It appears that
the logging companies are still being allowed to destructively harvest the
forests with no concernfor basic environmentalstandards, infrastructureand
other obligations are being ignored, taxes are not being paid, transfer pricing
is rampant and the Forest Authority is unable to intervene. Bribery and
corruptionstill seem to be the accepted norm.
Against this background the procedures for new resource acquisitions are
being largely ignored with the logging companies seemingly moving at will
into new forest areas. Where there has been an attempt to follow the new
Forest Management Area procedures, the Incorporated Land Groups have
not been properly formulated, the resource owners have not given their
informed consent, DevelopmentOptions Studies are not being done and the
need for full Environmental Assessments seems to be being ignored. Often
an identified logging company is funding or supporting a process that is
meant to end in an open and fair tenderingprocedure.
It is against this backgroundthat non-governmentorganisationsand the rural
communitiesthat they work with are callingfor fundamentalchange.                   t
Change in the way that land use planning is approached, change in the way
that forest resources are allocated, change in the way that the forests are
harvested, change in the way that codes and regulations are policed and
enforced, change in the way that the ForestAuthority operates and an end to
corruption.
It is our firm belief that until these changes have been made and the
structures and capacityfor their full implementationput in place there should
be no further allocation of forest resources or new operations allowed to
begin.
In this documentwe set out our views on the problemsthat the forest industry
is facing, comment on the malpracticeand poor management that has gone
into the development of many of the currently proposed new forest
concessions and set out what we see to be necessary to halt the continued
destructionof valuable resources.


                                                                   Continued




PNG Eco-Forestry Forum Submissionto the Government                 Page2 of 20

The Moratorium on New Timber Permits, Extensionsand
Timber Authorities




In particular we urge that the current Moratoriumon new timber permits,
extensions and timber authorities must stay in place until:

     1. The recommendations from the Review of currently
         proposed forest concessions have been fully
         implemented and systems put in place to ensure that
         the same errors and omissions do not occur in the
         future
     2. There has been a Review of the legal instruments,
         financial arrangements, company performance and
         harvesting practice in all existing forest concessions
         and legally binding proposals and a time frame for
         remediationagreed betweenthe parties,
      3. There
         implementationofplace
                   is  in               an   effective method for
                               monitoring systems and of policing
         and enforcingthe logging code of practice,
      4. There is in place an effective and independent system
         for ensuring that forest management is socially
         appropriate and economically and environmentally
         sustainable
      5. There is in place a funded and defined new National
         Forest Planning Processthat incorporatesthe views of                  t
         all stakeholders, provides a range of management
         options and which istransparent and comprehensive.
      6. The focus of the Forest Authority has been changed
         from one of assisting loggers to access timber
         resources, to one of monitoring and control of forest
         operations in line with truly sustainable forest
         managementpractices

The current Moratorium, Review of Proposed Concessions and the Review of
Current Forest Operations may be the last chance for our forests. We urge
the Government and the Review Teams to honesty confront the totality of the
 problem and not to be content to recommend sticking plasters where major
surgery is needed.


 Sasa Zibe Kokino,
 Chairperson, PNG Eco-ForestryForum.




 PNG Eco-ForestryForum Submission to the Government            Page 3 of 20

The Moratoriumon New Timber Permits, Extensions and
Timber Authorities



Contents

1.  Introduction
2.  Overview of the forest industry
3.  Identified problems
        Government
        National Forest Board
        ProvincialForest Management Committees
        PNG ForestAuthority
        Office of Environmentand Conservation
        Logging companies
        Landownercompanies
        Forest ManagementArea procedures
        Planning process
        FMA process
        Conclusion

4.  Proposed newconcession areas
5.  Conclusions and recommendations
6.  Appendices
        One: Reporton the workshop for PFMC NGO Representatives                    t
               Prepared by the PNG Eco-ForestryForum, August 2000
        Two: Lessons learned through tenderingfor the Josephstaal FMA
                S. Brown and E. Mayer, The Nature Conservancy,July 2000
        Three: Environmental impact of logging operations in Wawoi Guavi
                 Peter Erskine. 1998
        Four: Vanimo - Kilimeri Interdisciplinary Research Report
               ChristenKocher Schmid, April1999
        Five: Listof proposed new forest concessionareas
               PNG ForestAuthority, 2000




PNG Eco-Forestry Forum Submission to the Government                Page 4 of 20


The Moratorium on New Timber Permits, Extensions and
Timber Authorities


1.   Introduction
This submission is made by the Papua New Guinea Eco-Forestry Forum on
behalf of its Membersand Boardof Directors.
The Forum has already congratulatedthe Governmentof Papua New Guinea
on the declaration of the Moratorium and the instigation of the Review
processes. We see the Moratorium and Reviews as an excellent and timely
opportunity to address the difficulties of a troubled forest industry by
undertakinga processof identifyingthe problems,analysingtheir causes and
implementingthe necessarychangesto overcomethem.
The forest industry in Papua New Guineafaces many seriousproblems which
are having major and long-termimpactson a whole range of different factors,
not least the quality of life of the current and future generations of rural
people.
The problems that have been identified include, but are not limited to (and in
no particularorder):
       Lack of information given to landowners before they agree to
       logging (a lack of informed consent)
       Unsustainable logging practices (almost complete failure to
       implement or police the logging code of practice)
       Failure to properly identify resource owners through the
       IncorporatedLandGroup process
        Failureof loggingcompaniesto fulfil permit obligations
        Lack of a nationalland use planningprocess and planfor PNG                  t

        Lack of financial or other benefits from logging to local people
       and their unfair distribution
        Lack of sustainableresourceuse (inappropriaterotation lengths,
        failure to identify and protect representativeconservation areas)
        Failure to follow even the currently inadequate project
        developmentguidelines
        Lack of proper processesin development of the National Forest
        Plan and a failure to adhereto the Plan
        Overemphasison log exports
        Corruptionand a'general lack of transparencyand accountability
        Failureto follow resourceallocationprocedures
        Bad business practice by loggingcompanies
        Failureto implementconservationlegislation
        Total lack of capacity in the PNG Forest Authority (PNGFA) and
        an inappropriatefocus on resourceallocation




 PNG Eco-Forestry Forum Submissionto the Government                 Page 5 of 20

The Moratorium on New Timber Permits,Extensions and
Timber Authorities



It is our view that many of these problems stem from nothing more than a
failure to implement, police and enforce existing legislation and legal
instruments. We also believe though that some of the problems have arisen
from a limited perspective on the value of the forest resourceand the range of
available management optionsand a limitedhumancapacity.
The Papua New Guinea Eco-Forestry Forum is an Incorporated Association
that represents a broad spectrum or organisations and individuals concerned
with rural community development and sustainableforest management.
In this document we seek to put forward in simple and plain language what
our members see as the crucial issues that must be addressed as part of the
Review processes.
We set out our analysis of the Current Situation in the Forest Industry,
what we see us the Underlying Problems, what we are aware of in relation
to the Currently Proposed Concession Areas, and our Conclusions and
Recommendations.
This is a summary document that we offer to the Government in a spirit of
positive co-operation. We hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss
our submissions with you and to meet with the Review Teams. We also hope
that our ideas can be developed with you intoa programme of positive future
action that will bring genuine stakeholders together with a goal of improved
forest managementand rural community development.


2.    Overview of the forest industry                                              t

The forest industry in Papua New Guinea has a long history of poor
management, bad practice and dispute. Many of the appalling misuses and
abuses that were identified in the Commission of Inquiry chaired by Judge
Barnett are still rampant. This was frankly admitted by the Prime Minister in
his Budget speech to Parliamentin November 1999.
        "Governance has been particularly poor in the area of
        forestry, with the side effect of promoting corrupt practices
        and undermining environmental sustainability in logging
        activities. The Government is committed to introducing a
        moratorium on all new forest licences, extensions and
        conversions and to proceed with a review of all existing
        licenses, to ensure that proper procedures are followed, that
        logging practices are not carried out in an unsustainable
        way, and that landownersget their share of fair benefits from
        resource use."
Major changes were made in the legislative system for the management of
PNG's forest resourceat the beginning of the last decade but these changes
have not proved to be effective.



PNG Eco-Forestry ForumSubmissionto the Government                   Page6 of 20

The Moratorium on New Timber Permits, Extensions and
Timber Authorities


The legislative system is rarely, if ever, properly implemented, forest
management and practice do not conform to the set standards and there is
little enforcement of the legislative and contractual requirements that govern
forest management. This situation has been exacerbated by the importation
and imposition of forest managementsystems and practices from overseas.
 As a consequence, the forests are been unnecessarily destroyed, the rural
population is not receiving the development that they have been promised
and potential government revenues are not being realised.
Over the past decade a range of new forest management approaches that we
believe are more appropriateto PNG's unique circumstances have been tried
in different areas in the country. This experience has increased the
knowledge and the capabilityto manage the forest resourcefor the economic,
social and environmentalbenefit of the nation. It provides several new options
for forest managementthat, when combined with existing approaches, offer a
means not only of addressing many of the problems experienced to date, but
a way to broaden and diversify how forests are managed so that resource
owners have more options and so that the sector is more resilient and
sustainable.
We believe that the Moratorium and Reviews provide a unique opportunity
both to make the necessary improvementsto the management of the existing
licenses and permits, and to apply this recent experience with new
approaches through investing the necessary time, energy and resources and
providing a wider range of options to resource owners in the areas yet to be
allocated.
Our challenge is to ensure that the necessary will and the necessary capacity      t

is there to make this happen. By taking advantage of the international
assistance being offered by donors, institutions and new investors, and by
working together, we think we can achieve this.


 3.     Identifiedproblems

The problems in forest resource managementare numerous and permeate all
 levels of the management structure. This story, from a visit in 1998 to the
 proposed Cape Bogan FMA in East New Britain Province, illustrates some of
 the problems and is typical.
         `.We visited the villages of Wawas, Taintop, Sampun,
          Kalampun and Guma in the proposed Cape Bogun FMA. In
         each community the stories we heard were the same. A
          Forest Authority officer from Pomio had recently visited the
         villages together with representatives from the Balakoma
          landowner company and Niugini lumber from the adjoining
         Cape Orford TRP.



 PNG Eco-Forestry Forum Submissionto the Government                 Page7 of 20

The Moratorium on New Timber Permits, Extensions and
Timber Authorities



        The villagers had been urged to allow the company to come
        and log on their land under an extension to the Cape Orford
        TRP. The proposal was that 30% of royalties would be paid
        to Balakomaas the permit holder. In Taintop maps had been
        shown to the communities indicating that their land was
        already within the TRP boundary. All the communities had
        been told that they had to make a quick decision as the law
        would change in 2000 and the opportunity would be lost."

Of course what was happening here is totally illegal under the Forestry Act,
there was no reference to proper statutory procedures and the inducements
that were being offered were untrue (the land is NOT within the TRP
boundary and there were no imminent changes to the Forestry Act).

in some of the forest areas outside the Cape Orford TRP boundary - without
In 2000, on a return visit to the area it was found that logging had taken place

any formal procedwes under the Forestry Act having been complied with,
without the knowledge of the Provincial Forest Management Committee and
with the full complicityof localforestry officers.
Below we try to identify what are some of the major problemsthat are causing
the current appalling state of practice in the forest industry.

Government
It is an inescapable conclusion that corruption is still rife and it is frightening to
realise that some of the major figures who were seriously implicated in the                t
Barnett inquiry (and in one instance, dismissed from office by a subsequent
Ombudsman investigation) are still heavily involved in national politics.

National Forest Board
Conflicts of interest appear to be rife within the National Forest Board. Board
members have shareholdings and consultancy agreements and receive other
benefits that seem never to be disclosed and which appear not to restrict their
involvement in decision making. (ReferAppendix Two)
The ability and capacity of the Board, both as a unit and individual members,
to carry out its functions and follow procedures, must be seriously questioned.
For example, the Board is known to have recommendedthat the NEC ignore
the log moratorium, and grant exemptions for 25 new logging concessions;
this seems to suggest a total inability to understand the concept of the
Moratorium or to appreciate any of the reasons for it's inception. If these
recommendations had been approved by the NEC, not only would the
opportunity to address the serious problems in the forest industry have been
lost, Papua New Guinea would have been in breach of World Bank
conditionality and World Bank and IMF support would have ceased, and


PNG Eco-ForestryForum Submissionto the Government                          Page 8 of 20

The Moratoriumon New Timber Permits,Extensions and
Timber Authorities


Papua New Guinea would have fallen back again into the sort of economic
crisis experienced during the previousgovernment.
The proposed changes to the composition of the Board announced in May
2000 by the National Executive Council (NEC) do not seem to properly
address this problem and in would, indeed, appear to make the situation even
more degenerate by placing the Managing Director of the PNGFA as the
Board Chairman.

ProvincialForest ManagementCommittees

It is apparent that the system of Provincial Forest Management Committees
(PFMC) is failing to function properly or at all. Again there is a gross lack of
knowledge and capacity at a committee level and it appears that support from
the National Forest Board or the Forest Authority is negligible; indeed the
relationship is often one of distrust and animosity.
At a recent workshop, a group of NGO representatives on the Provincial
Forest Management Committees identified what they see as some of the
problems that the PFMCsface. These included:
        General lack of capacity, knowledge and training and support for
        Committee members
        Lack of democracy in PFMC decision making
        Poor reportingby logging companies to the PFMCs
        No compliance reports providedto PFMCsby the Forest Authority
        Poor access to informationsuch as documentation, contracts,                  t

        revenues and payments and company identities
        PFMCs not funded to make site visits
        Lack of notice about meeting times and dates
        No prior distribution of agendas
        General lack of informationfrom ForestAuthority
         Poor standard of reporting by ForestAuthority officers
         Decisions madeby PFMCswithout the NGO Rep present
         Permit holders not beingthe resourceowners
         Payments of `gris moni'
        Logging companies moving into new areas without following proper
         resource allocationprocedures
A full summary of the outputs from the workshop is attached as Appendix
One.

PNG Forest Authority

The PNG Forest Authority appears to be incapable or unwilling to perform its
statutory duties. For example, the ForestryAct 1991 at section 137 says that



PNG Eco-Forestry Forum Submissionto the Government                   Page 9 of 20

The Moratorium on New Timber Permits, Extensions and
Timber Authorities


all previously issued permits must be brought into line with the rules and
regulations of the Act. That has not happened. Ten years after Parliament
declared its intention, the ForestAuthority has not implementedthe law.
Section 54 of the Forestry Act clearly states that Forest Resource
Development should only take place in accordance with the National Forest
Plan, yet many current and proposed forest operations do not appear in the
Plan.
The inability of the Authority to implement the law in itself shows that the
industry and the regulating agencies are in crisis and sometimes out of
control.
In addition the entire focus of the ForestAuthority is concentratedon resource
allocation with no regard to its other statutory functions including compliance
monitoring. Despite numerous instances of poor and sometimes illegal forest
practices, the PNGFA has no recordof enforcing or implementingthe Logging
Code of Practice or Permit conditions.

Office of Environmentand Conservation

The Office of Environmentand Conservation appears to be a non-entity when
it comes to the forest industry, failing to carry out environmental assessments
of proposed operations or to monitor the environmental performance of
existing operations.
The 1998 Environmental Assessment of the proposed April Salumei FMA
was, apparently, the first (and the last) environmental assessment carried out
on a proposed new loggingconcession.                                                 t
The Office appears to be taking no action to support the recommendation of
it's own Assessment that the April Salumei FMA "..should not be logged" and
"...is probably unviable."
Although the Office of Environmentand Conservation has a forest operations
monitoring unit they do not have sufficient funding to leave their office in Port
Moresby and are reported not to have not carried out a site visit in more than
two years.

Logging companies

In practice the logging industry is a bad corporate citizen that fails to comply
with business regulations and has been found to use bribes to avoid taxation
and other rules. See, for example, the front page of The lndependent June 29
2000 and page 2 of The Post CourierNovember 702000.
The industry has had an up-front log tax imposed on it because it has very
poor levels of compliance with the Income Tax Act. There are very low levels
of lawful compliance generally, with regulating agencies not enforcing the law.
The regulating agencies perform so poorly, that the work of checking the


PNG Eco-Forestry Forum Submissionto the Government                   Page 10of 20

The Moratoriumon New Timber Permits,Extensionsand
Timber Authorities


integrity of log exports has to be contracted out to a Swiss company, SGS.
The Australian consultants Fortech, contracted to the World Bank, in 1997
established that the logging industry was grossly inefficient, and that
inefficiency cost about $US15 per cubic metre on average, or per annum
grossly US$30 million, or about K76 million.
The issue of transfer pricing in the logging industry has not addressed at all.
There is a long history of transfer pricing in the logging industry. The Barnett
Report revealed this a decade ago. Several logging companies had extra
ordinary assessments placed on them by the Commissioner of Taxes in the
mid nineties. Currently there is a substantial discrepancy between SGS
recorded fob prices for PNG logs and the fob prices reported by the Japan
Lumber Journal.
In essence Japanese prices for taun and calaphilim in January 2000 were
about US$130per cubic metre. The FOB prices for Japan quoted by SGS for
December 1999 was US$82 per cubic metre. To appreciate the size of this
discrepancy we can extrapolatethus:
logs to be exported in 2000 x discrepancyin price x Kina/US$ conversion =
2 million x 48 x .39 = K246 millionlost in exDort earninqs and un-stated for
tax Durooses.

Landowner companies
Landowner companies have been proven to be incapable of properly
 managing the activities of logging companies and fairly distributing royalties.      t
At the community level logging operations consistently result in
disillusionment, dispute, the breakdown of traditional values and provide no
 lasting benefit. See, for example, Appendix four

 Forest ManagementArea procedures

The Forest Management Area (FMA) procedures under the Forestry Act do
 not appear to have been properly implemented. The identified problems
 include improperly and hurriedly constituted Incorporated Land Groups,
 unrepresentative Landowner Companies, forced, coerced or no consent to
 lands being included within FMA boundaries,no proper DevelopmentOptions
 Studies, no, or no proper, Environmental and Social Impacts studies,
 processes being funded by individual logging companies, and PFMCs being
 by-passed or misinformed.
These problems have been compounded by the refusal of the Forest
 Authority to take any remedial action or to review the implementation of
 procedures in many instances where problems have been identified and
 brought to their attention.



 PNG Eco-ForestryForumSubmissionto the Government                    Page 11 of 20

The Moratorium on New Timber Permits, Extensions and
TimbeuAuthorities


Further there appears to be no proper procedure for resource identification
and mensuration and no analysis of the physical constraints to logging. In
consequence many proposed FMAs are totally unsuitable for logging or
contain accessible resourcesthat are too small for a sustainable commercial
operation. See for example the Environmental Impact Assessment for April-
Salume and Appendix Two.

Planningprocess

The statutory forest planning process under the Forestry Act appears to be
being totally disregarded. It appears that the Forest Authority is intent on
parcelling up all the remainingforest resources in PNG and selling them off in
total disregard of landowner wishes, physical constraints to logging,
conservation needs and statutory procedures. This is the inescapable
conclusion from the 'PNG map showing current and proposed timber
concession areas', see Appendix Five. This map identifies a further 10.5
million hectares of forest for industrial logging with no regard for statutory
planning processes or landownerwishes.
Further, the concept of "sustainable forestry", on which forest planning
decisions are built, in Papua New Guinea is a meaninglessphrase. The "35-
year rotation",    is meant to induce "sustainable forestry" under Forest
Management Agreements. The reality is that export logging targets the slow-
growing high-value tropical hardwoods. Some species take longer than 35
years, or even 50 years to regenerate. Studies have shown that between 60-
75% of these species do not survive the first-cut, and that ancient forests, left   t
untended after the first-cut degenerate in secondary bush.
The 35-year cycle is highly controversial. The term "sustainable forestry has
to be seen in that context. The term "sustainableforestry" needs to be treated
with considerable suspicion when one looks at industrial level operations. It
can be argued that globally, with the exception of one concession near
Manaus in Brazil, there is no such thing as "sustainable industrial forestry" in
mixed species tropical rainforests. Certainly, there is no "sustainable forestry"
in the Papua New Guinea logging industry.

Conclusion

The forest industry appears to be almost beyond reform. What is needed is
complete renovation. Such a renovation would imply major institutional
restructuring, legislative change, change in the tax structure, and a general
cleaning up. The industry is a bad corporate citizen that does not pay its
income tax, and has had an upfront log export tax imposed on it to stop it
cheating. There is no evidence that the industry is improving its compliance
with Income Tax laws, or other laws. What is known, indicates the opposite.
There are a host of other regulatory matters which show poor compliance, or


PNG Eco-ForestryForum Submissionto the Government                   Page 12of 20

 The Moratorium on New Timber Permits, Extensions and
 Timber Authorities


  no compliance. The industry openly interferes in mainstreampolitics.
  What is needed is complete renovation of the industry and the two main
  regulating agencies the PNG Forest Authority, and the Office of Environment
  and Conservation. NGOs have been advocating for the past 5 years that the
  policy emphasis needs to move away from export logging to small and
  medium scale community based or controlled downstream processing and
  other socially and environmentally appropriate land uses.
  NGOs and representativesof government bodies and the private sector have
  been working hard for the past 3 years on national standards and criteria for
- Forest Stewardship Council certification which have now been completed.
  These set standards for socially, economically and environmentally
  sustainable operations which are internationally respected and independently
  audited. These National Standards should set the mark to which all future
  forest operations should have to comply and by which they should be judged.
  Clearly the current industry Moratorium represents one of the last
  opportunities to secure the sustainable management of the nations forests
  and to rid the industryof corruptionand other bad practice.

  It is therefore essentialthat the Moratoriumcontinues in place until:

         1. The recommendations of the Review of currently
            proposed forest       concessions have been fully
            implemented and systems put in place to ensure that
            the same errors and omissions do not occur in the
            future                                                                   t



         2. There has been a Review of the legal instruments,
            financial arrangements, company performance and
            harvesting practice in all existing forest concessions
            and legally binding proposals and a time frame for
            remediationagreed betweenthe parties,
         3. There
            implementation ofplace
                     is   in            an    effective method for
                                monitoring systems and of policing
            and enforcingthe loggingcode of practice,
         4. There is in place an effective and independent system
            for ensuring that forest management is socially
            appropriate and economically and environmentally
            sustainable
         5. There is in place a funded and defined new National
            Forest Planning Process that incorporates the views
            of all stakeholders, provides a range of management
            options and which istransparent and comprehensive.


  PNG Eco-ForestryForum Submissionto the Government                 Page 13 of 20

The Moratorium on New Timber Permits, Extensionsand
Timber Authorities


industrial logging in their area. WWF now have a large conservation project
operating in the area.

Asengseng
This concession appears not to be sustainable under any definition used by
the PNGFA. Much of the area is polygonal karst with slopes over 30 degrees
and therefore much of it is excluded under the rules of the Logging Code of
Practice.

Cloudy Bay
This is a new concession that appears to have been re invented by the
PNGFA. It is to the east of Abau and incorporates the old Robinson River
LFA. It has very little accessible timber in it, and appears too small to be
sustainable.

East Awin
A large concession in Western Province, with the Project Agreement signed
by General Lumber. However it appears that the PNGFA signed the FMA on
top of a prior existing lease-lease back arrangement, which the PNGFA did
not know anything about. Concorde Pacific (Mr. Lee) and Paiso the local
landowner company have got injunctions from the court against the PNGFA
and General Lumber.
To put an FMA into an area when there is an existing lease-leaseback, and
not know about the lease-leaseback, appears to shows an absence of due
diligence. This is probably of great embarrassment to General Lumber who          t


appear to have taken the concession in good faith,

East Collingwood
It appears that the PNGFA put the FMA in without first doing a project options
study, or indeed any serious study of the area. Much of the area is of high
relief and slopes in excess of 25 degrees. There are very large areas of
grassland in the acquired FMA. Consequently the area of accessible forest
appears to be about 60,000 ha and too small to be a stand-alone sustainable
industrialforest.

East Pangia
Not much is known about this proposed concession. On itsface this should
be a downstream processing project servicing the Highlandsmarkets.

Hekiko
This appears not to be a sustainable project as the allocated resource is too
small and there are large areas of limestone karst.



PNG Eco-ForesttyForumSubmissionto the Government                  Page 15of 20

The Moratorium on New Timber Permits, Extensions and
Timber Authorities


      6. The focus of the Forest Authority has been changed
          from one of assisting loggers to access timber
          resources, to one of monitoring and control of forest
          operations in line with truly sustainable forest
          management practices


3.    Proposed new concession areas

We present here an initial outline of some of the problems that have already
been identified in relation to some of the currently proposed new forest
concession areas. A number of organisations are currently engaged in re-
visiting specific areas around the country to collect further information and this
will be presented to the relevant authorities in due course.

Amanab Block 1-4
Sandaun Province. There are questions about whether large areas of this
concession are suitable for industrialactivity due to flooding. It is reported that
the Provincial Forest Management Committee wants to give a concession in
this area by extension to WTK. There is an independent report at
httD://www.qn.apc.orq/fmonitor/reports/vanimo/summ.htm showing that WTK
have a record of poor forest and environmental management.

Amanab Blocks 5 & 6
There are questions about whether large areas of this concession are suitable          t
for industrial activity due to flooding. It is reported that the PFMC want to give
a    concession in this area by extension to WTK. Again                        see
httDi//www.qn.aDc.ora/fmonitor/reports/vanimo/summ.htm

April Salumei
This FMA appears to have been put together without proper consultation and
with severe irregularities in the way in which it was signed - as an enforceable
contract it is probably ineffective.
The resource is probably not sufficient to support a commercial large-scale
operation that intends to abide by the permit conditions and logging
regulations. There is gross inundation and severe slopes. A joint Department
of Environment and Conservation and PNG Forest Authority Environmental
Assessment of the project in 1998 concluded that the April Salumei FMA
"..should not be logged" and "...is probably unviable." Despite these
recommendations it appears that the FMA is still being pursued.
There is a Wildlife Management Area over the Hunstein Ranges and there
are numerous important habitats and ecologically sensitive areas. The
Ambunti Local Level Government have reportedly said they do not want



PNG Eco-ForestryForumSubmissionto the Government                       Page 14of 20

The Moratorium on New Timber Permits, Extensionsand
Timber Authorities



Josephstaal
The allocated resource is not of sufficient size to support a commercial large-
scale operation that intends to abide by the permit conditions and logging
regulations. There appears to have been numerous instances where proper
rules and procedureshave not been followed in the formulation and allocation
of the FMA and the Incorporated Land Group process was very poorly
implemented. The Review Team must investigate who has been acting
improperly and for what reasons.
Particular problems that have been identified include the poor timber quality,
the scattered nature of the stands of commercial timbers and the soil
structure which is too sensitivefor large-scaleoperations.
For further information,please refer to Appendix 2.

Kamula Doso
The PNGFA Board in February 1999 purported to allocate this 800,000 ha
concession to Rimbunan Hijau as an extension of the Wawoi Guavi TRP,
without advertising.
In addition, the Project Option Study appears to have been poorly executed
and drew only one conclusion: this has to be a large logging project. With an
Ombudsman Commission inquiry report pending, the PNGFA was forced to
re do the ILGs and the FMAs.
There is intense lobbying going on to give this concession to RH. There is
also an independent study showing that RH in Wawoi Guavi infringed the
Logging Code of Practice (SeeAppendix Three).RH's performance in Wawoi              t

Guavi is also disputed by some landowners; in particular roading is very poor.
Any Review Teams must receive and consider a copy of the Ombudsman
Commission Preliminary Report which has been completed and is now
awaiting comment from the individualsand organisationsimplicated.

Kerevat Plantation
This appearsto be a complete mess. The declared output from the plantation
is grossly in excess of the available resource and would therefore seem to be
a cover for other, possibly illegal, logging operations.

Middle Ramu
The Landownersappearto be very strongly against industriallogging

Morobe South Coast
This appears to be a fundamentally flawed FMA process: The Incorporated
Land Group Process for the FMA does not appear to have been properly



PNG Eco-ForestryForumSubmissionto !he Government                   Page 16 of 20

The Moratorium on New Timber Permits, Extensions and
Timber Authorities



administered or completed. We also understand that the developer funded
the entire ILG process. Further we are not aware of any developed options
study being undertaken.
We are also concerned that the proper procedures may not have been
followed in the process of PFMC approval of the project before submission to
the National Forest Board.
PNG Forest Products,accordingto the PFMC, have as yet not honoured their
obligations and contractual duties in their other existing concessions and
therefore do not seem to be a suitable developerfor this project.

MukusTolo
It appears that here the landowners did the ILGs but did not do them very
well; many rightful landowners were not included and some non-landowners
were included.
The landowners were "pestered and bribed" at the FMA stage and so the
FMA was improperly acquired. There are allegations that K 10,000 was paid
to a 'steering committee' when the FMA was signed.
These problems have been drawn to the ForestAuthorities attention on many
occassions but they have been unwilling to intervene. Some landowners have
clearly stated that they do not want their areas logged.
There is also the whole issue of the great scenic beauty of the area and the
compatibility of the FMA with the TavoloWildlife Management Area.
Further, the concession appears to be too small to be sustainable either
economically or ecologically. About one third is limestone karst and there are      t

substantial areas of logged-oversecondary forest and gardens

Musa Pongani
Large areas subject to inundation (flooding). Landowners (some Maisin)
divided on the issue of logging or conservation. Some landowners want
conservation. 10,000ha appear to have been tied up in a lease leaseback
agricultural clearance. The PNGFA, again appear not to know about this.
Conservation Melanesia have drawn the conservation needs of the people to
the attention of the PNGFA, but have received rude and abusive letters in
response.

Rottock Bay
This appears to be an example of improper resource acquisition by the
PNGFA. The landowners have disputed the way in which the FMA was
signed, and in particular it appears that areas have been included within the
boundaries without landowner agreement.




PNG Eco-ForestryForum Submissionto the Government                 Page 7 7 of 20

The Moratorium on New Timber Permits, Extensions and
Timber Authorities



In addition it appears that the resource is too small to be commercially viable
or sustainable and the general forest condition does not warrant a large-scale
operation.

South West Wapie

put together. \NTK seem to be pushing for an extension - again see
Sandaun Province. There are complaints about the way that this FMA was

http://www.qn.apc.orq/fmonitor/reports/vanimo/summ.htm

Tapila Wapim
This is located in area of fragile forest (savannah). The PNGFA appear to
have used an extension to give this concession to Forest Management
Services (Jim Belford). Reports from the area include this forest was badly
damaged by fire in 1997, the environmental impact of logging has been
severe; there are real environmental problems due poor forest management
and fragile forests. There is an overlap of these concessions into the Tonda
Wildlife ManagementArea.

Vailala Block 1extension
This is completely new. China Long Kong took over this concession after
alleged pressure from the Chinese Government, because the PNGFA were
about to issue a show cause notice to Shiesi. It has been reported that Sheisi
was restructured and the new permit holder became China Long Kong. There
have been many recentvisits by top PNGFA officials to China.
                                                                                   t


5.     Conclusions and recommendations

Four Priorities for Change

ONE: IN ALL EXISTING FOREST OPERATIONS
There must be a critical review of the legal documents, the financial
arrangements, company performance and harvesting practice in all
existing forest operations.
This must be followed by appropriate action to remedy problems where
they are found to occur including the cancelling of existing agreements
where they are found to be substantiallyinsufficient or illegal.
The forest resources in PNG belong to the people. There is a process in
place for a fair and proper bargain to be struck between the people and forest
developer. That process has never been properly implemented. The reality in
most concessions is that the incorporated land groups do not properly identify
the resource owners. This problem is compounded because people have



PNG Eco-ForestryForum Submissionto the Government                  Page 18 of 20

The Moratorium on New Timber Permits,Extensionsand
Timber Authorities


signed agreements that they do not understand and they are not aware of the
alternative .development options that may be available. As a result the
contracts are often bad commercial deals. The resource owners have not
been properly identified, they have not given their informed consent and they
have signed unfavourablecontracts.
These problems are compounded by financial arrangementsthat are unfair or
not enforced, companies that are poor corporate citizens and unsustainable
and destructive logging practices.

TWO: INALL AREAS PROPOSED FOR FOREST OPERATIONS
A new National Forest Planning Process that incorporates the views of
all stakeholders, which considers the range of forest values and
management options, and which is transparent and comprehensive
must be defined and funded and implemented.

There are many problems with the current National Forest Plan which is due
to expire in 2002. A new land use planning and decision making process is
urgently needed which properly recognises the rights of the people, ensures
the sustainable management of forest resources, includes provision for all
forms and scales of forest operation and properly incorporatesdue regard for
economic returns, environmentconservation and protectionof bio-diversity.


THREE: ALL FOREST OPERATIONS
All forest operations must comply with the requirementsof the logging               t

code of practice and an effective method of policing and enforcement
must be instituted.

The current Logging Code of Practice is disregarded in most forest
operations. There is no effective policing or enforcement of the Code.


FOUR: THE FOREST INDUSTRYMORATORIUM
The Moratorium is an opportunity for change by assessing and
improving the problems in existing forest operationsand by engaging in
a process of re-evaluation in the remaining forest estate to find
solutions that have less damaging social, economic and environmental
impacts.
We would urgethat the Moratoriumshould not be lifted or altered or any
exemptions granted until the priorities for change that are identified
above have been brought to a satisfactory conclusion.




PNG Eco-ForestryForum Submissionto the Government                  Page 19 of 20

The Moratorium on New Timber Permits, Extensions and
Timber Authorities


It is our recommendation therefore that:


There should be no newtimber permits, extensionsor timber authorities
granted until
       1. The recommendations of the review of currently
       ,   proposed forest concessions have been fully
           implementedand systems put in place to ensure that
           the same errors and omissions do not occur in the
           future
       2. There has been a review of the legal instruments,
           financial arrangements, company performance and
           harvesting practice in all existing forest concessions
           and legally binding proposals and a time frame for
           remediationagreed betweenthe parties,
        3. There      is in place an effective method for
           implementation of monitoring systems and of
           policing and enforcingthe loggingcode of practice,
        4. There is in placean effective and independent system
           for ensuring that forest management is socially
           appropriate and economically and environmentally
           sustainable
        5. There is in place a funded and defined new National

           of all stakeholders,which
           Forest Planning Process thataincorporatesthe views
           options       and       providesis range of management
                                                   transparent and
           comprehensive.
        6. The focus of the Forest Authority has been changed
           from one of assisting loggers to access timber
           resources, to one of monitoring and control of forest
           operations in line with truly sustainable forest
           management practices


The Papua New Guinea Eco-Forestry Forum
 16'hNovember 2000




 PNG Eco-Forestry Forum Submissionto the Government             Page20 of 20

                                             THEWORLD BANK GROUP
                                Hsadquadsrs: Washington, DE. 20433 U.S.A.
                     TeI, NO.(2021477-1234 F ~(202) 4778394 T S ~No. RCA248423
                                                         x                            X

                                   FACSIMILECOVERSHEET AND MESSAGE
DATE:            sanuars. 11,1999                 NO. WF PACES:                            MESSAGENO.:
                                                 {including coversheet)

                                                                                FAXNO.:          675 3260273




                                                                                FAXNO.:           1-2Ut-SZZ3308
                                                                                Teiephane;        1-2024982273
                                                                                 bept.!biv. No.: RDV

,-..----
SLI8JECT'.


MESSAGE:

                  DearBrian;


        '   Ihavereceivedyourfaxedletterof28December,inwhichyoureviewsomeelementsof
            ow discussionwhen1was lastinPNG,InNovember 1998.

            ImustsayIwassurprisedtoreadofyourmnctmthatwehavenotresponded10your

            responsewhich, as youwill see, was written onNovembw 13" ,before X lcft RNG:it
            ienerof 1Ob Pjovember, whichwe agreedto do whenwe met. Iattachour written

            shwufd hevereached youa d q or two afterthe 13h E believe this responsed m dcai
            with most ofthe elementsraisedinyour originalletter.

            Iassireyou,mycommitmenttokeepthelinesofcommunicationopenwasgenuine,and
            remainsso.




    Tqnornirsionewthotized by:

    I?you experienceany problemin receivingthistransmission, informthe sender at thstelephone or fax no. listed ab-.


TheWorldBank Group                               LiaisonQffice                      Teleghone:678 323 1366
IIUERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION            PortMoresby, PapuaNew Guinea       Facsimile: 675323 1526
  AND DEVELOPMENT                                Ci- Islaoaer Travelodge How, Suite 102
INTERNATlONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATIQN              PO BOW1877,Port Moresby, NCD, PNG




       DearBrian

       This reply respondsto your letter with anachmtso f 10November, a d also ecr
       eontrcrsationafter ourmeetingwithNGQs a d c o m . ~ t ygmps herr:~nthe Bznk,
       whch 1found cm&mctivt a d encouraging. Iwant to dealin this replyuiththe
       criticisms hstedinYQW laa,butthen 10moveonto s m e wnsn"ive prospeersfir
       C O O ~ ~ we~m yRbe
                    ~     O      zble to engage in. Iam gomgto be as fknk as possibleinthis
       response. inthe hbpethat tkis will set abasis for a SubstaOtivC:e ~ ~ f i a ofgviews.
                                                                                    n   ~
       No&g that Isay k r c should be taken as rigidBmkpolicyor auindicationthat we have
       madeup o u mindson&csc matters, and Iwrxlldbegratehl if youwould trcat t3ese
       *leerions intlC spiritinwhichthey are offued,

       1believethe bestway for meto respondto the criticismswouldbeto addressa couple of
       broad ciaims, aad thmto dealwith some o fthe specific client complaintsyou list.

       iirst, Ithink it isvalid forme topoint our that the Swk hasnotinvesteddirectly inthe
       forests sector o f PapuaNew Guinea, asyet: we caosiderthat the time to do so IS mow ar
       hand. a d we arcconsid-g        a grant aid loanb u dpackageto do so. zin altanariv~
       approach, which we havebeendcvclopbginmmty t s , is to getcertain things done
       via nun-povemment channels, bur as you arewell awarc, there ere Witatioos on the
       capacity availableto do          inthis way, andthere are also issucsofsovcrcienty
       involved.Upt~this pointin b e , our program hasconcentrated~qmn             some inpartant
       policy changes undws&ucnual adjustment !ending.We cannot force govmmcs to
       ~wdcmkercEbmsthey a !not readyto do*we CM #e such leverageandlnnuenceas we
       have t;, do sa, but the outcomewill usuallyno! be the fjllmeasureof changeswe mzy
       havewanted4It is quite true tbatthe Bankhasnotyet contributediaa majorway to
       resource creation. forest rehabilitationor specific commadon activitiesi;r the Bcld we   .
        canonly do kcsch g s under a spmific invesanttt loanandgrantpackagesuchas the
       one we arcnow consicking, Sixudarly,Isuggestit is notreesmableto list itemsand
        rswesof concmto your organizationthat havenotbeendealtwith bytheBankas
        "failms" onour part; clearly, we havenot be= ablc to engageon every issue. anti malt
        probabiliw,we neverwill. We are notthe Covernnrent. We thtnfmeneedto work h m
        priority concerns, anddo the best we.can.

                                           L




It is cmainly not m e that we havei;7?oscd the EW's poticyon financingofconunercid
logginginpTimaii mpicaimoistfarest, inPapaWew Guinea.,or arphers else. n e
only specifk 5eId lwelinvestmentwe havemadeinthe sector basbemavery slcali
invoivemectby ths kternationa! FmanceCorporation(mi: private investnmf armcf ti4e
Ww!d Bank) inthe processingendofthe Work! Wildlife Fwdproject in,Wori, andthis
cmrriaiy docsnot constitute abreachof this policy.

Letmenmn~now to some oftbe specific complaintsyoulist:

Morebriefly, msomeofthe otherpointsrochavenised:

         The Bankd ~ e s t support a 30 year cycle for foresky. We bava acceptedthe
                         m
         useof tbis figureindie past, whenit wzs all that was available. We ;ueaware
              ITTO LTdothershavedevelopedsome mor: preciseresults on
         siiviculturaiand u b iissues reta~edto raurionIengh,We will support
         continuarimofthis work under our hxthccrmingproject, 2ndwe willalso
                                                                 accume research
         httacurrent loggingcodes;
         5upportrhe incQrparatiQl'Lofpcescription~h s t d w


     9   The3ankhasnotbeeninvolvedm eway or anatheranthe m3Xaofeucalypts
         o i localspecies aftema?ives:

         X take it t?x$13.7 miIfionpoverty dieviaZion fkad you refer 10 was the TCDC:
         the Bankmost certainlydidnot ignote the Marta of diversior?o fbds from
         the TCDC, and I understandthat the h d s have beenrestored ;

                                                                                         F'. 7




W h s we met., we discussedthe forest dwdopmcntsidWestemFmvince. Itis my
nnJePsundingL%at&e hovisian compmy may not able to per5um,in itscontract onthe
MercapaFMA. X haveppusedro theFQrEStSAilthonty that ifthey w~shto seek another
participant to providethe investmentbase for tbis area, we wouldbe willi;lg 10help
iocate one, and we would a f c o w e beinterested ininvesti&ig    whzt altrtivea to a
conventionallarge scale loggingapemtio~     wuidbepossrblcthere, Ihavedso made
'inown to the Fcrests Autborky our view that athe K&%ulabosoFX4 are%tfie norm4
procedurefar co,lsidtr;sticmofcontractorsshouldbe followed h u g hthe Board the -
area shouldnot bt: cvnsidmd;323 atmion 'to an mrsting FiVlA hddby b b u n a nHijau,
or aryoae eke. Myunderstandingis that CmswadanJntmationd will ae& to mdve
f u i y quickly ifhey wish to havethek proposalfor this areaconsidcr=d, Iais9
imderstmdthat some follow-up w i directincomejenerarkip hvements maybe
                                        ~
neededmthe aiia, mdwe would be willing to consrdaO ~ ~ ~ O TtoI Ssu~por:these. h
WEWQ~    have, jlllI:have hadco&med so fu is that RimbuaaaHjjauisbuildinga
processing p h t nearthat site. Clearly, itw i l l beimportantto beginwurk on h ~ u e
optionsfor that are& once WrrwoiGuavaTimberslicenseexpires,\n 3002. f believe.
7lease stay in touchonthat issue.

1hopethe above stablishestht basefQr samecaxiriUuddidoguebmvccncs onfonsts
in PNG. Obviously,we will coathueto haveour diffaeaces,but Iactually think&at in
o v d l objectives, we are not far apart, and Ihopewe ciu: work on&at as a bash for
continued interaction.

.-'

   The World Bank                                                   1818H Street N W                (202)477-1234
   INTEHIW32L4L BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT              Washington, D C. 20433          Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
   INFERNATIONALCEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                             U S A                           Cable Address: INDEVAS




                                                                                            July 7, 2000



               Mr.BrianBrunton
               Forest Specialist
               Green PeacePNGand Pacific
               P. 0.Box 48
               UNIVERSITY            L
               Waigani, NCD
               PapuaNew Guinea


               Dear Brian,

                                              Forestry SectorMoratorium

                       Thank you for your recent noteson the moratoriumon new logging projects,
                as agreed betweenus and the Government in connectionwith the Bank's Structural
                Adjustment Loan.

                        Under a SAL, it is essentialthat only those actions that a Governmentcan
                comply with duringthe periodofthe loan are required. Inour view, this can cover all
                projectswhich are currently under processingtowards approval, but it would not be
                possible to review all projects which are presently operatinginPNG inthe time frame
                of the SAL-the type o f review we intendwould certainly precludecompletionof
                that number of individual project reviews inthat time. Furthermore,we are not
                convincedthat it would be reasonableto hold up operations currently being
                processedfor approval, for the muchlonger periodrequiredto review all projects, on
                the grounds of possibleflaws inadzferent group ofprojects(i.e. those already in
                production)--especiallysince those operations currently in productionwould not
                themselves be halted, under such an alternative. But neither would it be practical to
                holdup production from all operations, while the complete list ofthem is reviewed,
                even ifthis could be done under the S A L time frame. Sucha courseof actionwould
                end all revenue flows for a considerable period oftime, and would presumablyattract
                legal action from the companies affected, since they are approved operations, inlaw,
                until provenin breach of procedures. Legalactionby companies is much less likely
                inthe case ofoperations that arenot yet approvedby the ForestryBoard, althoughwe
                are not suggestingthat it is out ofthe question.

                        Ofcourse, the Government is entitledto review current operations, and to call
                any found to be inbreachto account and there are a number of provisionsunder the
                Act by which this can be done. Although we cannot speak for the Governmenthere,
                we understand that they in fact intendto do this. Ifthey do, we couldcertainly be
                preparedto help, under the auspices ofour proposedForestryand Conservation
                project or by other means ifnecessary, inthis largertask.


                                             RCA 248423. ba WUI 64145 ba FAX (202) 477-6391

Mr. Brian Bninron                             -2-                                July 7, 2000


        So, we believethat there i s a fairly good possibilitythat review of all projects
will occur inPNG, inwhatever time frame is requiredto undertakethat. The
moratorium as presently designedwill prevent the approvalof some that we (and you)
believeto be quite seriously in breachofthe properprocesses of approval so far, and
inthe process send a strong messageto other operations inthe country. We believe
this will be a highly desirable outcome.



                                           Sincerely,




                                        Klaus Rohland
                           CountryDirector, PapuaNew Guinea
                                East Asia and Pacific Region

M r . Brim Bncnron                    -3-                        July 7, 2000




bcc . Messrs. Douglas (RDV); Kharas, Dhar, EASPR Files (EASPR)


P


                                                          P.O. Box4373,BOROKO       Phone: 675 + 3234509
                                                          NationalCapital District  Fax:   675 + 3112106
                                                          PapuaNewGuinea            Email: celcor@datec.com.pg

                                                                                    Suite 1,Levell, Malangan
                                                                                    Haus, Boroko, PortMoresby




    1November,2001

    The World Bank
    Level 18, CMLBuilding
     14MartinPlace
    Sydney NSW2000
     Australia

    Attention: Mr.KlausRoland

     By Facsimile:051(612) 9223 2533

     Dear Sir,

     RE: LIFTINGOFTHEMORATORIUM ONNEW LOGGING
            CONCESSIONS INPAPUANEW AND ITSIMPACT ONFOREST
            RESOURCESOF CUSTORiLtiRYLANDOWNERS.


     The Centre of EnvironmentalLaw and Community RightsInc., is a group of lawyers
     andfield workerswho havebeenaskedby landowners indifferentparts of the
     country to help them intheir struggle to conservetheir forests.

     The lawyersinthis office have received instructionsfrom landownersalongthe                            t


     KiungaAeanbak Roadinthe WesternProvinceof PapuaNew Guinea, to complainto
     youbecauseof the negligentacts of the Bank inadministeringthe Governance
     PromotionAdjustment Loanof US$90millionto the IndependentState of PapuaNew
     Guinea, see ReportNo. P-7374-PNG7May 19,2000.

     We are instructedthat the Bank haspoliciesto follow and implementthe terms of its
     own agreementswith contractingState's. We also understandthat the Bankhas
     policies and practices to implementthe terms of its agreements. And to lendin
     circumstanceswhere there is anabsence of illegality or fraud.

     Our client landowners have hadtheir landdamagedby illegalloggingalongthe
     KiungaAiambak Road. Logsworth millions of kinahavebeenunlawfully removed,
     and our clients have suffered muchdamage. The IndependentState of PapuaNew
     Guinea uses its policeforce to terrorise our clients.Some of our clients havebeen
     unlawfully imprisoned,beaten and torturedby police,who receive support from the
     loggingcompany in the area.

     The World Bankhas failed to follow its ownpolicies on this loan.

     The loanspecifically says at Annex 1AttachmentA, page4 of 5 that it was a

conditionof the second tranche that the IndependentState of PapuaNew Guinea
"complete independent review of all FMAs, timber permits and geographicextensions
to timber permits".

Further, conditionsfor the payment of the second tranche included"Amendments to
the Forestry Act covering(a) the regulatoryframework for the clearance of forested
land"

Although amendmentsto the Forestry Act were passedinNovember 2000, that if
enforced by the IndependentState of PapuaNew Guinea, may provide some relief to
our clientsinfuture, the State and its agency the PNGForest Authority, have
neglected, andotherwise refused, to take appropriate actionto protect the rights of our
clients. Inparticular, the Independent State and the PapuaNew Guinea Forest
Authority have neglected or refusedto take any action to lift a temporary court order
that the loggingcompany got against the PNGForestAuthority. The effect of such an
interventionwould be to stop the illegal loggingon our clients land.

Landownersfrom the area and lawyerswho have attempted to take these matters back
to the courts havebeenthreatened.

There is no innocentor rationalexplanationwhy this temporary order still remains in
place.

 InMarch2001consultants selectedby the Bank said inan interim report:

 "That the court proceedings must be brought to a conclusion.The substantive issues
 must be finally determined. It shouldbe notedthat the current Attorney Generalof
 PapuaNew Guineahas previously acted in a private capacity for the logging operator
 (Concorde Pacific Ltd) inrelationto these proceedings."

 We are instructedthat this serious situation arises because the Minister for Forests has
 a close connection to the logging company. H e has on at least two occasions,
 improperlygranted to the logging company an exemptionfor the export log tax.

 Further, the logging company was able to get a temporary injunction against the
 PapuaNew GuineaForest Authority. The Forest Authority has not pursuedthis
 action, which inour view, and in the view of lawyers attached to the ReviewTeam;
 couldbe lifted, if the actioninthe court was vigorously pressed.

 We point out to you, as notedabove, that the lawyerwho obtained this temporary
 court order, is now the Attorney General of PapuaNew Guinea.

 We are instructedthat the PNGForestAuthority has in the past used Gadens, a
 multinational firm of Australian-basedlawyers to look after its interests.The PNG
 Forest Authority has access to legal resourcesto implement the law, if it was so
 minded.

 We extract for you the full report of the Review Team on this matter (Final Report
 October 2001, piii) .You will note how the remarks of the Review Team openby
 referringto the case of Vailala Block 2 Pr 3 concession, and how in that case; and ex



                                             2

parte order was used to obtain a court order, to validate an otherwise completely
illegal concession. You will note that the Review Team says that concession was
outside its terms of reference, the concession beingoperational.

Two points are made: one the Review Team was wrong innot examining Vailala
Blocks 2 &3, because the review should have looked at operational concessions.
Secondly, logging companies, the Independent State and the Papua New Guinea
Forest Authority by consent, tacit or otherwise, use the courts to validate unlawful
concessions.

The Review Team said:

 "Whilst ingeneral policies, laws and proper procedures are being observed, there
were four notable exceptions. A fifth example identified was outside the Review
Team's terms o f reference. This i s the Timber Permit for Vailala Block 2 and 3 which
 appears to have been developed entirely outside of due process, but which was
 validated by the Court.. These are:

 The apparent illegal issuance and extension of the so-called Aiambak-Kiunga Timber
 Authority by a succession of Ministers since about 1995. Although the PNG Forest
 Authority has made attempts to close down this project, it has been constrained by a
 court order which bizarrely prevents the Authority from exercising its powers under
 the Act.

 Related to the above, the approval in December 2000 by the Minister for Forests, of
 forest clearing for a 635 km"Trans Island Highway". This i s outside the Minister's
 authority. It was revoked by the Minister after receiving advice from the Board.

 The issuance o f a permission to "set upbase camp and construct advance roading" in
 the Pondo TRP area in2001by the PNG Forest Authority Managing Director in the
 absence o f a Timber Permit or a Timber Authority.

 The issuance o f a permission to harvest logs in the Tuwapu area by the PNG Forest
 Authority Managing Director despite advice from the National Forest Service.

 The latter three are in direct breach o f the Government's current moratorium on the
  issuance o f logging permits. Inthe case o f Pondo, the Managing Director later
  revoked his permission, and his action was duly noted by the Board. Inthe interim
  some 8,500 m3 o f logs with a value of Kina 1.4 million were exported,( Source, SGS
  data). Inthe case o f Tuwapu the Board correctly directed the Managing Director
  (Board meeting 73 o f 22 August 2001) to withdraw the permission given. A legal
  direction to cease operations was issued on 20 September. In the interim an estimated
  13,00033 17,800 m3 was harvested and exported. At current log export prices, FOB
  for fresh logs as at September 2001 is Kina 200/m3. This represents revenue to the log
  exporter o f some K 2.6 million. These are not minor amounts.''

        W e also include the full text of the Review Team's report dated 2001 in full:

        "PNGFORESTRYREVIEW TEAM



                                               3

AUDITING FORESTRY PROJECTSCURRENTLY "IN PROCESS"
FOR COMPLIANCE WITHTHE REQUIREMENTS OFTHE POLICY,
THEFORESTRYACT AND OTHER REGULATIONSAND
GUIDELINES

To: Governmentof PapuaNew Guinea
C/- The Interagency Forestry Review Committee

Office of the Chief Secretary to Government

From:ReviewTeam

Date: 5 March2001

Re: INDIVIDUAL PROJECTREVIEW REPORTNUMBER31

AIAMBAK-KIUNGA ROADTIMBER AUTHORITY (WESTERN
PROVINCE)

AUDIT CONCLUSIONS:

RESOURCE ISSUES:

This project is inbreachof the NationalForest Policy 1991and the current
provisionsof the ForestryAct 1991(as amended) inthat the logging taking
place either side of the road corridor is not regulatedthrougheither a proper
Forest ManagementAgreement or a proper Timber Authority. The project
cannot be considered to be a forestry project inany proper forest management
sense. The project i s also in breach of the Act in that loggingappears to have
movedinto the East Awin Forest Management Agreement area without due
allocationprocessbeingobserved.

LEGAL ISSUES:

At no time since the purportedissuanceof the Timber Authority inApril 1994
has any aspect of due processbeenobserved. This has arisen from matters
beyondthe direct controlof the PNGFA.

LANDOWNER ISSUES:

There has beenno landownermobilisationfor this project.The holder of the
Timber Authority claims to be a landownercompany but is a foreign company
(50% foreign owned). The loggingcontractor ConcordPacificLtd continues to
pay less royalty than K10per cubic meter despite a letter from PKGFA directing
the company tG pay the legally mandated rate of M10per m3 from the beginning
of logging. Landownerscomplainof harassment(including from `Police') and
threats with firearms.

RECOMMENDATIONS (INCLUDING CORRECTIVE MEASURESIF
REQUIRED):



                                        4

That Court action should be taken forthwith to review the Orders permittingthe
logging operations since November 1999.

That any application to extendthe scope and term o f this Timber Authority be
soundly rejected.

That any further application for road line clearing should be properly considered
under the Forestry Act 1991inlight of the Amendments made to the Act in
2000 and certified inJanuary 2001.

Note: The individual project reports summarise the findings o f the Review
Team regarding material compliance issues, and present project specific
recommendations for the consideration o f the Interagency Forestry Review
Committee. Separate reports produced at the end of the review process set out in
more detail the audit procedures applied, and comments and recommendations
regarding existing policies, legal requirements and project development
processes.

 Review of "In Process" Forestry Projects

 Individual Project Report No.31, Aiambak-Kiunga Road TA

 A. FORESTRYAND PLANNINGASPECTS

 The clearing of forested landfor roading development does not require the
 application o f the same sectoral planning and control measures as are required
 for long term sustainable forestry projects under the National Forest Policy
 1991, the Forestry Act 1999 and the National Forestry Guidelines 1993. The key
 issues for road line clearing Timber Authorities are:

 To ensure that the proposed roading development i s consistent with the National
 or Provincial transport plans; that the funds for road construction are available
 and have beencommitted; and that responsibility for road maintenance is clearly
 defined and accepted;

 To ensure that clearing the road line o f forest is undertaken in a progressive
 manner in accordance with the road constructionprogramme, thus protecting as
 much of the forest as i s possible against the potential non-performance o f the
 roading contractor; and

 That the road line clearing and road construction is undertakenin an
 environmentally responsible manner.

 Inthis case the Timber Authority was allegedly issued inApril 1994 before
 detailed procedures and requirementsfor Timber Authorities were developed.
 These requirementswere developed during 1995, and recognised that the timber
 revenue from a road line clearing operation would not meet the cost o f road
 construction unless logging of a much wider corridor was allowed. A maximum
 road line clearance o f 40 m was imposed and supported by a National Executive


                                        5

Councildecision(113196).To be compliantwith the Act, any loggingoutside of
this 40 m road line mustbe under either a Forest ManagementAgreement, or a
Timber HarvestingTimber Authority.

The Timber Authority proceduresand requirements developedby the Papua
New GuineaForestAuthority also requiredobservanceof environmental
standards whichfor roadingconstructionwere set out inthe PNGLoggingCode
of Practice 1996.

The Aiambak-KiungaRoadTA does not meet the current requirements of the
Act intwo key aspects:

I t allowsloggingoutside of the 40 mwide road linewithout a Forest
ManagementAgreement or a Timber HarvestingTimber Authority. The original
Timber Authority documentprovidesthat "harvesting [may take place on] both
sides of the proposedroadalignment". The Loggingand MarketingAgreement
betweenthe TA holder (Paiso Company Pty Ltd) andthe logger (Concord
Pacific Pty Ltd) i s more specific inthat it providesfor logginga forest corridor
up to 2 kminwidth, andthe harvestingof 4,200 m3 of logsfor every kilometre
of road constructed (or a total of 1.0 million m3 of logs for the 246 kmlong
road).

I t does not requirefull observanceof the environmentalstandards for roadingset
out in the PNGLogging'Codeof Practice 1996.The TA document providesfor
 some rudimentaryobservance of environmentalconcerns by requiringthe holder
 to "avoid" certainspecified impacts. Howeverthese obligationsare not clearly
 passedon to the logger inthe Loggingand MarketingAgreement.

 The roadingstandardspecifiedinthe Loggingand MarketingAgreement is a
 "dry weather 4x4" road.A road of this type inthis wet part of PNGis unlikely
 to be usablefor any significantperiods, or to last longwithout significant
 expenditureon roadmaintenance.I t is difficult to see the demand which would
 justify this type of road. Generally this projectis seenas a thinly disguised
 methodemployed by a loggingcompany to gain access to logs for export.

 RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING FORESTRYASPECTS:

 That any applicationto extendthe scope and term of this Timber Authority be
 soundly rejected.

 That any further applicationfor roadline clearingbe subjected to the
 requirementof the Act as amended.

 B LEGAL COMPLIANCE
    .
 SUMMARYOF LEGAL COMPLIANCE:

 Since MinisterNevillepurportedto approve TA No. 24 in April 1994no
 proceduralstep under the Forestry Act 1991 hasbeenduly observed. Ingiving
 his approvalthe Ministerexceededhispowers. Under the Act Ministershave no



                                        6

procedural role to play in relation to Timber Authorities.

TA No. 24 was signedby the Regional Forestry Inspector "as a delegate of the
Board". Under the Act it was the Provincial Forest Minister at that time who
was empowered to grant a Timber Authority. However the Act prescribes a
lengthy procedure to be followed before such a grant can be made. That
procedure was completely overlooked inrelation to this project.

The subsequent decisions by Acting Minister Philemonand Minister Pok to
grant extensions to TA No. 24 are also not supported by provisions o f the Act.
The Act states that Timber Authorities are to be valid for the stated period and
makes no mention o f any power to extend them. It seems that a new application
mustbe madewhen a Timber Authority expires. Inany event there is no
provision made at all for any power to be exercised by the National Minister for
Forests.

Logging operations are proceedingon the basis o f a far-reaching Court Order
made on 26 November 1999. This Order permits the operations to continue
under TA N o 24 and restrains the Papua New Guinea Forest Authority from
seizing logs or delaying export permits.

The current Managing Director and the Papua New Guinea Forestry Authority
 staff have demonstrated a clear determination to see that some controls are
 exercised over this remarkable project. Their attempts to apply the provisions of
 the Act have been thwarted at every stage. The serious ramifications o f the
 project affecting the rights of landowners and the good governance of this
 country cannot be attributed to the current staff o f the PapuaNew Guinea Forest
 Authority in any way.

 NEC Submission 73i2000 (9 May 2000) seeks, inter alia, the approval of the
 NECfor a 15 year extension to TA No. 24. The NEC Submission suggests that
 there are no legislative implications. This is incorrect and NEC should be aware
 that the Submission effectively invites Cabinet to breach the statutory
 procedures that are prescribed in the Forestry Act.

 RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDINGLEGALASPECTS:

 That the court proceedings must be brought to a conclusion. The substantive
 issues must be finally determined. It should be noted that the Attorney General
 has previously acted in a private capacity for the logging operator (Concorde
 Pacific Ltd) in relation to these proceedings.

 C. LANDOWNER ISSUES

 RESOURCEACQUISITION

 LandownerAwareness

 The Review Team was looking for evidence of an awareness package containing
 information explaining the purpose, benefits and otherwise to be expected from



                                        7

the project. This could include general conditions that could be used for all
prospective projects.

The TA for this "project" was originally issuedby the Forest Minister in 1994.
Normally a TA would affect only one small group of possibly one or two land
groups. This TA has gone on for some years beyond the confines of any forestry
legislation or policy.

The TA holder, Paiso Company Limited, fraudulently represented itself as a
landowner company. It is owned equally by one landowner and an expatriate.

It has taken years of operation of PaisoKoncord Pacific before the landowners
have come to realise the extent of the damage and deprivation that they have
suffered. The landowners only became mobilised becauseof the advent of the
East Awin FMA adjacent to the Aiambak-Kiunga "project".

Inthe meetingheld at Kiunga on the 14thof February 2001, inthe presenceof
two members of the review team, the Aiambak landowners denied having been
sufficiently consulted during the discussion phase of the project, nor were they
 represented in the PFMC meetingwhen the decision was made to proceed with
 the project.

 LandownerMobilisation

 Landowners are required to be mobilised by means of the Land Groups
 IncorporationAct. The Review Team was looking to find evidence of full
 participation by landowners in the ILGprocessparticularly with regard to:

 Recognition that the resources are owned by individual land groups and not
 collectives of land groups

 The formation of representative bodies for project consultations and
 negotiations.

 There is no requirementfor Incorporated Land Groupsfor a TA, however there
 i s a requirement to identify the landowners and identify agents and pay royalties
 and other charges. The fact that the TA became a rolling TA extending over 130
 kmmeantthat a large number of landowners should havebeen identified and
 formally involved.

 Complaints by landowners indicate a very unsatisfactory situation. One
 landowner stated that Paiso undertook to register Incorporated Land Groups but
 the documentationwas not completed or not handed over to the landowners.
 One group of the Eiwa landowners finally undertook their own registration. The
 matter i s confused with royalty payments beingmade to different people with
 the same ILGnumber.

 Some additional notes are presented inAppendix 1.

 CONCLUSIONS REGARDINGLANDOWNERASPECTS:

That this so called project has been a disaster from day one.

RECOlLlMENDATIONSREGARDING LANDOWNERASPECTS:

Ifatalllegallypossiblethisprojectshouldbeshutdownandassetsseizedto
reimburse landowners for loss of their standingcrop

Review o f "In Process" Forestry Projects

Individual Project Report 31-Aiambak-Kiunga Road TA Page 0


APPENDIX 1: NOTESONLANDOWNER ISSUES

         On 14Feb 2000 Technical Services and Inventory investigatedthe
          Aiambak Road and confirmed allegations made by landowners that
          Concorde Pacific Ltd was 8.6 km into the East Awin FMA area.

          12Mar 00 Landownerssay that Paiso Ltd is a family company and
          mustbe knocked out of the area altogether. The fact is that Paiso Ltd.
          i s owned 50% each by two individuals, one landowner from nowhere
          near the road and one foreigner, Mr Philip K S Lee, who represent
          themselves and not the landowners.

          Feb 2001One Aiambak landowner leader with pending court cases
          against Concord Pacific Ltd has sought to have Mr Philip I(S Lee
          deported."




 Despite the conditionality as to the moratorium and forest clearances imposed
by the subject loan, illegal logging is still going on along the Kiunga Aiambak
 Road. An illegal extension called the Baramundi Highway is also beingplanned.

 The land rights and property of our clients, as described inthe Review Team
 reports, have been severely damaged by the Bank's negligence in failing to
 follow its procedures and practices.

 The Bank should have insisted that the State comply with the conditionality
 imposed in respect to forest clearances.

 Also, because the Kiunga Aiambak road is a continuous illegal logging
 operation outside o f all laws and regulations and has infact been renewed
 annually, including during the course o f the moratorium, the illegal logging i s or
 will continue along the Baramundi Highway, the Bank has failed to enforce the
 conditionality as to the moratorium on new projects and compliance with
 conditionality that went to forest clearances.




                                       9

The Kiunga Aiambak Road is a huge on-going new unauthorised project that
was clearly in the contemplation of the State and the Bank when they signed up
to the loan agreement.

Irreversible damage has been done to the forest, forest resources and logs have
beenremovedwithout proper payment to our clients at market prices.

Bank officials were well aware of illegal logging on our clients land, they have
beeninformed o f the logging by NGOs inPapua New Guinea. And since at least
March 2001, they have formally been aware o f the illegal logging. Bank
officials chose to ignore the information made available to them. They
recklessly disregarded the rights o f our clients and the economic, social and
environment consequences o f the illegal logging on our clients land. Instead
Bank officials thought that it was more important to process the subject loan,
and disregarded the consequences of making sure that the conditionality was
enforced.

Our clients are particularly worried because the logging is still operational.
There i s no lawful control over the activities of the logging company.

We are instructed to seek your bindingassurance that the balance of the se'cond
tranche of the subject SAP loan will not be paid out-

           1.      Untilthe Independent State of Papua New Guinea puts a stop
                   once and for all to the illegal logging on our client's land, and
                   lands adjacent thereto; and

           2.      That the moratorium is kept in place until a full review of
                   existing concessions has been completed.




 Yours faithfully



   DAMIENASE
   Executive Director




                                        10

     Annex 2


Management Response


                        BANK MANAGEMENT RESPONSETO
                        REQUEST FORINSPECTIONOFTHE
                GOVERNANCE PROMOTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
             TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUANEW GUINEA
                                   (Loan No. 7021-PNG)



Management has reviewedthe Request for Inspectiono fthe Governance Promotion Adjustment
Loanto The Independent State ofPapuaNew Guinea, receivedby the InspectionPanel on
December 6,200 1, and registered on December 7,200 1. Management has prepared the
following Response.


                                                             CONTENTS



Abbreviations andAcronyms                 ...........................................         ......................................................       v
ExecutiveSummary   .................................................................................................................                       vi
I. Introduction ................................                                                                              ............................
11. The Request ...................................... ...................,................................
                                                        .........................................................                                          1
                                                                                                                             ,............................1
111. Bank'sAssistance StrategyinPapuaNew Guinea.                                              .......................................................      2
      A. OverallCountry Context..........................................................................................
      B. The Country Assistance Strategy andthe StructuralAdjustmentProgram.............23
      C.  Governance Issues inthe Forestry Sector................................................................                                           5
IV. Claims ofViolationsofBankPoliciesandProceduresandManagement's Response7
      A. Claims ofAdverse Effects.......................................................................................
      B. Claims ofViolations ofBankPolicies andProcedures.........................................                                                          8
                                                                                                                                                           12
V.   Management'sConclusion                    ..........,..................................................................................               23
VI. Other Mattersof Concernto the Requesters                                        ................................................................       23


Table
Table 1.    Summary of Formal GPAL Supervision Activities


Maps
Map 1.      PapuaNew GuineaForestryManagementAreas andConcessions(IBRD 31736)
Map 2.      Kiunga-Aiambak Road and Forestry Concessions(IBRD 31737)

Annexes
Annex A.    E-Mail from Greenpeaceto Country Director -datedAugust 25,2000
Annex B.    Forestry Act Amendmentsand Gazettal of Regulations from Cabinet Decision
            84/2000
Annex C.    Forestry andConservation Project: Project Design Summary
Annex D.    Letter from Bank Country Director to Prime Minister datedJuly 16,2000 on
            ProposedExtensionof Aiambak RoadProject
Annex E.    Responsefrom Country Director to CELCOR Letter datedNovember 1,200 1,on
            Moratorium, datedNovember 28,200 1
Annex F.    Time BoundAction Plan: Implementation ofRecommendationsofthe
            IndependentReviewTeam
Annex G.    Response from Greenpeaceto Bank Briefing on Moratorium- datedMay 2,2000
Annex H.    Responsefrom Bank Country Director dated September 6,2000 to Letter from
            GreenpeaceAustralia Pacific of datedAugust 25,2000
Annex I. IndependentInspection TeamReport: Project Review Report onKiunga-Aiambak
            Road, Pondo andTuwapu Projects
Annex J.    LoanAgreement: Forestry and Conservation Project

                                      iv


Annex K.  E-Mail from Greenpeaceon Moratorium-datedJune 26,2000
Annex L. LoanAgreement: GovernancePromotion Adjustment Loan
Annex M.  Responseon Claims Relatedto Economic Viability of Loggingand Sustainable
          Forest Management

                       V



          CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

          Currency Unit= Kina (K)
               U S $ l =K3.69
               January 2002

        ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

AusAID     Australian Agency for International Development
BP         BankProcedure
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CELCOR     Centre for Environmental Law and Community Rights, Inc.
CEM        Country Economic Memorandum
FCP        PapuaNew GuineaForestry and Conservation Project
FIA        Forest IndustriesAssociation
FMA        ForestryManagementAgreements
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GPAL       PapuaNew Guinea Governance Promotion Adjustment
           Loan
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
IMF        International Monetary Fund
IPN        InspectionPanel
IRT        IndependentReviewTeam
LDP        Letter of Development Policy
NEC        NationalExecutive Council
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
OD         Operational Directive
OP         Operational Policy
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PNGFA      PapuaNew Guinea ForestAuthority
SAL        Structural AdjustmentLoan
TBAP       Time BoundAction Plan
WWF        World Wide Fundfor Nature


                                  EXECUTIVE   SUMMARY

THEREQUEST

1.      On December 7,2001, the Inspection Panelregistereda Request for Inspection,
IPNRequest RQ 01/4, concerning the IBRD-financed Governance Promotion Adjustment
Loan (GPAL), entered into betweenthe IndependentState of PapuaNew Guinea ("the
Borrower") andIBRD("The Bank").The Requestwas submittedbythe Centre for
Environmental Law and Community Rights, Inc. (CELCOR), of PapuaNew Guinea, on
behalf o f a group of customary landowners inthe Kiunga District o fthe Western Province
of PapuaNew Guinea("The Requesters"). All of the claims inthe Requestrelate to the
forestry tranche releaseconditions underthe GPAL.

2.      The Requestersassert that they are suffering adverseeffects causedby an
apparently illegal loggingandroad construction project on their lands.They assert that the
project -the Kiunga-Aiambak Road, aproject that the Banki s not financing -i s degrading
their landandforest, damaging their culture, and eroding governance, as well as inflicting
economic losseson them. The Requesters also assert that the Borrower has not fully met
the contractual provisions of the GPAL andthat inreleasing its secondtranche, the Bank
would be violating two of its own operational policies andproceduresand failing inits
dutyto follow up onmatters ofcompliance bythe Borrower with the loanconditions.

3.      Thetwo operational policies that the Requesters claimto have beenviolated by the
Bank are Operational Directive 13.05, Project Supervision and Operational Policy 4.36,
Forestry. Inits "Notice ofRegistration" regarding the Request, the InspectionPanel
observesthat the Requesters' claims could also constitute violations of Operational
Policy/Bank Procedure4.0 1, Environmental Assessment.The Requesters claim that the
Bank's failure to comply with these policies andprocedureshas resulted inmaterial
adverse effects, including adverse environmental and social impacts and economic losses.
The Requesters assert that they have previously brought their concernsto the Bank's
attention andthat the Bank's responseswere unsatisfactory.

THEGOVERNANCEPROMOTIONADJUSTMENT              LOAN

4.      The GPAL was designedas a structural adjustment loan(SAL) to support a reform
program preparedby the Borrower as described inthe Borrower's Letter o f Development
Policy (LDP), datedMay 15,2000, addressedto the Presidentofthe Bank.The Bank's
Executive Directors approved the loanon June 13,2000, inthe amount of US$90 million.
The LoanAgreement (Annex L)was signedon June 16,2000, andthe closing date was
establishedas December 31,2001. The loanproceedswere to be disbursed inthree
tranches: the first (US$35 million), followed by a floating tranche (US$20 million), and a
secondtranche (US$35 million). The Borrower's reformprogram was also supportedby an
IMF standbyagreementof SDR 85.5 million(approximately US$118million), US$30
million from Australia, and a US$50 millionloanfrom the Japan Bank for International
Cooperation; all ofthese funds have beenfully disbursed.

                                                          vii



5.        Withregardto the second tranche, there were twenty specific conditions for release
of the second tranche listed inSchedule 3 to the LoanAgreement (Annex E).There were
two other general conditions for tranche release applicable to each o fthe tranche releases:
(i)satisfactory progress incarrying out the Borrower's reform program; and (ii)                        a
satisfactory macroeconomic policy framework. After due considerationo f compliance by
the Borrower with the two general conditions and eighteen o fthe specific tranche release
conditions specified inthe LoanAgreement, anda waiver by the Executive Directors o f
two specific conditions not relatedto forestry, the Bank disbursed the second tranche on
December 20,2001.

6.        Among the twenty-two second tranche release conditions, there were three that
concerned forestry. They address: reforms o fthe forestry revenue androyalty regime;
completion o f an independent review o fpending applications for Forestry Management
Agreements (FMAs) and timber permits; and amendments to the Forestry Act covering
forest clearance, transparency anddisclosure by the Forestry Board, delegation o fthe
Forestry Board's powers, andthe composition o fthe Forestry Board.

MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSE THEREQUEST      TO

7.        Management's response demonstrates that the Bank's activities at issue are in
compliance with the applicable policies andprocedures. As this Response shows, the
Requesters' assertions o f failures o f the GPAL objectives and violations o f the Bank's
operational policies and procedures are unfounded and there is no link betweenthe GPAL
and any material adverse effects that the Requesters may have suffered. Indeed, the Bank
believes that the best way to assist the Requesters inachieving their aims was to proceed
withthe reforms under the GPAL. Inaddition, the forestry-related tranche release
conditions were all met prior to disbursement o fthe second tranche. As a result,
Managementrecommends that the Request for an inspection o f the GPAL by the
InspectionPanelbe denied.

8.        The GPAL was one o f two instruments identified inthe Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) to address forestry issues. The other is the Forestry and Conservation
Project (FCP), which was approved on December 18,2001. While the GPAL was designed
to deal with policy issues underpinningthe forestry sector, the FCP is envisaged as the
vehicle to assist the Borrower inaddressing specific operational issues and to promote
longer-term development objectives. Management believes that the policy objectives o f the
GPAL pertaining to forestry have been met andwill be reinforced by appropriate
implementationo fthe FCP, over a muchlonger period than the duration o f the GPAL.

9.         As demonstrated inthe Response, the Bank has complied with all relevant Bank
operational policies and procedures. Ofthe policies mentioned inthe Request, O D 13.05
Supervision is the only one that applies to GPAL.' The project team for the GPAL included


' OP  4.36 applies only to investmentoperationsin forestryand is therefore not relevantto GPAL, which is astructural
adjustmentloan. OP 4.01 explicitly excludesstructuraladjustmentloans inthe definition of what constitutesaproject
that is subject to its requirementsandthus does not applyto GPAL (thoughOP 4.01 does applyto sectoral adjustment
loans).

                                                     viii


forestry specialists andthe Bank carried out eight full-scale supervision missions and
seven shorter missions or technical visits to PapuaNew Guinea, amounting to an average
of one visit to PapuaNewGuinea by Bank staff every six weeks. Forestry specialists
participated innineofthe missions, andprogress on the forestry elements of the policy
reformprogram was monitored on every mission. Inaddition, consultants to the Bankwere
posted inPapuaNew Guinea on a longterm basis, including a resident project coordinator
who was there untilFebruary 2001 to enhance GPAL supervision. Therefore, the Bank
contends that its supervisionwas sufficient and incompliance with OD 13.05.

10.     The Borrower's overall reformprogram supportedbythe GPAL includes selected
policy measuresreflected inthe LDP. Specific tranche releaseconditions were selectedto
establish milestones for the release of funds while the program was beingimplemented.
Three forestry reform measureswere included as secondtranche releaseconditions. The
Borrower met all three of the individualsecondtranche releaseconditions related to
forestry, to the Bank's satisfaction. Inaddition, the Borrower also met all o fthe other
specific conditions except two, which the Bank's Executive Directors agreed should be
waived, as achievement ofthe policy objectives of the GPAL hadnot beencompromised.
Inaddition, the Borrowermadesatisfactory progressonthe overall reformprogram andit
maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic policy framework. The Banktherefore disbursed
the secondtranche of the GPAL basedon its satisfaction with the Borrower's compliance
with the secondtranche releaseconditions.

11.      The adverseeffects claimedbythe Requesters are not attributable to any actions or
omissions on the part of the Bank. The Requesters' claims of adverse effects are entirely
relatedto the Kiunga-Aiambakroadproject. The Bankdoes not have any role inthe
construction, operation or maintenanceof the Kiunga-Aiambak Road, and the activities
that causedthe adverse effects describedby the Requesterswere not financed under the
GPAL, were not among the policy objectives of the GPAL and were not includedamong
the GPAL conditions. For the most part they were the result of purportedly illegal actions
by privateentities, andthey beganprior to preparation ofthe GPAL. InManagement's
view, to holdthe Bank responsible for unlawful practices carried out byprivateentities
that have no relationship with the Bank's assistanceprogram inPapuaNew Guinea andto
recommend a full investigation would be contrary to the letter and spirit of the Resolution
and Clarifications related to the InspectionPanel.

12.      Management received information about adverseeffects the Requesters may have
suffered as a result of the logging inthe Kiunga-AiambakRoad corridor, andbrought these
concernsto the attention ofthe PrimeMinister inJuly 2000 (see Annex D), advising
against any extension ofthe project. Thepending application for an extension o fthe
Kiunga-Aiambakproject was also reviewedby the IndependentReview Team (IRT).2The



'The  Independent Review Team (IRT) reviewed all pending applications for logging permits as part o fthe
second tranche release condition. The draft report o f the IRT was disclosed inPapuaNew Guinea for public
review inMarch2001 and extensive consultations were heldwith a wide range of stakeholders throughout
the reviewprocess. Thereview process andthe IRT reporthave beenwell receivedinPapuaNew Guineaby
the Borrower, mostNGOsandother major stakeholders. Their recommendations form the basis ofa Time

                                              ix


IRTwas highly critical o fthe project andhas recommended further pursuit o fthe legal
actions already undertakenby the Borrower, commending the present staff of the Forest
Authority for their efforts.

13.      Having reviewedthe information presented inthe Request, Management takes the
following position:

         There was no cause and effect between the adverse impacts described and actions
         or omissions onthe part o fthe Bank.
         The adverse effects claimed cannot be attributedto violations by the Bank o f
         relevant policies andprocedures.
         As there is no linkbetweenthe claims andthe GPAL, withholdingdisbursement of
         the second tranche would not have provided remedy for the Requesters' claims o f
         adverse effects.
On December 2001,the Bank disbursedthe second tranche inresponse to adequate
progress incarrying out the Borrower's reform program described inthe LDP, a
satisfactory macroeconomic policy framework, and fulfillment o fthe relevant conditions
for tranche release, includingall that applied to forestry, subject to the two waivers.

KEYISSUES REQUEST
              IN THE

14.      Besides the claimed adverse effects, there are two key issues that underlie the
Request. The first i s the Requesters' contention that the second tranche release condition
was not met andthe proceeds o fthe loan should not be disbursed. They claim the
Borrower failed to maintain its own moratorium and failed to fully implement the findings
ofthe forestry review presented inthe report of the IRT.The second issue follows from the
first: that inlifting its moratorium on issuance o fnewtimber permits and Forest
Management Agreements, the Borrower failed to fulfill its commitment under the LDP to
maintain the moratorium untilall existing logging operations had beenreviewed.

15.      Completion o f an independentreview o f applications for Forest Management
Agreements, timber permits andgeographical extensions to existing permits (para. 17 in
PartA o f Schedule 3 to the LoanAgreement) was the only disbursement condition relevant
to this particular claim. The moratorium forms part o f the Borrower's reformprogram as
set forth inthe LDP, andwas to be maintained untilthe independentreview was completed
and its findings duly evaluated by the Borrower. The IRT submitted its draft report in
March2001, which was subsequently reviewed by the Borrower andadopted by Cabinet in
November 2001. The Borrower andthe Bank went beyondthe original scope ofthe reform
program and as part o f the FCP agreed that the Borrower would implement the
recommendations o f the IRT through a Time BoundAction Plan(Annex F).

16.      The moratorium declared by the Borrower onNovember 5, 1999, submitted as an
amendment on May 10,2000, and specified inthe LDP dated May 15,2000, was to remain

BoundAction Plan (TBAP) adopted bythe Borrower inNovember 2001 (Cabinet Decision) to implement
reform inthe sector (Annex F).

inplaceuntila review ofallrecent major forest resource permit applications andapproval
processes was completed, and all projects included inthis process were placed on hold
untilthe results ofthe review were knownandevaluatedbythe Borrower. The Cabinet
Decision 84/2000 directed that the earlier decision (Cabinet Decision 99/99, November
1999) needed amendment because it used imprecise language. Invarious stakeholder
meetings during late 1999 and early 2000 the Bank indicatedthat inits view a review o f all
existing operations would be inappropriate inthe context o f the GPAL, as the GPAL
focused on implementing critical reforms necessary to improve overall sectoral governance
as well as carrying out a review to addressthe recent set o fproblematic pending
applications.

17.     The Request claims that "The loan agreement's Matrix o fPolicy Actions ...
includes [as a tranche release condition] `Complete independent review o f all FMAs,
timber permits and geographical extensions to timber permits."' This is not factually
accurate. There is no Matrix included inthe Loan Agreement. The language quoted bythe
Requesters i s taken from the Matrix attached to the LDP, which serves only as a summary
of actions taken or to be taken by the Borrower under the reform program that is fully
described inthe main text o f the LDP. While the main text o fthe LDP clearly establishes
the scope ofthe reviewto cover all recent major forest resourcepermit applications and
approval processes, the summary inthe Matrix does not accurately reflect the actions set
out inthe LDP. Unfortunately, this issue was not clarified ineither the Report and
Recommendation o f the President on the GPAL or the LoanAgreement.

18.     Itwas notpossibleto reacha complete consensus betweenthe Bankandthe
Borrower and all stakeholders on the issue o fthe full scope o f the moratorium andreview,
nor was the text o f the various GPAL documents entirely consistent. Nevertheless, the
extent o f consultations with NGOs was considerable and civil society was kept fully
apprised o f developments with regard to the GPAL.

19.     There will be continued attentionto the challenges inthe forestry sector and the
centerpiece o fthe Bank's continued involvement inthe forestry sector inPapuaNew
Guinea i s the FCP (Annex C). One o f the activities that will be conducted under the FCP is
the review o f existing forestry operations for which the Requesters are calling. The
Borrower also agreed to include a covenant inthe FCP Loan Agreement to implement the
recommendations o f the independent review o f logging permit applications completed
under the GPAL. These activities will follow the Time BoundAction Planthat has been
already adopted by the Cabinet and was made public inDecember 2001.


                                    I. INTRODUCTION

1.      On December 7,2001, the InspectionPanel registered a Request for Inspection, IPN
Request RQ01/4 (hereafter referredto as "the Request"), concerningthe Governance Promotion
Adjustment Loan (GPAL), entered into betweenThe Independent State o f PapuaNew Guinea
("The Borrower") and IBRD("The Bank").


                                      11. THE REQUEST

2.      The Request for Inspectionto the Bank's InspectionPanelwas submitted by the Centre
for Environmental Law and Community Rights, Inc. (CELCOR), located inPapuaNew Guinea,
which is acting on behalf o f a group o f customary landowners inthe Kiunga District o fthe
Western Province o f PapuaNew Guinea (the "Requesters") (see Map 1and Map 2). The
Requesters have asked for "anonymity"; their names andthe locations o f their landholdings are
therefore being kept confidential by the Inspection Panel and are not known to Management.

3.      Thirty-five appendices andthree exhibitsare attached to the Request. Appendix 1
(Names and addresses of Claimants, andtheir lawyers) and Appendix 2 (Map of the Claimants'
Land)have notbeenfurnished to Management becausethey would compromise the
confidentiality o f the Requesters' identities. There are also three exhibits -two videotapes and a
set o fphotographs -of which Management has receivedonly the photographs. It is presumed
that the videotapes are beingtreated as confidential. N o further materials were received by
Management insupport o fthe Request.

4.      All ofthe Requesters' claims relate to forestry. A succinct statement o fthe Requesters'
claims is presented inSection 4 ofthe Request:

"The Bank's disbursement of the second tranche without:

        Maintaining the moratorium;
        Fully implementing theJindings of thepartial review, including the requirements seeking
        the remediation of illegal activities; and
        Requiring afull review of the contractualprovisions of the loan,

constitute[s]

        A violation of the contractualprovisions of the loan by loaning to a borrower, who, with
        badfaith, defaults to implement its ownpromises. Theloan, amongst other things was to
        give the Government supportfor on-going efforts to redresspast policy and governance
        shortcomings in a sustainable manner, with components to improveforestry
        management. There are very clear examplesset out in the body of this Claim above, that
        affect the Claimants land, and other examples referred to in evidence, showing the
       failures of theforest sector generally, indicating the development objectives of the

                                                             2


         governance loan have not been met, and are unlikely to be met, ifthe disbursement of the
         second tranche is completed;

    0    A violation of Operational Directive 13.05 on supervision and monitoring because of
        poor judgment and imprudent lending to a borrower whopromotes illegalpractices; and

    0    A violation of the Bank'sforest policy OP 4.36. Theacts of the Government show that it
         did not implement,follow, adhere to, or is infact committed to, sustainableforest
         management, sustainableforestry, conservation-orientated forestry, or goodforestry
        practice.    ,?I


5.       The Requesters further claim that the Bank's failure to comply with the above-mentioned
policies and procedures has resulted andwill result indirect and adverse effects on them, such
as: (i) degradation o f the forests; (ii)     economic losses estimated by the Requesters using two
different methods at US$36 million and US$81 million; (iii)                   damage to the land, (iv) damage to
the environment including loss o f species; (v) adverse social and cultural effects; and (vi)
damages due to trespass. Furthermore, the Requesters assert that they have previously brought
their concerns to the attention o f the Bank andthat the Bank's responseswere unsatisfactory.

6.       The Requesters' specific claims andother matters o f concern are set forth and addressed
inSections IV andVI of this Response, which deal also withthe subject matter set out inparas. 3
and 4 o fthe "1999 Clarification o fthe Board's Second Review o fthe InspectionPanel."

7.       InManagement's view the Bank's actions relatedto the GPALwere incompliance with
the applicable policies and procedures. While Management notes the reports o f possible adverse
effects on the Requesters, any such adverse effects were inno way connected with the GPAL,
andthere is no cause andeffect between the adverse impacts andany actions or omissions of the
Bank.Indeed, the Bank believedthat the best way to assist the Requesters inachievingtheir aims
was to proceed with the reforms under the GPAL. Inaddition, the forestry-related tranche release
conditions were all met prior to disbursement o fthe second tranche. Therefore, the Requesters'
assertions o f violations of the Bank's operationalpolicies andprocedures are unfounded and
there i s no link between the GPAL and any material adverse effects that the Requesters may have
suffered. For these reasons, which are more fully discussed inSection IV, Management
recommends that the Request for an inspection o f the GPAL by the InspectionPanel be denied.


           111.BANK'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY INPAPUANEW GUINEA

A. OVERALLCOUNTRYCONTEXT

8.       PapuaNew Guinea faces significant development challenges. It is a country endowed
with considerable natural andhumanresources. Yet, inthe post-independence era, despite
substantial donor support, successive governments have not been successful inputtingthe
country on a course toward sustainable growth and development. Moreover, governance and



 The Notice of Registrationstatesthat the Requesters'claims could also constituteviolationsof OPiBP 4.01 Environmental
Assessment, althoughthe Requestersthemselvesdo not explicitly assert such aviolation.

                                                               3


economic management deteriorated substantially under successive governments, particularly in
the late 1990s, as highlightedinthe Bank's Country Economic Memorandum (CEM):2

          ". .. severely deterioratingpolicy environment, characterized by an undermining o fthe
          basic institutions o f government andpoor budget management. The deterioration in
           governance was marked by inappropriate political intrusion inall aspects o fpublic
          policy. There was a significant overhang o fpublic sector debt and arrears, a budget
           deficit exceeding 5 percent of GDP, and, because o f lack of confidence, interest rates on
           government debt that, at 25-to 30 percent, exceeded the cost o f borrowing for major
           firms. Domestic interest payments amounted to nearly 20 percent of recurrent
           expenditures. The previous government had been unable to advance the agenda o f
           structural reforms it had initiated through a program supported by the Bank's Economic
          Recovery Program Loan, and incertain sectors -forestry for one - some o f the policy
           improvements achieved earlier had been reversed."

B. THECOUNTRY ASSISTANCESTRATEGYANDTHE STRUCTURALADJUSTMENTPROGRAM

9.         InJuly 1999,anew Governmenttook office with Sir Mekere Morauta as Prime Minister.
The incoming Government pledgedto work to stabilize macroeconomic conditions, improve the
transparency and accountability ofpublic institutions, and restore relations with international
financial institutions and bilateral donors. It embarked on a wide-ranging program o f governance
reforms. Inits first few months inoffice, the new Government: (i)                passed a supplementary
budget that undertook fiscal tightening; (ii) taxes on various luxury items andon log
                                                         raised
exports, thereby raising the equivalent o f nearly 0.5 percent o f GDP inthe remainder o f the year;
and (iii)   reduced the budget deficit to 1.3 percent o f GDP.

10.        The Bank accepted these initial positive steps as evidence ofthe Borrower's commitment
to restore macroeconomic stability andto work towards improving governance. Indeed, the two
issues formed the basis for renewed cooperationbetween the Borrower andthe Bank. Following
extensive stakeholder consultations3 a Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), covering the period
2000-2002, was presented to the Bank's Executive Directors on December 9, 1999.The
overarching goal o f the CAS i s reduction o f poverty and improvement o f the quality o f life for
the people o f Papua New Guinea. Its primaryobjective is "to assist PapuaN e w Guinea in
improving the foundation for a capable state that can be responsive to its people by addressing
human and economic development challenges ina transparent and accountable manner" - in
other words, an agenda focused on governance reform. With regardto the level o fpotential
financial support from the Bank, the CAS proposeda base-case scenario with a lending volume
o f US$200-250 million for three years, including botha structural adjustment loan-the GPAL,
and an investment loan for the forestry sector. Access to the structural adjustment loanresources



'Papua   New Guinea: Improving Governance and Performance, (ReportNo: 19590-PapuaNew Guinea), The World Bank,
distributedto the Boardon October 22, 1999.
 Consultativemeetingson the CAS were held inPortMoresbyandtwo regionalcentersinMay 1999and involved discussions
with more than 180civil society representatives, including environmentalNGOssuchas ConservationMelanesia, Greenpeace,
EcoForestForum; and WWF; private sector organizationsincludingthe ForestIndustriesAssociation; and individual forest
industry firms.

                                                 4


would be triggered primarily by substantivereengagement with the Bank and International
MonetaryFund(IMF) on criticalreformissues.

11.     Inlight ofthe Borrower's encouragingpolicy actionsnotedabove, the Bank offered the
Borrower assistance to implementits broader reformprogram through the GPAL. With regardto
reforms inthe forestry sector, the mainconcernof the Requesters, the Bank would address key
policy reforms under the GPAL andlonger-term institutional developmentobjectives under the
ForestryandConservation Project (FCP).

12.     The Borrower's medium-term structural reformprogram was framed inconsultation with
the Bank andthe IMF, and i s set forth inthe Borrower's LDP from the Prime Minister to the
Presidentof the World Bank, datedMay 15,2000. The Borrower's reformprogram addressed
two main areas -economic managementandimproved governance. Reformof economic
managementencompassedmeasures to improve fiscal anddebt management, to enhance
macroeconomic stability andto improve the overall operating environment for business. The
strategy for improvinggovernance was multi-faceted, covering: improvement of the functioning
of the Cabinet andthe Public Service Commission; reform of the RuralDevelopment Program;
reduction of fraud, waste and corruption; civil service reform; and improvement inthe quality
and efficiency of service delivery inanumberof sectors-health andeducation, financial
services, and forestry sector management.

13.     Financial support for implementation of the Borrower's reformprogram was comprised
primarilyofthe US$90 million GPAL, providedbythe Bank, and anIMF standby agreementof
SDR 85.5 million(approximately US$ll8 million). Thispackagewas complementedbyUS$30
million incofinancing from Australia, andaUS$50 million equivalent loanfrom the JapanBank
for International Cooperation, along with other associatedparalleldonor financing. All of these
funds have beenfully disbursed.

14.     The Bank's Executive Directors approvedthe US$90 million GPAL on June 13,2000.
The LoanAgreement specified that the GPAL was to be disbursedinthree tranches, the first
uponeffectiveness inthe amount ofUS$35 million, afloating tranche inthe amount ofUS$20
million, andthe secondtranche inthe amount ofUS$35 million. The GPAL became effective on
June 21,2000.

15.     The GPAL was the first operation to support implementation ofthe Borrower's reform
program described inthe LDP. Itwas specifically designedto focus on priority policy actions,
consistent with the Bank's CAS objectives. With regardto forestry, the GPAL was intendedto
be a first step focusing on keypolicy issues. The Bank recognizedthat improvinggovernancein
PapuaNew Guinea' forestry sector would require changing institutional behavior. That change
would entail the Bank's involvement and assistance to the Borrower inthe sector over an
extendedperiodoftime. The Borrower andthe Banktherefore agreedto tackle specific issues in
the forestry sector inthe follow-up investment project, the FCP, which has beennegotiated and
was signed on December 20,2001.

                                                  5

c.   GOVERNANCE      ISSUES SECTOR
                            INTHE FORESTRY

16.     PapuaNew Guinea contains one of the world's four remaining significant tropical
rainforest wildernesses. These closed forests cover 36 million hectares, or 77 percent o fthe
country's landarea, and range from high-altitude cloud forests to lowlandmixedspecies and
mangroves. They constitute one of the world's richest reserves ofbiodiversity harbored inan
intact, contiguous, tropical forest. They also provide the basis of livelihood and cultural life for
the 80 percent o f PapuaNew Guinea citizens who live inrural communities. The forestry sector
contributed between5 and 6 percento f GDP in 1995-1997, the last period for which estimates
were available. The Bank anticipatesthat, through implementation of appropriate policies and
institutionalframework inthe forestry sector, a systemcould be put inplace inwhich shares of
bothtotal government revenuesandroyalty paymentsto landownerscould increase ina healthy
andequitable manner.

17.     Local clans own essentially all forested landinPapuaNew Guinea, under customary title.
Intheory, no major development activity canoccur onaclan's landwithout its consent. In
practice, however, major social and economic disruptions have occurred inthe recent past, in
which large areas of forest were destroyed, primarily by exploitative, uncontrolled logging
operations. Ina context of widespreadilliteracy and inexperienceindealing with outsiders,
individualsrepresentingthemselves as speakingon behalf of the clanhave assisted logging
companies ingaining access to the forest resources. Over the last decade, foreign-dominated and
sometimespoorly managed industrial-scale logging, for the purpose o fraw log exports, was
virtually the only type of forestry activity pursuedinthe country.

18.     PapuaNew Guinea's constitution and its national policy commit the country to
sustainable forest management.However, in 1989the Barnett Commission of Inquiry into Papua
New Guinea's forestry sector concludedthat loggingpracticeswere out of control, irreversibly
damaging forests, landand local communities, anddiminishing biodiversity and other
environmental values. Causes noted by the Commission included:inadequacies inforest
management infrastructure andhumanresource capacity; irregularities inplanning, granting, and
operating commercial loggingconcessions; treatment of the Forestry Act and supporting
regulations as an obstacle to be circumvented rather thanas ameans to ensure equitable and
sustainable allocation and implementation of loggingoperations; failure to utilize environmental
assessment andmonitoringas resourcemanagementtools; andan ambiguous legislative and
regulatory regime for screening andmonitoringof forest development activities.

19.     Some governments inthe early 1990smade efforts to improve forest management. In
1991, PapuaNew Guinea initiated the National Forest and Conservation Action Program in
conjunction with the Bank and other donors. Subsequently, the Forestry Act (1991, amended
1993) was enactedto facilitate establishmentof a sustainable forest industry.Other policy
reforms have included surveillance of log exports, adoption of forest sustainability and logging
code guidelines, establishmentof ataxation structure intendedto provide improvedresource
revenue capture for the Borrower andlandowners, and enhancedlegislative protection for the
independentoperationsof the Forestry Board.

                                                            6


20.      However, duringthe tenure o fthe 1997-1999 government, there were numerous attempts
to undermine and reverse some o f the most important reforms o f its predecessors. These actions
are listed inthe Bank's C E M as follows:

         Avoidance o f tendering processes and scrutiny underthe Forestry Act andrelated
         regulations through the granting o f extensions to existing areas, inone case more than
         doubling the original area;
         Attempts to fast track approval o f new logging operations that appeared to circumvent the
         established procedure for approving new projects andto weaken the National Forest
         Authority by bypassing it;
         Plans to amend the Forestry Act to facilitate the fast tracking o f new projectsjust
         described;
         Plans to terminate the pre-shipment inspectiono f log exports by an independent
         company;
         Withdrawal o f financial support to the National Forest Authority andreduction o f its
         staff; and
         Changes to the structure o f log export taxes that enabled logging firms to avoid almost all
         tax payments.

21.      The Bank hadbegunwork on an investment loan inthe forestry sector -the FCP-before
1997,following the positive steps taken inthe early 1990s. However, it halted project
preparationmainly due to the deterioration ingovemance before the present Government took
office inJuly 1999.

22.      The early initiatives o f the Morauta Government duringlate 1999 and early 2000
included several positive actions inthe forestry sector. The major actions taken between July
1999 and May 2000, were actions prior to the negotiations o fthe GPAL demonstratingthe
Borrower's commitment to the reform program set forth inthe LDP, andwere as follows:

         The Borrower preparedandpasseda supplementary budget inAugust 1999 to addressthe
         burgeoning budget deficit it had inherited and, inthat context, reinstatedthe previous
         forestry export tax regime.
         The Borrower maintainedthe independent inspection service for pre-shipment inspection
         o f log export^.^
         Through a Cabinet Decision (NG 99/99 o fNovember 5, 1999), and clarified inCabinet
         Decision 84/2000 o f May 19,2000, the Borrower declared a moratorium on the issue o f
         newpermits that was to remaininplace untila review o f all recent major forest resource
         permit applications and approval processes was completed, and all projects included in
         this process were placedonholduntilthe results o fthe review were knownandevaluated
         by the Borrower (see paras. 48-58 for further discussion o fthe moratorium andthe scope
         o f the review).


 The latest contract for inspectionservices was signedinDecember2001, for aperiodof 12months.

                                                   7


    0   The Cabinet approved regulations to require non-commercial disclosure by the Forestry
        Boardinrespectof its deliberations on projects involvinguse of forested land(see para.
        61below).

    0   The Borrower rescindedCabinet DecisionNo. 59/97 regarding agricultural conversion
        and road construction projects inforested areas and gazettedinits place new regulations
        to unambiguously establishthe forest protection policies as contained inthe previous
        Cabinet Decisions Nos: 113/96 and 15/97, and inaccordancewith the Timber Authority
        Guidelines 1995. The intent of this was to close an apparent loophole inthe Act, which
        allowed agriculture and infi-astructureprojects inforested areas to clear forested land
        while bypassing the loggingregulations andrequirements underthe Forestry Act.

23.     These favorable developmentsprompted the Bankto resume processing of the FCP. It
was agreedby the Borrower andthe Bank that the project would have four major components: (i)
Landowner Forest DecisionMaking, that would directly assist landowners to organize and
negotiate more effectively onthe managementand conservation oftheir resources; (ii)       a
Conservation Trust Fund,that would provide andcapitalize anon-governmental grant based
facility to allow landowners to obtain financing for conservation-oriented and sustainable
projects basedon their forest and other natural resources;(iii)Sustainable Forest Management,
that initially with the assistanceof international experts would buildcapacity to prepare, monitor,
enforce and review forest operations inthe sector more effectively, with a view to developing
more efficient and sustainable use ofthe forests; and (iv) Environmental Assessment and
Monitoring, that would provide technical andother assistanceto the Office of Environment and
Conservation, and other stakeholders, to develop methodologies for and implementation of
rigorous assessment and monitoringto apply to forest activities. A matrix outlining the FCP
designsummary is giveninAnnex C.

24.     The Borrower hasembarked upona major program ofreforms inforestry. Giventhe
variety, magnitude and complexity of the problems that beset the forestry sector inPapuaNew
Guinea, reform i s expectedto be a lengthy process. The Borrower andthe Bank agreedthat the
GPAL would focus on selectedkey govemancereforms necessaryto lay the groundwork for
subsequent in-depthand long-term forestry managementactivities, which could be supported by
a possible Bank investmentoperation. Inthis way implementation of the Borrower's reform
program supported by the GPAL could serve to develop aninitial track record by the Borrower
inthe forestry sector as abasisfor broader, subsequent support.


IV. CLAIMS OFVIOLATIONS OFBANKPOLICIESAND PROCEDURESAND
                                 MANAGEMENT'SRESPONSE

25.     According to the Resolution establishing the InspectionPanel, the Requester "must
demonstratethat its rights or interestshave beenor are likely to be directly affected by an action
or omission of the Bank as a result of a failure of the Bank to follow its operational policies and
procedureswith respectto the design, appraisal, and/or implementation of a project financed by

                                                      8

the Bank., ,.providedinall cases that such failure has had, or threatens to have, a material
adverse e f f e ~ t . " ~

26.     The Requesters have claimedthat their rights or interests havebeen adversely affectedas
a result o f the Bank's failure to comply with two policies: OD 13.05 and OP 4.36. Inaddition,
the InspectionPanelraises the possibility o f a violation o f OP 4.01, although this claim was not
specified inthe Request.

27.     Inrespondingto the Requesters' claims, Management first demonstrates thatthere is no
connection between the claimed adverse effects andthe Bank's GPAL inPapuaNew Guinea.
Management then analyzes the Requesters' claims o fpolicy non-compliance anddemonstrates
that the Bank has followed its operational policies andprocedures with respect to the GPAL.
Management therefore concludes that there is no causal relationship betweenthe GPAL and any
material adverse effects that the Requesters may have suffered, andthe Requesters' assertions of
violations ofthe Bank's operational policies andprocedures are unfounded.

A. CLAIMS OFADVERSEEFFECTS

28.     The Requesters claim that they have suffered from a range o f adverse effects causedby
the "unlawful anduncontrolled activities o f logging" along the Kiunga-Aiambak Road corridor.
The claimed adverse effects relate to inadequate governance as well as damage to their culture
andeconomic well-being. Based onthese claims, theyrequest that the "Second tranche should
not be paiduntilfull review and Kiunga-Aiambak stopped."                  [Request, Section 2, p. 91

Specifically their requests are stated as follows:

ADVERSEEFFECTS GOVERNANCEON

         "The unlawful and uncontrolled activities of logging companies de-stabilises
        governance. In this case the logging company is able to affect political,judicial and
        administrative checks and balances, to the end that it can log with impunity, along the
        Kiunga-Aiambak Road and thefeeder road known as the `Barramundi Highway. "'
                                                                      [Request, Section 5.1,p. 161

ADVERSEEFFECTS CULTURE   ON

         "The Claimantsfear an impending destruction of their culture ("a kind of genocide '7.
         The evidence of this harm will be given by the Claimants to the Inspection Panel in the
       form of direct testimony on a video tapeExhibit 1[not furnished to management]. The
        testimonies describe:

         1.The emptypromises the logging company made to the landowners to get their consent
       for the loggingproject to be developed on their land.




 ResolutionNo. IBRD93-10, "The World Bank InspectionPanel", September 22, 1993, para. 12.

                                                  9


        2. Thedestruction that has been causedto theforest, wildlife and culture of thepeople as
        a result of logging.

        3. The impact of logging on the social life of thepeople.

                                                               [Request, Section 5.I,p. 161

ECONOMIC    LOSSES

        "Economic Loss. The Claimants'forest assets have been irreversibly damaged by the
        decision to allow logging on their lands, the omission during the currency of the loan to
        remedy the illegal logging, in violation of the laws of Papua New Guinea, and also a
        violation of the conditions of the Bank's loan....The Claimants do not know thefull extent
        of the value of damage to theirforests ....The Claimants have had to gather materialfor a
        valuation of their lossesfiom a number of sources, informally ....Commercial value of
        logs removedfrom their land and the land belonging to other customary landowners may
        be calculated thus: the concession holder exported at least 160,556cubic meters of logs
       from the concession...in theyear ending March 2001.      "


        The Requestersthen offer two estimatedvaluations: US$81 million as the gross amount
        of moneyforegone since 1995 (6years x 150,000 cubic meterdyear x US$90/cubic meter
        average$0. b. price) and US$36million as the net value of the logs (the gross estimate
        reduced by cost ofproduction of US$SO/cubicmeter).

        TheRequestersalso cite entitlement of the Claimantsfor compensation equal to the value
        of the cost of restoring the land to itspre-logging condition (no estimategiven) and refer
        to admittedly not readily quantiJiable costs of environmental damage including: loss of
        plant and animal species, adverse social impacts including exotic diseases and the effects
        of drugs and alcohol imported by highway construction crews; and damagesfor trespass.
                                                       [Request, Sections 5.31-5.36, pp. 25-271

RESPONSE

29.     The Requesters claimthat the Bank's failure to comply with its policies andprocedures
has resulted and will result indirect and adverse effects. However, there is no cause and effect
between the impacts described and actions or omissions on the part o fthe Bank. The Bank does
not have any role inthe construction, operation or maintenance o f the Kiunga-Aiambak Road,
and the activities that caused the impacts the Requesters describe were not financed under the
GPAL, were not among the policy objectives o fthe GPAL andwere not included among the
GPAL tranche release conditions. For the most part, they were the result o f purportedly illegal
actions by private entities, andthey began in 1994prior to preparation o fthe GPAL. In
Management's view, to holdthe Bankresponsible for unlawful practices carried out by private
entities that have no relationship with the Bank's assistance program inPapuaNew Guinea and
to recommenda full investigationwould be contrary to the letter and spirit o f the Resolution and
Clarifications relatedto the InspectionPanel. Thus, the Bank disagrees with the Requesters'
claim that because the period o f the GPAL preparation and implementation partly overlapped

                                                          10


with the muchlonger periodover which the allegedunlawfulactivity hadbeentaking place the
Bankwas responsible for the adverseeffects.

30.      The approval and apparently unauthorized extension ofthe Timber Authority for
Concord Pacific Pty. Ltd.` (Concord Pacific) under the Kiunga-Aiambak Roadthat occurred in
1994 and 1995 took place more thanthree years before the GPAL was first discussedwiththe
Borrower. Legal action by the logging company has stymiedsubsequent administrative efforts
by the Borrower to halt the logging.

31.      The Borrower has attempted(and continues inthis effort) to terminate the Aiambak
operation, by bothregulatory and legal means. The current state ofthe legalproceedings are as
follows:

     0   InNovember 1999, inaccordancewiththe pertinentprovisions ofthe Forestry Act, the
         ManagingDirector ofthe Forest Authority issuedan order to cease operations against the
         company involved, Concord Pacific. The order was issuedonthe grounds of procedural
         errors inthe issuanceof the original Timber Authority (the loggingpermit), andthe
         failure of the company to comply with the terms o f its agreement.

     0   Concord Pacific, the logging operator, commencedcourt proceedings seeking to restrain
         the ManagingDirector from terminating the Timber Authority. InNovember 1999, the
         National Court (the lower court) granted interiminjunctions restraining the Forest
         Authority from terminating the Timber Authority.

     0   The Forest Authority thenplacedthe matter withthe Solicitor-General's office, which
         engaged aprivate law firm to handlethe case.

     0   InApril 2000, the Managing Director ofthe ForestAuthority sought again, through
         administrative procedures, to close the Concord Pacific operation. These procedures were
         basedon the argument that the Timber Authority awardedto Concord Pacific lapsed
         duringthat month. Concord Pacific contestedthis administrative measureand brought
         contempt of court proceedings againstthe ManagingDirector. These proceedings were
         successful, andthe Managing Director was heldincontempt for contravening the prior
         NationalCourt injunction.

     0   Thereafter, the National Court encouragedthe parties to negotiate a settlement. As part of
         the negotiations, Concord Pacific proposed a three-year extension to the Timber
         Authority. This proposal was unacceptableto the Forest Authority. The Forest Authority
         also retained legal counsel to pursue a final determination ofthis matter through the
         courts.

     0   Inearly December2001, priorto the releaseofthe secondtranche, the PrimeMinister
         instructed the Attorney General to join this case, on behalfofthe State.



 ConcordPacific Pty. Ltd. is the PapuaNew Guinearegisteredtimber harvestingcompanythat is implementingthe Timber
Authority on behalfofthe local landowners' company, Paiso CompanyPty. Ltd. While the four listed shareholdersof Paiso are
all PapuaNew Guineans,ConcordPacific is ownedby two Malaysianshareholders.

                                                              11


     0    The Chief Secretary of the Prime Minister's Department instructed the Attorney General
          to investigate problems relatedto the claimed behavior of some police inthe Aiambak
          area and to take appropriate action.

32.       The original license application for Aiambak was lodged in 1994, andwas awarded for
only one year. The Managing Director of the Forest Authority7at the time, and the General
Manager o fthe National Forest Service were aware ofthe dangers o fthis project, andthey
agreedthat this license would not be renewed.However, the Minister for Forests signed an
extension of the Aiambak project license without any prior consultation with these officials.

33.       At the time Aiambak was licensed in 1994, the regulations governing large agricultural
conversion projects and roadconstruction projects -some of which were clearly intended
primarily to reap the benefits of logging the sites without the controls of a normalFMA applying
-wereextremelyweakandallowedthisunilateralactiontogounchallenged.Partofthepolicy
reforms envisioned under the GPAL included reinstatementof a stronger set o fregulations
governing these projects, includingprovisions for public disclosure ofthe Forestry Board
decisions onthe awarding oftimber harvestingpermits andconsultation withlandowners on
suchproposals. As a result of legislative changesunder the Borrower's reformprogram,
supportedby the GPAL, the Minister for Forestsno longer hasthe power to unilaterally approve
applications for an extension or new operation. Instead, the Minister must obtain prior
concurrence ofthe Forestry Boardwhich, inturn, must publicly disclose informationon the
proposed new applications for an extension or new operation, and consult with landowners upon
the details of such applications. The Minister also cannot devolve the powers of the Forestry
Boardto an individualfor purposes of approval of applications for anextension or new
operation, as was the case inthe past.

34.       An application to extendthe Kiunga-Aiambak loggingoperation was part ofthe
independentreview carried out under the GPAL. Therecommendations ofthe Independent
ReviewTeam (IRT)' onthe Aiambak project were that: (i) court action should betaken
                                                                             further
forthwith to reviewprevious court orders permittingthe logging operations since November
1999; (ii)   any application to extendthe scope ofthe Timber Authority should be soundly
rejected; and (iii) further application for roadline clearing should be properly considered
                         any
underthe Forestry Act inlight ofAmendments madeto the Act in2000, andcertifiedinJanuary
2001.



'Pursuantto   the Forestry Act of 1991, as amendedin 1993, the ForestryBoardis astatutory boardwith independentpowersto
decide uponmattersofpermit allocation, regulation,andmanagementofthe forestry sector. The ForestAuthority provides
secretariat support to the ForestryBoard(of which the ForestAuthority's ManagingDirector is amember) and advises the
Ministerof Forestryon mattersof policy, regulationandrelatedmatters.TheNational Forest Service (under the General
Manager) is the field operation division ofthe ForestAuthority. Inrecent years, the ForestryBoard has becomeincreasingly
empoweredby the Borrowerto take major decisionson the allocationofpermits.These decisions were originally made by the
Ministerof Forestry alone, oftenwithout proper consultation.
 The IndependentReviewTeam (IRT) reviewedall pendingapplicationsfor loggingpermitsas partofthe secondtranche
release condition. The draft report of the IRTwas disclosed inPapuaNew Guineafor public review inMarch2001 and extensive
consultations were heldwith awide rangeof stakeholdersthroughoutthe reviewprocess.The review processandthe IRT report
have been well receivedinPapuaNew Guineaby the Borrower, mostNGOs andother major stakeholders.Their
recommendationsform the basis of aTime BoundAction Plan(TBAP) adoptedby the Borrower inNovember2001(Cabinet
Decision)to implement reform in the sector (Annex F).

                                                  12


35.     As part o f the country dialogue with civil society inPapuaNew Guinea, the Bank
sometimes receives communications containing claims o f unlawful activity invarious sectors,
including forestry. As a matter o f practice, and as part o f dialogue with the Borrower, the Bank
refers suchmatters to the Borrower for review and action inan appropriate manner. Inthe case
of the Aiambak project, the Country Director wrote to the Prime Minister on July 16,2000
(Annex D) and forwarded a letter dated November 1,2001 from CELCOR concerning the
Aiambak project. The Country Director replied to the CELCOR letter onNovember 28,2001,
explaining that the Bank shared CELCOR's concerns with regardto the Aiambak project and
reiteratingthe agreement reached between the Borrower andthe Bankwith regardto the review
o fpending applications (see Annex E).

36.     A key long-term objective ofthe Bank's approach inthe forestry sector is to foster
improvements ingovernance and management capacity inits member countries. The GPAL, as
conceived inthe Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), laid the basis for systematically addressing
this objective through the subsequent FCP, which was approved on December 18,2001. The
FCP i s a vehicle to assist the Borrower inaddressing specific issues inthe forestry sector in
PapuaNew Guinea, including some o fthe concerns identified inthe Request.

37.     The Bank has been and remains seriously concerned about the plight ofthe people who
may have suffered adverse effects becauseo f the claimed unlawful activity, inparticular because
o f the difficulty the people are experiencing inobtaining appropriate responses from the
enterprises involved. The Bankhas worked with the Borrower to place the Aiambak project on a
priority list o f projects to be reviewed under the FCP, and will work with the Forest Authority to
direct that review towards collection o f evidence and facts relating to operations on the Kiunga-
Aiambak Road. The Bankwill also work with the Borrower to bringthe resources o f the
Landowner Forest Decision Making Component o f the FCP to bear on the problem o f ensuring
that landowners inremote areas are equipped to negotiate andrepresent themselves effectively in
deciding upon future operations.

B. CLAIMSOFVIOLATIONS OFBANKPOLICIES AND PROCEDURES

38.     The Requesters claim that the Bank failed to properly supervise the GPAL andthat the
three forestry-specific conditions were not met. Management demonstrates below that
supervision was fully adequate and that except for the two duly waived conditions, all the
conditions for the release ofthe second tranche were met.

39.     The three forestry-related conditions for the release o fthe second tranche, with which the
Borrower complied are listed among the twenty specific second tranche release conditions in
Part A o f Schedule 3 to the LoanAgreement (attached as Annex L), as follows:

         "16. Implementation bythe Borrower o freforms to its forestry revenue and royalty
        regime, satisfactory to the Bank.

         "17. Completion of anindependent review o f Forest ManagementAgreements (FMAs),
        timber permits and geographical extensions to timber permits.

                                                  13


       "18. Adoption by the Borrower's Parliament of amendments, acceptable to the Bank, to
       the Forestry Act 1991(as amended in 1993) covering: (a) the regulatory framework for
       the clearanceof forested land; (b) non-commercial disclosure by the Forestry Board; (c)
       delegation of powers of the Boardto an individual; and(d) composition o fthe Forestry
        BOX^.^'

CLAIMS VIOLATIONOFOD13.05 ONPROJECTSUPERWSION
         OF

        "The Claimants allege that the disbursementof the second tranche of the SAL without the
       maintenance of the moratorium andfull review of logging concessionswould constitute a
       violation... of the Bank's obligation to supervise and monitor itsprojects pursuant to the
       Bank's Supervision and Monitoring Policy, Operational Directive 13.05...."
                                                             [Request, Section 3.1,p lo]

        "In addition, the Requesters claim that disbursementof the second tranche would
       constitute "a violation of Operational Directive 13.05 ... because ofpoor judgment and
       imprudent lending to a borrower whopromotes illegalpractices.      "
                                                             [Request, Section 4,p.151

40.    As OD 13.05 states, it is the Bank's responsibility to supervise the progresstowards
implementation of the Borrower's reformprogram as well as the specific conditions for tranche
release. OD 13.05 further indicates that: (i)supervision activities mustreceive adequatepriority
inthe allocation ofBank staff andother resourcescommensuratewiththe nature, complexity,
size ofthe Bank-assistedoperation, the problems experienced, and the Borrower's institutional
capabilities and needs; and (ii)efficient resolution of implementationproblems is the joint
concern of the Borrower andthe Bank.

41.    The Bank's approachtowards preparation andsupervision was fully gearedto the scope
and content of the reformprogram under the GPAL. This involved anintensive andthorough
process as follows:

    0  Maintaining continuity o f supervision. The task team leader and membersdidnot change
       duringthe life of the project;

    0  The Bankcarried out eight full-scale missions andfive smaller missions, amounting to
       one missionevery six weeks, on average (see Table 1below). The status o f forestry
       conditionality was discussed inall these missions.

    0  Providingin-depth support for supervision. Long-termconsultants were posted to Papua
       New Guinea, including a full-time program coordinator (from prior to Board approval
       untilFebruary 2001).

    0  Ensuring adequate capacity to supervisetechnical aspects o fthe GPAL. A forestry
       specialist participated innine ofthe missions. Consultants were also made available.

    0  Maintaininghigh-levelengagement by Bank and Borrower. Table 1shows that the
       Country Director participated inhigh-levelmeetingsinSydney and made a point of
       attending various mission events. Senior government officials were consulted on almost
       every mission.

                                                             14


           0   Providing adequatebudget for supervision. Trust funds were mobilizedto supplementthe
               Bank supervision budget. Financing from trust finds made the long-term posting of
               consultantspossible.
                           Table 1.Summary of Formal GPALSupervisionActivities


            Date                       Location        Type     KeyBank
                                                               ParticiDants           Key Government Participants

1. July 31-August 11,2000         PapuaNew Guinea        T     FS             M.Dir.FA;Gen. Mgr. FA; Sec.Env.&Cons.
2.  October 2-6,2000              PapuaNew Guinea        S     TTL            Sec. Finance; Chief Sec. PM's Dept.

3.  OCt. 23-NOV. 10,2000          PapuaNewGuinea         F     CD*yTTL'
                                                               FS             Sec. Finance; Chief Sec. PM's Dept.

4.  January 15-19,2001            PapuaNewGuinea         T     FS             M.Dir.FA; Gen. Mgr. FA; Sec.Env.&Cons.

5.  February 13-15,2001           PapuaNew Guinea        S     CD, TTL        Prime Minister, Sec. Finance; Chief Sec. PM's
                                                                              Dept.
6. February28,2001                Sydney                 H     CD, TTL        Chief Sec. Prime Minister's Dept.
7.  March 1, 2001                 Sydney                 H     CD, TTL        Chief Sec. Prime Minister's Dept.
8. March 5-16,2001                PapuaNew Guinea        F     CD, TTL, FS    Sec. Finance;Chief Sec. PM's Dept.
9. April 3-6,2001                 PapuaNew Guinea        F     CD, TTL        Sec. Finance; Chief Sec. PM's Dept.
10. May 1-4,2001                  PapuaNew Guinea        F     TTL, FS        Sec. Finance;Chief Sec. PM's Dept.
11. May 14,2001                   Sydney                 H     CD, TTL        Chief Sec. Prime Minister's Dept.
12. June 28,2001                  Sydney                 H     CD,TTL         Minister ofForeignAffairs
13. July 29-August 3,2001         PapuaNew Guinea        F     TTL            Chief Sec. Prime Minister's Dept.
14. August 8-10, 2001             PapuaNew Guinea        F     CD, TTL, FS    Prime Minister, Chief Sec. PM's Dept.
15. October 8,2001                Sydney                 H     CD, TTL        Chief Sec. Prime Minister's Dept.
16. October 16-19,2001            PapuaNew Guinea        F     TTL, FS        Chief Sec. Prime Minister's Dept.
17. October 22-25,2001            PapuaNewGuinea         S     TTL            Chief Sec. Prime Minister's Dept.
18. October 26,2001               Sydney               H,T     CD, TTL, FS    Chief Sec. Prime Minister's Dept.
19. November 21-30,2001           PapuaNew Guinea        F     CD, TTL, FS Min.of Foreign Aff., Chief Sec. PM's Dep't
Notes: "Key Bank participants" only highlights whether the Country Director (CD), Task TeamLeader (TTL),Forestry
Specialist or ForestryAdvisor (FS) were present. Supervisionmissionsgenerally included other sectoral staff and specialists.
"Type ofMission": T=Technical; F=Full-Scale; S=Short; H=High-level Meeting.
 *Country Director was not a full-time memberof full-scale missionsbut attended selected meetingswhen inPapuaNew
Guinea.

     42.       During supervision ofthe GPAL, satisfactory progress withthe Borrower's reform
     program andwith eachtranche releasecondition was thoroughly reviewed. The Bankalso
      assessedthe Borrower's performance inmaintaining a soundmacroeconomic policy framework
      inaccordancewith agreeduponperformanceindicators. Since assumingoffice inJuly 1999,the
     present Government had demonstrated its seriousness intackling headon the acute governance
      crisis it had inherited. Achievements were broad inscope, ranging from improvingthe integrity
      andrestoring the independence of the civil service, strengthening capacity within anumber of
      oversight agencies, pursuing corruption investigations, enhancingthe effectiveness of the rural
      development program, focusing limitedresources onthe delivery o fhealth and education
      services, returning the NationalProvident Fund(NPF) to financial health and improving its
      corporate governance structure, privatizingthe country's largest bank, as well as reversing the
     prior deterioration inforest sector governance.

                                                 15


43.     At the macroeconomiclevel, the Borrower's achievements were considerable:
government arrears o f about 4 percent o f GDP were cleared; inflation and interest rates were
halved; foreign reserves were tripled; and an IMFstandby arrangement was successfully
concluded inSeptember 2001 for the first time inPapuaNew Guinea's history. These
achievements were judged to be particularly significant when viewed inlight of the difficult
external environment and political conditions that hadto be confronted.

44.     With regardto the second tranche release, the final supervisionmission inDecember
2001 and Management's recommendationto the Board concludedthat the Borrower had fully
complied with all conditions except two (not relatedto forestry) that were duly waived by the
Bank's Executive Directors on December 18,200 1.


Borrower's Compliance with Second Tranche Release Conditions

45.     Review of Forestry Revenue and Royalty (Condition #16). According to the Requesters:

        "The State did reinstate theforestry log tax regime, and a review is being carried out
        intoforestry revenue and royalty. But that review is already underpressure. The
        consultants have been told tofastrack an interim report to enable the State to decrease
        the tax burden on the loggers in the November 2001 budget. Preliminary results9om the
        review show:

        e   a sharp decline in logprices;

        e   a need to increase landowner royalties signijkantly;

        e   a need to adjust the log tax."
                                                              [Request, Section 2, p. 61


Response

46.     As requiredby this secondtranche release condition under the GPAL, the Borrower
carried out the requisite review, with a focus on taxation reforms andtransfer pricing. Onthe
basis o f the review's findings, the Borrower implemented adjustments to the log export tax inthe
2002 budget, including the exemption o fplantations from this tax. It was important to implement
these adjustments, because o fthe volatility inthe market for logs, andthe fact that the sliding
export tax scale that has been applied over the last several years has been denominated inKina,
instead o f US$. The effect of this depreciationhas beenthat -inan era o f declining international
prices for logs - as the Kina has depreciated against the U S dollar, the actual export taxes paid
by companies as a proportion o ftotal price have increased significantly. The purpose o fthe
export tax sliding scale was not to achieve this effect butto ensure that ifprices rose
internationally, the proportion collected as rent by the Borrower would increase. The log export
tax adjustment inthe 2002 budget was therefore necessary to deal with this issue.

47.     The analysis and recommendations o fthe review with regardto landowner royalties
raised a number o f unanticipatedissues that require further detailed analysis. Through a letter
from the Prime Minister to the Bank's President, dated December 5, 2001, the Borrower

                                                          16


committed itselfto deal systematically with the royalty issues raised by the review during
implementation o f the FCP. Taken together with the revenue system amendments implemented
inthe 2002 budget, the stepstowards implementingchangesinthe royalty system initiated
through the reviewprocess and the Prime Minister's letter pledging commitment were therefore
considered by Management to be sufficient to comply with this second tranche condition.

IndependentReview of FMAs andTimber Permits(Condition#17)

        "The Claimants allege that the disbursementof the second tranche of the SAL without the
        maintenance of the moratorium andfull review of logging concessions would constitute a
        violation of the contractualprovisions of the structural adjustment loan.                  "
                                                                          [Request, Section 2,p. lo]

        "The Bank's disbursement of the second tranche without...fully implementing the
        Jindings of thepartial review, including the requirements seeking the remediation of
        illegal activities... constitute[s] a violation of the contractual provisions of the loan"
                                                                          [Request, Section 4,p. 151

        `(Amoratorium on all new timber concessions,pending a complete review of all existing
        concessions. The issue we wish to raise here is the lack of goodfaith of the State in
        honouring this condition. The thrust of our submission here, is that as soon as the second
        tranche ispaid, the State will slip back into its old ways: business as usual. As will be
        seenfrom the text of our submissions the State broke both the letter and the spirit of the
        condition with thefollowing logging concessions[9 items cited]. ''
                                                                          [Request, Section 2,p. 71

        "The loan agreement's Matrix of Policy Actions says under "Actions TakedOutcomes
        Achieved that there was a `moratorium declared on all new Forest Management
                    I'
        Agreements (FMA), timber permits and geographical extensions to timber permits '
        A column entitled `secondtranche contains conditions that must be met before a second
        tranche disbursement. That column includes, `Complete independent review of all FMAs,
        timber permits and geographic extensions to timber permits'
                                                                          [Request, Section 3.1,p.        lo]

Response

48.     The Requesters contendthat the second tranche release condition was not met andthe
proceeds o f the loan should not be disbursed because the moratoriumgwas not maintained, and
becausethe findings o f the forestry review presented inthe report o f the IRT were not fully
implemented. With regardto OD 13.05, completion o f an independent review o f applications for
Forest Management Agreements, timber permits and geographical extensions to existing permits



 The moratoriumdeclared by the Borrower onNovember 5, 1999,submittedas an amendmenton May 10,2000, and specified
inthe LDPdatedMay 15,2000, was to remaininplaceuntil areviewofallrecent majorforest resourcepermitapplicationsand
approvalprocesses was completed, andall projectsincludedinthis process were placedon holduntilthe results of the review
were knownandevaluated by the Borrower.The Cabinet Decision84/2000directedthat the earlier decision(CabinetDecision
99/99,November 1999)neededamendmentdue to imprecise languageused in it (see para. 52).

                                                                 17


(paragraph 17 inPart A o f Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement) was the only disbursement
condition relevant to this particular claim. The moratorium forms part o fthe Borrower's reform
program as set forth inthe LDP, and was to be maintained untilthe independent review was
completed and its findings duly evaluated by the Borrower. The Borrower and the Bank went
beyond the original scope o fthe reformprogram andas part o fthe FCP agreed that the Borrower
would implement the recommendations o fthe IRTthrough a Time BoundAction Plan (TBAP)
(Annex F). The implementation o f this action plan, which was adopted by the Borrower on
November 15, 2001, by Cabinet's approval, constitutes a legally bindingobligation under the
FCP. As the Bank supervision mission was able to determine that the independent review was
completed inaccordance with the Loan Agreement, consistent with the LDP andthe intent o f the
parties, inManagement's view the Bank i s infull compliance with its responsibilities under OD
13.05.

49.       The Bank's determination ofcompliancewiththe second tranche release condition
relating to the review was based uponthe following achievements:

     0    An initial draft ofthe report ofthe IRTwas released inMarch2001 for public comment
          and further review, and a final version was presented to aninter-departmental committee
          that had been established underthe Department ofthe Prime Minister to evaluate the
          findings o f the review as provided for inthe LDP. Some excerpts from this report are in
          Annex I. full IRTreport is available onthe Prime Minister's website:
                       The
          www.pm.gov.pg.

      0   InNovember 2001, Cabinet adopted the recommendations set forthinthe report ofthe
          IRTas the basis o fthe TBAP to addressthe resource allocationproblems identified inthe
          sector. This was made public inDecember 2001, on the Prime Minister's website. The
          TBAP i s attached as Annex F.

      0   The TBAP commits the Borrower to: (i)                  implement the recommendations o fthe IRT
          report on the pending applications that were reviewed; (ii) all existing logging
                                                                                        review
          operations"; and (iii)         review all new applications for logging permits inthe same manner
          as the IRT reviewed the group o fpending applications for permits, dealing substantively
          with each application.
50.       The work o fthe IRT andthe consultations with civil society, including the public review
of its initial draft report, has initiated a process of public debate on the forestry sector inPapua
New Guinea which, aided by new legislationon disclosure o f considerations by the Forestry
Board on new applications for permits, i s leading to increased transparency and accountability in
the sector.

51.       Link between the Forestry Review and the Moratorium. The Borrower, the Bank and
most stakeholders had agreed on the need for a moratorium on processing o f forestry
applications when the new Government took office inJuly 1999.This was especially needed
giventhe previous Government's attempts to fast track the processing o f logging operations,



lo the
  In    conditions agreed betweenthe Borrower and the Bank under the FCP, coverage of the review of existing operations is
defined to include all operations that are scheduled to continue beyond December 31,2003, (or are renewedor extended within
that time frame), and to take appropriate action on the basis ofresults of that review.

                                                18


thereby circumventing the Forest Authority. Ina speech inJuly 1999,the Prime Minister
announced the intention o f his Governmentto introduce a moratorium on new forestry licenses
andto proceedwith a review o fall existing licenses (permits). Followingthe Prime Minister's
announcement, Cabinet took a decision inNovember 1999 (NG 99/99)to introduce a
moratorium on all new forestry licenses, extensions and conversions. The November 1999
Cabinet decision imposed a moratorium that was not specifically linked to the timing or scope o f
a review process.

52.     Unfortunately, the November 1999 decision used the term "licenses" erroneously (instead
of "permits"). Technically, "licenses" (as opposed to "permits") are issued on an annual basis to
projects that have already been approved. As a result, the November 1999 Cabinet decision
caused confusion withinthe Forest Authority, inthe industry, amongst resource owners andthe
wider community. A new Cabinet submission(NG 84/2000, dated May 10,2000) was therefore
preparedthat amended and clarified the November 1999 decision (NG 99/99). The Cabinet
Decision o f May 19,2000, directedthat, while the moratorium was inplace, a review o f all
pending applications subject to the moratorium would be undertaken, by an Independent Review
Team, to ensure full compliance with the requirements o fthe Forestry Act and supporting
regulations, legislation, plans and procedures. The Cabinet Decisiondidnot indicate any
commitment to retainthe moratorium after the review o fpending applications was completed. In
addition, the Borrower's reform program as set forth inthe LDP indicates that all projects subject
to the review process will be placed on hold untilthe results o fthe review are known and have
been evaluated by the Borrower.

53.     InNovember 1999,at the sametime as the first Cabinet decisiononthe moratorium was
taken, a meeting took place betweenthe representative of Greenpeace Pacific (Papua N e w
Guinea) and a Bank FCP post-appraisal mission. Inthe meeting, the Bank indicatedthat inits
view a review o f all existingoperations would be inappropriate inthe context o fthe GPAL, as
the GPAL focused on implementing critical reforms necessary to improve overall sectoral
governance as well as carrying out a review to address the recent set o fproblematic pending
applications. Fromthe Greenpeace Pacific (Papua New Guinea) follow-up letter dated November
4, 1999, it appears that Greenpeace Pacific's representative came away from the meeting with a
different impression. The task team leader's reply (November 18, 1999)to Greenpeace Pacific
(Papua New Guinea), reiterated the Bank's commitment to talk to the Borrower about "the
moratorium and associated review o f recent applications," but didnot explicitly address the link
betweenthese undertakings, and left unchallengedthe view expressed inthe representative's
letter concerning the maintenance o f the moratorium, as it had already been addressed inthe
earlier meeting.

54.     As the preparationo fthe Borrower's reform programprogressed inearly 2000, the
Borrower and the Bank reached an understanding on the scope o fthe moratorium. The nature o f
this understanding was conveyedat ameetingbetweenthe BankandGreenpeace Pacific onMay
2,2000. A summary o f the meeting, which reflectedthe Bank's position, was widely distributed
to stakeholders inPapuaNew Guinea (see Annex G). The Borrower also clarified its intentions
withregardto the moratoriumunderits reform programthroughthe Cabinet decisiono fMay 19,
2000.

                                                 19


55.     Further correspondence and meetings involving the Bank's Country Director for Papua
New Guinea on this issue took place duringJune-July 2000. After the Bankbecame aware that
Greenpeace Pacific (Papua New Guinea) continuedto misinterpret the provisions o f the
Borrower's reform program (ine-mails dated June 26,2000 (Annex K) and August 25,2000
(Annex A)), the Bank indicated to stakeholders the intent o fthe GPAL's conditions, as agreed
with the Borrower, regardingthe scope ofthe review invarious communications: (i) a letter o f
                                                                                        in
the Country Director to Greenpeace Pacific (Papua New Guinea) on July 7,2000; (ii)       in
discussions inPort Moresby during July 2000; and (iii) a second letter from the Country
                                                         in
Director, September 6, 2000 (Annex H).The Bank also explained its position duringthe visit o f
the Bank's Vice President for East Asia and the Pacific Region inNovember 2000, when he met
with a numbero fNGO representatives inPort Moresby, including CELCOR and Greenpeace
Pacific (Papua New Guinea). Finally, discussions withNGOs and interested parties continued
duringthe remainder of 2000 and 2001, andinresponse to written inquiries a forestry Questions
andAnswers document was prepared. A summaryo fthat document was widely disseminated,
and the full text was sent to several major NGOs andwas also posted on theforests.org website.

56.     The Request claims that "The loan agreement's Matrix o f Policy Actions ... includes [as
a tranche release condition] `Complete independent review o f all FMAs, timber permits and
geographical extensions to timber permits.'" This is not factually accurate. There is no Matrix
included inthe LoanAgreement. The language quoted by the Requesters is taken from the
Matrix attached to the LDP, which serves only as a summary o f actions taken or to be taken by
the Borrower under the reform program that i s fully described inthe maintext o fthe LDP. While
the main text o f the LDP clearly establishes the scope o f the review to cover all recent major
forest resource permit applications and approval processes, the summary inthe Matrix does not
accurately reflect the actions set out inthe LDP. Unfortunately, this issue was not clarified in
either the Report and Recommendation o f the President onthe GPAL or the LoanAgreement.

57.     Insum, itwas notpossible to reacha complete consensusbetweenthe Bank andthe
Borrower and all stakeholders on the issue o fthe full scope o f the moratorium and review, nor
was the text o f the various GPAL documents entirely consistent. Nevertheless, the extent o f
consultations with NGOs was considerable and civil society was kept fully apprised o f
developments with regardto the GPAL.

58.     Issues relating to the appropriate scope o fthe moratorium and review under the GPAL
revolve around different views on the appropriate sequence o f reforms to the forestry sector in
PapuaNew Guinea. The Borrower, civil society and the Bank are inbroad agreement on the
need for an overall review o f forestry operations inPapuaNew Guinea, including existing
operations and pendingapplications. Given the variety, magnitude andcomplexity o f the
problems that beset the forestry sector inPapuaNew Guinea, effecting reform i s a lengthy
process. The Borrower and the Bank therefore agreed that the GPAL would focus on selected
key governance reforms necessary to lay the groundwork for subsequent in-depth and long-term
forestry management activities, which could be supported by a possible Bank investment
operation. Inthis way, the benefits o fthe structural reforms supported by the GPAL could be
sustained and enhanced over time as the institutional capacity to implement the reforms was
strengthened. The FCP as a specific investment loan would be the most appropriate vehicle for
developing this capacity.

                                                  20


59.     As notedearlier, there hadbeenamajor decline inforestry governance duringthe 1990s
and there was a concernthat the authorities hadnot followed correct procedures, especially inthe
years between 1997 and 1999. Completing the review of pendingapplications therefore reflected
the importance o f addressingthe recent set ofproblematic pendingapplications, and of gaining
solid experience with and demonstratingthe effectiveness ofthe reviewmethodology. Italso
enabledtesting of newforestry governance arrangementsfor these most recent pending
applications under local conditions, prior to the subsequent review ofthe larger set of existing
applications. That subsequent reviewis included andprogrammed as an activity underthe FCP
(see Annex C), which aims to support the allocation of sufficient technical resources and
capacity to carry out this significant task.

60.     Claim of Violation of the Moratorium by Government Officials. The Bank shares the
concernshighlighted by the Requesters with regardto apparent efforts by some senior ministers
and officials to pushthrough loggingapplications relating to the three cases cited by the
Requesters - Pondo, Tuwapu and Aiambak -without due process. Annex Ito this Response
outlines informationthe Bank has obtained, including individualproject reports from the IRT.
The Bank agrees that inthe case ofthe Pondo project approved in2001,a small amount of
loggingoccurred before the permission grantedto this project was revoked. Available
informationindicates that all operationshave since beenterminated inthis area. Similarly, inthe
Tuwapuproject, it appearspermissionto harvest logs was inappropriately issued by the Forest
Authority. The Boardwithdrew this permission shortly thereafter andoperations inthis project
have ceasedinresponseto the Borrower's order issued on September20,2001. Inthe Aiambak
case, the Request notes that the Ministerfor Forestshimselfwithdrew approval for a permit to
extend the clearing for a proposedhighway, under advice from the Forestry Board. The findings
and recommendations of the IRT indicated that the operations cited by the Requestershave either
been terminated or suspended, and no logging i s proceeding. There is no question that
commencement of operations should not have occurred. However, by applying the institutional
changes implementedthrough the GPAL, the Borrower successfully terminated these potential
breachesandthus maintainedits announcedmoratorium.

Adoptionof ForestryAct Amendments,Acceptableto the Bank(Condition#18)

61.     The Requesters contend that the tranche release conditionrelating to reform of the
Forestry Act of 1991 was not met. Specifically they claim as follows:

        "New laws onforest clearancesfor roads and agricultural schemes.... The issue we wish
        to raise here is the lack of goodfaith of the State in honouring this condition... The
        required legislation has beenput inplace. But the Ministerfor Forests ignores it. There
        is evidencefrom the Review Teamreports that the Ministerfor Forests gave approvalfor
        a major road line clearance during the currency of the moratorium... [3 items cited]. In
        our submission thefailure of the State during the currency of the moratorium to stop the
        logging on the Kiunga-Aiambak is a clear demonstration of its lack of goodfaith.
                                                               [Request, Section 2, p. 71   "




        "New laws on transparency and non-commercial disclosure by the Forest Authority
        Board. It was a condition of the loan that the Statepass a law that wouldgive
        transparency to all alienations of forestland. TheState has notpassed a law to require

                                                21


       public notijkation (press advertisementsandpublic meetings) to the intention of the
        Forestry Authority to establish a Forest ManagementAgreement. Although other
        necessary amendments to theAct were made, the Forest Authority does not as a matter of
       practicefollow the new law on transparency and non-commercial disclosure [I example
        cited]."                                            [Request, Section 2,p.91

        `(Newlaws insisting on a better balance on the Board of the Papua New GuineaForest
        Authority, The intent of these reforms was to removefiom the Board the Forest Industries
        Association (FIA) representatives, because they had come to dominate the Board. The
        FIA representatives were replaced by a member of the Papua New GuineaChamber of
        Conmerce. A women's representative was alsoprovidedfor in the new legislation.

        e  A woman has not yet been appointed to the board.
            Further, at the meeting held on Saturday 13thof October 2001, the Chair of the
            Board allowed a representative of the FIA to bepresent in a Board meeting.

        These matters show a lack of goodfaith on thepart of the State."
                                                            [Request, Section 2,pp. 8-91


Response

62.     The LDP and the secondtranche releaseconditions called for adoption by the Borrower's
Parliament of amendmentsto the Forestry Act of 1991covering: (i)    the regulationof clearance
of forested land; (ii)
                     non-commercial disclosure by the Forestry Board; (iii) delegation ofpowers
of the Boardto an individual; and (iv) the composition ofthe Forestry Board. These amendments
were passedin(see Annex B), andthe condition has therefore beenmet.

63.     This responsedeals elsewhere withthe Requesters' claim of anapproval ofa major road
line clearance duringthe moratorium(paras. 30-3l), the failure of the Borrower to stop
                                                      and
logginginthe Aiambak project (paras. 32-34).

64.     Underthe GPAL, legislation hasbeenenactedto establish a more transparent and
participatory process inthe review andapproval of applications for new logging operations.
Basedon the commitment shown by the Borrower, it is expectedthat these laws will be enforced
accordingly. The Landowner Forest Decision Making component under the FCP will contribute
to meetingthese objectives by makingresources and expertise available for landowners to for
properly representative groups to decide on andnegotiate the utilizationof their resources (see
Annex C).

65.     The Request details a case inthe JosephstaalFMA where it is claimed landowners
encountered difficulties inobtaining the FMA documentation and maps from the Forest
Authority. The Forestry Act and its supporting regulations requires disclosure ofthe nature
described inthe Request. Through the SustainableForest Management component (Annex C),
the FCP will enhancethe capacity ofthe Forest Authority to prepare and disseminate this type of
information effectively.

                                                  22


66.     With regardto the amendments covering the composition ofthe Forestry Board, the
Borrower andthe Bank agreedthat these amendments were needed. The Borrower has complied
withthe second tranche release condition underthe GPAL andpassedthe requiredamendments
to the ForestryAct and Regulations as set forth inNEC Decision84/2000 of May 19,2000. The
Cabinet Decision clarified the intent ofthe amendmentto the Forestry Act, namely to redress the
dominating influence of overseas business interests inthe industry; it states that: "a
representative of the PapuaNew GuineaChamber of Commerce and Industry [be] nominated by
the Chamber who shall not be a principal or employee of a foreign owned or controlled company
dealing in,trading inor contracting to timber."

67.     The Chamber of Commercehas recentlynominatedanowner of a locally-controlled
forestry company as its representativeon the Board, and inan acting capacity for this person, an
employee of the Forest Industry Association has participated intwo Board Meetings in
November 2001,and on one occasion, inOctober 2001,by special invitation of the Chairman of
the Board. Technically the nomination anddelegation are incompliance with the amended
legislation butthe Bank i s concernedthat the intent ofthe reformas specified inCabinet
DecisionNG 84/2000 might be compromised. The Bank is taking up this matter with the
Borrower.

68.     A woman has not beenappointedto the Forestry Boardto date. The Borrower has
informedthe Bank that it is awaiting the nomination of a candidate fromthe National
Organization of Women.

CLAIM OF VIOLATIONOF OP 4.36 ONFORESTRY

         "In our submission thefailure to secure the moratorium on new logging concessions,
       pending a review of existing concessions,was a breach of OP 4.36, because itfailed to
        implement thepolicy objectives of OP 4.36. The loan allowed logging operations to
       proceed (the new concessions) where there was infact no sustainableforest
        management.''                                        [Request, Section 3.2,p. 141

         "OP 4.36 bans the Bankfrom financing commercial logging operations or thepurchase
        of logging equipmentfor use in tropical moistprimaryforest. OP 4.36,para. l(a),
         `Wherea country has made a commitment to undertake conservation-orientatedforestry,
        the Bank mayJinance improvements inplanning, monitoring andfield control of logging
        operations.  ,
                     3,                                      [Request, Section 3.2,p. 14-151

         "The acts of the State show that it did not implement,follow, adhere to, or is infact
        committed to, sustainableforest management, sustainableforestry, conservation-
        orientatedforestry, or goodforestry practice.   "   [Request, Section 4,p. 151


RESPONSE

69.     OP 4.36 is not applicable to SALS;it specifically applies to investment lending
operations, and GPAL is a SAL. However, by includingconditions to improve governance inthe
forestry sector, the GPAL was designedinpart to promote progresstoward many o fthe goals of
OP 4.36. As the Requesters themselves agree, the forestry conditions inGPAL were appropriate:

                                                23


         "The Bank acted quiteproperly when it imposedforest conditions in the SAL. why was
        forest conditionalityproper? Because theforests were in crisis, the loan was to improve
         `governance', and governance had beenparticularly poor in the area of forestry (see
        Prime Minister's statement on the cover of this claim), hence the crisis, hence the
        appropriateness of the conditions."                 [Request, Section 2,p. 51


CLAIMOF VIOLATIONOF OP 4.01 ONENVIRONMENTAL             ASSESSMENT

        Inthe NoticeofRegistrationfor the Request, the InspectionPanelalludedto apossible
        violation of OP/BP 4.01. The only mention ofthe possibilityinthe Request is an indirect
        one -a quotation from OP 4.36 to the effect that, inthe case of Bank lendingoperations
        inthe forest sector, government commitment to sustainableforest managementrequires
        policies and a legal framework to "promote activeparticipation of localpeople and the
        private sector in the long-term sustainable managementof naturalforests (seeparas. 19-
        20 of OD 4.01, Environmental Assessment).   "       [Request, Subsection 5.10,p. 191


RESPONSE

70.     OD 4.01 was replaced by OP 4.01 in 1998.Neither OD 4.01 nor OP 4.01 is applicable to
the GPAL. OP 4.01 explicitly exempts SALSfrom the definitionoftypes of projects requiring
environmental assessment, as did its predecessor:"`project' covers all operations financed by
Bank loans or guarantees except structural adjustment loans [OP 4.01, footnote 11."


                           V. MANAGEMENT'SCONCLUSION

71.     Management concludes that the Bank's actions inconnection with the GPAL operation
are incompliance with the applicable policies and procedures.While Management notes the
reports of adverse effects on the Requesters, any such adverseeffects were inno way connected
with GPAL, andthere is no cause and effect betweenthe adverse effects andany actions or
omissions ofthe Bank.Indeed, inManagement's view, moving aheadwith the GPAL was far
more likely to assist the Requesters inachieving their aims. The forestry-related tranche release
conditions hadall beenmetprior to disbursementofthe secondtranche. InManagement's view,
the FCP, which was approved by the Bank's Executive Directors on December 18,2001, i s the
most appropriate operation through which the Bank can assist the Borrower to address issues in
the forestry sector inPapuaNewGuinea, includingmanyofthe issues identifiedinthe Request.
Therefore the Requesters' assertionsofviolations ofthe Bank's operational policies and
procedures are unfounded, andthere i s no linkbetweenthe GPAL to any material adverse effects
that the Requesters may have suffered. As a result, Management recommends that the Request
for an inspection of the GPAL by the Inspection Panel be denied.


           VI. OTHERMATTERSOF CONCERNTO THE REQUESTERS

72.     The matters inthis section do not raise claims ofviolations ofBank policy or procedure,
or of material adverse effects sufferedbythe Requesters. Management recognizes, however, that

                                               24


the Requesters are concernedabout other forestry related issues andtherefore addresses them in
this section.

PRESIDENT'S REPORT     UNDERSTATESTHE PROBLEMSOFPOLITICALINTERFERENCEINTHE
FORESTRY    SECTOR

        "The President's Report to the Executive Directors does not tell thefull story .... The
       important all-embracing political influence of the logging industry is not described.''


RESPONSE

73.    The Bank disagrees. The CEMwhichwas distributedto the BoardinOctober 1999
contained an exhaustive presentation onrisk, including risk inthe forestry sector. The topic of
riskis discussedintwo sections inthe "Report andRecommendationofthe President" for the
GPAL. Itnotes a number of types of risk:

    0  Political opposition that could compromise the reformprogram;

    0  Weaknesses inimplementation capacity that could affect sustainability of a wide-ranging
       reformeffort;

    0  The country's vulnerability to commodity price fluctuations andnatural disasters; and

    0  High crime rates.

74.    Withrespectto the issue ofpoliticalrisk, the Report and Recommendation ofthe
Presidentfor the GPAL noted the fragility ofthe governing coalitionandthe possibilitythat
commitment may weaken andprogresstoward reformmay slip inthe course ofpolitical
compromise. It pointed to lengthy stakeholder consultations during preparation of the GPAL as
one strategy used to managethis risk.Another element of the risk mitigationstrategy was to
await the implementation of a significant portionof the Borrower's reformprogram before
presenting the GPAL for Boardapproval. Managementbelieves that the treatment ofrisk
provided the Executive Directors with adequateinformationfor consideration intheir decisions
onthe proposed GPAL.

INADEQUATEATTENTION TO THE RISKOFPOORFORESTMANAGEMENT

        "Forest management is sopoor as to cause actual harm to theforests. TheBank made
       the loan knowing that the State had no effective ability toprotect theforests of the
       Claimants through the implementation of managementpolicies or practices onjagile
       forests, 10% conservation set-asides, rotation cycles. There is no `National Forest Plan'.
       This was a riskfor the Bank. ''                       [Request, Subsection 5.131

        "In our submission, the State does not have the ability to manage and conserve the
       rainforests in the country.I'                         [Request, Subsection 5.251

                                                  25


RESPONSE

75.     Good quality national level forest information is available through the PapuaNewGuinea
Forest InformationMapping System, andthe IRT noted inits report that this i s an excellent tool
for sectoral and project-level planning. The IRT further notedthat Forest Authority staff were
able to use this data base to produceproject level maps and area information, of sufficient quality
to allow estimates of net loggable area to bemade. There is a strong technical argument that the
priority inPapuaNewGuinea be on building capacity to produce good field inventories for
forest areas being consideredfor logging, upon which sustainablecut estimates can be based.
This is a different form of inventory from national level inventory. The IRT recommendedthat a
national forest plan should be developed from an updating of provinciallevel forest management
plans,jointly preparedby the Provinces, the ForestAuthority andthe Office ofEnvironment and
Conservation. Insupport of this arrangement, the IRT suggestedthat clear directions be
formulated to guide the development of cutting cycles at the FMA level, and that these must
include provision for conservation set-asides and also be subject to initial environmental
assessment.

76.     The IRT did notethat inits view the sustainedtimber yield principle has beenstrongly
adoptedby the Forest Authority as the basis for planning forest operations, andthat it also
figures significantly inForestry Board deliberations.

77.     The Sustainable Forest Managementcomponent of the FCP is focused on the priority
tasks that need to be completed to improve sustainability. There is ample scope withinthis
component to assist the Borrower inthe development of the analytical andprocedural elements
referred to inthe Request and inthe IRT's recommendations, and the Bank will engage the
Borrower indiscussionsonthis issue during the course o f implementation of the FCP.

FUNDING PRE-SHIPMENT INSPECTIONOFLOG
           FOR                                        EXPORTS

        "Althoughfunds have beenprovidedfor the Swissfirm Socie`te`Ge`ne`ralede Surveillance
        (SGS) to monitor log exports and the work is being done, thefunds are notpart of the
        Papua New GuineaForest Authority'sformal budget. Thefunds have been donated
        through the European Union. ThePapua New GuineaForest Authority has opposed the
        employment of SGS, and tried to give this work to a local contractor.  "
                                                              [Request, Section 2,pp. 6-71

RESPONSE

78.     The Borrower continuesto recognize the importance ofthe inspection function. Inthe
past, the budget for the log export inspection operation has beenfundedby the European
Commission. Inthe view ofthe Bank, it is entirely appropriate for the Borrower to utilize donor
funds for such purposes, andit is also appropriate for the Borrower to selectany firm it chooses
to carry out this task, provided that firm i s competent andindependent.A new 12monthcontract
with SGS was negotiatedinDecember 2001. The FCP also includes ongoing support to ensure
that the surveillance function is maintained.

                                                       26


INADEQUATE SUPPORT FORCOMMUNITY FORESTRY

        A sub-section of thepresentation on harm states: "It is unfortunate that methods of forest
        utilization that assistpeople to control their own development, such as community
        forestry are not well supported by the Bank, the State, or the Papua New Guinea Forest
        Authority.... Communityforestry conforms with Bankpolicy, see OP 4.36.... The
        Claimants have never been assisted by the State toparticipate in communityforestry ...
        [therefore] the State is in breach of thesepolicies. [Request, Subsection 5.IO]
                                                                  "




RESPONSE

79.     As discussed inpara. 24, the GPAL focused on implementing key structural reforms in
the forestry sector. Itdid not finance any specific forestry investments as structural adjustment
loans are not intendedto provide this type o f support. However, now that the governance reforms
inthe forestry sector havebeenputinplace, the FCPwill support arange ofspecific forestry
investments, including community forestry activities. More thanhalfo fthe total proceeds o f the
FCP will be directedtowards the empowerment o f landowners to organize, decide and negotiate
the use o f their resources, andto provide financing for landowners interested indeveloping their
own sustainable resource projects: under the FCP (Annex C) communities that wish to make
investments inforest projects on their land, and those that seek to assist them inthis, will be
eligible to apply to the ConservationTrust Fundfor support to do so. Moreover, communities
will benefit directly from activities the Borrower will initiate withthe assistance o fthe
Landowner Forest Decision Makingcomponent o f the project, which will support the formation
o f effective landowner representative groups, and develop knowledge andtraining on forest
issues among those groups.

80.     As a complement to these efforts, the Australian Agency for International Development
(AusAID) remains engaged inthe PapuaNew Guinea forest sector andhas expressed interest in
working on aspects o f community forestry there. It will also support the continuation o f the
National Forest ConservationAction Program, which has supported many activities aimed at
developing community involvement with forests inthe past, and will continue to do so. The
EuropeanCommission also has a program operative inPapuaNew Guinea at present which
focuses on community forestry.

INDUSTRIAL-SCALEFORESTRYNOTECONOMICALLY ECOLOGICALLY
                                       I S                       OR                  FEASIBLE IN
PAPUA   NEW         GUINEA


           ` I , . .but, most importantly, for thepurposes of this submission: an industry whose sales
                    revenue is less than its out-goings, an industry that is uneconomic.
         "The uneconomic nature of the logging industry has been apparentfor some time.
        Logging could only bejustified in very narrowproft-and-loss terms,fFom thepoint of
        view of an export logger. In terms of real economy, externalities were never taken into
        account. However, now prices are low, the industry is uneconomic, even in a narrow
        proJt-and-loss sense. Goodfaith requires agovernment to look at the real,$21 or true
        economic impact upon its economy of an activity.         "  [Request, Section 2,p. 61

                                                    27


         "Thepolicy mandate in OP 4.36 of sustainable managementof naturalforests is
        problematic in Papua New Guinea's mixed-speciesforests. Theevidencepoints to
         industrial scale sustainableforestry not being either economically or ecologically
        feasible.  "Reasons given inthe Request are that the cost o f restoring the forest to its
         original condition i s very high; selective logging on an industrial scale tends to killoff
         highvalue, slow-growing hardwoods; logging companies do not observe the Logging
         Code o f Conduct and often manage to clearcut their concessions; and mortality o f 53 to
         79 percent o fthe trees left standingafter selective logging has been reportedinPapua
         New Guinea.                                            [Request, Subsections5.14 -5.241

REsPoNsE

81.      The Request makes broadassertions as to the economic viability o f logging inPapua
New Guinea's rainforests, the general feasibility o f sustainable forest management intropical
forests, and issues related to appropriate cutting cycles, selective logging and stand damage.
These questions relate to complex analytical issues that are presented indetail inAnnex M.As
far as the economic argument is concerned, the potential viability o fthe logging sector cannot be
judged on the basis o f its performance under conditions prevailing inthe immediatepast. It is in
the nature o f the logging sector for the market to be volatile, and its long-term viability will
depend on the overall trends inboth costs and prices. There is no basis for judgingthe direction
o f either on the evidence available at the present time. The role o f government, inthis situation,
i s to ensure that reasonable economic rent andreturns to landowners are gleaned from the sector,
andthat the broadvalues inherent inthe forest are protected andmaintained.

82.      Logs have value on the international market and it is evident that pressure to utilize
forests to produce them will remain strong inPapuaNew Guinea as elsewhere. Under these
circumstances, the real choice available is not betweenutilization o fthe forests for logging,
among other uses, or large scale withdrawal o f forests from this form o f use. Rather the choice is
betweenwhether utilization for logs is carried out with due regardto the sustainability, the
protection o fvital areas andthe important externalities o f forests, or whether it is done
destructively and unsustainably.

83.      Annex Mdiscusses some recent work that has been carried out on the general subject o f
sustainability intropical forests. It is clear that sustainable management o f tropical forests is not
only feasible, but that key operational techniques to achieve it have been well knownfor many
decades. The problem has beenthat there have been few large-scale attempts to implement these,
because o f the financial attractiveness o fhighly exploitive andnon-sustainable operations in
situations where poor governance and capacity problems permit this to occur. The challenge for
PapuaNew Guinea i s to develop the means to implement sustainable management effectively. In
the view ofthe Bank, the sameproblems o f governance, capacity weakness andinstitutional
failure that make implementation o f sustainable forestry a difficult task also apply to all proposed
alternatives to sustainable management under selective logging. Unless appropriate measures -
such as enhanced monitoring, enforcement and participation by all interest groups inresource
decision making- are implementedto address perverse incentives andvested interests,
governance issues and unsustainable forestry are likely to prevail inPapuaNew Guinea. Taken
together the GPAL and the FCP constitute a serious effort by the Borrower, the Bank and other
donors to address governance problems inthe forestry sector inPapuaNew Guinea, and to

                                              28


support efforts to implementactivities that empower communities and promote greater
sustainability.

                                       ANNEXES


    Annex A: Email from Greenpeace Australia Pacific to Country Director, dated 25
             August 2000

    Annex B: Forestry Act Amendments and Gazettal of Regulations from Cabinet Decision
             84/2000

    Annex C: Forestry and Conservation Project: Project DesignSummary

    AnnexD: Letter from Bank Country Director to Prime Minister of 16 July 2000 on
            ProposedExtensionof Aiambak RoadProject

    Annex E: Response from Country Director to Celcor letter of 1 November 2001, on
             Moratorium, dated 28 November 2001

    Annex F: Time Bound Action Plan: Implementation of Recommendations of the
             Independent Review Team

    Annex G: Responsefrom Greenpeaceto Bank Briefing on Moratorium 2 May 2000


0   Annex H: Responsefrom Bank Country Director dated 6 September 2000 to letter from
             GreenpeaceAustralia Pacific of 25 August 2000

    Annex I: Independent Inspection Team Report: Project Review Report on Kiunga-
             Aiambak Road, Pondo andTuwapu Projects

    Annex J: Loan Agreement: Forestry and Conservation Project

    Annex K: Email from Greenpeace on Moratorium26 June 2000

    Annex L: Loan Agreement: Governance Promotion Adjustment Loan

    AnnexM: Response on Claims related to Economic Viability of Logging and
             SustainableForest Management


             ANNEX A


EMAILFROMGREENPEACEAUSTRALIA PACIFIC
       TO COUNTRYDIRECTOR,
        DATED25 AUGUST 2000


     Y




a        From:    "Brian Brunton' cgpacificQdg.m.pgs on08/25/200006:27 PM
         Pleaserespondto 'Brian B~rcton'<gpacificOdg.com.pgs
         To:      'Ktaus Rohland' dOoNandOworidbankorg>
         cc:      'Dan Weise' <wbpngl Odatec.com.pg>, "JamesDouglas' <jdougiasQworldbank.orgs
         bcc:
         Subject: Moratorium




         Mr. Kpus Rohland

         Country Director

         PapuaNew Guinea,

         EastAsia and PacificRegion

        *WorldBank


         KrohlandQwo.:IaDank.org



                                                                                          25th August 2000

         re. follow up to the meetingwith Greenpeace Australia Pacific, Sydney,
         August 15.
-        Dear Mr. Rohizid,

         Thank you ior the meetingon 15 August 2000. Followingis a summary of the main
         points of the meeting,and our recommendationsas a result of that discussion. We
         lookforward10 hearingfrom you on any progress on these points.

         The Moratorium: We are inagreement that the moratoriumis welcomedby a
         diverse rangeoi stakeholders,includingthe PrimeMinisterof PNG, the World Bank
         and Greenpeaceas a sound andfar-sighted policy instrument. Further,we are
         agreed that the moratoriumis necessaryto achieve meaningful reforminthe
         forestry sector and assist broadergovernanceissues in PNG.


         The Reviewof the Forestryconcessions: Achievingthe necessaryreformswill,
         as the Bank has correctlyassertedin its SAL and FCP loanconditions, require a
         comprehensivereviewof proposedAND existing logging concessions.However, it
         will also requirebuildinglandholdercapacity, creating greater transparencyand
         accountability,establishingconstraint-based land useplanningsystem,
         transformingihe cutture (role/structure/function)of the ForestAuthority, investingin
         services and community-basedalternativeland uses, and conservingor preventing
         industrialloggingin several key areas.

a    Greenpeaceis deeplyconcemedthat the reviewplanned by the World Bank will
     only consider new loggingprojects.Shouldany of the new projectscommence
     beforean adequate reviewof the concessionscurrently heldby potential tenderers,
     there is a real likelihoodthat irreparableharmwill be causedto the property of
     customary landowners.The poor forest managementand conservationrecordof
     loggingcompaniescurrentlyoperating in PNGwould lead to the errors of the past
     being replicatedintothe future. As the Bank is well aware, there is no equitable
     revenuesystem in place, and customarylandowners will continue to be exploited
     under a repetitionof existing arrangements.


     SAL Disbursement: Inyour letter of July 7,and in our meeting,you had statedthat
     it is essentialthat only those actionsthat a Governmentcan comply with duringthe
     periodof the loanare required. In particular, you stated, despitethe Second
     Trancheconditionalitythat there will be a reviewof proposedand existing logging
     concessions:


     "itwouldnot be possible to review allprojects whicharepresentiy operatingin PNG
     in the time frame of the SAL'.


     Our understandingis that the loan is for twenty years, which should give ample time
     for a full review of all existinglogging operations.Therefore, hilewe appreciate the
    .constraintsofthe SAL, Greenpeaceis concernedit could constitutean
     inappropriateuse of publicmoneyto disburse funds to PNG'sgovemmentwithout
     concreteassurancesthat the moratorium will stay in place until both phases of the
     review havebeencompleted, its recommendationsimplemented,and a majority of
     the fundamental changes mentioned above are achieved.




     Breaches of Loan Conditions: As we outlined in the meeting,the Forest Authority
     has beenactingin a renegadefashion, ignoringthe moratoriumand continuingto
     preparefast track projects.The KamulaDoso FMA inthe Westem Province and the
     Amanab Block1-4 FMAs are on track to beingallocatedin spite of the current
     moratorium.The danger here is that the ForestAuthority will drift into enforceable
     contractualrslationshipsand circumvent publiclaw checks and balances.

     The SecondTrancheconditionalitystates:

     "Comp!eteindependentreview of all FMAs, timberpermits and geographic
     extensionsto timberpermits"

     Le., that the moratoriummust remainuntila review of proposedana EXISTING
     loggingconcessionsis completed.A thorough review is requiredto effect genuine
     reforminthe sector, and this may requirean extensionto the moratorium.

    Further,as we mentionedinthe meeting, despiteyour letter to the PNG
    Government,we understandthat the problemwith the Kiunga-Aeanbakroad
    remains. We havebeentoldthat the Minister of Forestshas approvedan extension
    to this project.We know that this is of critical concernto the World Bank.
    Greenpeace has beenunableto meet with the Minister and clarifythis issue. The
    Minister recently failedto attend a scheduledmeetingwith the PapuaNew Guinean
    NGO's to discuss this issue.


    Given the above, Greenpeace's position is:


    e we would not actively oppose disbursement of the second tranche before
        the review is finished IFthe above projects are stopped;
    a the PrimeMinister states publicly that the moratorium will stay in place
        untilthe review of all projects, proposed and existing, isfinished; and
    a   its recommendationsare implemented (Le. that ongoing mechanisms are in
        placeto ensurethat the laws are being followed).


    Transparency and Participation inthe Review:



a   We also discussed several recommendationsfor increasedtransparencyand public
    participationinthe first phaseof the review (Le. of the proposed "fasttrack"
    concessions).We suggestedthat:

    0   a civil society/NGO representativeshouldbe includedon the committee that
        overseesthe review processand results (notethat Eco-ForestryForum has
        nominatedKelly Kallit):
    e   an experton publicparticipationlinformationdissemination be included as part of
        the phase 1 review team (notethat Eco-ForestryForum has nominated Paul
        Chatterton)I
    0   the reviewfindings be made publicand that a public comment period and/or
        forum beincludedinthe review process (notethat organisingthis would be the
        role of the public participationexperton the review team):

    The review process set out clear obligations to implement recommendations and
    establisha l&nq/ongoing review mechanismto ensure that:

    0   "due diligence' is appliedand met
    0   problemsuncoveredare fixed
    0   projectsa e subject to ongoingassessmentprocess which guarantees
        compliancewith legal requirements.

    It shouldbe notedthat severalconcessionsproposedover biologically critical areas
    or wherethere is localoppositionto industriallogging   - e.g. KamulaDoso,Amanab
    1-4, Laks Muny 1-2,CollingwoodBay, Musa Pongani, Hunstein Ranges should   -
    not be allocatedfor industrialloggingland use. WWF, in particular, is concemed

.-


     over the Wildlife ManagementArea it assistedin establishingover the Hunstein
     Ranges.This area of highbiodiversitypriorityis inthe April-SalumeiFMA. We need
     to guarantee that the April Salumei FMA is not put up for tendering]andthe
     Hunstein Ranges and associatedlandsthreatened.



     in our meeting,you agreedthat these recommendationswere sound and that the
     Bank would includethem in its reply to the GOPNG'sTerms of Reference for phase
     1of the review(proposedprojects).You also assured us that the Bank wouldstress
    that the reviewteam conductfield visits to check on the validity of acquisition
     proceduresas well as conductstudies in existingconcessionsas requiredfor
     assessing 'due diligence"of potential bidders.


    Supportto the PNG Governmentin recognition of revenueforgone: As we
     discussed, atiroroughreformof the forest industrywill take years, and is best
     accomplisiCIedin the context of a moratoriumon new operations. If the Government
     is to follow this course, it will haveto resist significantpressuresfrom nationaland
     provincialpoliticiansl landowners,and logging companies seeking new operations.
     One factor that may helpthe governmentto holdto the long coursewould be new
     and additionaifunding, with the greater proportiontargeted at localgovemment
     servias and landownersin areas coveredby the moratorium. Greenpeace
     understandsthat the Bank may not be in a positionto providesuch funds, but the
     Bank could play a role in describingthe pressureson the PNG Governmentto
    funding agencies,andthe value of grantsthat can be seen to be replacingforgone
     revenue. Any commentsor advice on this pointwould be appreckted.


    The Prime Minister'svisit to Washington DC: Thank you for informingus of the
    upcominsvisit of Prime Ministerto Washington, and his plannedmeeting with
    World Bank PresidentWolfensohn.It would be valuable if the briefingnotes for
    Wolfensohncould includereferenceto the Banks belief in the value to PNG of the
    moratoriumsaying in place, bothto improvegovernance]and to effect a thorough
    reviewand reformof the ForestAuthority. Greenpeacebelievesthis is an ideal
    opportuniv to encouragethe PrimeMinister to confirm his support for this
    approachpublicly,to allay our fears that as soon as the SecondTranche is
    distributed, loggingwill quicklyexpandinto unallocated areas.

    Yours faithfulti,.

    Brian Brunton

    cc Dan Weise

    Jim Douglas

                    ANNEX B


FORESTRYACT AMENDMENTS AND GAZETTALOFREGULATIONS
            FROMCABINET DECISION84/2000


                      LNDEPENDENTSTATE OF PAPUANEW GUINEA.


                                          NO.    of   2000.


                                   Forestry (Amendnient) Act 2000.


                                 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS.


     1.   Membership or [he Boaru r Amenavent of Section 10).
     1A.  Alternate members (Amenament of Section i11.
     2.   Repeal and replacement or Section 12.

                 "12.   CHAIR\lAS AND DEPUTY CHAIRMAN."

     3 .  Vacation 01 office (..\menamem of Section 14)
     4.   Repeal and replacement or Section 19

                 `*19.  DELEGATION."

     5.   Types or land on which. ana manner :n which forest industry activities may be permitted
             (Amenament or Section 55).
     6.   Advertisement ot project (Amendment or Section 64).
     7 .  Timber Authority (Amendment of Section 87)
     8.   New Sections 90A. 90B. 9OC. 90D alia 90E.

                 "90A. LARGE SCALE CONVERSION OF FOREST TO AGRICULTURAL
                         OR OTHER LAND USE."
                 "90B. DEALING WITH APPLICATIONS FOR AGRICULTURAL OR
                         OTHER LAND USE."
                 "90C. LARGESCALE CONVERSION OF FORESTTO ROAD."
                 "90D. DEALING WITH APPLICATIONS FOR CONVERSION OF
                         FORESTTO ROAD."
                 "90E. CANCELLATION, ETC., OF AUTHORITIES.".

     9.   Performance Bond (Amendment of Section 98).
     10.  New Section 103A.

                  " 103A.    PUBLIC REGISTER.".

0    11.  New Section 144.

                  $4144.     SAVINGS OF EXISTING TIMBER AUTHORITIES.".

                   INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA.



                                           NO.     :f   "ooo.


                                 Forestry (Amendment) Act 2000.



Being an Act to amena tlic Foresin, Act 1991.

.MADEby the National P~riiament

1.    MEMBERSHIP OF TI1E BOARD (AhlEND>fENTOF SECTION 10).
      Section i o of the P:inc~par Act is amenaed -
              fa)     .;1Subsection 1) -
                                      (

                           I ) in Paragraph ib) by repealing me word "hance" and replacing it
                               `with ine following:-
                                       "planning and implementation"; 2nd
                         1 IIJ by repealing Paragrapn (cj ana replacing It with the following:-
                                       ,`(cy  3  representative of the Papu New Guinea Chamber
                                              of Commerce and Industries nominated by the
                                              Chamber. 7.vhoshall not be a principal or empioyee
                                              of a foreign owned or controiled company dealing in,
                                               trading in or contracting in relation to timber;"; and
                        I iii`r by repeaiing Psraerapn td) and repiacing it with the following:-
                                       fd)     2 citizen. being the President o i the Association of
                                               Foresters of Papua New Guinea, ex officb, or his
                                               nominee: ; and
                        (iv) by repealing Paragraph      m, and
                                                          "
                                                                 repiacing it with the following:-
                                       "rJ)    subject to Subsection (9), a citizen, being the
                                               President of the Papua New Guinea Eco-Forcsuy
                                               Forum, ex officio. or his nominee;"; and
                         (v)    by adding the following new Paragraph:-
                                       "(h)    one member, with awareness of the concerns of
                                               women affected by foresuy operations, appointedby
                                               the National Executive Council from a iist of two
                                               persons submitted by the National Council of
                                               Women.";      and
                        (vi)    inSubsection (4)(a)by repealing the reference "Subsection (l)(e)
                                andcf> and repiacing it with the following:-
                                        "Subsection (l)(e)";   and
                      (vii)     inSubsection (4)(c) by repealing the reference "Subsection (1)v)
                                and (5)" and repiacing it with the following:-
                                        "Subsection (:i)(c), (4,0,!$and (h)"; and

                                           Foresay (Amenahent)


                 (b)      inSubsection (6), by repeaiing the rererence "Subsection (l)(e), U,or (g)"
                         and repiacing it with the following:-
                                  "Subsection (l)(e), (gj or rh)"; and
                 (c)      :nSubsection t7), by repeaiing the words "non governmental
                         organizations" and repfacing them with the following:-
                                  "National Councii of Women"; 2nd
                 (d)      iiy adding the following new subsection:-


                                           '*(9)  Where the National Executive Council, after
                                  considering submissions from the Minister and the Minister
                                              -
                                  responsible for environment and conservation matters, is of the
                                  opiniun that the P a p a New Guinea Eco-Forestry Forum has ceased
                                  !o become an effective ana legitimate bodv representing eco-
                                  torestr;: interests. i t shall-
                                           ,a)    revoke the membership on the Board o f the President
                                                  of the P q u a New Guinea Eco-Forestry Forumor his
                                                  nominee:      2nd

                                           lb )   appoint as a member o t the Board to represent non-
                                                  governmental organizations, one person from a list,
                                                  submitted by the Minister, of at least two persons
                                                  seiected by a nationally recognized body, registered
                                                  with the Department responsible for home affairs
                                                  matters, representing non-goverrqent
                                                  organizations. ."



-  1A.    ALTERNATE 3IEMBERS (AMENDMENT OF SECTION 11).
          Section I1 of the Principal Act is amended in Subsection 1) by repealing the reference
                                                                       (
   "Section 10(l)(e), cr) ana (g)" and replacing it with the foilow1ng:-
                 "Section 10(l)(e) and (g)".

   2.     REPEAL AYD REPLACEMENTOF SECTION 12.
          Section 12 of the Principal Act is repealed and is replaced with the foilowing-

                 "12.     CHAIRMAN AND DEPUTY CHAIRMAN.                       :
                          The members of the Board shall elect     -
                           (a)    a member specified in Section 10(1)(6) to be the Chah" of the
                                  Board: and
                           (b)    another of their number to be the Deputy Chairman of the Board. .   "



   `3.    VACATION OF OWICE (AMENDMENT OF SECTION 14).
          Section 14 of the Principal Act.is amended by inserting after Subsection (2) the following
    new subsection:-

                           "(2A) The membership of the member holding office under Section
                  lO(1)y) may be revoked in accordance with Section 10(9).".

                                      Foresrry (A~~zeizdnzenr)


4.  REPEALAID REPLACE,MENT OF SECTION 19.
    Section 19 of the Principal Act is repeaied and is replaced with the following:-

           "19.    DELEGATION.
                   i1)        The Minister may, by instrument. delegate to the Board all or any
           his powers ana functions under this Act (except this power of delegation).

                   ( 2 )      The Boara may, by instrument. delegate to the Managing Director
           all or anv ot its powers and functions under this Act (except this power of
           delegation)     " .

_.
: TYPESOFLANDONFI`HICH.ANDMANNERINWHICHFORESTINDUSTRY
    ACTIVITIES LIAY BE PEELMITTED (AMENDMENT OF SECTXON55).
    Section 55 or the Princinai Xis is amenaed -
           (a)      :; 5ubsection l j -
                                      (

                       , I)   by aading after the words "Sabject to Subsection (2)," the
                              t`ollowing:-
                                     "anly";    m d
                        1 1 ) bi.0 adding at the end of Subparagraph (ii)the following:-
                                     ".or";   and
                     : iii) by adding arter Subparagraph Ciij the following new Subparagraph:.
                                     "(iii) clearing authority has beengrantedunderSection
                                               J
                                               90(B) or 9O(D)."; and
           (b)     in Subsection (2) by adding arter Paragraph (c) the following new
                   paragrapns:-

                              '`(da rorestclearing authority underSection90(B) or 9O(D); or
                               (e) an authority to carry out large scale agriculture or other land
                                     use development under Section 90(B) where forest industry
                                     activities are to be carried out; or
                               v)    an authority to carry out roadline ciearance under Section
                                     99(D) where forest industry activities are to be carried out.".

6.  ADVERTISEMENTOF PROJECT (AMENDMENTOF SECTXON64).
    Section 64 of the Principal Act is amended by repealing Subsection (3) and replacing it
    with the following:-

           "(3)     Where a forest development project         -
                    (a)        is contiguous to any existing approved timber permit operations and
                              the holders of timber permits of the existing timber pennit
                              operations have, inthe opinion of the Board, a record of satisfactory
                               performance in the forestry industry and have complied with their
                               contractuai obligations under ail timber permits held by them at any
                               time and such persons are acceptable tG the landowners inthe forest
                               development project area: and

                                                  - 3 -

                                    Foresny (Amendment)


                  (6)     is the subject of development option studies carried out under
                         Section 62 ; 2nd
                  (c)     is the subject of final project guidelines issued by the Board under
                         Section 63;        ;na
                  (4           consistent with the National Forest Development Program;       and
                  ( e )   , s . in the opinion or the Boara. so small on its own that it is unable
                         io operate as a commerciaily susrainabie forest development
                         project.
          the Boara mav aetermine that the forest development project shall be an extension
          of one or the existing approvea timber permit operations.


                  1.J)    :f. in the event that the Boara determines under Subsection 13) that
          (he rorest develooinent project snaii be an extension of an existing approved
          operation. [lien. sco!ect to Subsecrions (51 anu (6), ai1 timber permit holders whost
          timber permit operations are contiguous to the forest development project shall be
          invited hy the Boara to make project proposals in respect to the forest developmen
          project

                  (5)     i f anv timber permit nolder referred to i?Subsection (4), has at
          any time nireadv been granted an extension into a forest development project area,
          such timber permit holder shall not. except with the endorsement o f the National
          Executive Council. be eligible to be invited by the Boara to make application for a
          project proposal uiiucr Subsection (4)

                  (6)      .lny extension granted shall be made only on the basis that     -
                           ja)    :he forest resources within the forest development project
                                  shall be used primarily to sustain an existing processing
                                   facility;  2nd
                            (b)    the existing timber permit area and the forest devel-opment
                                  project area shall be consoiidated under the one timber permit
                                   and the consolidated timber permit area shall be managed and
                                   harvested on a sustainable harvest yield basis.

                   (7)     Subdivision III.5.B shall apply to a forest development project as if
          it has otherwise been advertised.".

7. TIMBER AUTHORITY (AMENDMENTOFSECTION87).
    Section 87 of the Principal Act is amended in Subsection (1)     -
    (a)   by repealing Paragraph (b)and replacing it with the following:-
                     "(b)   for the purposes of -
                                (i) the removal oftrees onareasdesignated for agricultureor
                                     other land use by the relevant authorities where the
                                     agriculture or other land use wouid resuit in a clearance of
                                     less than 50 hectares of trees; cr


                                               - 4 -

                                        Foresny (Amendment)


                                  (ii) the removai of trees on areas designated for a road by h e
                                        relevant aurfiorities wnere the roadline would not exceed
                                        12.5 kiiometres ourside the area covered by the Forest
                                        Management Agreement: or '.

8.      NEW SECTIONS 90A. 90B. 9OC, 30D A.W 90E.
        Part 111of the Principai Act   IS amended in Subdivision 8.5.D by inserting after Section 5
the following:-

                       "90A. `1LARGE SCALE CONVERSION OF FORESTTO
                               XGRICULTURAL OR OTHER LAND USE.
                               11 )   ipersonmavmaKeappiicarionIntheprescribedformand
                                      iccoinuaniea by prescrioed application ree Tor an
                       ;il[hori~vlo carry out anv agricultural or other land use developmenr (othc
                       :han roadline clearing on an exisring rbrested areal where the amount of
                       nroposea clearance o i naturai forest ror the project IS greater than 50
                       t:ectares in total.

                               ( 2 )  ..Jnapplication under Subsection 1) shall not be made where
                                                                         (
                       rile proposed project is w iciiin a Forest Management Agreement Area,
                       Timber IXiphts Purchase Agreemenr Area or Loca: Forest Area except wit
                                    -
                       [he approval of the Boara and. where appiicable, the holder of any relevar
                       Timber Permit.

                               (3)    .An application unaer Subsection ( 1) shall contain-
                                      (a)    2  detaiied deveiopment plan. evaluation report and
                                             cenificare o i approval from tne Secretary of the
                                             Department responsible for agriculture and livestock
                                             matters or the Secretary of any reievant Government
                                              Department or such other evaluation reports and
                                             certificates as the Board considers necessary; and
                                       (6)    a copy of the refevant State Lease or other
                                             documentation relating to other type of land tenure
                                             appropriate for the project:    and
                                       (c)    an implementation schedule for the complete
                                              agricultural or other iand use project showing the
                                              precise areas and proposed rate of harvestingto be
                                              carried out by an independentcontractor appointed by
                                              the Forest Authority and successive land use
                                              deveiopment approved inwriting by the Departmental
                                              Hadof the Department responsible for agriculture
                                              and livestock matters or the Secretary of the relevant
                                              Government Department or, where relevant, the
                                              Provincial G o v e m m t including detailed start and
                                              compietion dates of ail activities associatedwith Sie
                                              project;    and
                                                  - 5 -

                Foresq (Ainerzdi~rerzt)


           (6)       details of costs of the agricultural or other land use
                     project and a certificate from a bank or financial
                     institution which is satisfactory to the Managing
                     Director certifying that the full costs of funding tlle
                     project wiil be available to the applicant: and
           \ e )     ;imap and description or' the project area in respect  0
                     which the application is made showing any areas of
                     dope in excess of 30" or any other areas which are
                     unsuitable for agricultural or other land use
                     development and any areas iinportant for conservatior
                     and
           ,>f)      I verirication of ownership ana the consent of each
                     resource owning clan agent (or incorporated Land
                     Groups if :hey nave been rormedr within the pro~ect
                     area. which has been signed in the presence of a
                     Village Court Magistrate or land mediator in the
                     prescribed form:     2nd

           l  T)     jupporting letters from any orher relevant Department
                     authorities or relevant industry body regarding the
                     appropriateness or the design and irnplemenution of
                     the proposed project;    :\nd
            ( 1 2 )  dn approviif in writing froin the office or Department
                     responsible for environment and conservation matters
                     of the environment impact statement submitted by tlie
                     applicant to that office or Department: and
            ( i )    details o i equipment ana manpower suitable for the
                      deveiopment of the proposed project and evidence of
                      past experience  111such deveiopments; and
            0)        such other particulars as are prescribed.

9013. DEALING WITH APPLICATIONS FOR AGRICULTURAL
      OR OTHER LAND USE.
      (1)    IftheBoarddetermines thattlieapplicationunderSection
90A is inthe prescribed form and contains all relevant particulars, it

             by written notice consult with any government body that has,
             inits opinion, an interest inthe grant of the applicationor thz
             has any jurisdiction iii the area to which the appiication
              relates; and
              arrange for public hearings at which government bodies and
              the private sector may be heard;     and
              prepare, not less than seven days prior to the hearings referre
              to inParagraph (6). a report and summary of matters
              associated with the application and the Board's consultation
              under Paragraph (a).

                 Forestty (Ainendnaent)

shall be(2)   Notice of an appiication and a public hearing inrespect of it
         given by the Board by publication in the prescribed form      -
              (a)      in the Nationai Gazette: and
              `&I)     in a newspaper circulated nationaily;    and
               C)      in a newspaper circulated in the province inwhich th
                      area. !lie subject of the application, is situated (ifanv
                      and by a radio broadcastin8 service that specifically
                       services the province (ifany).

        ( 3 ) ,`i notice unaer Subsectron (2) shall specify the date of the
3earing wing not less inan 23 days from tile date of publication of the
r8tIce
 o

         -ii TheSoarasnail aopoiiir a person[o betheChairmanofthe
iearine     no snail conaucl 3 hearins, 2s he thinks fit, and such hearing sh
l e ncld nt or as near as practicable to [he proposed agricultural or other
, ~ n use proJectsite.
      d

        ( 5 ) A person may, on payment of the prescribed fee, inspect ana
;ia)te ccnies or the sumnary referrea to in Subsection (l)(c).

        , o )  L`pon the completion or the hearing tinder Subsection(4),
[lie Clisirmnii or the hearing sliail rerer the nppiication and a summary of
[tie hcarins to [he i'rwincial Forest Management Committee who sirall        -
               (a)     consider and evaluate the nppiicaiion and the
                       suinmary of the hearing; and
               Ib)     :herearter make recommenaationsto the Board.

        (7)    ;in evaluation of an applicatioii by the Provincial Forest

account -
iManageinerit Committee under Subsection (6) shall be made taking into

               (a)      the National Forest Policy; and
               (b)      any reIevaiit provincial government policies provided
                        they are not inconsistent with the National Forest
                        Policy; and
               (c)      the commercial viability of the project includingthe
                        financiai resources of the applicant, the past
                        performance of the applicant inagriculture or the
                        proposed land use and other projects, analysis of
                        projected cash flows and the anticipated net benefit to
                        the resource owners and to the State; and
               (6)      any other matters that the Provincial Forest
                        Management Committee considers relevant.

         (8)    Inmaking an evaluation under this Subsection(7), the
Provincial Forest Management Committee may request the assistance of
the Nationai Forest Service and of any relevant Department.
                            - 7 -

                Forestry (Anisiid~iiem)


        (9)  'Where the Provincial Forest Management Coimiuee, after
having considered and evaiuated an application, is of the opinion that it is
satisfactorv, IL sliail recoinmend to thc Board to approve the applicatioir fol
a conversion or the forest to agriculture or other land use.  I




        (10)  Ifthe ProvincialForest ManagementCommitteeisnot
satisfied witn the application it shall inform the Boara accordingiy together
with reasons for Its decision aiid the application shall be rejected.


        (11) Tile Bozrd shall inform the npplicanr of the rejection of the
application and the reasons tiiereior.

          i2) Ifthe Boara IS satisilea s'itli the recomniendatlon under
Subsect;on (3'1ana the ourcome or tlie puDlic iicaring unuer Subsection (4),
ihe 5oaru mav recomena to the Minister to recommend to the National
Executive Council to enaorse the application Tor a conversion o f the forest
[o agricuirure 3r oLher !and use in respect of tlie project area.


        ( 13) Ifthe Boara i s not satislied with the recommendation or the
ourcoine or [lie public hearing or both. It shall reject the application and
aavise (ne applicant that the appiication has been rejected and giving the
leasons tor the rejection.

        (14) When the Minister receives the recommendation from the
Boara under Subsection 121, he shall refer the appiication together with
the recommenaation from the Provincial Forest Manaseinenr Committee
and the Boars and all evaluations reports. certificates of approvals froiii all
relevant Departments ana a summary of the public hearing to the National
Executive Councri.

         (15) TIie Nationai Executive Council shall consider the appiication
and other papers referred to it under Subsection (14) and shall direct the
Minister to  -
               (a)      endorse: or
               (6)       reject,
the application and ifthe application is rejected it shall state the reasons for
the rejection.

         (16) The Minister shall    -
               (a)       comply with a direction under Subsection(15); and
               (6)       advise the Board of the direction.

         (17) Ifthe National Executive Council does not endorse the
 project, the Board shall inform the applicant and the Provincial Fdrest
 Managemec: Committeeof the decision of che National Executive Council
 and the reasons for the rejection of the application.
                             - 8 -

                   Foresiv (Aliierrairient)


          ( 18)    011the receipt or' the auvice l'romthe Minister that the
National Executive Councii has endorsed an ilppiication. the Board shall
call for tenders oniy from registered forest industry participants by
advertisement in P a p a New Guinea or abroad in such a manner considered
by the Board likely to be most effective ana specifying a date on or before
which proposals for the forest clearing operation shall be lodged.

          I 19)     'in applicant for the proposed agricultural or other land use
project or anv related person or corporation as that expression is defined in
[he C'o~npa~zws      Act 1997 i s prohibited from tendering for the project
?roviding t i n t in the event no tenderers are received or h e y are, in the
i3oara.s i>pinion.commerc:ailv unsatisfactorv. [hen in such a case, the
3oaru r:nv     invite the appiiciint to carry out the rOreSt clearing operation
.IW.      rhe 3p:Diicant agrees. iiie aopiicant snall then De deemed for the
yurposes o i siction ~O(BIto oe tile successiui tcnaerer.

            20)     The successrul tenuere: Shail enter into the prescribed Sales
..nu PL;CIIASC .!greement        ~ t h cusroniary owners which agreement shall
                                     the
- 1 OL ~ u efor rrie purchase. sxvesring, processing or marketing o f timber ana
  \;her. ii re71 Drouucrs and Lvnicn agreement shall 3e suoject to the grant of a
         clearing authority by rhe Boaru.

           ( 2I) The Board shall. on the completion of the sales and purchase
agreement. grant to the appiicant an authority to carry out an agricultural 01
ariier imu use developinent which authoritv snail -
                    ' a ) be in the prescribed l'oriii: :!nu
                    ~ b ) require 3 perrorniance bond in accordance with
                          Section 38 for an aniount specified in tlie aufhority;
                          and
                    (c)   specify such other conditions as are laid down by the
                          Board.

                    A grant o f a forest clearing authority shall -
                    (a) be in the prescribed form; and
                    (b)   inorder to ensure that the planned land useby the
                          successful applicant referred to inSection 90(A)(1)
                          actually takes place, provide that any forest clearing
                          operation shall be authorized in four phases, each
                          phase -
                              (i) shall representapproximatelyonequarterof
                                   the total area to be cleared under a forest
                                   clearins authority;    and
                             (ii)shallcontainsuchcoiiditionsasaredetermined
                                   by the Boarti. aiid


                              - 9 -

                     Forestry (Amendment)


                            (iii) shallbesubdivided intoblocksfor clearing      0
                                  maximum 500 hectares unless the Board
                                  considers that the maximum of 500 hectares     I
                                  inappropriate in the circumstances in which
                                  case it may increase or decrease the maximur
                                  clearance figure: and
                          provide that the successful tenderer shall comply wit
                          the approved implementation schedule determined b l
                          the Department responsible for agriculture and
                          livestock matters or other relevant Department;     ana
                          povide that a iurther phase under the same forest
                          clearing autnoritv mav only be granted for the same
                          purposes of forest clearance for agricultural or other
                          land use tviiere all conuitions relating to an agricultu:
                          deveiopment pian or other iand use implementation
                          schedule have been satisfied; and
                          provide that the rights under the authority may be
                          suspended where the planned landuse by the applica.
                          referred to in Section 90!A)(1) is not progressing
                          according to. or meeting the set standards of, the
                          Department responsible tor agriculture and livestock
                          matters or other relevant government agency or
                           instrumentality's approved implementation schedule;
                          and
                           require a performance bond in accordance with
                           Section 98 for an amount specified in the authority;
                           nnd
                           specit'v such other conditions as are laid down by the
                           Board.

              (23) Ifan appiication for an agricultural or other iand use
       deveiopment is at any stage and for any reason rejected, the appiicant ma
       at any time make a fresh appiication together with the prescribed
       application fee. ".

"90C. LARGESCALE CONVERSIONOF FORESTTO ROAD.
       (1)     A person may make application inthe prescribed form and
accompanied by the prescribed appiication fee for an authority to carry out any
roadline development over an existing forested area where the proposed road wii
be greater than 12.5 kilometres in lengtli.

       (2)     .4napplication under Subsection (1) may not be made where the
proposed road project is within a Forest Management Agreement Area, a Timber
Rights Purcliase Agreement Area or Local Forest Area except with the agreemer
of the Board and, where applicable, the holder of any relevant Timber Permit.
                               -10   -

0 -               Forestry (Aiiieitdiiieiit)


       (3) .inanpiication under Subsection (1) shall contain        -
               ::detailed deveiopiiicnt pian. evaluation report aiid certificate
               of approval front the Depamental Head of the Department
               responsible fer rraiisport inatters certifving that the proposed
               road route is in accordance with the relevant National or
               Provincial infrastructure plans. and that funding is available to
               :iiaintain the road after construction or such other evaluation.
               !reportsand certificates as the Board considers necessary; and
               ,, ~ertlt'icater'roiii the Departmental Head of the Department
               responsible tor works iiiatters certiiving that the proposed
               standard 7 f construction and design (includine alignment) for
               'tie road iiiee:s the Department's standards; and

               ,,  ~ertificarer x m rile reievant Provinciai Government
                .crtifvine
                        . - in ivriring mar it approves the construction or the
               pubiic road in the province aiid that the approval is given in
                :erms o i the design certiried by [he Departmental Head of the
                Department responsible f'cr works matters and that when the
                i.esponsibility :o inamain [he road is with the reievant
                Proviiiciai Govei.iiiiient. ~ i i that rile Provincial Government
                                                   d
                Jiidertakes that it can ana will iiiaintaiii the road when built;
                A i d
                .'::I inioieiiienration sciieduie tor the coinpiete roadline project
                jiiowiiie iiie precise areas and proposed rate of harvesting to
                be carried out by      ;iiiiiidependeiit culltractor appointed by the
                Forest iluthoriiy ;iiid successive land usc development
                .loproved in writing by the Deparriricritai Head o f the
                Department respoiisible r m transport mauers including
                detailed start and conipietion dares of ail activities associated
                with the roadliiie project;        2nd
                details    orcosts   ot' the roadline project and a certificate from a
                 bank or financiai institutioii certifying that the full costs of
                 funding the roadline project wiil be made available to the
                appiicant;       and
                 a inap and description of the roadline project area in respect o
                 which the application is made giving details of land tenure anc
                 siiowing the route o f the proposed road in numbered 5.
                 kilometre sections;        and
                 a verification of ownership and the consent o f each resource
                 owning clan agcrit (or incorporated Land Groups if they have
                 been formcd) witliiii the project iirea. which has been signed
                  iii tile prcseilce 01' a Village Court Magistrate or lalld lliediatoi
                  in the prescribed form: aiid




                                - 11-

a -
                                      Forestry (Amendinelit)


                       (h)     :upporring ierters froin any other reievant Department
                               authorities or reievant industry bodies regarding the
                               appropriateness or the design and iinpiementation of the
                               ?reposed roaaiine project: mi
                       I I I   xtaiis or equipment anu manpower suitable for the
                               ieveioomenr or the proposed roadline project and evidence of
                               73st exper~encc:n such deveiopmenrs: 2nd

                       ;;,I    .    x h orlier ev3iualioii reports and certificates as the Board
                               Lansicicrs nccessarv and as prescribed.

       90D. LIEALISG II'ITHAPPLICX'TIONS FOR CONVERSION OF
               FOREST TO ROAD.
                        . .
                : I       : the 3oaru deter,r.:nes that tl;e appiications under Section 9OC in
       :he p:.escl :DCU IOI  in :li;u COntaiiis aii reievanr particulars. it shall   -
                       l d )     r,-x;  wrliten iictice consuii u'iiiianv government body that has,
                                 :ii its  opinion. An interest in [he grant of the application or tha
                                 j u s anv jui-iscilction in [lie 3re3 IO which [lie application
                                  :elates:    -xu
                          b )       .: range jci' public hearings at wivcii government bodies and
                                  :he private sector may be heard: rlrd
                                  -repare. ::3t less tliaii seven days prior to the hearings referre
                                  IO in Paragraph (h), a report and summary        of matters
                                  .issociated with [lie application aiid [lie Board's consultation
                                  uiider Pnragrapli tu').


               I7)       'iotice or' an appiicarion aiid a public hexing in respect of it shall
       be given D? the Boaru by pubiicarion in the prescribed form               -
                         (,a) i:i the National Gazette:           and
                         (b) in a newspaper circulated nationally;             2nd
                         (c)        ;~i a newspaper circulated in tlie province (if any) in which ti-
                                    area. the subject of the application. is situated and by a radio
                                    broadcasting service that specifically services the province (1
                                    aayj.

                (3)       A notice under Subsection (2) shall specify the date of the hearing
        being not less than 28 days tioin the date of publication of the notice.

                (4)       The Board may appoiiit a person to be the Chairman OC the hearin
        who shall conduct a Ilearing, .as lie tliinks fit. and such hearing shall be at or as I
        as praciicable to the proposed roadline project site.

                (5)       :\ person may, on payment of the prescribed fee, inspect and ma!
        copies of tlie surimiary referred to in Subsection (l)(c).

                                 Forestry (Aitiendrttenr)


              (6)      L'pon [lie compietion or the hearing referred to in Subsection (4),
      [he Chairman or the hearing snail refer the aupiication and summary of the hearing
      to the reievant Provinciai Forest Management Coilunittee who shall               -
,-                     /ai    ijnsider ana evaluate the application and the hearing
                              >ummarv; xnci
                       ( b )  Lilerear'ter m a ~ erecommendations to the Board.


              l7'1      'illevajuarion or ai1 appiicatioii by the Provincial Forest
      :Managemem C~~IIIIIIIL~CC     und'r Subsection (G) shall be made taking into account -
                       ' d )  ':',e Naticnai Furest Policv;       x d
                        ;-I   ..nv relevant ~!-ovlrlciaigovernment policies provided they are
                              ':at Inconsisre::: -::irii [lie National Forest Policy;     3.nd

                          ,:   ::e comme:c:::l   $:!ability of the pro!ect inciuding the financia1
                              :tsOurce 01 :kc agiicanr. r!ie past perrormance of the
                              .ippiicant  III roauiine projects and other projects, anaiysis of
                              :lrojected casn flows and the anricipared net benefit to the
                               :-t.sourceowners and to the State: and
                         dj   ..ilv orlicr inxters riiat tlie Proviiiciai LManagement Comniittee
                              Loiisiders re!evant.

               1 5 )    !:I maKinp an esaiuiittoll uiidcr Subsectioii \7j, the Provincial Forest
                                    -
       ?.lanagem=!:i Cd1nmlttee niav rcouesr the assistance of the National Forest Service
       and of aiiv relevant Dcpartinenr.

               :9 )     '.Vherc :he Provlnciai Forest klanageinent Coinmittee. after having
       considerea and evaluated an appiication.           ISo t the opinion that it is satisfacrory, I t
       jhall recoiiiiiicnu to the Ooaru [u iipprove iiie appiication for a cotiversion of tile
       forest to roadline.

               (10)     I f the Provincial Management Committee is not satisfied with the
       appkatioii, it shall inform the Board accordingiy together with the reasons for its
       decision and the appiication shall be rejected.

               (1I)     The Board sliali inform the applicant of the rejection of the
       application and the reasons therefor.

               (12)      IftheBoardissatisfiedwiththerecommendationmadeunder
       Subsectioii (9)and the outcome of the public hearing under Subsection (4), the
       Board shali recommend to the Minister to recommend to the National Executive
       Council to endorse the appiicdtioii tor a conversion of the forest to road use in
        respect 01' the project area.

                (13)     Ifthe Boardis notsatisfiedwith the recommendations andtlie
        Outcome 01' the Fzbiic fiearirig or both, it shall rsject the application and advise ti?
        appiicant that the zpplication has been rejected ar.d giving the reasons for tic
        rejection.                           - 13  -

                                Forestry (A111eiidinmt)


          (14)       When the Minisier receives die recolliiiiendation from the Board
under Subsection 12), he shall i'erer the application together with the
~ecmn."mndation trom the Proviiiciai l"St                A~alla~eiilentCommittee and the
Board and all evaluations reports. :mfkateS               Of approvals from all relevant
Departments aiia a suinmarv or [lie puolic hearing to the National Executive
Council :or its consiueration.

          , i5)       ::le  National Execuiive Couiicii sllail consider the application and
other pnpers rererrea 10 it under Ssbsection I14) ilnd shall direct tlie Minister to -
                     I i l ) cxlorse:     'I.
                     rDI       :!ect.
the acpilc:,:ion ;ir,j the app1icn::d;i
                             I'                  ISrclccreu.   s i n 1 1 state :he reasons for the
ieiecticr.

              or      :':.c Alinister siiall -
                              -\;inply wirii ;idircciioii under Subsectloll (15);      and
                              ..ivise the Boaru ut' the uirection.

              - 1     ,; [lie National Excciitivc Council does not endorse tlie project, tile
Boaru     \,   1 1iiiiorm [ne applicant a w lhe Provincial Forest Management
Coiiiiiii:::?     t'!!lie decision of rlic Sntionai Executive Councii and the reasons for
{lie re!ec::on 01 :lie Jqplicxion.


           ( i 8 )    \ I n ieceipt ot the auvict: !rum the Minister that the National
ExecutiL e Zuuiicii !:as endorsea on application. the Boara shall call for tenders
oniy trcm egisiel-eu forest iiiuustrs participants by auvertisement in Papua New
                 i
Guinea      01   noroau     iiisuch manner cciisidereu by rlie Uoara likely to be most
effective aiia specityiiig a date oil or bcfore wntch proposals for the forest clcariii
operatioii iiiust be lodged.

           (19)        A n applicant lor tlic proposed roaaiinc project or any related persc
 or corpori\tion as that cxprcssion is dcl'iiicd in the Cuiirpaiiies Act 1997 is
 prohibited f'roni tendering tor the project provided that in the event no teiiderers :
 received 01 they are. iii tlic Uoard's opinion, commercially unsatisfactory, then, 1
 such a case, the Board inay i w i t c ti;< applicant to carry out the forest clearing
 operatioii and, ifthe applicant agrccs, [lie applicarrt shall be deemed, for the
 purposes of Section 90D, to be the successful tenderer.

            (20)       The successful tcndcrer shall enter into the prescribed Sales and
 Purchase Agreement with the customiry owners wliicli agreement shall provide f
 the purchase, harvesting, or marketing oI' timber and other forest products arid
 which agreeiiient shall be subject tu t!ic g r m of ;I lorest clearing authority by              tliL
 Board.


                                            -14-

a - . '
                                  Forestry (Aincndiitertt)


           121)  The Board shali. on tne completion                       Of the Sales arid Purchase
           Aiyreemenr. grant to the aopiicaiit an authority 10 carry out any roadline
           development u iiich autiioritv sliall -
                  ~ U J ,-2         in tlie prescrioed toriii:         .ind
                  tb)          :quire     rl perroi-iiiaiice bond       111accoraaiice with Section 95 for
                           Jn amount specified in the auiiioritv;                  ,ind

                   IC-)    \qeciry sucii other conditions as are laid down by the Board.


           1--,\
            - -      A g~.nniof' ;I foresr cicariiig autiiorirv shall             -
                           - 2 in the        prescribed f'orni:
                      h )  ,-:-oviaethat forest ciearance tor road construction shall only
                    ~


                               .tautilorlseu 111 siages 01           29 kilomeires in length in order to
                             ::!sure acfuai        CCIIS~~UCIIOII    oi [he roau takes piace: and
                     ' ,i  ;.: ovidc iiiat t l i ~IOI'CSI cic:\i.iiig iilust IOIIOWsurveyed
                                                                                         3

                             . d , rgnmerit wnicii niust have beeii carried out by a registered
                             ,urvevor:          :a:i~

                    1 L ~ J  .?ecify that wilere !lie Maiiagiiig Director receives a statement
                              .!I   writing I'rotii ilie Drpartinenr responsible for works matters
                              :I;;IL road coiisiruciioii Iiils been coiiipieied in the previous
                              .xtioii oi cicarcd Ioiid ~OI.I.I~OI.to tile requirements of the
                              Llepartiiieiit. [lie hlaiiagiiig Director may authorise further
                              : a dclearance !o Lakc place in lurther section of road
                                                                           ;I
                              Lorridor. iiot exceeding 20 kilometres in length, which is next
                              scheduled for cirarlng:               nild
                                   Zecirv that the i1i;ixiiiiuiii roadiiiie corridor which may be
                              L!eared undcr        ;I   iorest cicarsiice aurliorirv shall not exceeu -
                                    iij iii respect IO ihc corridor lengtn - [he length of road
                                          pliuined IO be coiisrructed:           and
                                    ii) inrespecr IO thc corridor wid~hlor eachandevery
                                          stage 01'i'orest clcaraiicc - shall not exceed 40 metres
                                           iii width aiid such said width sliail not be inore than 20
                                           metres 011 either side of the centre of the road;         and
                      v>       provide that the rights unuer the authority may be suspended
                               where      -
                                     (i) consiruction            01the road  in the corridor cleared under
                                           the tiinber authority is iiot progressing according to the
                                           approved impienientation schedule of the Department
                                            responsible lor transport matters or the Department
                                            responsible for works niatters:           or
                                    (ii) the applicant has iiot provided the Authority with a
                                            certificate f'roiii the Departnient responsible for works
                                            matters conliriiiing iliat thc length of road constructed
                                            in the roadliiie has been cicarcd in accordance with
                                            any siagc 01';in iinpiuinenution scixduie and that it
                                            IIICCS the road coiistructiori standards        of that
                                            Dep.tLCLIllOIl1.
                                                -  15   -

                                                    Forestry (Aiiteridriienr)


                                       (g)      require a perrormance bond in accordance with Section 98 for
                                                nn amount specified in the authority;        2nd
                                       ( / I )  s?ecifv such other conditions as are laid down by the Board.

                        (23)           if'. any tiiiic. niter the coining iiiro operatioilof this provision, a
                                              a[
                  road that is presentlv being constructed or that 1s proposed to be constructed
                  througii r`oresredareas under an existing permit. authority or licence and which
                  is at vai'imce 3xItIi any of' the provisions or this Section. then. in such a case,
                  sucli permit authority or iicence. ss the case may be. shall be varied by the
                  Authoriry so that such perlliit authoriry coinpiies with this section and no
                  comperxntion s i n i i be payable to the permit. nuthoriry or licence holder, as the
                  i x e n:nv ne. ;:s n resuir o t such holder being required :o comply with this
                  xcrioii

                        124)           ;: an aogiicarion tor a rOaallIle aeveiopment is a i any stage and for
                  nnv rexon reiected the applicant mav at any time mnke a rresh application
                  logethe:       3 , ~
                                     Iri1 rile  crescriued application fees.".

                  "!JOE. i...\SCEI,LXTION. ETC., 01; AUTHORIT!ES.
                              \ii autiiori!!'         ro carry out an agricultural 01` other land use, forest clearing
                  Authorirh           aurilori!!. to carry out a roadline developinent granted under Section
                 90B oi .ioD is             S U D I C C ~todie provisions of Section 97 reiating to the riglit of the
                  ?/linisrcr :a cnncei rile mtiioritv             ;IS.if that authority was a Iiceiice.".

     9. PERFORhIANCE BOND (AAlENDMENT OF SECTION 981.
,-       Section 38 ot [Ilc i+~ncip;~i          Act is iii11cndcd -
                (a)      .:I Subsecrioii I)-        (

                            1,ij       by addine at the enci of Paragraph (c) tlie tol1owing:-
                                                 '* or ; and
                           (ii)        by insertins after Paragraph (c) tlie following:-
                                                 "(ca) Section 90B(21)(b) in relation to a grant of an
                                                           authority to carry out an agricultural or other land use
                                                           development;       or
                                                   (cb)    Section gOB(22)V) in relation to a grant of a forest
                                                           clearing authority;    or
                                                   (cc)    Section 900(21)(6) iii relation to the grant of an
                                                           authority to carry out a roadline deveiopment;"     or
                                                    (cd)   Section 90D(22)V) in relation to a forest clearing

                (b)      iii Paragraph (fl by inserting after the words "timber authority licence"
                                                           authority. "; and

                         (twice occurrii1,o) the following:-
                                        "or forest clearing authority, authority to carry out an agriculture or
                                        other Inrid use deveiopment or an authority to carry out roadline
                                        cleariiig";        niid

                                     Forestry (Aniendinent)


             (c)    by inserting aiter Subsection ( 3 ) the ro1lowrng:-                              .
                                    4)     `:o Timber Permit. t i m e r authority, licence, forest
                           :learing aurnority 0: an aurnority to carry out an agricuiturai or
                           dther Innd use deveiopmeiit or rOadine aevelopment shall
                           Lormnence or ue in erfect until the perrormance bond payable under
                           S e w o n 38 has Deen iodgea with the Authority.

                                     5)    Ifxcii boiid is nor lodged within 21 days of the date or
                           Alan[ 01 a Timber P x m . I'iiiiber Authority, Licence. forest
                           iiearinc auiliorit). ci ror an Authority to carrv out any agriculture or
                             :ner ,?,:lause uevetoniiient     GI ronuliiie uevelooment. then the said
                           :~JIII 01   JULI~O~IIV. rtJiI1e CaiSe iiiav De. S1;allbe deeined vola and
                             mil be cnncelled 5.. t I x Buara ioitnwitn

                                     6 )    The Uoaiu may, in its absolute and unfettered
                           discrc!:on. on being s;!risfied that exrenuating circuiiistances exist,
                            )IIaopiication O? m e iiolder     O T  a Timber Perinit. Timber Authority,
                           I.,cence. :arest clexance authority or authority to carry out any
                            LgricuiLuie ui other innd use development zr roadline deveiopment,
                            15 (lie c x e inav be. cxtcnd the time prescribed in Section 98(5) by
                            \vliicii n Dersoii IS ieauired to lodge a performance bond.

                                   17)      The aiiioiint ot a bond for a tiinber permit, timber
                           authority. licence. :,a authority unaer Section 90Bf21) and 90D(21)
                            2nd a c;earing wnoriiv unuer Section 9OBf22) ana 90D(22)shall
                            >e as deterinineu bt. tile Uoaru.

10.    YEW SECTIOK 103A.
       The Principal Act                             iII.byinsertingafterSection103the
following: -            IS amended in Division



              "103A.    PUBLIC REGISTER.
                        (1)    There IS established a Public Register to be kept and maintained
              by the Authority.

                        (2)    The Public Register shall -
                               (a)    be in the prescribed form: and
                               (b)    contaiii such particulars as arc required by this section or as
                                      are prcscribed.

                                Forestry (Aniendntem)


                     (3)  The Public Register sliall contain -
                          (a)   summaries of decisions of the Board containing brief facts
                                and the resolutions thereto but shall not contain summaries
                                of matters which are of a commercial in-confidence namre
                                or sub-judice or information which is not inthe pubic
                                interest and ought not to be in the public domain;     and
                          ib)   details of -
                                maps relating to forests;   and
                          ic)
                                   (i) registered Forest Industry Participants and
                                        Consuitants:    2nd
                                  (ii) licenced Scalers: and
                                 (iii) registered timber processing piants.
                                including an extract of the reievanr cerrificate of
                                registration of licence:   2nd
                                  (ivj 'I'iinber Perniirs holders: 2nd
                                    (v) timber authority holders: and
                                   (vi) liceiice holders: and
                                  (vii) holders of forest clearing authorities; and
                                 (viii) holders or' authorities to carry out large scale
                                        agricuiturai or other land use projects:   and
                                   (ix) authorities to carry out large scale roadline projects,
                                including an extract containing a description o f the timber
                                area, the name o f the permit or authority holder, the permit
                                or authority number and the duration o f the permit or
                                authority;    2nd
                                    (x) forest potential areas including an extract containing
                                        their details ana the unailocated areas;   and
                                   (xi) Forest Management Agreements and field reports
                                        relating to tlie signing of the Agreements with
                                        resource owners.

                     (4)   A person may, on payment of a prescribed fee and at such times
                  as are appointed by the Authority search the Public Register, and, on the
                  payment of a prescribed fee, obtain copies of any document or copies of
                  any entry made inthe Public Register.".

11. NEW SECTION 144.
    The Principal Act is amended in Part X by inserting after Section 143 the following:-




                                           - 18-

                "144. SAVING 0x7 EXISTING TIMUER AUTHORITIES.
                          Subject to Section 90D(23), a timber authority that is valid and in force
                immediately before the coining iiiio operation of this provision shail, on tliat
                corning iiiio operation. have i d 1 force and effcci for the duration or its term.".



-been made by the Natioiiai I'arlinniciit.




 1 hereby ccrtify tiiat tlic I*'u~.esus(it/iicrtdnte~if)Act 2000 was made by the National Parliament
 oii 5 Dcceniber 2000.




                                                    - 19-

                   GPO xonmctnu




                               I




               PUBLJSIik-D R Y A UTHORITY




                                             ....




.......... k.
          -..
                                    . . .




                 ..


              NOTICE OF THE ,wIUHG OF REGULATION.




 The Repiation sei cutLT, tp,e taole beiow nas been maae  lundtr the Law s a our in
 the table.




I StatutoryNo.
            Instrument          Citation or LYntutc    ' Act under which made.
                                                       I
                                                       i
                                                       II
    No. 1   of  '1001.    I Reguiation 2001.
                            Forestry (Amendment)       1 Forany Replathan
                                                         1998.
I                         I                            ,                           1




 DATEC t41s           30              day of        J>y      ,       ,2001.




                                                  iG CECRETARY,


             ANNEX c


FORESTRY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT:
     PROJECTDESIGNSUMMARY


                                 Key Petfomance
  Hierarchyof Objectives            Indicators           I DataCollectionStrategy              CriticalAssumptions

                           - Improvemartm quahty and     ' - At least30% ofail aperaang     Exidstcnce of strongpohtxalwll
                           "abilityofforest0prm00ns IWDCCSSION mcompi~ance           wth andcomianartto ensum
                                                           loggmgcock ofpraeacebythe        complianc~wth" a b l e
                                                          unncctMid-termRenewW R ) ;              managemcatand
                                                                                            consavatlonrcgulaoonsas well
                                                                                            as equitablelandownu
                                                                                            pamcipauoninforestreso-
                           - Consewanon sites                                               benefits.
                                             idenaiied
                           andprotected.                   - AllmajorwIIsNanon sites
                                                           excludedh mforcsuy project

                                                                                           I
                                                                                           IWillingness of landomento
                                                                                            pamnpart inf o m ~CSOU~CC

                                                           - Legslatranamend"               developmentandmaaagcmcnt
                                                                                     tabled operanons andmmtonng.
                                                           to ensure legal bansfor land
                                                           p u p managedforcsrsand
                                                           consemanonareasmthm 2 yean
                                                           of dfectlvmess.
3. Improvedbenefits for
andownmfromtheuseof
iaaualresources.          I                              I                                 I
SEF OperationalProgram: 1                                I                                 I
In-nte" a n o n   and
ntarunable useof forest    comervanon acnwacs inforest  j finwing    mechanismbbursmg       able to idennfjr sufficiartwable
~iodivrmty  wththe acnve   arcas.                          a p m cffectw p r o mat 50%      landownerwnservauonprojcc~.
nvolvmcnt oflocalwtnmurutm                               1 o ffinal endowment targetyeld
s managersandbcncficiansof
m e r forest management

                                                           close.




                                                    - 30  -

                                       Key Performance                 Data Collection Strategy
   Hieraretryof Ob/ectives                 indicators              I                                        CriticalAssumptions
  hject Development             Outcome1 impact                    , Pmjea teports:                      from Objectiveto Goal)
  3bjective:
  .capaciryof                  Indicators:
                                                                                                         Uequarcnaffingandtcchnical
  ommunrricsand other
               govnmnensloel .hungand
                                    Impmvedforest managanent       j  - cornpleaon  ofrevlsion of forrst
                                               momtonngand            data systems management            qmty w r h PNGFAandDEC
  takeholders smngthcnedto     m f k c " t ofcodesofpracnce Iprcscnpnons, regmaanon                      o effmveiy pamapateia
  ustamably manageandcomewe nposaonwth enhancedlocal               1 gudelmes. momtonng system           imja andlmpimrncscawria
  "G's forest MOUIC~J;         arrmMlltylnvolvment                 1i clos;
                                                                   1  andcffectlvesancaonsbyproject
                                                                      - 30%  of maJorWmmaclal
                                                                   4  operaaons undernew vlspecaon
                                                                 11W-Randalforcrmentstandardsby


                                    StmIghencdle@ and            11 o - 8oDh of majorcommercial
                                                                         ~ o n undernew standatds
                                                                                   s
                                nsatuaonalcapac~ryto enmrcc     I by pmje~r     contpieaon.
                                :ffmve enmmend
                                LSSeUmentof f o m ogaatrons. I Ennronmmtd Asscssnart
                                                                     -
                                    StmIqhenedcapa&     m                           managmmt
                               nugrateenwonmental                1I (EA) permits
                                                                      sysum mpiaa andregulanons
                                : o n m a o np i m g in form          approvedwtlun2 years of
                                nanagementplannmg.               Ieffectiveness.

                                                                 1    - 30%  of proposedopraaons
                                                                     wssedbyMTR

                                                                      assesoi by P ~ J Ccomplenon.
                                                                                           C ~

 L.Suitanabilityofincome            Implementaaonof unproved            l e d and rcguiatorymeasures    Govcn"t agcactn, NGOsand
 oppomniacsandqualityoflife         andormer development opaona  1 -related to  developmentopnons        c o m m t y goups and
 oflocal popdadonsl i m gunda rpeprrsentannmechanismsand              study procc~sm phcc byMIR:        hdowamformeffective
 customary atlc inforest areas    >-                                  - tandownerr  e p ~ t a n v e      worlaagllnkagato cnnnc
 impmvcd.                                                            inrtltutionsdesignedwth            "ablewandmanagemcat
                                                                     esfablishmmtiniaatcd and            o fform fesoIpECs.
                                                                      implanmgnon mmngongomg,
1                                                                1 arrangements fimcoomng       1113
                                                                     mqorwatersheds. byproject
                                                                     close.




                                                            -31     -

                                KeyPerformance      I DataCollection Strategy
 - ~ ~ ~ - m f o ~ e d . i v m       Indicators     I                                 CrWcalAssumptions
Outputfromeach               Output Indicators:                                     from Outpubto Objective)
Component                                           IProjectreports:
L"a




2. Reprrsetanvelandowna
oxganuaaonsandncrwoTrs
establishedandstrengthened
                                                                                     Incrrasedinfonnanonand
                                                                                              TA will acmdly lead
                                                                                    o m a beneficialforest use
                                                                                    iceisions.




3. Establishmentof landowan
~ c d f o n s a v a n o n ~ .




                                                                                   Landommwilling to participate
                                                                                    nfomnon andimplementanon
                                                                                   )fviablemnSCNafiabased
                                                                                    nvcstmcmprojects.




!&uEa!a
1. Establishmmtofa gram-ba#i
mfundtopvideIongum,
reliableandindependent
f m a n g for laodomur-wred                        I-Trust constitutionm ico!porate


                                                 -3L-

br*nm m t i o ndevelopment                                 1 enaty  approved whin fint year
                                                           1IoirrTectiveness;
                                                             - One  year fromeffectiveness,
                                                             fitmiraismgcapaaty o i m in
                                                             PI=
                            Financialbase for Conservanon
                          rnrstFunddeveloped                 - System   anacontrols for
                                                             r m " t of endowment funds
                                                             mplace by MTR
                                                             - MinimumUS         SSm m p afor
                                                             ClTavadablcorwnttcn
                                                             commttment from o h a donors
                                                             by KTR
                                                             -All audmofCTFopraaons
                                                            clear and acceptable by MTR
                                                             - GEFsourced       endowment funds
                                                             rnatchmg other gmts m placeby

                            Devtloo projecta p p d and
                          norutonngcapanty wthm CTF       1I m;
                                                             -  a p p m d cntena 111place 1
                                                           1 year after erfecovencls;
                                                             -,opcranonal
                                                                OpCraoOMi ";uwqietcd
                                                                             procedures
                                                             approved wthm fimyear o i
                                                             Pqm;
                                                             -  Trust technicalstaffing
                                                             appointedwhin 1 year after
                                                             effectiveness;
                                                             -  agreementscompletedand
                                                             CEFsinkmgfund grantmplace
                            Landownerapplimons               by e f f c c ! " s :
                           ppmscd:p r ~ j m ~financedand                                       Landownerswillingtopartlcrpa
                          mplcmcmed.                         -20dcmonsuanonprojm~undcr u1fOHIIaQOn andimplanentatlon
                                                             implcmengnonby MTR,
                                                             - 50                              ofviable conservatlmlbased
                                                                  small granaand 8 larger      invesrmentPIUJSCO.
                                                             pints, ualinngtotal amatcd
                                                            yeld h mendow" fimds
                                                             invested, byp q mclose.
                             RWICWS of FMAs,forest             ~ C W of   S 15 -14             Faestmdustrycankmdwdto
                           ann=andloggmgoperaaons            operatrotscompletedby MTR;        coopaatem Compkymgwth
                          3r compuancewthrrguktrons      ! --  m e wofall loggngopaaons reguhaonsrelatedto 10-
                          ndcodes ofp m c c ;               completedbypmjmclose.              codtsandmorutormg
                             I n ~ u m minspmaonand
                                        of                   - nvmucsystem approved 1      year
                          1onnonngprocdlm;                  aftereffmvmess;
                             RenewandnmuQurc~ystnn coda of  -                     complaeda d
                           I Cf o m charges, 111cc11Qve     approvedby M7R
                          rrmgemenaandcadrof
                          ramcc, n aamultistakeholdcr
                          Dawitaoveprocess.
                           Enhancedcapabltitytorntcgratc    -   adequateintegrated             Establish" ofwaking
                          m         mplarming~ tforrst ~0nsavatlon-~lat#l
                                                     h                              Global     protocolsbetw&nDECandFA
                          lr"guslngunagctybared             InfoimaamSyptcm(GIS)               onthemtcgrmonof
                          lrrstdamsysams;                   opaatlonatcapbllity 111officeof ~ a l t aC0"llals  l          lntc
                           Revinonandapplicaaonof           E n v i " andCoasaratlon           forwiry planmnga! theansct of
                          loresuSamableaxlmd                (OEC) andFA 2 years after          coucemon"Qlt
                          Uowablecutpandsllncuitural                                           P-g.
                          mtnpoom;                          -effeehvmess;Allowable
                                                              new mud                  Cut
                            RedmmForutManaganat (AAC)&nata andalvicultural
                          gz"to111corporare m      m       prwcnpaomlaaochrcedmtoali           C o o p "  andundcntandingoi

                                 firwnnbilitvandforest
                                               for
                                 &gcmcn;           silvicultud
                                 prrscnpnonsas well as
                                 monitoring,plusnew landowner
                                 decisionmalonganangmrntr




I. R w o nofloggedo m            - Developand impiancnt
brestarrasi"vcd                  lmprovcd YlnEulnxal/loggmg
                                 managementgudcimcsfor
                                 ~ a a n o followmgloggulg
                                 - Dmlop       n
                                            mvgyand
                                 rrgJatronsto       onw for form
                                 ngemnlaOnu)lOgeng
                                 canpanlesmwlkboatronmth
                                 lando".
                                 - Implmaltabon of   naaaai
                                 regmeranonpilots~ILaffmnt
                                 forest types underagrament
                                 wth loggmgc o v e s and
                                 lando".
I. Indmnalplantation             - Plantabondevelop"             -  Planfanonsaazegy d v and
k l o p a m tfeasibilitypursucd. stxatcgy,together wthnscssary initialsite idennficanon
                                 policyand legslanve tnmavc      C O m p l N d 2 years after
                                 amendmentspreparrd              effectiveness;
                                 - Plantanon feasibilityexarmad
                                 andmvment SOUpbL


                                .Completedlegxianveand                                        'endpmtoa~kbetweenDEC
dontronnp Comaanent             nqplatoryrefomrcqlnnngEA                                        LndFA netdedto facilitate the
                                applicanonto forest opaanons                                    m d c " g of EAs of foresuy
ifOffice ofand~gulatory
.Capaoty                  base  andproposals;                                                   )pcrabons
            Fn-t         and
haoervlmonu)apply               .  Establishmentof newpmnru
nwonmcntallmpm                  admvlimnon andpaymeat
ucsnnmutofomt operations systemandawareness" n g
mawed                           " k e n onenwonmmtal
                                zgulatory methodsto facilitate
                                znnpletronof EAsfor forest
                                ImJeCts.




                                                             -34-

                              KeyPerFormanc8
 Hierarehvof Obiectives           lndlcators                                      CrfttcatAssumptions
ProjectComponentsI        Inputs: (budgetfor each   Project reporb:            (fromComponentsto
Subzomponents:            component)                                           outpfw
                          USmillion
LandownerForestDecision                             Supcrvrsionreports, audits  Successfi~.Iestablishment
Making                                              dfinanclaireports          landowner decisionand
                                                                               organirationunit.

Development OptionsStudy  4.17

Strengtheningof Landowner 1.10
ReprtsmtarivcsMechanisms

LandGroup Based           1.61
ConsewanonandResource
ManagementAreas


ConservationTrust Fund                              ZTF auditreportsand annual Staffingandinitialionof
                                                    -Po=                       operaaons of (ZITintime.
                                                                                Donorcontributionsto
                                                                               endowmentinlaterphase.
EstablishmentActivities   1.87

CommencementActivities    4.12

Endowment Phase           10.00

SustainableForest                                   Supemisionreports, audits   Hiringofconsultaataand
Management                                          mdfinancialreports         adoptionofrecommendation
                                                                               andpracticesinForest
                                                                               Authority.
hproved ForestOpe-ons,    1.72
InspectionandMonitoring

ForestManagement P1-g     1.83

Post-harvestForest        1.16
ManagementandPla~tations

EnvironmentalAssessment                             Supervisionreports,audits  Contractsandconsultaagto
andMonitoring                                       mdfinancialreports          advise onmonitoringand
                                                                               regulationestablished

Assessment, Monitoringand 1.86
Regulation

EnvironmentalMonitothgby 1.83
LocalCommMitieS

                          '.84




                                                -35-

                     ANNEX D


LETTERFROMBANK COUNTRY DIRECTOR TO PRIME MINISTER
                 OF 16 JULY 2000 ON
    PROPOSED EXTENSION OFAIAMBAK ROAD PROJECT


     ;AN. 1E. 2002   3 37FiY     'YClRSD 3ANK E A 3 I P 202 5 2 2        137:


                                                         Levd la, CML auildlng
                                                         TheWorld Bank
                                                            14kdpwn Plaw
                                                          Sydney, NSWPO(M
L                                                            AUSfRALlA




                                                                             July 16,2000


              Hon. Sir MekereMorauta, Kt,MF'
              Prime Minister o f PapuaNew Guinea and
              Minister for FinanceandTreasury
              Department of Prime Minister,NationalParliament
              P.O. Box639
              Waigani, NCD
              PAPUA NEWGUINEA

              DearMr.PrimeMinister:

                      We understandthat your Cabinet is'likelyto consider a co-submission next week
              from the Transport, Agriculture, Works, and Forests Ministers seeking a massive
              extension to the Kiunga-Aimbakroad project, consisting of a 6 kilometre wide corridor
              for 240 km in stage 2, and 635 km in stage 3. Basically the (so-called) roads would
..-.          stretch all round Western Province on the eastern side o f the Fly river (Wawoi Falls,
              downto Musumunguon the Fly river, up to Nomad, down to Levame, on to Cassowary,
              up to Drimgas, another loop to the refugee camp area, etc), and ultimately to Kikori in
              GulfProvince, etc.

                     This extension is likely not in line with your stated intentions for the forestry
              sector and the Loan Agreement betweenthe World Bpmk and the Government of Papua
              New Guinea. Inview of its importancefor the implementation of your reform program, I
              would like to propose that a decision on the matter be postponed until we have time to
              jointly examinethe matter thoroughly.


                                                                             Sincerelyyours,




                                                                             KlausRohIand


              cc: - H.E. NagoraBogan
                    TheAmbassador ofPapaNew Guineato theUnitedStates
.v                 - Mr.Neil Hyden,ExecutiveDirector, Wosld Bank



                                     Tdephone: (87-2) 92354510                Fax: (61-2) 8223-7152


             ANNEX E


  RESPONSEFROM COUNTRY DIRECTOR
TO CELCOR LETTER OF 1NOVEMBER 2001,
ON MORATORIU?vl,DATED 28 NOVEMBER 2001


                                                                         The WotidBank
                                                                      Level 18, CMLBuilding
                                                                                14MartinpLre
                                                                 ~ e l e ~SYDNEY m7773
                                                                                    NSW 2ooo
                                                                          b o o(61-2)
                                                                                c
                                                                         Fa(61-2)9223 2533




                                                           November28, ux)I




Dear,,.    Ax.

        Thankyou for your iettcrof Novemba 1,2001. Theissuesyouraiseare of
serious concemto the WorldBank Indeed,mhave pviausiy raisedtfie matterof
theKiunga-AimbakRoadwith Governmat iadwe havettofomrardeda copyof
your 1-    for Govnnment's considaatianandmpauss. We havebsar ndvitiedby
Govtnuncnt that the Kiunga-Aimbak Roadisaarently the subjectof anon-going
court action. While we arcc"cdabout thetimeitistrrkingfor thisissueto
piogressthroughthc coults, theBankisnotinapositionnorhasthertadingto
intm/cncinamaaertfiatcomerrnadcrthejurisdictionofNNewauima'scourt
system We woulds u m that youdkctlyreeka dialoguewith govanmmt andthe
PNGFA to discusstheeffortsthathavebecnmdarc bcingpwued.

         The GovernancePromotionAdjusm#rtLoan(OPU)to which you referis a
balanceof payma& loan. Nevclthtlas,asputofOovernmcnt'scommitmntto
work with the WorldBankto improvegovenunamdnuwuecodc management
Government rupportedthe provisionof rv&b
actions. Givm long-standingmncunsabut govenumce and, inppticular,the
                                                   - for asetofjointly agncd

pmassinvolvingtheissuanceoftimberherwrtingpermits Go--               agreedto
undertake a numbmof actionsinthe fmstry sector.

         Inmmplipncewith theLmnAgr#menr fathc OPALto complctc an
"indepcndcntreviewofForurtbhagemmt A g " n t 8 @MAS),      timbaptnnitsand
geographicextensions totimbapumits"(para. 17of scfredule 3 t o t h e h
AentmenO it was agreedwithOovenunent,aads u b a p d y d i dpublicly
bttwecnthe Wodd BankandfoxmiryNOOSMat a reviewofalI padingtimbcr
concessions wouldbecompleted.Fbllowiogcompletionof !his reviewGovernment
hasadvisedtheW d d Bankthat ithasundatalccnadditionalactionbeyondthat

Mr. DamienAsc                           -2-                       November 28,2001



agreedto andthat it hasendomedfor implementationatime-boundactionplan
covering"mendations of the mview, andhasalsoagreedtoon-going
independentreview of anyfurdraapplicscions. We expecttorccejveformal
documentationonthc time-boundactionplanfromOovernmentshottly.Government
hasalso agrtedto         theactionpianp~biidyavailable.Theimpkn#ltation of the
d o n planwill besupportedbythe proposedPorwtryandConservationProject
WP).

       The proposedFCPdsocontainselementswhich will providesignificant
opportunities to assist andempower laadholdtra.TheLandownerForestJkekiou-
Making Componentwill assist landownnsto playa"epro-activerolein
managingandconservingtheirforests. Pmcducs andrnmhanismswill bedeveloped
andinformationdisseminatedto enablelandawnaato makcmoninformeddecisions
about thc dcvelopmcntoptions for their f m . "bt MamaGmunCh"a&
TNst Fund,anotherFCPcomponent, will providegrants,toenabkInadownas.
among ochers,to sustainablymanage theirforratrrsw~ct(l.




                         CountryDircaor,PapaNew Guinea
                            EastAsia andPacificRegion




   cc. Mr.RobatIgan,ChiefSecrrury to Oovemmnt
       Mr. Thomas"I. Dirraa,PNGFataAuthority.
                          hianaging

LETTERFROMCELCOR TO COUNTRYDIRECTOR ONLIFTINGOF
        MORATORIUM, DATED 1NOVEMBER2001


n t Sy: ELC Ltd.;                                               I-NOV-01 14:oa;         Page 2




   ,I      The World Bank
           Level 18, Ch4LBuilding
           14 MartinPlace
           Sydney NSW 2000
            Australia

           Attation:M.KlausRoland

           By Facsimile:051 (612) 9223 2533

           DearSir,

           RE: LIFTiNGO
                  CONCESSIONSINFAPU
                  RESOURCESOFCXBTO


           The CentreofEnviromdLaw                              ~nc.,is8:gmapoflawyers




           KiungaAeanbak Rodinthe
           you becauseofthe negligent
           PromotionAdjustment baa


           Weare instructedthat the Banlt   icies to follow dndinplementtltoterms ofits

           policicaandpracticca
           circumstanceswhere

           Our client landownershaveh


           ouineausetiitspoliceforceto
           unlswfullyimprisoncd,beatcn
           loggingcompanyinthe area.



           The loanspecifically saysat                  A, page4of 5 thatitwas8

                                                            i


                                                            ,:..
                                                             ,

                             +675 3234483;         1-NOV-01 14:08;             Page 3
                                I
                                I




                                    secondtrancheincluded"A"nentSto
                                     frtlmeworkfor the clearanceofforested
land"




Landownersfrom                                   tedtotake these mattersback


Thereis noh o c                                          OrdflT stillremainsin


InMmh2001

"Thatthecourtproceedingsmust                   i;sion.n esubstantivehies




                                     sziscsbeesajttheMinister for Forestshas
                                     Hehascm st leasttwooccasioaS,
                                     anwemptirxlfor thcexportiogtax.




We pointoutto you, asnoted         thc lawyerwhoobtaioodthistempomy
                                   ofPapuaNewGuinea.

We arc instructedthattheFNO

ForestAuthority hasaccesstole           to implsinontthe law, ifitwas so
minded.

                                  ReviewTeamurrthismat& ( F aRepwt
                                  theremarksof&e.Review Teamopenby
referringto the case             &3 concessioqan$howinthatcase,andex



                                                                              2

                                                                                                                  Page 4

                                             ..............             . ....................
                                                                          . . .. .. .
                                                               .>




illegatconcession. Youwillnotethat he ReviewTea& says thatconcessionwas
outsideitstermsofrefererice, the con d o n bekgopefatlonal.

Twopointsaremade: one the Reviev Teemwaa wronginnotexaminingVailala
Blocks2 &3, becaw theh e wshoi MhavelookedatooperadodCOIIO~ORS.
Sccondly,loggingcompanies, the In0 cpendent State+the                 PapuaNewGuinea
FastAuthoritybyconsent, tacitor hcrwise, uscthccoua~tovalidateunlawfid
concessions.

TheReviewTeam said:

"Whilstin gcaetalpolicies,lawsand mperproceduresarebcingobservtdthexe
were four notableexceptions.A fifth xamplc identifredwasoutsidethe Review
Team'sterms ofreference.Th2s isthc TimberPermitf&VdahBlock2 and3 which
appearsto havebeendevelopedentin y outsideofdueprocess,butwbichwas
validatedby the Court.. "eam:

Theapparentillegalissuanceandexti =ion oftheso-dled Aiambalr-KiungaTimber
AuthoritybyasuccessionofMdsta s h e about 1                !&.AlthoughthePNGForest
Authorityhasmadeattemptstodose [ownthispmjaot,itbasbcenC O " ~ by8
courtorder which bizarrelyprcvents I a Authority fio& exercisingits powersunder
the Act.

Rclatodtothc above, the a p ~ v ainl kcember2000gytheMinisterfor Forests,of

authority.Itulas revokedby the Mini mafter receivir&advice fromthe Board.
forest clearbgfor a635 km"TransI a andHighway". -&is isoutsidetheMiaister's


Thc:ixruanc;oof8permissionto "set > basccampandw"ct advancereading"in
                                     1
the PondoTRP area in2001bytheP: GForestAdosty ManagingDirectorinthe
absenceofa Timber Penait oraTim1 T Authority.

Theissuanceofapermissiontoharvc t logsintheTuTapuareaby the PNGForest
Authority ManagingDirectordckpitc dvice fiwntheNationalForestService.

"be latter three min d k t breachol the Govexnment?scurrentmoratoriumonthe
issuanceofloggingpermits. Inthe ca :ofPondo, the                           Ditectorlater
revokedhispermission,andhis actio1 waa dulynotedbytheBoard,Intheinterim
data). Inthe caseofTuwrtppthe Boou oorrectly dirtcttdh Managingmector
some 8,500 m3 of logswithavalue o Kina1.4 milfinwue exptd,( Swrce, SGS


directiontoceaseclptrationswasism don20 Scptcmk. hthe into*
(Boardmeeting73 of22August2001 to withdraw&d permissiongiven.an legal                         Aestimated
13,00033 17,800m3 washanwtda J exgortcd.At c$rrcetb gexport pikes, FOB
for fkshlogs aa at September2001is Kina2Wm3.T4isrqxescntsre)temucto the tog
exporter ofsome K 2.6 million.These arenotminor "nts."
                                                               ?
      We alsoincludethe'fill fext of, leReview'Tcam!s reportdated2001infull:

      "PNGFORESTRYRZVIEW I'EAM                              i
      AUDMG FORESTRYPR4 JXCTS CU&Y                                      "J.NPROCESS"

                                                               ?
                                                               ;                                                 3
                                                            '!

                        ., . . . .                        ...I'.. . . .
                                                                 . ...                   .. . ... . . ..
                                                                                           . . . . . . . . . . .       ._......A...........
                                 .I    ......        .   .        .                                                                ........
                                                            I,.        ,        .

By: ELC Ltd.;                          t875! 3234483;    1 -Nov-OI  14:09;       Page 5




             FORCOMPLIANCE
             THEFORESTRYAC                       RREGULATIONSAND
             GUCDE&INES




             h m :Rcview'YE=

             Date: 5 March2001

             Re: INDIVIDUALPROJECT                W REPORTNUMBER31

             ALAMBAK-ICIUNGA ROAD                ERAU"'HOIUTY(WESTERN
             PROM")

             ALJDITCONCLUS

             RESOURCEISSUES;




             allocationprocessbeingobserv



                                                            AuthorityinApril 1%
                                                            Etrisullix"attets




             TherehasbGannolan




             ofloggirig. L a n d o w compi
                COmpnnY      Pay   1cSauY
             threatswithfirearms.




                                                                                4

By: ELC Ltd.;                         +675 3234483;            I-Nov-OI 14:OQ;           Page 6/11
                                          I




             lhatCourtaction                    withto reviewthe          permittiogthe
             loggingoperationssinceNov

                                                      tern,ofthis'LimberAuthority be


             Thatanyfurther application       line C l d i & d b a properly c o r l s ~ d
                                             ofthe Amend"& madeto the Act in


             Note: Theindividualproject      summarisct&C findingsoftheRsritw
             Teamregardingmaterial00          issues, and$rescatprojectspecific
                                                       I n f h p c yFatwtryReview
                                                attheend ofthoreviewprocesssct outin
             momdetailthe audit                 d, and commentsandreco"endafions
                                                        andprojectdevelopment
             proocsm.



             IndividualProjectR e p tNu.31 Aiambak-Kiunga RoadTA

             A.FORESTRYAND P L A NI"GASPECTS              3




             The clearingof forested              developpeatdocsnotrequirethe
             applicationofthe same                 andcoatro1"tresasarcnquited

                                                       FodestryGuidelines 1993.The key




             andhavebeencommitted;an
             definedandaccepted;

             To ensurethat clearingthe
             mannginaccordantem

             wadingcontractor;and

By: ELC Ltd.;                        +675 3234483;         1-Nov-Oi 14:IO;                              Page 7111



                                        I




             standardswhkh for rvadhg        onwcre s d outin the PNGLaggingCode
             o fPractice 1996.


             Act intwo keyaspects:




             to "avoid" certain                                  dons are not clearly




             That anyfurtherapplicati
             requirement of#heAct as

             B LEGALCOMPLIAfyCE
                .
             SUMMARYOFLEGALC




                                                                                                       6

                                                       ,..
                                                      .;:"
                                                       . ...`_'...
                                                             ....      ...
                                                                       I:....,,_ ,.....`;,".......,.<.:
                                                                              i,.                        .. .,,."I.,.,.%....... I./..

: By: tLC Ltd.;                               +675 3234403;            1-NOV-Ol 14:IO;                          Page 8/11    I




               TANo.24 wassigned                            stry 1L-r
               Board". underthe Act                                              uasa cieltgatoofthe
                                                             FolwltMinisterat thattimewho
               was empoweredto gx



               The subsequentdecisions                Minister PbikmoamdMinisterPok to
               grantextensionsto
               The Act states that


                                                                     by theNationalMinistwfor


               Loggingoperatiansart
               madeon26November
               d e r TA No 24 andre
               seizing logsor delayingexpo

               The current ManagingDinc              the Pap= New GuineaForestryAuthority
               staffhamdemonstrated8:GI                     onto $eethat somecontrois are




               Authority inany way,


               NECfora 15 year extension
               themarcnolegislativeimpli
               thatthe Submissioncffecti


               RECO"DATI0NS                   RE       ING   LEG^ASPECTS:
                                                            to a &~ucicm. ~ b"ct i v e
                                                            b e dthattheAltmey General
                                                                 kggingoperator(Conconie



                                             '    I
               RESOURCEACOWISTnONl'



               LandownerAwareness

               The ReviewTeamwaa                                   awatenesspackagecontaining
               infomationexplainhg                                               to beexpected fiom
               thoproject. This could




                                  .               1.                                                           7

                                                                 .'. .. .. .::...
                                                                 i                      .,.
                                                                                        ...,...:, ..... .. ...,
                                                                                        .. ..    .
                                  ,' , ,':
                                         ...'.
                                             .        *.         5                                   ... ;.  .

cBY: tLI; Lta.;                         +e75 3234483;          I-NOV-01 14:IO;                      Page 9/11

                                                                           - .........
                                                                 ..I..
                                                                 ..
                                                 ..............      ....-...-.:(.........
                                                                       ....  d".,'
                                                                                          ,.I




               prospectiveprojects.

                                                                               MSsterin1994.
                                                           upofpasiblyoneortwoland
                                                              d&e confinesofmyhrcstry


               The TA holder, Pais0Com       kited,fia&ult@tIy iepresenteditselfasa
               landownercompany. It is      equallybyoneMownerand anexpatriate.




               LandownerMobiliation        I



               Thereis no requirementfbr
               is a requinmcntto idcam


               formally involved,

               Complatntsbylaadowners
               landownerstatedthatP a b




               Someadditionalnotesam

               CONCLUSIONSREG



                                                                                                   8

                                                                                           ....

By: ELC Ltd.;                                                                                                            Page l o l l 1
                                                              ...:.....
                                                              .
                                               ......             .:.........._..
                                                                            ..............
                                                                              . . . .
                                                                                 .............




             Thatthis so d e dproject




             NPENDIX 1:NQTIF;SONJI

                                              cd allegationsmadeby laadawntrsthat
                                              .6 kmintothe EastAwinFMA anx~

                                                      so Ltdisafamily companyand
                      mustbehocked        the areaaltoge@x. The fkt isthat PdsoLtd.
                                             indiidarrls,melandownerfiolnnowhere
                                                    Mr PhilipKS Lee. whorcprcscst


                      Feb 2001OneAi       landownerI& withpendingcourtC                               s e S
                                                          tohaveMrPhilipKS Lee


                                                             fmclearancesimpd
                                              stillgoingohdongtheKiungaAiambak
             Road. An illegalextension        BaramundiHighwayisalsobeingp l d .

             Thelandrigfitsandpperty



             TheBankshouldhaveinsisted           state co&~y withthe conditionality
             imposcdinrespect to forcstcIt




                                            011 newprojects and compliancewith


             ThehiungaAiambak Roadis                                                      projectthat
             was cl&y inthe
             to the loanagreement.


                                                                                                                       9

                                                                                          ......".................-. ....
                                                                                          ...                                   .........

y: ELC Ltd.;




            Irreversibledamagehasbeen                     forest, finsiresources amilogshave
            beenremovedwithoutpropa                        ourclientsat marketprim.


            becninformedoftheIo
            March2001, theyhave
            officials choseto i




            domed.


                                                     ctivitiesoftheloggingcompany.

                                                     ngassumme &at thebdanceofthe second
                                                     notbepaidout-

                      1.     UntiltheIndcpe: aStateofP&New                      Guineaputsasbp
                             onceand,forall          theillegallo&g      onour client's land, and
                             landsadjacent tl ;to;and

                      2.     That themorato1 miskeptin p } eudlaMlreviewof
                             existing Conw IS hssbecncompicted.



            Yours faithfblly,




              DkMIENASE
              ExeoudveDirector




                                                                                                 10


                                   ._..... .*.......
                                   .. . ..
                                        . ....                          ,.. ...
                                                                           .. ..        .' .,   . ,

By: ELC Ltd.;              +%75 3234483;
                               I  '           1-Nov-Ol 14:08;                                     Page 1
                                           r.,




                       FACSI:



       TO:    Mr.KlausRolar
               CountryRepresc tativefor PdpuaNew Guinea                                  CyT
               The WotldBank

       FAX:        051 (612) ! !232533

       FROM:       DamienAJ

       FMNO.;      (675)311 `06
                            .
       SUBJECT:    Letter RE
                         -
       NO.OFPAGES:      11




                                                       . ...




                                                           ..
                                                         I

                                            ,  . . .   ..:::.~:;:~~,,~~:~;ce..,.:~:
                                                       ..,i.).IL.C.A..L..
                                                                  .                  ....c..,_ ..,,,_
                                                                                              ~     , ,, ,, ,,,__,    ,,....,. ...
                                                                                   ~. _..                       ..... . . . .


             ANNEX F


     TIME BOUNDACTION PLAN:
IMPLEMENTATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS
  OFTHE INDEPENDENTREVIEW TEAM


  1     FOLLOW UP ACTION PLAN FOLLOWING INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF                                      '

  I                             PROPOSEDFOREST PROJECTS


   The following Plan of Actions. and implementation schedule for those actions. !vas approved
   by the National Executive Council on I4"' Uovemoer 200 I under Decision No. l88/200 1.
   The Decision was based upon the recommendationso ithe indeDendent Review of Proposed
   Forest Projects. feedback t'roin interested stakeholders. and contributions trom the Inter-
   Agency Forestry Review Coinmittee (IAFRCI:       -
1. Policy and General Issues: -

   I.1. The IAFRC is to be retained and expanded. to include representation from the National
        Forest Board. iiidustr!, and non-government organisations. to review the current ( 19901
        National Forest Polic\, and propose revisions. if and tvhere required. to the current
        Policy and ensiling Ie~islation.giving attention to landowner participation in decision
        inakinp and broader iaiduse issues. including rorest conservation policies. community
        forestry and plantation rL>restp. The (.'Jmmitree           -iiould   titilise tlie policy
        recornmendations of tlie Independent Review of Proposed Pro-iects. feedback to their
        report. presentations b? the National Forest Service and other contributions. including
        from a prospective policy itorkshop. Technical support for this process may be
        obtained. if and \\here required. notably under the Forest and Conservation Project. The
        Committee. to be coordinated from CACC. is given until the elid of March 2002 to
        provide its recommendations tor NEC.

   1.2. As part o t the above review. the IAFRC       I\iil examine the proposal for the current
        forestry administration to be further restructured to improve performance and good
        governance. iiicluding the idea ot separating the policy responsibilities from the
        implementation and operational responsibilities.      ith policy being placed potentially
        within a Department ot' Natural Resources or Primary Industry (responsible also for
        policy tor other rural land uses. such as asriculture. and possibly also fisheries] and the
        PNG Forest Authority responsible as the implementation agency. Other proposed
        options. such as separating inspection tiom planning functions may also be examined.
        and the potential for contracting out further tasks. Recommendationsare to be provided.
        as part of the policy exercise (above). by end March 2002.

   I.3. As part of the above review. the IAFRC \\,illexamine the sectoral planning provisions
        of the Foresrr?, Act. and. where appropriate. recommends bv end March 2002.
        mechanisms to rationalise procedures. including the removal o f any inappropriateand/or
        non-effective componentsof the National Forest Plan.

   I.4. TheForestryAct will beamendedto includeaclear statementthattheNationalForest
        Plan is the sum total of the approved Provincial Forest Plans. The Forest Board is to be
        provided greater time to assess and revoke. if required. proposed provincial approvals
        for TAs. Detailed recommendationsand drafting instructions are to be provided, as part
        ofthe policy exercise (above). bvend March 2002.

   1.5. A formal register of genuine eco-forestry and forest conservation (and any similar)
        projects is to be established (and readily accessible to the PNGFA. OEC. and all other
        interestedparties) to include projects where the landowners have indicatedtheir support
        by forming an Incorporated Land Group and entering into a written agreement with an


                                                                                                  1

     NGO. Provincial Government or any other similar party. Projects on the register are to
     be taken into account in Provincial and Nationai Forest Plans. This register should be
     drawn up by the end o f Februarv 2002 at the Forest Authority. based upon material
     provided from OEC and other reievant sources. Support tor its preparation should be
     madeavailable. if necessary. under the forthcoming Forest and Conservation Project.

1.6. In the interest of improved xcountabilit!,. [tie required content of the PNG Forest
     Authority's Annual Report are to be specified b!, Regulation. The required composition
     of the report should be dratied b!, tile PNGFA. in consultation t\ith the Central
     Agencies. and approved b? the Forest Board. before submission to NEC as draft
      Regulations by the end of tlie December 7001, and applicable to the 2001 Report (and
     the outstanding 1997-1_000Reponsi.

1.7. In the interest o t sound plantation forestry management. harvesting and export
     arrangements. plantation torests are to be subject to more appropriate and simpler legal
     and administrative procedures. possibly outside the Forestry Act. The IAFRC will
      promptly review the applicable policy m a legislation      1%ith respect to all plantation
      operations iinciuding tcak. pine. rubberwood and balsa, ana provide recommendations
      for NEC b\.the end ot Februar\ 1002:

1 .EL An independent capacit!' to properly facilitate land group incorporation will be created
      either attached to an elistin? Government Department. or through the use of certified
      private sector individuals or organisations. The IAFRC should exainine this idea further.
      in consultation also  \\i t h the Lands. Xlining and Petroleum and Energy Departments.
      and provide a recommendation for NEC oii its establishment and operation by the end o f
      Februarv 2002. It is envisaged that this entity ivould be supported initially by the
      planned Forest and Conservation Project (FCP).

I.9. The office of the Registrar of Titles nithin the Department of Lands and Physical
      Planning is to be further strengthened to a point where it can properly vet applications
      for incorporated Land Group registration. .-lissistancetor institutional strengthening may
      be provided under the FCP from earlv 2002.

1.10. An assessment is to be inade ot' tlie role forestry projects could play in rural
      development through genuine stakeholder partnerships with landowners. inciuding
      examination o f different inodels of community participation in some existing
      agricultural and other projects (e.g. Fly River Rubber. NBPOL Kulu-Dagi expansion.        `


      etc.). This task can be undertaken as part of a follow up to the current Forest Revenue
      Review. under the FCP. in earlv 2002, including examining improvement to the current
      system of royalties. Project Development Benefits (PDBs). etc.

I.I1. The Independent Review report is to be made a public document by the end of
      November 2001. with copies provided to key institutions, including the National
      Library. Somare Library and other educational and public facilities. and that a workshop
      is held during the first Quarter of 2002, to present the review's findings to Forest
      Authority and OEC staff. sectoral stakehoiders and the public. and to enable wider
      feedback to contribute to the processof subsequentsectorai policy and planning.

1.12. the appropriate institutions are to promptly draw up action plans (by end December
      2001) and proceed (subiect to the Drovisos Drovided) to implement the Independent
      Review Team`s recommendations regarding the compliance audit of the 32 "in process"

                                                                                               2

    forestry projects as set out in Section 4.3 o f the independent Review Team's report. (as
    detailed. with provisos. in 5.2 of'the NEC Submissionr.

   The PNGFA must: -
      deal promptly and effective/!,      t\ith legai actions that impact upon projects:
      take greater care to observe due process in relation to the approval of extensions.
       particularly in the light ot recent amendments to the Act:
      take care to ensure that so-called "development agreements" do not compromise due
       process. by apparently "pre-selecting" developers and b!, purporting to grant logging
       rights other than in accordance N ith the Fore.stn,Acf:
   0  not use Timber Rights l'tirchases saved under the Act as the basis of' new or revived
       projects:
      make definitive decrsions     i t ' Jreasunder Forest Management Agreements need to be
       consolidated. or it'clIternatiLe use ot'Tii;iber Authorities    SI preterable. or it'the project
       should not proceed a all:




1.13. The Managing Direc~or01 rhe PNG Forest Authority should submit the PNG Forest
    .Authorir?,'siniriai poilc! proposals and proposed action pian to the IAFRC. bs mid-
    Februarv 700 I.

1.14. The Director o t the Ot'tice or' Environment and Conservation will submit to the
    IAFRC how the Ottict: or Environment and Conservation proposes to strengthen its
    engagement    \\ith the I'W Furest Authority regarding forestry and forest conservation
    planningand monitoring at a technical level (bv I December 20011.
                                                             ''

   (Proviso: iiiar resoenillon
              -                   1,s riven to   ivicicr potenirai roIc.~for F:\%cls(1.y toresr resource
   rrianagcmenr ureas. r~iiherriun areus soieiv for log iicawsring jor cxporr. This mqv
   entail harvestingfor iocd processing consentarion or .sotneother piirposes. Tile 10%set
   aside. csrablished h.v LXC. `,auld be higher. depending zipon Local rcsoiirce conditions.
   Better incorporation (9conxnlarion in [he Forestry Act should be considered bv IAFRC.
   including through iegislurive cross-rejiwncingy

1.15. The current moratorium on new projects is to be litled from 30thNovember 2001.
    subject to each project's compliance with the current laws and requirements for new
    projects. as clarified or reinforced by the recommendations o f the Independent Review
    andthe application of this Decision into policy and subsequent legislation.

1.16. The IAFRC will prepare a NEC Submission and Drafting instructions for the
    appointment of a professional Probity Commissioner. with Statutory powers and
    responsibilities to verify compliance with legislation and required procedures with
    respectto new forestry project proposals. provide clearance to proceedor require further
    actions. and be required to provide a public report on his actions. The IAFRC should
    advise on the most suitable institutional arrangement for the Probity Commissioner,
    whether he/she shouid operare from within the PNGFA. E-extemally. perhaps within

                                                                                                       3

        another Statutory Office. appropriate appointment procedures and to ensure the integrity
       o f the Office is maintained. (Schedule: Submission and Drafting Instructions to be
       prepared by end December 7001, ready for the first session of' Parliament 2002). Initial
        funding support for the Office to be sought under the Forest and Conservation Project
        for 2002.

2. Action Plan for Specific Institutions

  2.1. Measures for lmmeaiate tiction

       2.1.1.  a separate proiect tile       I\ 10 he keot tor each     "111 progress" project to fully
             document compliance      \\ i t hail of' tlie prescribed steps. (Action by National Forest
             Service. Schedule immedrate)

       2.1.2. the PNC Forest ;\iithorrt! Board is to promptly advise when delegated powers
             are esercised. Proceuure 10 be specified in Regulation. (Action by the Managing
             Director/Logal Cotinsei. S ihrdule Submission to be prepared itnmediatelv).

       2. I.3. the Provincial I t\rc\t \lJnageinent C'alnmittees are to observe the requirements
             (as specitied in \cciion 20 ( i t the Forestp ,Act) in retation to avoiding conflicts of
             interest. (Clear uircctioii anu explanation or responsibilities milst be provided by the
             PNG Forest ..\Li[Iiorit! I3,urci to be applied by tlic Provincial Forest Management
             Committees. SLhcdiile: iiiiinediatej.

       2.1.1. Project Guidriirics arc he drafted or re-drafted so as to contain the landowner
             development aspirLitions identitied in the Development Options Study. as agreed to
             with the PFVC .mil the Board. (.Action by Nationai Forest Service. endorsement or
             re-endorsement ot tlie Development Options Studies by the Board. Schedule: for
             inclusion with an) new or revised project).

       2.13.   The right and principle. stated in the Forest Management Agreemenrs to set aside
             a minimum ot' IO":,   ot the ioggabie are3 ror forest conservation purposes is to be
             stated in all Prqiecr titiidelines and all Project ;lgreeinents. and the impact on the
             calculated sustaiiiable !ield recorded. Landowner awareness and commitments to
             the set aside should be sought: (Actual area to be set aside to be determined in
             consultation with the resource Owners and OEC. and on the basis o f professional
             environmental assessment. Action by the National Forest Service with OEC.
             endorsement of the Project Guidelines and the Project Agreements by the Board.
             Schedule: immediate for new FMAs. and the legal aspects to be iinmediately
             examined by PNGFA for potential application on existing projects).

   2.2. Comdiance Audit Recommendations Reauiring Prioritv Consideration

       2.2.1.  The defects identified in the Forest Management Agreements and the
             Supplementary Forest Management Agreements are to be rectified (action by the
             National Forest Service. endorsement of the Forest Management Agreements by the
             Board. Schedule: NFS to proceed immediately with this task).

       2.2.2. The impact of the Fairness of Transactions Act 1993 must be fully considered
             (action PNG Forest Authority), and:



                                                                                                      4

      >   The standard terms and conditions of the Forest Management Agreement must
          be revised if necessary:

      i Appropriatenegotiationprotocolsmustbeformtiiated andapplied:

      i AnyexistingForestManagementAgreementthatiscoveredbytheAct mustbe
          specifically re\,iewedand re-negotiated if necessary: and

      >   Procedures must be established for the negotiation of additional or alternative
          terms and conditions ifthev are sought b! landowners.

      (Schedule: These tasks are to coinmence iinmediatelv b\, PNGFA. The IAFRC is to
      consider and report back for by the end o t March 2002 on policy issues. notably
      how the resourceon ners can secure iinpartiai ad\ ice. 2nd whether a inore impartial
      institutional arrangement      i srequired tor the resource acquisition process)

2.2.;.   Delegared Do\\ci's iiitisI be reviewed {action        ttie i'YG Forest Atithority Board.
      Schedule: iinmeuidtr'i.

22.4,    A program ot'tcciinicai support to the Provincial GoLernments will be initiated to
      facilitate tne re\'ie\\ and update o t their Provincial Forest Plans (action by the PNG
      Forest .-iiitiiorit> ~ i i dthe Otfice or Environment and Conservation. Schedule: to
      commence tor tirsr tive Provinces betore the end of 2002. support will be provided
      under FCP. OTJ11. ins!. provide support tor li'estern Province Forestry Plan in
      November 200 I).




2.2.5. A clear position regarding the validity o f the concept and loggability of "fragile
      forests"  I\ill be determinedand included. as appropriate. in the PNG Logging Code
      ot' Practice. FIMS and environmental assessments. ,A joint approach by PNGFA and
      OEC td be developed on initial environmental assessiiients and the application of
      their recommendations: (action by the PNG Forest Authority and the Office of
      Environment and Conservation. but involving wide input from external professional
      ecologists and foresters. Schedule: process of dialogue to coniinence in November
      '001, leading to NEC Policy Submission and Forest Board paper by end of
      Februarv 2002).

2.2.6. The Provincial Forest Management Committees must be briefed on their duties
      under s58(f)      (certification    of Forest Management Agreements) and s28(3)
      (attendance o f landowners at relevant meetings) (action directing the briefing from
      the Board to the National Forest Service). (Schedule: a thorough programme of
      training and support for the PFMCs with respect to their overall roles and
      responsibilities must be preparedand applied for each province. with FCP support.
      from mid-November 2001. for the following 12 months, and thereafter more
      effective on-going support to be provided. including by the NFS member of each
      PFMC).

2.2.7. Evidence of the proper deliberations of the Provincial Forest Management
      Committees is to be kept on a central file. (Action Secretaryto the Board. Schedule:


                                                                                               5

          directions and advice to be provided to each PFVC by I" December 2001.
          Effective application as part o f PFMC support programme. under 2.1.6. above).

    2.2.8. Approvals for feasibility studies tinder s 6 j are required in relation to all
          preliminary work in prospectiL-eforestry project areas and the landowners. (This is
          already required btrt requires enforcement. Pmvi.so:              -  c,/earer qxcification and
          Lippiicarion or' rlic ~ ' i i ~ w nwqiirrctiicn[.v
                                                f           CIW 10  iw q y i i e d /xt.v.riblv rcinforccct in
          fiirther icyisiuriciii. i f  iic,cLiedl. (.Action PYG Forest ,ALithority/Wational Forest
          Service. Schedule: the hFS should prepare a report tor submission to the Board.
          copied to the IXI:RC ti! end of Decemoer 2001 on the current authorisation of
          consultants and other parties currently. or recently tindertaking feasibility studies
          for projects. specif) in:        tile measures to be taken against those breaching the
          requirements. .A l'tirther elpianatory document must be prepared and distributed by
          beginninc ot' December 700 I to IPA ana all prospective consultants specifying the
          laws and obligations. and penaltiesI

    J.2.9. Remedial action is       IO   t)e undertaken for the Arnanao Blocks 5 &: 6. East Awin.
          Kamula Doso aiiu ['ihc'ngseng Consolidatea projects. and that these \vi11 then be
          t'iirther progressea stibrect       IO proper r'oresr resource cescriptions iaction National
          Forest Service. 'ihedule: to coinmence Yoveinber 100I). II                   is recognrsed thaf
          m.ieqiiurc rc~.soiircc /tun't   i 0 ionger hc muiiuble for .m.\.iuinLibie cotnmercid projects
          on .wt)ic of tiww c i11wt71protcc~weus. foilo~i~rnrr       iipduwd rc.sorirce inventories.

    2.2.10. A standard cutting c!i.ie         period must be agreed and applied to the calculation of
          the sustainable annual cut to ensure proper. scientifically based. compliance with
          the stistainabilit!. r-cquirement tinder the Forestry .-'ict. (.Action PNG Forest
          Authority. in close consultation         \\ith outside torest ecologists and other industry
          specialists. including through an open            1% orkshop. Schedule: Position paper to
          National Forest Board b!' end June ,002, SEC Submission and drafting instructions
          to specify cJcIe in legislation by end Julv 2002. liicorporation of Criteria and
          Indicators tor the sustainable !vieid principie. as required by ITTO. to be included in
          the National Forest Plan and the DrveioDment Guidelines -it'sttstarned).

          lProviso: The Forc,yIi?*.ACI specifics [hat "dloicuhie ciii'' is .sei a1 the right level to
                      -
          ensure h i t harvexring provides u sustained yield. T1ii.e requires that the standard
          cutting cycie accuratci.v rejlects growth rafes of the commercial species in PNG
          conditions)

2.3. Comuiiance Audit Recommendationsto be lmuiemented when Resources are available

    2.3.1. A Code o f Ethics is to be applied to Forest industry Participantsand Consultants.
          This will be based largely upon the requirements o f the Constitution. Forest Act.
          Policy and Regulations. including the Code o f Practice. and associated
          environmental.      employment           and    other   legislation     (action     PNG Forest
          Authority/National Forest Service. in liaison with other relevant institutions.
          Schedule: for completion and distribution by June 2002).

    2.3.2.   Landowners are to be assisted to access commercial and legal advice, and any
          relevant information held by the PNG Forest Authority. (Action: PNG Forest
          AuthoritylNational Forest Service. Improved system for resource owner support to
          be developed with the FCP. and wider policy aspects. including consideration of


                                                                                                           6

      impartial resource acquisition. advisory service. to be considered by IAFRC.
      Schedule: planning and consultation to proceed in 200 I. additional resources to be
      provided from corninencement of 7002 -including under FCP. and wider policy

      -
      recommendations on landowner decision-making sirppon to be prepared by March
      2002).




-.J.J.
7 - 1    4mendineni3 to [lie b ~ r ~ , \Ac.1n are to be dratted (action PUG Forest Authority)
                                            t   ~
      to:


      7   Remo\c      Iclcrences     :\'I 'Provinciai  \lin15ters . ,itidIm o v e uncertainty
          \urroiriiding I),o\IIILIJI   Forestr\ Llanagement Committees ~ t i dProvincial Forest
          Llanasrmenr c oininiitees. ISchedule. drattrng insfructions ready Jaiiuarv 2002)


      7   Enforce the C ( d e  OI  Ethics by suspension or cancellation ot' registration under
          SI12. (Schedulc: tor implementation by PNGFA aiid other authorities from mid-
          7-002)

      7   Require an application under s 6 j for any preliminary nork to be done in a
          proposea proiect area. or wirh ianaowners.

2.3.4.   Procedures manuals        \\ ill be prepared for torest resource acquisition and
      allocation. to include:  -

       I        A planned approach to building landowner awareness. plus verifiable
                standards to be used to ensure that proper awareness and informed consent
                has been achieved:

       7        A requirement for landowner consent to consolidation matters. prior to the
                negotiation of a Forest Management A,Oreement:

       r        Minimumstandards for forest inventory:

       fi       A requirement to confirm the existence o f practical access to the project
                area:

       r        The proper use of the Forest Information Mapping System to determine
                gross loggable area estimates: and



                                                                                             7

       7         ,An acceptable srandard approach to setting Out forest resource
                 descriptions.

      This could be set out as part ot' a revised and properi!, executed National Forest
      Development Guidelines. and specifying the current 3 1 steps. revised as required.

      -but
      (Action by the PNG Fvrest .Authority. Schedule: for completion b!. end March
      2002:       read!, for Drogrcssi\e re\,ision as required1.

2.5.5.  Reconsider the viabilip or the tollowing six projects. once decisions have been
      made regarding [lie ioggability of' "fragiie t;irests '. the iiiipleinenration of
      conservation set-asides and the cutting c!,cie. Where a Droject is found to be viable
      remedial action     I\ t o   bc undertaken tor the Rottock Bay Consolidated. Amanab
      Blocks 1-1.Xliddlc Rainu Block I. East Pangia. April Saluinei and Cloudy Bay
      projects. and that these n iil then be further progressed subject to proper forest
      resource descriptrons. rhis task uill be undertaken together Ivith assessment of
      development c'ivions.           :,iziuding for sinall-wedium        scale production and
      processing. f'oilo\\  111:  tlic Revenue Revieiv. and as part o t the FCP. It may be noted
      that soine. or ai I <It these prolects may be iinstiitabie for stand-alone sustainable
      coinmerciai 102 i".?ori proiwts            (Action: \ationai f-=orestScrvice. hupported by
      FCP. and procch5       ( 1 1\\ icier rcvie\v. including O\ er the alternative application o f
      FMAs and poIic\ I\wes <\\t'rset asides and other non-harvesting areas. Schedule:
      for coinmenceineqi car/\ 2007).




2.3.6.  An updatedNational Forest Inventory is to be commenced in 2002, as required under the
      Forestry Act, and to contribute to required updated provincial and national forest plans.
      using a donor funding contribution if available. The database should include natural
      resource information relevant for other landuse planning purposes, and be readily
      accessible for wider use. (at a higher cost for commercial use). (Action: Nationai Forest
      Service with other agencies. Schedule: planning and funding identification to commence
      during 200I for commencementdurine 2002)
                   ~




2.3.7.  Shelve the remaining 20 "in progress" projects being developed as Forest Management
      Agreements and Timber Permits. pending a review of consoiidation options. or alternative
      approaches to forest utilisation. such as Timber Authorities or eco-forestryiconservation
      projects. In all cases the landowners should be informed of any decisions made.


                                                                                                8

9


      i
      I ,3
        PI

        CI
        3
        .
        30
        c i
.
c-
-2

i     -
'2
m
-2     J
       J
s     'L

*

       I - ,




Q Y
I O

-
-.?
'A
E

i

' II               h    ~




     I




            -     -y
             h .-+
               - 4
                  L




          i


D    Recommendations of the Independent Review Team regarding the Compiiance Audit of
                                     the 32 "In Process" Forestry Projects:            -

    a) Provincial Forest Plans

      The Managing Director ot' the PNG Forest Authority aid the Director of' the Office of
       Environment and Conservation: -

      jointly initiate a program ot' technical support to the Proviiiciai Governments to review and
       update the Provincial Forest Plans. completing at least three D\. the end of 2002. with FCP
      s~pport.(;\'FS rcLwgni.ws i h i r i ~ i illlist he iinderiaken no1v.
                                                 . ~                              tiild ha:   [he t1tw provinces
      omittedfiom rile fir.vrpiiavc or p.lrm,tticruiplutinrnp wii be rrdzlded this m e i .

       (Proviso:  -  this provinciai torest planning Frocess should be tindertaken in a transparent
       manner. embracing wider expertise and stakeholders,



       The Managing Director ot the I>\(;rarest Authority:             -

      consults with staff o f the Forest Research Institute to prepare a position paper setting out a
      clear direction regarding the length ot'tlie standard cutting qcie to be observed in setting the
       sustainableannual log harvest tor each prqject. (.\.F"S.SIUIC.S riint riicre .sIioii/dhc C'rireriaand
      Indicators adopird iii P.\'G /or ticliriinp ~ h ,sl~.vruinubIe
                                                          c             rsicid prrncipie. ci.v required by IITO,
      cind that iiii,v t.ril hc crddrc~,s.vsd[ti rile rcJi+i.yed,C'crrionui F(trc.vi P/an Litid National Forest
                       1
       Dewlopmcnr Giiidclinc.si.

       (Proviso: The Forestry .Act speciiies that **allowablecut" is set at the right level to ensure
       that harvesting provides a sustained >,ield (e.:.           35 or 40 !'ears). This requires that the
       standardcutting c y l e accurateiy retlects growth rates in PNG conditions of the commercial
       species. The consultation process should. tilerefore. extend be!,ond the FRI to include wider
       expertise. to ensure :tiat the c!cie        is set on a sound scientific basis. Incorporation of
       sustainabilit!, Criteria and Indicators in the National Forest Plan and NFDG is sound).

       Forest Conservation

      The Managing Director o t tile PNG Forest Authority and the Director of the Office o f
       Environment and Conservation:       -

       Prepare a joint position paper for NEC setting out a clear position regarding the loggabiiity
       of "fragile forests" and seek an approval to incorporate the recommendation into the PNG
       Logging Code o f Practice. (XFS indicate [hat the current -tiow outdated- National Forest
      Plan wasprepared before rhe concept of Fragile Forests was developed. but that it could be
      incorporated into the new Plan u'rhecategory is not alreadv included within the FIMS)

       Formalise a joint approach to the requirement for an Initial Environmental Assessment for
       proposed forestry projects. and to dealing with the recommendationswhich may be made in
       suchassessments.

       It isfurther recommendedthat the PNG ForestAuthority:               -

                                                                                                              18

B      States its right to set-aside IO% o t the loggable area tor conservation purposes (as currently
       provided for in all Forest Management Agreements, in the Prqiect Guidelines and the Project
       Agreement for every project.

       Takes the conservation set-asides into account \\,hen calculating the potential sustainable log
       harvest.

       (Proviso:  - That considering "tlxgiie torests" 2s a categor) rbr potential inclusion in the
       Logging Code ot' Practice requires uider consultation v, ith professional ecologists and
       foresters to ensure its scientitic vaiiciit!,. and

                    That recognition be s!\ en to      I\ider potential roles tor FMAs as forest resource
       management areas. rather tlinn areas solcly t'or log harvesting tor export. This may entail
       harvesting for local processing. conservatioi, or some other purposes. The 10% set aside
       tigure was initiated b!, DEC iii the late 1980s. but it \vas recognised that it could be higher
       than this. dependins upon resource characteristics. In 1990 the then Environment Minister
       announced a 2006 conservation ailocxion to reDiace tne earlier IOo/o.

                       The OEC P\GF,\           c,)ordination should be clearly .pelt
       planning tiinctions and monitoring responsibilities. Ilie apparent omission o t conservation
                                                                  -                        tolit.inciuding

       aspects from the Forest Polic!     iii iQ90and [he ensuing legislation was to avoid duplication
       \\ith prevailing en\ ironmental icgisiation. xther t l i m iI k i n g gi\.en Io\v priority.
       Consideration should be ;i\eii h\ the IAFRC.        \\ith the respective bodies. tG proposing ways
       to improve the poiic) and lcgtslarl\e basis. including through appropriate legislative cross-
       referencing)

    d) Observinc Due Process

       The PNG Forest Authorit!.:

       Prepares a procedures manual tor resource acquisition. including:

    r  A planned approach to tdlrding landowner a\\areness. plus \c.ririable standards to be used to
       ensure that proper awareness and informed consent has been achieved:

    r  A requirement for landowner consent to consolidation matters. prior to the negotiation of a
       Forest Management Agreement:

    i .Minimumstandardsforforest inventory;

    i Arequirementtoconfirmtheexistenceofpracticalaccesstotheprojectarea:

    3 The proper use ofthe Forest Information Mapping System to determine gross loggable area
       estimates: and

    i Anacceptablestandardapproachtosettingoutforestresourcedescriptions.

       Keeps a separate file for each "in process" project to fully document compliance with every
       prescribed step. (according to PNGFA, [his is alreadv inplace)




                                                                                                        19

B      Reviews all delegated pot5ers ot the PNG Forest Authority Board. and that the Board be
       promptly advised whenever they are exercised. fP.\'GFA ititoruis thcit there                    1.5alreadv a
       direction in place reauirinp rhc Boura io Ac dvi.wd of all               i i w utrhc deicycmon)




       Takes greater care to ohserve due process in relation to the approval of extensions.
       particularly in the light or recent ainendments to the Act. I.\'FS i/idicatcs !hut the Board had
       p0wer.v to declare c.yicn.yioii\, /rile II      i / i i , smuv ncnw heen iriic /or cunrrgiioiis weas. recent
       .-lmendmentsrssrrici curd d ~ ~ f / t i7iiecj <ippIicutionofprolecr csien.virmv)

       Takes care to ensure riinr        y,)-c;ii  led ..Lisvelopment agreements" Jo iiot compromise due
       process. b!, apparentl!* "!>:c-wieci!ii;         . developers and b\ ptirporring to grant logging rights
       other than in accordance      i i i i tlic i.:brttstr\. .Act.

       Requires that at1 Provinii,il I orc\t \lanageinent Coinmittees PFMCs'l observe the usual
       requirements that 'liltere\!\           hi' declared. and that niembers           \\tth possible contlicts of
       intereht not paniciwte  iii~ii'~i\ion       iiiJhing.

       (Proviso: the continucu tiiiiisatil)ii ot'an independent revie\\' process - initially consultants.
                  -
       but in future. porentiaii!. ihc proposed Probity Coinmissioner - will help ensure that due
       process is follonrd. .\\sunling sound terms of reference and authority. tlie Probity
       Commissioner \\mild prrrorin [lie role of verifying that tlie required process has been
       correctly fulfilled. and pro\ iciing prior clearance for project appro\,al. This irxiepcndent audit
       rde i.s widely .siipporiedoi i i iitic   ilre .-liithoritt.. iticiuding h~sEFF 'I

     e) Forest Manacement Acreeinents

       The PNG Forest Authorit>:

        Rectifies the defects in the Forest Management Agreements and the Supplementary Forest
       Management Agreements. [lie P.VGFA udvises that this ii>rllhc rittenricd to. :VFS suggests
                                      (
       [hataspeca of the F.LL1 q:\ictii rniroduceLi in I992 shouid ril.~ohs rcsIe~SedJ

        Fully briefs the Provincial Forest Management Coinmittees on their duties under sections
       58(0(certification of Forest Management Agreements) and 28(j) (attendanceof landowners
       at meetings). and that evidence of their proper deliberations be kept on PNG Forest
       Authority head office files by the end of 2001:(PNGFA indicates that they are briefed, with
       NFS being a member of euch PFMC.EFF claims that PFMC's luck training,resources and
       access to advice andproject sites to perform effectively. NFS recognises the legal obligation
       for the landowners to be represented during deliberations on their resource, and that the
       Provincial Government niiist participate in the evaluation process. FIA recognises that
       failures in these matters are a management deficiency)

       (Proviso: - Extra technical and financial resources are required to make the PFMC's more
       effective. which can partly be provided initially under the FCP)


                                                                                                                 20

B      Gives full consideration to the effect o f the Fuime.r.r of Trmwclions AcC 1993 in relation
        both to the terms of the Forest Management Agreement and to the inanner in which the
        agreement is negotiated on behalf'of the PNG Forest Authority. (IIic PA'GFA claims that this
        is alreadv bcinq rciken inro ~iccoiititin rile .vicp 6 ~srcp procediire. cind allowing die use of
                                                                             .
        independent advice. EFF ciiiphu.si.rc.s tiic nccti for ,erecticr uiiiononiv in the process of
       rcsource mquisition.       ( i t i d  oilier coivmentaries ziree liic iii.ylirutionu1 .veparation of ail
        impecrion fiincti~ti.~ti-om /IIY)~C'I pwpiutioti fritic[ioti.sciiiwnti L, iimkr riic P.l'GF.4 1

       (Proviso:   - iihile the resoiirce ottners inay have rights to independent advice. they are not
       currently able to practicall!, secure such advice. This capacity should be strengthened.
       considering that ina.ior long-term contracts are being reached. The FCP should assist in
       establishing this capacit).. but it needs to be maintained)

        Does not be use Timber KiSiits l'urchases saved under the Act as the basis of new or revived
        projects.

        \lakes detinitive decision4            II   Jreas under Foresr \lanaynenr Agreements need to be
       Lonsolidated. or i t alternari\e         t 1 5 r uiTimber ..\irtliorities is preterable. or it'the project should
        not proceed at all.

        (Proviso:   -  \\hile prepararor)' \\(Irk may proceed. prqject approvals inust be granted
        consistent \\ith thc iaiid         l'iyi\ iiiciai   Forest I'lms.     s.\hicli tlieretore wed to he promptly
        updated as required tinder          [/IC    .\ct. The FCP may assist in this process if necessary. but
        resources are also proinptl! i.i.qti~red for an up to date National Forest Iiivenrory, as also
        specitied iii rhe . l i t . llic plxming process requires proper preparation and wider
        consultation rhan occurred hitheno to make it an etfective resource planning mechanism)

     t) Coiitrollin~the Activitv ot' ProDonents

        The PNG Forest Authority should:




        (Proviso:   - clearer specification and application o f the current requirements are required.
        possibly reinforced in further legislation. if necessary).

        Apply a Code o f Ethics to Forest industry Participants and Consultants. and enforce this
        through the suspension or cancellation of registration under section I12 (legislative
        amendments may be required). /The PNGFA states that the Act and Regulationsform a code
        of Ethics)

        (Proviso:  - the Act and Regulations provide the basis for a code o f ethics. but there may be a
        justification for a clearly spelt-out Code. to which industry panicipants commit themselves).

        Avoids delays in the processing of projects so that landowners do not see the need to involve
        proponents in the acquisition and allocation of resources: (this mav be the case. but it must
        not entailfast trackin8

                                                                                                                     21

B   2) Rights of Resource Owners

      The PNG Forest Authority should:

       Include landowner aspirations in both the Development Ontlons Study and the Project
      Guidelines.

      (Proviso - this is critical. but needs to be etfectiveiy pianneu and supported institutionally.
      The proposed Landowner Support Lnit. to be located in the Lands Department. supported
      under FCP. will assist in this task.)

      Assist landowners access commercial and legai advice. and relevant information held by the
      Forest Authorit>,. ;rile P,\'C;F.-/ L'.y,tv-e.wc.sc")t7cern m'cr ilic fiiianciai iiiipiicuiions of this
                             i
      proposal. Tlic EFF iivnpi1, Iipptr r , riic ncc(1;s for inticDet?(/enr irrtd owner cidviceI
                              Y         ,j          ~

      (Proviso: - .is stated abovt.. iiiert.     IS clearl\ ;i~ieedto ensure     rcwirce o\\ners secure sound
      .idvice in reiation til iiiaior icing !i'rin cuiitracts a ier their tiiaiii iiaturai rcsotirce. The FCP
      \+illbe able to ahsist. sa ioiiy     2s tlie ~nstitutiona~  arrangeinents are sound. aid a long-term
      coinmitinent inaae. Tiic !'till procedures need to be adhered to. including t'~i1Iresource owner
      participation and approvals hitherto inadequately undertaken tor most projects I.

      +*liiProcess" Foresn Proiccts       \\ liich mav he Prorressed

      The hiational Forest 5ervicc diotild:        -

      :\s a tirst priorit!. focus its resources on tlie remedial actions required Ins set out in Table 4
      o f the Review report) and the t'iii-ther development o f the tollo\\inp tour prqjects: Ainanab
      Blocks 5 & 6. East +,\\in. Kuniiia Doso and Asenpseng Consolidated. (If .shoziid be noted
      [ha[ iiiis docs     ti01  ticcc.s.\ut.il~~
                                               iticun iiicirthese III'(?ICL'I.Y  11iii ull inimincnrlv. or even
      ~~venruallv.hecotiic fore.si I)i~o~c~ci.s.   Sotne o r riiese pro.olecr.v ~IILIVno ioti,qer have adequate
      iv.soiirccs. rlicrc timsitw bc>c.ti no wccni rc.voiii-ceimvnrot~~.i i ~.sotiie i i i r r ~io.vr ,purrs of their
                                                                              ( i   i
      i'csoiircc IO oiiicr olwraiotx. or IO cirlier iunu'uscs)

      As a second priority reconsider the viability o f the following six prqjects once decisions
      have been made regarding the loggability ot' "fragile forests": the iinpleinentation of
      conservation set-asides: and the cutting c\cle - Rottock Bay Consolidated. Ainanab Blocks
       1-4. Middle Ramu Block 1.       East Pangia. Aprii Salumei. and Cloudy Bay: and where a viable
      project is found to exist. i:*idertakesthe reinediai actions required (as proposed in Table 5 of
      the report)and further develop the project.

      (Proviso: -            (i) The forest inventory must be updated. as required by the Acf and the
      associated mapping system must be made more accessible. Whether the priority
      conservation areas. or the sensitive forest resources. are ultimately deemed "fragile forests"
      or simply incorporated into existing categories -notably. the Forest Code o f Practice. as "set-
      asides'' within FMAs. and mapped under the updated FIMS. is immaterial. so long as these
      areas are properly reflected within the planning process. and based upon sound ecological
      and other considerations. This planning process. incorporated into the Provincial Forestry
      Plan, is a prerequisite for these further projects being considered.
                             (ii)It should be recognised that FMAsare not necessarily large scale log
      export projects. but could entail smal!er scale forestry operations. so long as they are viable

                                                                                                                  22

  and undertaken on a sustainable basis. ASthe Review states. other than eco-forestry projects.
  there has been little coiiimercial interest in recent !*ears in smaller scaie production and
  processing operations. A review ot' other sustainable options            itill be undertaken under the
  FCP and with the EU funded Eco-Forestry Projectr.

  Shelve the remaining 20 "in progress" projects being developed as Forest Management
  .Agreements and Timber Permits. pendin?            ;irevie\\ fir' consoiidation options. or alternative
  approaches to torest utilisation. buch as i'iinber .A tithorities or eco-torestry/conservation
  projects. In all cases the laiido\vtiers should be inrormed ot'any decisions made.

  (Proviso: A review or lahle a i d sustaiiiable aiternative options will be undertaken under
              -               i
  the FCP and the E U funded Em-torestr:. Proiecti

i) liiventorv and Forest Krsoui~ceDrscrintrons

  That.  1%here 3  decision  I\ iii,xie t h t an -it1 process . moiect    itill be tui-ther progressed. the
   bational Forest brrsice v"

   Liidertake a prograinme oi ticld iiiLentor! to acniete a ininiinuin I O 0 bainpie. and thereby
   increase the reliabilit! or the torest resource descriptions set out in the Forest Mana,uement
   Agreement. aiid on   t ihich potenti31 deielopers base their interest and feasibility studies.

   Revisit the torest resourcr dcscrtotions contained in the Forest Manaqeinent Agreements
  (and if iiecessar!       Dcveiopiiienr       ()ptioiis Studies.    I'rqiect   Guidelines and Project
   Agreements r.  taking iiito account tinoroved field inventory data. aiid decisions regarding the
   loggability ot' Fragile t'orests: ttic iiiipieinentation of conservation set-asides: and the cutting
   cycle.

   Base the revisions of the torest resource descriptions on the area information contained in
   the Forest Information hlapping S\ stem I FIMS).

   (Proviso:   -  4s stated a h b e .    !I)  view (It' the long [ e m coiitractuai nature ut' Forest
   Management Agreements. It is critical that the resource o w e r s are tiill!, intorined o f project
   details and options. fiilly participate in the decision-making process and agree it'the project
   is to proceed. in accordance \vith Policy aiid respective legal requirements).




                                                                                                         23

           ANNEX G


   RESPONSEFROMGREENPEACE
TO BANK BRIEFINGONMORATORIUM
           2 MAY 2000


1  From:        lafcadiocortesi elcortesi@sfo.greenpeace.org>on 05/03/2000 10:18AM GMT
   To:          James J. DouglaslPersonANorldBank@WorldBank,Klaus Rohland/PersonNVorldBank@WorldBank,
                Bilal H. RahilllPersonANorldBank@WorldBank,gpacific@dg.com.pg,encentre@hotmail.com,
                teff@global.net.pg,yabun@datec.com.pg,zksasa@global.net.pg,pheritage@global.net.pg,
                irep@datec.com.pg, darren-gladman@datec.com
   cc:          anita@global.net.pg,Arlene.Griffen@au.greenpeace.org, benedict.southworth@au.greenpeace.org,
                Grant.Rosoman@dialb.greenpeace.org,p-chatterton@compuserve.com, scott.atkinson@wwfus.org,
                grbarry@students.wisc.edu. scohen@tnc.org,jcannon@conservation.org,htin@chevron.com
   bcc:
   Subject: MoratoriumUpdate



   May 2,       2000

   To: J i m Douglas,
    CC: Eco Forestry Forum Members & Klaus Rohlard
    From: Lafcadio Cortesi
   Re: Briefing from J i m Douqlas, World Eank, on Recent MLssron
    i o PNG

   Dear M r . Douglas,

    Thank you f o r taking the t;-e           t o orref me t h i s morning on the
   outcomes of the Bank.s recent                3ission t o PNG concerning the
    Forest and Conservation Frsqram ( F C P ) , the Moratorium and
    R e v i e w and t h e Structural ;.j:ustment      'rogram.    Iwanted to
    w r i t e you w i t h a summary 05     :ne points raised, both t o ensure
    that Ihave an accurate understanding of our discussion and t o
    share t h e results of our cznversation with my coileagues. i f I
    have misinterpreted any of Z'ar conversation please l e t me know.

    Regarding the Moratorium, tne Mission conveyed the Bank.s
    interpretation o f the Moratorium t o the GOPNG: that no new
    permits o r extensions t o existing permits be granted/approved by
    the National Forest Board. The Mission also recommended that
    NEC issue a public statement of i t s support f e r the Moratorium
    ana Review process.

     (Note: In our previous discussion i n February, the Bank stated
    that issuing such permits or extensions o r issuing permits f o r any
    .exemptions. t o the Moratorium would be interpreted as non-
    compliance/breaches o f the SAP and FCP loan conditions, and
    would result i n h a l t i n g these loans until reversals were made. In
    our conversation today, we did not discuss whether the Bank.s
    interpretation o f the Moratorium includes a r e s t r i c t i o n on
   granting/approving new o r on renewing e x i s t i n g Timber
   Authorities (TAs). We assume that it does include a t least the
    former, but would be g r a t e f u l i f you would c l a r i f y t h i s point.
   Also, we f a i l e d t o discuss whether the Bankss i n t e r p r e t a t i o n o f
    the Moratorium includes any r e s t r i c t i o n s on the acquisition o f
    new areas o r only applies t o the a l l o c a t i o n o f new areas. For
    example, has the Bank conveyed t o GOPNG that acquiring the
    r i g h t s t o new areas by entering into/signing new FMAs
    constitutes a breach o f the Moratorium? We believe that such an
    interpretation i s essential i f the Moratorium i s t o fully achieve i t s
    intended aim of creating space f o r meaningful reform. Without
    redirecting PNGFA energies away from a l l o c a t i n g AND
    acquiring new areas towards improving management o f e x i s t i n g
    ones, there i s a r e a l danger o f sanctioning .business as usual.
    and loosing crucial opportunities afforded by the Moratorium.

1  We would be g r a t e f u l therefore, i f you could c l a r i f y the Bank.s
   p o s i t i o n on t h i s p o i n t . )

   Regarding the Review, the Mission provided the GOPNG w i t h a
   discussion document/draft TOR suggesting elements f o r a TOR
   f o r the Review. The Bank,s p o s i t i o n i s t h a t the Review should
   be conducted by an independent team and t h a t i t be transparent
   and open t o p u b l i c s c r u t i n y . B u i l d i n g on t h i s you s t a t e d t h a t the
   Bank would support NGO p a r t i c i p a t i o n i n developing the TOR
   and in conducting the Review. In terms o f scope, the Bank has
   suggested t h a t a t a minimum, the review should examine a l l
   p r o j e c t s t h a t a r e c u r r e n t l y i n the p i p e l i n e from a number o f
   angles. These would include but not be l i m i t e d t o the process o f
   resource owner c o n s u l t a t i o n and consent, the l e g a l i t y o f p r o j e c t s
    (e.g. i n terms o f whether :!-.e Act ana other laws ana r e g u l a t i o n s
   have been followed, whether conditions o f agreements and o t h e r
   c o n t r a c t u a l o b l i g a t i o n s have been f,:ifilled,        e t c . ) ,e t c .

   As Imentioned i n our conversatioc, :i-.e                        Eco Forestry Forum has
   established a Moratorium ana Review Norking Group. They
   have developed a p r e l i m i n a r y mission on the Moratorium and
   Review :which you snouia ta1.e                    received,. They are i n t e r e s t e d i n
   working together w i t h the GC-?NG, Sank and o t h e r
   stakeholders b o t h t c develsp the Review TOR, ana t o c a r r y out
   the Review. It would be m o s i asefui, :berefore,                            i f you could
   share a copy of the Review : i ~ s c u s s i o ndocument/draft TOR the
   Bank has developed w i t h cb,:s                 ?roup  1:.  order t o f a c i l i t a t e t h e i r
   p a r t i c i p a t i o n in t h i s process.

   Thank you again f o r t a k i n g tze time t o b r i e f me on the Mission. I
   look forward t o l e a r n i n g rrcre about the Bank.s p o s i t i o n s on
   some o f the outstanding quesrions r a i s e d above, t o reviewing the
   discussion document/araft ?3R,                     ana t o f u r t h e r discussing how
   NGOs can p a r t i c i p a t e i n t h i s process.


   Sincerely,




   Lafcadio Cortesi




   Lafcadio C o r t e s i
   Greenpeace P a c i f i c
   965 Mission S t .
   San Francisco, CA 94103
   t e l : w.415-512-9025/h.510-527-2858
   fax: w.415-512-8699/h.510-528-2886
   e-mail: lafcadio.cortesi@diaIb.greenpeace.org

                 ANNEX H


   RESPONSEFROMBANK COUNTRY DIRECTOR
           DATED6 SEPTEMBER2000
TO LETTER FROMGREENPEACEAUSTRALIA PACIFIC
             OF 25 AUGUST 2000


                                                          September 6,2000


     h4r.BrianBrunton
     ForestSpecialist
     Greenpeace Australia Pacific
     P.O. Box 802. Alotai M.BP
     PapuaNew I u n e a

     Dear Brian:

              PapuaNew Guinea:Follow up of our discussionsAugust 15 in Sydney

                     Thank you for your letter of August 25, 2000 summarking      OUT recent
     meeting m Sydney. which in the main dealt with the Bank assisted review of proposed
     forestry projects and their regulatory compliance (the moratorium) and the Forestry and
     Conservation Projectcurrently at anadvanced stage ofpreparation.

L                    Firstly, I appreciated thc opportunity of meeting with you and your
     colleagues andour forthrightexchange.

                     Secondly, there have bcen developments on a number of points we
     discussedandIbriefly outlinethesebelow:

     (i)themoratorium

                     The PNG Forest Authority is currently preparing a list of projects to be
     included in the review by the Mer-Agency Committee which is being supported by a
    Bank fundedindependentconsultantteam, Thisreview, to ensure that all timber permits
    andextensionsare beingptocessedcomedy, is subjectto the moratoriumindicatedinthe
    NEC Decision No. NG99/99, amended by Decision No 84/2000. The moratorium i s
     inciusive of all current proposals in various stages of processing for: new Forest
    Management Agreements (FMAs), Timber Permits, Timber Authorities (TAs) for
    clearance of foreat for large scale agricultural or mading projects and geographical
    extensions to Timber Permits and TAs. We wiii comment on this list to ensure it is
    inclusive, as far 89 pxacticablo,oftheprojectsthat youhavebroughtto our attention. We
     are also aware that amendiuglegislationis being draftedwhich is directly relevant to the
     processingof large scale GI-      for agriculturai androadingprojects.

          Mr.ErianBrunton                             -2-                            September6,2000


                           As for the team, this is yet to be selectedbut some 25 individualsare
\. ..'    under.consihtion to ensure thatwe havethe best independentteam available.

                           A number o f process issues associated with the review are being
          discussedwith the government and Iam aware that you were fonvarded a letter from the
          Chief Secretary in reply to Mr. Bond which in the mainaddresses some of our muttid
          concerns regarding transparency (public participation/ information dissemination) and
          the independence o f the process proposed. Separately we have been advised that Mi.
          KelXy Kilyat will likely be an observer of the Inter-Agency Conunittee. We are
          continuing this dialogue and individualterms of referencefor the team are beingdrafted.

                           We are grateful for you drawing our attention to possible further
          developments with respect to the Kiuqa-Aeanbakroad and we will pursue this in our
          dialogue with the government, althou& we have been assured that the Minister has not
          approvedan extensionto this project

                          Nonetheless, we are weil aware that the review i s limited, but would
          indicate that issues concerningexisting concessions and the= operationsare subject to a
          number o f activities proposedinthe Forestry and Conservation Project. Eventhoughthe
          SfmcruraiAdjustment Loan will runfor twenty years, it must be restatedthat with respect
          to the disbursement conditionality for this loan, it i s not possible to review all. projects
         presently operating.

                          That said we would support the government in an extension of the
          moratorium, subject to an anaIysis of the fwibility of such an extension interms o f any
          possiblelegal and commercial ramifications involvcd.

          (hi Supportto the PNGGovernment inRecognition of "Revenue Foregone"

                          The Bank is committed to assisting the govement to ensure that the
         governments planned developmentof the fmest sedor is sustainableand to this end will
         continue to mobilize support from the Bank and other donors. But such support is
         predicated on the fact that the govemmexit continues to maintain its international
         commitmentsincludingvarious conventions andtreaties, andcomes of actionwhichare
         economically and technically feasibIe in the longer tenn to meet agreed development
         objectives. We would be wary o f creatinga situationof moraihazardbyproviding grant
         financing or any other assistance on the basis of foregone revenuea which were to be
         derivcdfromunnrstainableactivitiesdemonstrablyagainstthe longtermnationalinterest
                                '

    Mr.BrianBrunton                        -3-                            September 6.2000




d                  We are well aware, however,that our support is limitedand will only be
     effective in a comprehensive framework and in partnership with all stakeholders
    includingorganizationssuch as henpeace. We will continueto seek your engagement
     onthese issueswithus andwill provideany advice and assistance that we can,


                                                  Sincaciy yours




                                                   KlausRohland
                                         Country Director, PapuaNew Guinea
                                              EastAsia andPacific Region


    INDEPENDENT INSPECTIONTEAM REPORT:
PROJECTREVIEW REPORTONKIUNGA-AIAMBAKROAD,
        POND0 AND TUWAPUPROJECTS


CLAIMED VIOLATIONS OF THE MORATORIUM


                          ClaimedViolations of the iMoratorium

The Request alleges a number o f instances where the moratorium on proceeding with
pending applications has been breached.
Most o fthe cases cited have been discussed in greater detail inthe report of the
Independent Review Team. That report laid out specific measures that needed to be taken
ineachcase, andthe Time BoundAction Planendorses these for implementation by
Government.
Itis apparent that intwo cases. Pondo and Tuwapu, actions were takenwhich resulted in
some logging occurring. Both o f these operaticns were stopped by Government. before
significant volumes o f timber were removed. While there remains some further work to
be done on establishing the facts inthese cases. it appears that they did proceed to some
logging, and that this was inappropriate. On the other hand. it is encouraging that the
system is working well enough to have had these operations terminated relatively soon
after they commenced.
The status o f each of the operations cited inthe request, to the best o f the Bank's
knowledge, is as follows:
        Pondo. Operations inthe project area have beenterminated. subject to
        requirements as recommended by the IRT;
        Tuwapu. Operations by Vanimo Forests Products have beenterminated untilall
        procedures for allocation as stipulated under the Forestry Act are fulfilled.
        East Awin. There is no recent evidence o f new operations within this project
        area. There was illegal encroachment by the Concord Pacific road building
        operation at Aiambak. some 18 months ago.
        Kamula Doso. Operations at this site cannot proceed untilall procedures for the
        application have been completed correctly.
        Amanab Blocks 1to 4. All allocation procedures were suspended untilthe
        moratorium was lifted on 30thNovember 2001.
        Semabo. This project was advertised beforethe imposition o fthe moratorium.
        However, the allocation process was suspended under the moratorium.
        KuluDagi. This project was was exempted fiom the moratorium basedon
        recommendations by the IRT. It had been cleared for oil palmplantation in
        accordance with legislationwhich was current at the time.

    a   Bakada. This is not a new project. Bakaka-Madedua is anexisting Timber
        Permit covered under a a valid Permit. It was without a contract operator for some
        time; one has been hired recent1;y


                        PNG FORESTRY REVIEW TEAM

        AUDITING FORESTRY PROJECTS CURRENTLY "IN PROCESS" FOR
 COMPLIANCE WITH THEREQUIREMENTS OF THEPOLICY, THEFORESTRY ACT
                     AND OTHER REGULATIONS AND GUIDELINES



To:                    Governmentof Papua New Guinea
                       C/- The InteragencyForesuy Review Committee
                       Office of the Chief Secretary to Govemment

From:                  Review Team

Date:                  4 October 2001 (Updated draft of 5 March 2001)

Re:                    INDIVIDUALPROJECT REVIEW REPORTNUMBER31

                       AJAMBAK-KIUNGA ROADTIMBER AUTHORITY
                       (WESTERNPROVINCE)




AUDIT CONCLUSIONS:

RESOURCE ISSUES:

This project is in breach of the National Forest Policy 1991 and the current provisions of
the Forestry Act 1991 (as amended) in that the logging taking place either side of the
road corridor is not reguiated through either a proper Forest ManagementAgreement or
a proper Timber Authority. The project cannot be considered to be a forestry project in
any proper forest management sense. The project is also in breach of the Act in that
logging appears to have moved into the East Awin Forest ManagementAgreement area
without due allocation process being observed.

LEGAL ISSUES:

At no time since the purported issuance of t k Timber Autkrity in April 1994 has any
aspect of due process been observed. This has arisen from matters beyond the direct
control of the PNGFA.

LANDOWNER ISSUES:

There has been no landowner mobiiisation for this project. The holder of the Timber
Authority claims to be a landowner company but is a foreign company (50% foreign
owned). The logging contractor Concord Pacific Ltd continues to pay less royalty than
K10 per cubic meter despite a letter from PNGFA directing the company to pay the
                                                                                        -
Review of "InProcess"Forestry P,?Tiecis
IndividualProjectReport 37 Aiambak-KiungaRoad TA
                             -

 legally mandated rate of K10 per m3 from the beginning of logging. Landowners
 complainof harassment(includingfrom `Police') and threats with firearms.

 RECOMMENDATIONS (INCLUDINGCORRECTIVE MEASURES IF REQUIRED):

    That Court action should be taken forthwith to review the Orders permitting the
    logging operationssince November 1999.

    That any application to extend the scope and term of this Timber Authority be
    soundly rejected.

    That any further application for road line clearing should be properly considered
    under the ForestryAct 1991in light of the Amendments madeto the Act in2000 and
    certified in January 2001.



Note: The individual project reports summarise the findings of the Review Team
regarding materiai compliance issues, and present project specific recommendationsfor
the consideration of the Interagency Forestry Review Committee. Separate reports
produced at the end of the review process set out in more detail the audit procedures
applied, and comments and recommenaations regaraing existing policies, legal
requirements and project development processes.




Review of "InProcess"Forestry Projects                                             -
IndividualProjectReport 37  -Aiambak-Kiunga   Road TA

   REVIEW REPORT
1  SUMMARY PROJECT DETAILS:


   Project type:                              Timber Authority Forestclearingfor road
                                                                    -
                                              development.


   Processingstage:                         1 Has been operatingfor some 5 years. PNGFA
                                            ~

                                              have tried to shut it down but are constrained by a

                                            ' Court Injunction.The operators have applied to the
                                              National ExzcutiveCcuncit for an extension of the
                                              scope anc t,-z tam of :hTimber Authority.
1 Gross area:                           !     Not applicable

i,Gross loggable area:                        Not aoplicaole
                                           ~




                                           ,
  Potentialsustainabletimber yield:           Not applicable
                                           ~




                                        I




  A. FORESTRY AND PLANNING ASPECTS

  The clearing of forested land for roading development does not require the application of
  the same sectoral planning and control measures as are required for long term
  sustainable forestry projects under the National Forest Policy 1991, the Forestry Act
  1999 and the National Forestry Guidelines 1993. The key issues for road line clearing
  Timber Authorities are:

      To ensure that the proposed roading development is consistent with the National or
      Provincialtransport plans; that the funds for road constructionare available and have
      been committed; and that responsibility for road maintenance is cieariy defined and
      accepted;
      -  zflsc:? t-3:          ;!e :--e      *:-?   -=. lcrest is undertaken in a progressive manner
                                                       6-
      in accordancewith the road CC;;~::       ,;:;on    programme, thus protectingas much of the
      forest as is possible against the potential non-performanceof the roading contractor,
      and

      That the road line clearing and road construction is undertakenin an environmentally
      responsible manner.

  In this case the Timber Authority was allegedly issued in April 1994 before detailed
  procedures and requirements for Timber Authorities were developed. These
  -=xirements were developed during 1995, and recognisedthat the timber revenue from

  Review of `In Process" Forestry Projects
  Individual Project Report 31 -Aiambak-Kiunga             Road TA                            Page 1

     a road line clearing operation would not meet the cost of road construction unless
I    logging of a much wider corridor was allowed. A maximum road line clearance of 40 m
     was imposed and supported by a National Executive Council decision (113/96). To be
     compliantwith the Act, any logging outside of this 40 m road line must be under either a
     Forest ManagementAgreement, or a Timber Harvesting Timber Authority.

     The Timber Authority procedures and requirements developed by the PNGFA also
     required observance of environmental standards which for roading constructionwere set
     out in the PNG Logging Code of practice 1996.

     The Aiambak-Kiunga Road TA does not meet the current requirements of the Act in two
     key aspects:

         It allows logging outside of the 40 m wide road line without a Forest Management
        Agreement or a Timber Harvesting Timber Authority. The original Timber Authority
        document provides that "harvesting [may take place on] both sides of the proposed
        road alignment". The Logging and Marketing Agreement between the TA holder
        (Paiso Company Pty Ltd) and the logger (Concord Pacific Pty Ltd) is more specific in
        that it provides for logging a forest corridor up to 2 km in width, and the hawesting of
        4,200 m3 of logs for every kilometre of road constructed (or a total of 1.0 million m3
        of logs for the 246 km Icng rcad).

     0  It does not require full observance of the environmentai standards for roadingset out
        in the PNG Logging Code of Practice 1996. The TA dccument provides for some
        rudimentaryobservance of environmentalconcerns by requiringthe holder to "avoid"
        certain specified impacts. Howeverthese obligations are not clearly passedon to the
        loggerin the Logging and MarketingAgreement.

    The roading standard specified in the Logging and Marketing Agreement is a "dry
    weather 4x4"road. A road of this type in this wet part of PNG is unlikely to be usable for
    any significant periods, or to last long without significant expenditure on road
    maintenance. It is difficult to see the demand which would justify this type of road.
    Generally this project is seen as a thinly disguised method employed by a logging
    company to gain access to logs for export.

    RECOMMENDATIONSREGARDING FORESTRY ASPECTS:

    1. That any application to extend the scope and term of this Timber Authority be
        soundly rejected.

    2. That any fP%?      xplicaticn for rcad licz :. :::3g  be subjected to the requirementof
        the Act as amended.


    B LEGAL COMPLIANCE
      .
    SUMMARYOF LEGALCOMPLIANCE:

    Since Minister Neville purported to approve TA No 24 in April 1994 no procedural step
    under the ForestryAct 1991 has been duly observed. In giving his approvalthe Minister


    Review of YnProcess" Forestry Projects
    IndividualProject Report 31   -Aiambak-Kiunga     Road TA                           Page2

exceeded his powers. Under the Act Ministers have no procedural role to play in relation
to Timber Authorities.

TA No 24 was signed by the Regional Forestry Inspector "as a delegate of the Board".
Under the Act it was the Provincial Forest Minister at that time who was empoweredto
grant a Timber Authority. However the Act prescribes a lengthy procedureto be followed
before such a grant can be made. That procedure was completely overlooked in relation
to this project.

The subsequent decisions by Acting Minister Philemon and Minister Pok to grant
extensions to TA No 24 are also not supported by provisions of the Act. The Act states
that TimberAuthorities are to be valid for the stated period and makes no mentionof any
power to extend them. It seems that a new application must be made when a Timber
Authority expires. In any event there is no provision made at all for any power to be
exercised by the National Ministerfor Forests.

Logging operations are proceeding on the basis of a far-reaching Court Order made on
26 November 1999. This Order permits :he operations to continue under TA No 24 and
restrainsthe PNGFAfrom seizing logs or delaying export permits.

The current Managing Cirector and PNGFA staff have demcnstrated a clear
determipaticn tc $39thrt ccme ccr!;sis ars 5xerz:sed cver trrs remaxhcie 7rzjec:. T;er
attempts to apply the provisions of the Act have Deen thwarted at every stage. The
senous ramifications of the propct affecting the rights of landowners and the good
governance of this country cannot be attnbuted to the current staff of the PNGFA in any
way.

NEC Submission 73/2000 (9 May 2000) seeks, inter alia, the approval of the NEC for a
15 year extension to TA No 24. The Submission suggests that there are no legislative
implications. This is incorrect and NEC should be aware that the Submission effectively
invites Cabinet to breach the statutory procedures that are prescribed in the Forestry
Act.

RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING LEGAL ASPECTS:

1. That the court proceedings must be brought to a conclusion. The substantive issues
    must be finaily determined. It should be noted that the Attorney General has
    previously acted in a private capacity for the logging operator (Concorde Pacific Ltd)
    in relationto these proceedings.

<,t-`jtic-zl > ! y A + * -*-= \Ise?    ' = . a - 7 `-:T]Farum ;;as mted :hat logsing activity has
continued despire ;.xrxcT;;mcc.z:;ms of the Review Team. A key proponent of this
project was deported from Papua New Guinea for a short period, but now seems to
enjoy citizenship status by virtue of a court order. This project has becomecharacterised
by the interventionof a court to permit its ccnnnuzrion.




Review of "InProcess"Forestry Projects
Individual Project Report 31       -Aiamoak-Kiunga         Road TA                       Page 3

     APPENDIX 1 :NOTES ON LANDOWNER ISSUES
b    14 Feb 00      Technical Sewices and Inventory investigated the Aiambak Road and
                    confirmed allegations made by landowners that Concorde Pacific Ltdwas
                    8.6 km intothe EastAwin FMA area.

     12 Mar 00      Landowners say that Paiso Ltd is a family company and must be knocked
                    out of the area altogether. The fact is that Paiso Ltd. is owned 50% each
                    by two individuals, one landowner from nowhere near the road and one
                    foreigner, Mr Philip K S Lee, who represent themselves and not the
                    landowners.

     Feb2001        One Aiambak landowner leader with pending court cases against
                    Concord Pacific Ltd has sought to have Mr Philip K S Lee deported.




    Review of 7n Process"Forestry P,qjects
    Individual Project Report 31 -Aiambak-Kiunga    Road TA                           Page 1

                         PNG FORESTRY REVIEW TEAM

         AUDITING FORESTRY PROJECTS CURRENTLY "IN PROCESS" FOR
 COMPLIANCE WITH THEREQUIREMENTS OF THE POLICY, THEFORESTRY ACT
                     AND OTHER REGULATIONS AND GUIDEUNES


 To:                    Government of Papua New Guinea
                        C/- The Interagency Forestry Review Committee
                        Office of the Chief Secretav to Government

 From:                  ReviewTeam

 Date:                  4 October 2001 (Updated draft of 5 Marcn 2001)

 Re:                    INDIVIDUAL PROJECT REVIEW REPORT NUMBER24

                        POND0 (EAST NEW BRITAIN PROVINCE)



AUDIT CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS:

RESOURCEAND PLANNING ISSUES:

The sustainable timber yield prrnciole has not been compiied with (as a consequence of
the resource being very small). The TRP either has expired or will expire soon. The
project is not in compliance with the Act in that it is not listed in the NationalForest Plan
for development. Sensible operational procedures have not been complied with in that
there has been no field volumetric inventory. The gross loggable area and estimated
loggable volume appear to be significantly overstated. The estimatedsustainableannual
cut is insufficientto support either a financially efficient logging project or a conventional
stand alone log export project. In the absence of a Forest ManagementAgreementthere
is no provision for 10% of the gross loggable area to be set aside for conservation
purposes. It may be sensible to conserve this resource for domestic sawn timber supply
for this heavily logged province.

LEGALCOMPLIANCE:

The failure to base this project on a Forest Management Agreement is a breach of due
process. There is no sense in gra'nting this project as an extension to the Seraji
ExtensionTRP as that TRP expires in early 2002.

LANDOWNER ISSUES:

There is no certainty that the landowners of the Pondo TRP area are the same as the
Seraji TRP as asserted by the PNGFA         - the clan lists do not match. There are no
indications of landowner concems having been considered in the DevelopmentOptions
Study.

Review of "InProcess"Forestry Projects
Individual Project Report 24 Pondo

      RECOMMENDATIONS(INCLUDING CORRECTIVE MEASURES IF REQUIRED):

         That this project should not proceed in its current form without a Forest Management
         Agreement.

     0   That the idea of granting this project as an extension to the Seraji and Seraji
         Extensionproject should be abandoned.

     9   That consideration be given to proceeding in due course on the basis of a Timber
         Authority to support domestic sawn timber supply.



     Note: The individual project reports summarise the findings of the Review Team
     regarding materiai compliance issues, and present project specific recommendationsfor
     the consideration of the Interagency Forestry Review Committee. Separate reports
     produced at the end of the review process set out in more detail the audit procedures
     applied, and comments and recommendations regarding existing policies, legal
     requirements and projectdevelopment processes.




1    Addendum:

     Since the preparation of the first draft of this report in March 2001, despite advice from
     the National Forest Service, the PNG Forest Authority Managing Director issued
     permissionto a logging company to "set up base camp and construct advance roading"
     in the Pondo TRP area. This was illegal as there was neither a Timber Permit or a
     Timber Authority through which any rights could be given. Inaddition the permissionwas
     in direct breach of the Govemment's current moratorium on the issuance of logging
     permits.

     The Managing Director later revoked his permission, and his action was duly noted by
     the Board. In the interim some 8,500 m3 of logs with a value of Kina 1.4 million were
     exported'.




     1Source: SGS data.



    Reviewof "InProcess" ForestryProjects
    IndividualProjectReport 24 Pondo

     REVIEW REPORT
1    SUMMARY PROJECT DETAILS:


    Project type:                          Timber RiGhts Purchase / Timber Permit


    Processingstage:                       Resourceacquired under the old ForestryAct as a
                                           Timber Rights Purchase area.                   1
                                          1ijeveiopment Options Stuay completed. Project
                                           Guidelines drafted. This project area is intendedby
                                           the PNGFA as an extension to the existing TP 15-
                                           58 Seraji and Seraji Extensionheld by NangalPty
                                           Ltd-the underlying TRP for the Seraji project
                                           appears to have expired and the TRP for the Seraji
                                           Extensionarea expires in February2002.

                                                                                              ~




    Gross TRP area:                        12,000 ha
                                          ~

                                          I

    Gross loggablearea:                 1  1,000 ha (a)
                                          ~




    Net sustainable timber yield:          Not able to be calculated as no inverltory
                                           undertakenwithin the project area. Available data
                                           suggests an annual sustainable cut of about 1,000
                                           m3/a may be possible. ProjectGuidelinesdo not
                                           set out a sustainable yield estimate but indicates
                                           the resource may be cut over 5 years at up to
                                           39.000 m3/a.



           (a) Based on area information extracted from the PNGFA Geographic
               InformationSystem (FIMS).




    Review of "InProcess"Forestry Projects
    Individual Project Report 24 Pondo                                                  Page 1

   A. FORESTRY AND PLANNING ASPECTS
1   1.CONTROL PLANNINGAND
      SECTORAL
1.

      PROVINCIAL FORESTPLAN

      PNGFA Board endorsed Provincial         I  Yes
      ForestryPlan exists:                    I
                                              ,

      Is the ProvincialForestry Plan          1  No expired October 2000
                                                     -
      current:

      1s the Project listed in the Provincial j
                                              II No - Pond0 Extensionis listed but this is a
      ForestryPlan:                           1 different area.
                                              I



      NATIONAL FOREST PLAN

      Is the Frojecr listed in ;he National ,
      Forest Plan as required under s54         NO   -Pond0Extensionislistedbutthis a     IS
      of the Act:                             i different area.


   2. PROJECTDEFiNlTlONIN FMA                   Note: in :he absence of a Forest Management
      DOCUMENT                                  Agreement, the Project Definitionused to test
                                                compliance with the review criteria is that set
                                                out in the DevelopmentOptions Study.


      Is the gross loggable area properly       No. The DOS documentsets out a gross
      defined:                                  loggable area of 8,000 ha. Applying the
                                                logging exclusion areas as definedin the PNG
                                                Logging Code of Practiceresultsina gross
                                                loggable area estimate of 1600ha     -applying
                                                the standard gross to net reductionfactor of
                                                15% results in a net loggable area estimate of
                                                1400ha. Thus the loggablearea set out in the
                                                ZCS ;s s;giiificantiy over srarea.                I
      Has the total gross merchantable          NO- the PNGFA have not carried out any field
      voiume been properlyestimated:         Ii inventory in the project area. The gross
                                                karvestable volume figure set out inthe COS
                                                (32 m3ha) is a PNGFAestimate. The ne1
                                                volume (24 mYha)was also estimated bzzed
                                             1  CT. ii;', ::.::rj dsia ;iCZ aojacm prcjecr E:aas.
                                                A logging company survey indicateda gross

  Review of "InProcess"Forestry Fmjects
  individual Project Report 24 Pondo                                                      Page2

                                           1volume of 54 mYha. but PNGFA havedoubts             1
I                                          1as to the quality of this work.                      I
      Has the net merchantablevolume        No. The DOS appliesthe net loggablevolume
     been properly estimated:               to the gross loggable area, and calculatesa
                                            loggable volume of 195,000 m3. A corrected
                                            estimate IS 166,000 m3. Howeverapplying the
                                            net loggable volume per hectare estimateto
                                               -..-..-3z..-,"                     - - _
                                             .I               -, ;-. --a<-     4,=  4 r . J uaLa
                                            results in a loggaole volume estimateof
                                            32,000 m3, indicatingthat the available
                                            volume set out in the DOS is a significant over
                                            estimate.

     Have "Fragile ForestAreas" (OEC        No, because there is no agreed position
     definition) been considered:           regarding fragile forest areas. There are no
                                            areas classified as FragileForestwithin the
                                            Pondo project area.

     Haveenvironmentallysensitive           Yes. Large scale Gazetted conservationareas
     areas been considered:                 are exciuded from the FMA area. Small scale
                                            Gazetted conservationareas are identifiedand
                                            excluded from the gross loggablearea. The
                                            Logging Code prohibitslogging in defined
                                            environmentally sensitive areas which are
                                            excluded when the gross loggable area is
                                            defined.

     Have conservationset asides been       In the absence of an FMA, the rightfor the
     appropriately implemented:             PNGFA to exclude up to 10% of the gross
                                            loggable area from loggingfor conservation
                                            purposes has not beenagreed to with the
                                            landowners.



 3. ESTIMATEOF SUSTAINABLE
     CUT


     Hasthe sustainable annualcut           No. Given the relativesmall size of the
     been properly calculated:              resource, the 00s and the draft Project
                                            Guiaelines indicate thatthe resourcemay be
                                            cut out over a 5 year periodat 39,000 m31a. A
                                            corrected figure basedon the FlMSdata (but
                                            retaining the 5 year loggingperiod)would be
                                            6,500 m3la.

     Is the estimated sustainableyield      NO
     sufficientto support a financially


 Review of ulnProcess" Forestry Pmjects
 Individual Project Report 24 Pondo                                                        Page3

        30,000 m3/a):
11I     Is the estimatedsustainableyield       1  No
        suffrcrenr to support a stand-alone    I
        log export operation (min 70,000       II
        in3iii guraeiine set by BiQGFA
        Board):



   4. CONSISTENCYBETWEEN
       DOCUMENTS


       Is the area and volume data             ' No FMA. Only a DOS and a draft Project
       consistent between the FMA,the            Guidelines prepared by the PNGFAto date.
       DevelopmentOptions Study and              The data between these two documents is
       the ProjectGuidelines:

       Any other material inconsistencies        None found.
       regardingthe resource:



   5. ANY OTHER MATERIAL NON-
       COMPLIANCE REGARDINGTHE
       RESOURCE
I

       Sustainability.                           The draft Project Guidelines providefor the
                                                 resource to be cut over a 5 year period, thus
                                                 ignoring the sustainability principle. However
                                                 given the very small size of the resource,
                                                 sustainabiiity on the basis of a stand alone
                                                 projectmay not be a practicaloption.



   RECOMMENDATIONSREGARDING FORESTRY ASPECTS:

   1. SECTORAL PLANNINGAND CONTROL

       That the PNGFA pro-actively assist the East New Britain Provincial Government
       update and approve their Provincial Forest Plan (s49), and facilitate the inclusion of
       the updated Provincial Forest Development Programme (s49(2)(b)) into the National
       Forest DevelopmentProgramme (s47(2)(c)(ii)) as required underthe National Forest
       Policy (Part II (3)(b)) as the basis for the PNGFAs acquisition and allocation
       programme.



   Reviewof "InProcess" Forestry Projects
   IndividualProjectReport 24 Pondo                                                       Page4

   C. LANDOWNER ISSUES




   1. LandownerAwareness
                                        I
                                        I
   The Review Team was looking for ! *     This IS an existing TRP which may have
   evidence of an awareness             1  expired (possiblysigned in 1941).PNGFA
   package containing information          may not be fully aware of this situation.
   explainingthe purpose, benefits
   and otherwiseto be expected             No indication of landowner awareness by
  from the project. This could             PNGFA to brief resource owners on the
   include general conditions that         future status of the project.
   could be usedfor all prospective
   projects.


! 2.  LandownerMobilisation
~




                                       I
I                                      Ij


ji mobilised by means of the Land ,
1  Landowners are required to be           In line with the TRP conaitions, a pnvate
                                          consulting firm engaged by the Landowner
'  Crwxs fnc:.=rstr3icr,.ic: -cL?          - Z I T Z Z ~ > \--.
                                                            I - \ .,L")
                                                                    P A ? a ~ ~ `-..ri:S.<,
                                                                                c 3 i
   ZN;~Wia;m                              calecec! sigaxres anc appointtc Aoents
  evidence of full participation by
                 *NiiS .CCU;CG :S E ~ c1  to represent landowners.
  landowners in the ILG process           NFS requestedthe above informationto be
  particularlywith regardto:              made available. To date, none has been
                                          received, except two ILGs that were recently
   0     Recognitionthat the              sent from PNGFA             - Keravat.
         resources are owned by           The two ILGs (Lavakpriniand Muachenka)
         individual land groups and       may well be from the Pondo area, but the
         not collectives of land          names do not correspondwith the names
         groups                           (Usaurachi, Vualmetki and BangenTemna
                                          clans) recently receivedfrom PNGFA.
   0     The formation of                 There IS an existing LANCO (Nangal
         representativebodies for         Limited)that was formed for the then
         projectconsultations and         planned Seraji TRP/ PondoTRP
         negotiations.                    consolidation.
                                          There is a question as to whether the
                                          landownersfrom the Pondoareawill want to
                                          be included in the same LANCO. PNGFA
                                          claims that the peoplefrom Pondoarea and
                                          Seraji are the same. Giventhe physicalsize
                                          of the area, it is doubtfulthat this is the case.
                                          Clan lists of the PondoTRP that appear in
                                          the DOS are not the same as those that
                                          appear in the Seraji TRP document. rtris

  Review of "In Process" Forestry Projects
  IndividualProject Report 24 Pondo                                                         Page6

                                             has been confined by the latest information

I                                       I1   sent in    Pr\lcFA.l/yiz! zzce. This
                                             infomation lists names that do not appear in
                                             the Seraii TRP


      3. Forest ManagementAgreement


       Must Specify:                         There is no Forest ManagementAgreement
                                             for this project.
       0      Monetary benefitsfor the
              customary group             0  Under the TRP, landownerbenefitsare spelt
       0      Area in agreement by map       out in the Timber Permit and the Logging
       e      -PFMC  certificate as to       and Marketing agreement.
                  Authenticity of the
                  tenure of the
              -   customary land
                  willingness of
                  customary owners to
     I            enter into FMA
              Review level of
              consultationwith
              landowners




      1. DevelopmentOptionsStudy


      The Review Team was lookingto       0 DOS has been completed.
      see if the DevelopmentOptions
      Study:                              0 The 00s seeks the approvalfor the Pondo
                                            TRP to be consideredas an extensionto the
       0      Cateredfor landowner          Seraji TRP. No other option is presented.
              concerns and aspirations      This has not yet beenformally consideredby
              and if                        the Board.
       0      All options presentedfor
              the resource development    0 There were no clear indicationsof landowner
              hada realistic chanceof       aspirations and concerns highlightedinthe
              beingpursued.                 DOS.


      2. Project Guidelines


      Draft guidelinesmust be             Project Guidelines have beendrafted and are yet

      Review of "InProcess"Forestry Pmjects
      IndividualProject Report 24 Pondo                                           Page 7

B     consultation with the resource                     considered by the PFMC.
      owners.




      Authority is required to involve                 I Not yet prepared.
      landowners in selection of the
      "developer" and in negotiation of                I
      the Project Agreements
      according to the terms of the
      FMA.                                             I

     4. Environmental Plan

                                ~    ~    ~    ~~~~

                                                       I
      EP is produced by the preferred                    Not yet aopiicable.
      developer according to the                       1
                                                       I'
      prescription of the Environmental

      consultation with landowners is '
      Planning Act. Evidence of                        I
      important.


     CONCLUSIONS REGARDING LANDOWNER ASPECTS:

         There is a general lack of awareness within the PNGFA regarding thz history of the
         TRP acquisition.

     0   Terms and conditions of TRPs are inconsistent with the objectives and requirements
         of the ForestryAct.

         Nangal Limited purports to be the representative Landowner Company of both the
         Seraji TRP and Pondo TRP but there is no evidence to indicate such credentials.
         There is no evidence on file to prove that landowners from Seraji TRP are the same
         as those from the Pondo TRP.

     0   There is no evidence on file to show the quality of the land owner mobiiisationcarried
         out bya private consultingfirm.              -
         The 00s does not adequately address the aspirations and ccmems of the
         landowners.




     Review of "InProcess"Forestry Projects
     Individual Project Report 24 Pondo                                                Page8

b    1. That given the frequency of landowner disputes with regards to resource ownership,
        the PNGFA carry out its own investigation,to verify land owning groups, includingthe
        facilitationof ILGs.

    2. If there is a project, then that the PNGFA reviews the 00s to ensure landowner
        aspirations and concerns are taken on board.




    Reviewof "InProcess"Forestry Projects
    IndividualProject Report 24 Pondo                                                Page9

' n c c ~ c-!ion




 .-.
  .-...
 I      : ;a

                                           IForm85                        ]


CHECKLISTNOTES:

1.     Tne fires inaicate a poor use oi prescribed Forms.

2.     The PNGFA Board Minutes suggest that the Board has exercised no authority in
        relation to this project. This indicates that nothing has been done to keep the
       NFB advised of its progress. The only reference to this project in the Board
       Minutes is at Meeting 17 in March 1995 when it was resolved that the project
       would be "expedited". It cannot be said that this was achieved.

3.     This project purports to be based on a former TRP. There is no evidence on the
       files to indicate that it has been guiaed by any clear legal advice. It has been
       suggested in the notes to the Rai Coast project (Individual Forestry Review
       Report No 23) that proceeding on the basis of former TRPs may be misguided.
       This is becausethe essential eiements of the new system, Le. the replacementof
       landowner companies with ILGs and the apolication of principles of sustainable
       management,will be avoided. It is suggested in those notes that TRPs are saved
       under section 137 to avoid a wholesaie exringuishment of the contractual rights
       that they create, and not for them to replace the FMA procedure as a basis for
       projectsthat are not in operational mode.

4.     In this case however, there are particular reasons why the project cannot be
       basedupon the TRP. They include      -
           The TRP may not in fact be saved by section 137. The date of the TRP is not
           certain but it appears to be some time in 1941 or 1945. Section 137 only
           saves TRPs that were "granted" under the Forestry Act (Chapter 216). This
           TRP must have been granted under a former colonial Ordinance.

           Even if the TRP was saved, then it appears that it may have expired in 2001
           (if it was purchased on 26 March 1941 as suggested by the Assistant
           Secretary in a letter dated 24 January 1989), or that it will expire in 2005 (if
           the PFMC was correct in ascribing that year as its final year in Decision
           5/2000 at Meeting 2/2000 held on 22 June 2000). Eitherway it indicates that
           the TRP is an entirely inappropriate basisfor this project.

           No copy of the TRP seems to exist. If it was signed in 1941 then it probably
           did not survive the Japanese invasion of Rabaul. If it was signed in 1945,
           which seems unlikely, thenit may not have survived the more recent infemo
           at PNGFA headquarters. In either event it should regarded as of no effect
           and a proper procedure under the current Act should be applied. As the
           annual allowable cut would only be 500 cubic metres more than that which
           would be permissibleunder a Timber Authority then that procedure remainsa
           realisticalternative to a FMA.




Review of "InProcess"ForestryPrcjects
Individual ProjectReport 24 Pondo                                                  Page2

     5.    The notion of granting the project as an extension to the Seraji operations is also
            misguided for similar reasons. The Seraji Extension TRP is for a term of 20 years
1           commencing 1 January 1982. It has only 11 months to run and therefore should
            not be consideredas a basis for the proposed operation of the Pondo project as
           an extension. The application submitted by the adjoining permit holdershould not
            be entertained.

    6.     There is another matter of concern that should be noted also. The landowner
           company holding the Timber Permit unaer the Seraji Extension TRP, Nangal
           Limited, had experienced troubles with its contractor. Deegold. The contractor
           walked off the project in early 1998 and then sometime later attemptedto re-start
           operations. Deegold decided to avoid further confrontation with the resource
           owners by suggesting that they would agree to terminate their Logging and
           MarketingAgreement if a new Agreement was signed with Everwell Limited. The
           landowners appear to have accepted this and sought approval for the new
           Agreement in 1999. It should not come as a surprise that Deegold and Everwell
           are, for all intents and purposes, the same. The details of registration for both
           companies are identical. Yii Ann Hii is recorded as the sole shareholder of both.
           Nancy Seo and Joyce Lee are directors of both, and in both companies hold the
           designation of Financial Controller and General Manager respectively.Addresses
           and telephone numbers for both companies are identical. Somebody seems to
           have pulled somerhing cver scmebody else's eyes.

    7.     The NGOs Eco-Forestry Forum and PNG Forest Watch have both referred to
           rscent logging in the Pondo TRP area, presumabiy by the operator in the
           adjoining Seraji Extension TRP. This illegal logging activity has been confirmed
           :o have taken place. It appears that about 9,500 m3 cf logs have been cut, and
           that mcst of this has been exporred. Notwithstandingthat the approval may have
           been given only to enable road construction to the area, this appears to be a
           serious breach of the Act and the Moratorium. The files indicatethat a number of
           NFS officers properly counselled against giving any permission to log in the area.
           This advice followed a direction by the Minister on 8"' May 2001 to the NFS "to
           prepare the necessary documents for my signature to allocate Pondo TRP to
           Nangal Ltd". The Managing Director had aiso sought advice on 20'" April 2001
           and indicated that he was willing to "bend the rules". He indicated a desire to
           "fasttrack this project for the benefit of the landowners".

           Notwithstanding that as much as 9,500 m3 of logs may have been harvested
           illegally, it should be noted that the NFS firmly advocated observance of due
           process, and that the PNGFA Board subsequently intervened to uphold the
           requirementsof the Act.




    Review of "InProcess:'Forsstry Frojects
    IndividualProject Report 24 Pondo                                                Page 3


                       PNG FORESTRY REVIEW TEAM

        AUDITING FORESTRY PROJECTS CURRENTLY "IN PROCESS"FOR
 COMPLIANCE WITH THEREQUIREMENTS OF THE POLICY, THEFORESTRYACT
                   AND OTHER REGULATIONSAND GUIDELINES


To:                   Government of Paoua New Guinea
                      C/- The Interagency Forestry Review Committee
                      Office oi the Chief Secretary to Government

From:                 ReviewTeam

Date:                 4 October 2001 (Updated draft of 5 March 2001)

Re:                   INDIVIDUALPROJECTREVIEW REPORTNUMBER27

                      TUWAPU (WEST SEPIK)



AUDIT CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS:

RESOURCEAND PLANNING ISSUES:

The sustainable timber yield principle has been complied with. The project is not in
compliance with the Act in that it is not listed in the National Forest Plan for
development. The gross loggable area has been significantly overestimated in the
Forest ManagementAgreement (most of the area has already been logged) resultingin
high landowner expectations. The estimated net loggable volume is not sufficient to
support a practical sustainable annual cut, and thus falls outside the intent of the
National ForestPolicy. The project is being progressedas if it will be an extensionfor TP
10-08Vanimo, but there is no indication that the permit holder has expressed any direct
interest. PNGFA staff are aware that this project is far too small to support a sustainable
cut, but it would appear that management has failed to exercise its decision making
authority by sensibly rejecting the project as a viable Forest Management Agreement
opportunity.

LEGALCOMPLIANCE:

%e piscass tias yerxraiiy been ioiiowea. Tine usual concerns aoout PFMC certification
of the forest ManagementAgreement are indicated here. There are defects in the form
of the Forest Management Agreement. The assumption that the project is an extension
is unfoundeduntilan application is duly made and approved by the Board.

LANDOWNER ISSUES:

Landownershave been involvedwith logging operations by Vanimo Timber Products Ltd
for a generation. Uncertainty within the PNGFA as to how to handle this small area has

Review of "InProcess" Forestry Projects
IndividualProject Report 24 Pondo

resulted in the inappropriate execution of a Forest Management Agreement over their
(mostly)logged land creating confusion and unrealisticexpectations.

RECOMMENDATIONS(INCLUDINGCORRECTIVE MEASURES IF REQUIRED):

That beforethe project is allowed to proceed any further, that:

    The PNGFA re-assess the net loggable volume, taking care that areas already
    logged are not logged a second time, and reviews the sensibility of progressingthis
    project under a Forest ManagementAgreement.

    That the PNGFA informs landowners of the limited size of the loggable resource.

    The PNGFA ascertain the interest of Vanimo Forest Products Ltd in logging the (re-
    assessed) resource as an extension of TP 10-08 given the recent amendments to
    the Act.

IfVanimo Forest Products Ltd is not interested, then:

    That the Forest ManagementAgreement be cancelled.

If for any reason the project is to proceed under the Forest Management Agreement
then:

    That the defects in the agreement must be remedied.

    That the PFMC certification might be revisited.

    That the project should not be considered as an extension until the Board has made
    a resolutionto this effect, taking into account the recent amendments to the Act.



Note: The individual project reports summarise the findings of the Review Team
regarding material compliance issues, and present project specific recommendationsfor
the consideration of the Interagency Forestry Review Committee. Separate reports
produced at the end of the review process set out in more detail the audit procedures
applied, and comments and recommendations regarding existing policies, legal
requirementsand projectdevelopment processes.



Addendum:

Since the preparationof the first drat3 of this report in March 2001, despite advice from
the National Forest Service, the PNG Forest Authority Managing Director issued
permissionto undertake logging in the Tuwapu TRP area. This was illegal as there was
neither a Timber Permit or a Timber Authority through which any rights could be given.
In addition the permission was in direct breach of the Government's cment "atOnUm
on the issuanceof loggingpermits.

Review of 7n Process" Forestry Projects
Individual Pmject Report 24 Pondo

 A. FORESTRY AND PLANNINGASPECTS


  1.CONTROL PLANNINGAND
     SECTORAL



     PROVINCIAL FORESTPIAN

     PNGFA Board endorsea Provincial         Yes
     ForestryPlan exists:

     Is the Provincial Forestry Plan         No expired December 1999
                                                 -
     current:

     Is the Project listed in the ProvincialYes - Listed as Sossiwhich makes up partof
     ForestryPlan:                          the area.

     NATIONAL FOREST PLAN

     Is the Project listed in the National  No
     Forest Plan as requiredunder s54
     of the Act:



  2. PROJECT DEFINITIONIN FMA
     DOCUMENT


     Is the gross loggable area properly    No. The FMA document applies a non-
    defined:                                standard area reductionof 30% to the gross
                                            project area to estimate the gross loggable
                                            area. The FIMS data indicatesa remaining
                                            gross loggable area of 426 ha. Hencethe
                                            gross loggable area inthe FMA is significantly
                                            overstated.

    Has the total gross merchantable        More or less. The FlPS data indicatesa gross
    volume been properlyestimated:          volume of 30.3 mYha. The FMA is basedon a
                                            figure of 33.3 mYha. The PNGFA explains this
                                            as "human error".

0   Has the net merchantablevolume          No. The PNGFA has applieda non-standard
    been properly estimated:                volume reduction factor of 15% to derive a net
                                            volume of 28.3 m3/ha, and hasappliedthis to
                                            the significantly overstated netloggablearea
                                            to come up with a net loggablevolume of
                                            110,000 m3. Itwould appearthatthe standard
                                            area and volume reductionfactors have been

Review of ''hProcess" Forestry Projects
IndividualProject Report 27 Tuwapu                                                 Page2

                                        mixed up - if they are correctly applied the
                                        same estimate of net loggablevolume would
                                        result. The figure of 110,000 m3 is consistently
                                        presented in the FMA, the DOS and the
                                        Project Guidelines. Easedon the FIMSand
                                        FIPS data the net harvestablevolume is about
                                        8,000 m3.

     Have "Fragile ForestAreas" (OEC    No, becausethere is no agreed position
     definition) been considered:       regarding fragile forest areas. There are no
                                        areas classifiedas FragileForestwithin the
                                        Tuwapu projectarea.

    Have environmentallysensitive       Yes. Largescale Gazettedconservationareas
    areas been considered:              are excludedfrom the FMA area. Small scale
                                        Gazetted conservationareas are identifiedand
                                        excluded from the gross loggablearea. The
                                        Logging Code prohibitslogging in defined
                                        environmentallysensitive areaswhich are
                                       excluded when the gross loggablearea is
                                       defined.

    Have conservationset asides been   The nght for the PNGFA to excludeup to 10%
    appropriately implemented:          of the gross loggablearea from loggingfor
                                       conservationpurposes is includedas a
                                       standard clause in the FMA document, but has
                                       not been bought forwardto the Project
                                       Guidelines.



3. ESTIMATEOF SUSTAINABLE
    CUT


e   Has the sustainable annual cut     No. The net loggablearea has been
    been properly calculated:          significantly overstated, and is usedto
                                       produce a PNGFAestimateof the sustainable
                                       yield of 3,100 m3/a. Basedon the FIMS and
                                       FIPSdata the sustainableyield estimateis
                                       219 m3lha.

0   Is the estimatedsustainableyield-  No
    sufficientto supporta financially
    efficientlogging investment(min
    30,000 m3/a):

    Isthe estimatedsustainableyield    No
    sufficientto support a stand-alone
    log exportoperation(min 70,000


Review of `In Process"Forestry Projects
Individual Project Report 27 Tuwapu                                             Page 3

 3. ESTIMATEOF THE SUSTAINABLE CUT

     That the PNGFA re-assesstheir estimate of the sustainablecut and the sensibility of
    -.I
     progressingwith this project on the basis of an FMA ratherthan the moreappropriate
      rmberAutnoriry.

4. ANY OTHER MATERIAL NON-COMPLIANCEREGARDINGTHE RESOURCE

    That the PNGFA either base their sustainable cut calculations on a 40 year cutting
    cycle (as required under the National Forest Policy) or provide justification for
    adopting a 35 year cutting cycle.


B LEGAL COMPLIANCE
   .
SUMMARY OF LEGAL COMPLIANCE:

    Due process appears to have been generally followed, but there is insufficient
    documentationto verify this at every stage. Doubts exist as to the PFMC certification
    of the Forest Management Agreement. There are defects in the form of the Forest
    ManagementAgreement.

    The assumption that the project will be an extension to the nearby Vanimo Forest
    Productsoperations is unfoundedat this time. No formal applicationhas been lodged
    by the company, but there are some indications that landownersmight be being used
    to securethe company's position in ways that are not consistentwith the Act.

    The DevelopmentOptions Study seems to be satisfactory.

A full checklist and accompanying notes are presented in Appendix 1.

RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING LEGAL ASPECTS:

If a decision is made to further progress this project under a Forest Management
Agreement, then:

1. That the PFMC certificationof the Forest Management Agreement should be verified
    and rectified if necessary.

2. That the defects in the form of the Forest Management Agreement must be
    addressed.

3. Inat consultations with resource owners and the Provincial Government must take
    -.
    place before the ProjectGuidelinesare finalised.

4. That the project must not be considered as an extension to the Vanimo TRP project
    until the Board has formally and properly made such a decision in accordance with
    the recent (December 2000) amendmentsto the Act.




Review of YnProcess"Forestry Projects
Individual Project Report 27 Tuwapu                                             Page 5

   C. LANDOWNER ISSUES


         . .        ...
        ~        ..-


 I                                    I                                              I
I  1. Landowner Awareness             i ~

                                                                                 -7
             ~~            ~




   The Review Team was lookingfor        0 Landowners requestedPNGFA (2ndAugust
   evidence of an awareness           1    1999)to includethe area intothe existing

   explainingthe purpose, benefits         the area is too smallto be considereda
   and otherwiseto be expected             stand alone project
  from the project. This could           0 Sufficient landownerawarenesswas carried
   include general conditionsthat          out by the PNGFAon the 8'"Nov.2000.
  could be used for all Prospective      0 There appearedto be strongsupport to
   projects.                               include Tuwapu in the Vanimo TRP.



II2. LANDOWNERM08111SATION



I mobilisedby means of the Land            as the Landownercznpany (LANCO).
  Groups lncorporatjonAct. The
  Review Team was lookingto find           There is only one ILG for this area.
  evidence of full participationby
  landownersinthe ILG process
  particularlywith regardto:

   0     Recognitionthat the
         resources are owned by
         individual land groups and
         not collectivesof land
         groups

   0     The formation of
         representativebodiesfor
         projectconsultationsand
         negotiations.


  3. ForestManagementAgreement


   Must Specify:                         B FMA signed by the chairmanofTuneri land
                                           group (the ILG).
  0      Monetarybenefitsfor the

  Review of 7nProcess"ForestryProjects
  IndividualProject Report 27 Tuwapu                                            Page6

  e     Area in agreementby map             FMA has a signed undated Certificate      -
 e      -PFMC certificateof  as to         the PFMC Schedule 6.
                                                      -
              authenticity    the                                                            ~




              tenure of the             0   Monerarybenefits are outlined in Scht
             customary land                7.




                                       I                                          .. *.-



                                                                                       -I     i

1. DevelopmentOptions Study            1
                                       I




The Review Team was looking to             Tine L4NCO presentedlandowneraspr;
see if the DevelopmentOptions               to PNGFAwhich has failed to take ther
Study:                                 1    board in the DOS document. (ref. Lanc
        q-+.?4                              submission 1St Auaus:).
          --.*  - -
                  5 - .I.-?
                        .  c , .-.-    I
                                 .
        concsrns a m as+xaucns             Landowner Tequests are unrealistic Give      ..
        and if                              most of the area is already logged.               II
 e      All options presentedfor       1
        the resource development          DOS recommendsthat Tuwapu be
        had a realistic chance of           consideredan Extensionto Vanimo TE
        being pursued.                                                                        i

2. Project Guidelines                                                                         I
                                                                                              I
                                                                                       .-
 Draftguidelinesmust be                 Draft Project Guidelineswere presentedto              I
 discussed and developed in             PNGFA Boardby the PFMCfor considerat:
 consultationwith the resource          and approval on the 13'"of January 2000.
 owners                                 The landownerswere consultedprior to tht
                                    -   Board being handedthe submission.
                                                                                       ._I
3.  ProjectAgreement                I                                                    -
Authority is requiredto involve         Not yet drafted.
 landowners in selection of the
"developer"and in negotiationof                                                          .-

Review of "InFrocess"Foresvy c;rOjecrs
IndividualProiect ReDort 27 Tuwaou                                              F

  accordingto the terms of the
  FMA.
1 4. Environmental Plan                                                          I
  EP is produced by the preferred      Not yet applicable.
  developer accordingto the
  prescriptionof the Environmental
  PlanningAct. Evidence of
  consultationwith landownersis
  important.


 Some additional notes are presentedin Appendix 2.

 CONCLUSIONS REGARDINGLANDOWNERASPECTS:

     Sufficient landowner awareness has been conducted by the PNGFA and the
     Landowner Company.

     There is only one ILG for the Tuwapu Forest ManagementAgreement and the same
     signatures appear in the agreement document.

     The 00s fails to take info account the aspirations and the list of proposed
     developments presented by the landownersto the PNGFA.

 RECOMMENDATIONSREGARDING LANDOWNER ASPECTS:

 1. That the PNGFA need to conduct a proper awareness campaign to explain the
     situationto the landowners.




 Review of "InProcess"Forestry Projects
 Individual Project Report 27 Tuwapu                                      Page 8

 APPENDIX 1 :CHECKLISTOF COMPLIANCEWITH LEGAL
 REQUIREMENTS

 PROJECT TUWAPU
            -

 Step                              Compliance   Non-      Not
                                              Compliance  clear

 1. LandownerConsultation

Awareness campaign                                         ?

Vesting of title                   NIA

 ILGincorporation                                          ?

PFMCcertificate                   6/5/99
                                  see notes
Attendance of landowners at PFMC                           ?
meeting

2. Forestn, ManacrementAqreement

Formand content                   see notes

'=,:ECL:,Cfi                      Not caieci

Ministerialapproval               5/6/99

3. DeveloDmentOptions Study

Boardto arrange                   15/7/99
                                  =om81
or exemption                      VIA

Directionsfrom PFMC               22/7/99
                                  =om82
                                  25/7/99
                                  =om83
DOSgiven to Ministeranb PFh C     17111/99
                                  =om84
4. ProiectGuidelines

PFMCconsults with Uownersand Prov                          ?
Govt

PFMCto preparedraft               :onfirmed

Attendanceof landownersat PFMC                            ?
meeting

Reviewof 7nProcess"ForestryPmjects
IndividualProjectReport27 Tuwapu                             Page 1

PFMC to submit draft to the Board              1311IO0


CHECKL!ST NOTES:

1.      The usual concerns about the PFMC certification of FMAs apply here. There is
        no evidence that landowner representatives were in attendance at the PFMC
        meeting. And there is no confirmation that the PFMC sought to independently
        verify the incorporation of the sole ILG or the willingness of that ILG to sign the
        FMA.

        Indeed there is a suggestion on the files that the process of certification was
        done in a very cavaiierfashion. On 3 May 1999the ManagerAcquisitions wrote a
        Minute to the Provincial Forest Officer directing that he arrange the Chairman of
        the PFMC to sign the certificate in Schedule 6 to the FMA. Three days later this
       was signed. The correct request was.for the PFMC to meet and to perform its
       statutory function. One is left to hope that this had beendone properly, but there
        is nothing on the PNGFAfiles to indicate this.

2.     There are defects in the form of the FMA. It is not dated and the importantdetails
        have not Seen insened into Schedule 1.

3.     The DOS was done satisfactorily and gives some details of the development
       aspirations of the landowners.A copy of the draft ProjectGuidelines was sighted.

4.      It S S ~ E S;3 22 SSS-i*:ez 2; Z,i t:st tze crc!EC: W C ! ~ oe giver; 2s ZI? eXIEcSi2n IC
       the adjacent area in which Vanimo Forests Products Ltd operates. In mid-1999
       Vanimo Forest Products seems to have attempted to obtain some right to
       operate by making application for a Licence on Form 177. This was an entirely
       inappropriate appiication to make, and was properly returned by the Managing
       Director on 14 July 1999. Soon after that there are a number of letters from a
       landowner company, which had not been involvedin the project before that time,
       endorsing VFP and asking for the processes to be short-circuited. IfVFP had any
       part in this then its activities must again be seen as inappropriate. Interestingly,
       VFP appears to have never formally applied for the Board to approve the project
       as an extension. It may be that they favoured encouraging landownersto speak
       for them. Until an application is made and approved by the Board, there are no
       grounds upon which a presumption can be made that the project will be an
       extension.

5.     There are reasons to think that the advice offered by the Acting Divisional
       Manager      -Forest Planning on 22 January 2000 is sound. His suggestionwas for
       the `FMA (to) remain intact and the developer to extend its operations into the
       FMA area but through the normal allocation process". Howeverit is up to VFP to
       pursue the normal process and not become involved in questionableattempts to
       by-pass it.

6.     The NGO Eco-Forestry Forum has referred to logging activitytaking place in the
       Tuwapu FMA area. File records confirm that this activity has taken place. This
       appears to be based upon a decision by the Managing Director to ignore the

Review of Yn Process"Forestry Projects
Individual Project Report 27 Tuwapu                                                      Page 2

        FMA and to include Tuwapu as part of Block 6 of the adjacent Vanimo TRP.
        Vanimo ForestProductsLtd's loggingplanwas approvedon 7* May 2001.

        On 18 January 2001 the Manging Director was advised by the PNGFA General
        Counsel that Tuwapu did not fall into the Vanimo TRP. He was specifically
        advised that 'the FMA remains in place and is not part of the TRP area". This
        observation was supported by a note written on the advice of another NFS
        officer. It is clear from the boundary description in the Vanimo TRP document
        and the Timber Permit that the Tuwapu FMA area was never acquired as part of
        the Vanimo TRP.

        The decision to allow logging seems to be a serious breach of the Act and the
        moratorium.




Review of uinProcess"Fomstry Projects
individualProject Report 27 Tuwapu                                            Page3

 APPENDIX 2: NOTESON LANDOWNER ASPECTS

 0  Vanimo TRP was acquired in 1967for 40 years and therefore should expire in2007,

 0  It is claimed by PNGFA and the landowners (correspondenceto MD on the status of
    Tuwapu, 13'" November2000) that Tuwapu was always part of the Vanimo TRP and
    as such the FMA is redundant. Advice from the PNGFA GeneralCounsel is that the
    Vanimo Block 6 TimberArea boundarydoes not includethe TuwapuTimberArea.

 0  A landowner dispute betweenthe Tuneri and Sossi land groups was resolvedon the
    27" of March2000.

0   The loggable area may be far smaller than the original estimate and landowners
    expectations on financial benefitsare based on the wrongvolume estimates.




Review of "InPmcess"ForestryProjects
Individual Project Report 27 Tuwapu                                          Page 1

        LOAN AGREEMENT:
FORESTRY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT


                                       CO3TORMED COPY



                                LOANNUMBER7093-PNG




        LoanAgreement

       (Forestry and Conservation Project)


                    between


THEINDEPENDENTSTATEOFPAPUANEWGUINEA


                      and


 INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTION
            AND DEVELOPMENT




           DatedDecember 20,2001


                                                    LOAN "VlBER 7093 PNG   -

                              LOANAGREEMENT


        AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 2001, betweenTHE INDEPENDENT
STATEOF PAPUA NEWGUINEA (the Borrower) andINTERNATIONALBAM(
FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT(the Bank).

        WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, havingsatisfied itself as to the feasibilityand
priori9 of the project described m Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has
requestedthe Bankto assist inthe financing Parts A, C andDofthe Project;

         (B) the Borrowerandthe PNGMamaGramConservationTrust Fundhave
requested assistance h m the resources of the Global Environment Facility (GEF)
Trust Fundinthe financing ofpart of Part B of the Project, the Bankhas determined
that suchassistancewouldbeinaccordancewiththe provisionsofResolutionNo. 94-
2 of the ExecutiveDirectors of the Bank, datedMay 24, 1994, establishingthe GEF
Trust Fund, and by an agreement of even date herewith among the Borrower, the
Bank acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF, and the PNG Mama Gram
ConservationTrust Fund(the PNGMGCTF-GEFTrust FundGrantAgreement), GEF
is agreeingto provide such assistance inan aggregateprincipalamount equivalent to
eleven million seven hundred fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
11,750,000) (the GEFGrant); and

        (C) the Borrower has also requested assistance h m the resources of the
GlobalEnvironmentFacility(GEF) Trust Fundinthe financingofpartofPartsA and
D of the Project, the Bank has determined that such assistance would be in
accordancewith the provisions of ResolutionNo. 94-2 of the ExecutiveDirectors of
the Bank,datedMay24,1994, establishingthe GEFTrust Fund, andbyanagreement
of evendateherewithbetweenthe BOITOW~~andtheBank,actingas anImplementing
Agency of the GEF, (the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement), GEF is agreeing to
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to one million
five hundred sixty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,560,000) (the GEF
Grant); and

        WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, interalia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement of even date herewith
betweenthe Borrower andthe Bank, actingas an ImplementingAgency ofthe GEF,
and in the PNGMGCTF-GEFTrust Fund Grant Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank, acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF, and the PNG
MamaGramConservationTrustFund;

          NOWTHEREFOREthepartiesheretoherebyagree as follows:

                                            - 2-

                                        ARTICLEI

                           General Conditions; Definitions

          Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
 Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" o f the Bank dated September 1, 1999, (the
 GeneralConditions) constitute an integralpart o f this Agreement.

         Section 1.02. Unlessthe context otherwise requires, the several termsdefined

 meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms b v e the following
 inthe General Conditions andintfie Preamble to this Agreement have the respective

meanings:

         (a) "Beneficiary"    means an individual, community or privately owned
enterprise established and operating inThe Independent State o f PapuaNew Guinea
that meets the eligibility criteria set forth inthe PNGMGCTFOperations Manual, to
which the PNGMGCTF-Recipient proposes to make, or has made a Grant or Sub-
grant, as the casemaybe, andthe term"Beneficiaries" means, collectively, morethan
one Beneficiary.


         (b) "Conservation Management Areas" and the acronym "CMA" meanthe
use o f forest landinsmall-scale sustainabledevelopment activities gearedtowards the
establishment o f forest conservation areas.


         (c) "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect o f each Interest Period, the
aggregate principal amount o f the Loan withdram from the Loan Account in said
InterestPeriod.

         (d) "Executing Agency Trust Account" means the account mKinaopenand
maintained in a commercial bank pursuant to the provisions o f Section 3.03 o f this
Agreement


         (e) "FCP Supply and Tender Board" means the special procurementboard
to be established and maintained pursuant to the provisions o f paragraph l(b) of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, andany successorsthereto.

         (0 "Fiscal Year" andtheacronym"FY"meanthetwelve (12)-month period
corresponding to any o f the Borrower's financial years, which period commences on
January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar year, and the term "Fiscal
Years" means, collectively, eacho fsaidFiscalYear.

forestry (g)  "Forestry Act" means the Borrower's comprehensive legislation on
         activities enactedin 1991, as amendedto the date o fthis Agreement

         (h) "GEF Trust FundGrant Agreement" means the agreementof evendate
 herewith betweenthe BOHOWCT     and the Bank for canying out part of Parts A andD
 ofthe Project, as such agreement may be mended fiom time to h e .


         (i)"Grant" meansagrantinKinamadeorproposedtobemadebythe
 PNGMGCTF to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project out of the investment income
 obtained from the proceeds of the PNGMGCTF-GEF Grant allocated from time to
 time to Category (5) of Schedule 1 to the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant
 Agreement, andthe tenn"Grants" means, collectively, allofsuchGrants.

         Ci)  "l(ina" means the cvrency of The hdependent State of papua New
 Guinea.

         (k) "Landowner DecisionandOrganizationUnit"meanstheunitestablished
within the Borrower's Department of Lands and Physical Planning purmant to the
provisions ofparagraph4 of Schedule5 to this Agreement.

         (1)  "Maturity Fixing Date" means, for each DisbursedAmount, the date on
which the amortization schedule for said DisbursedAmount is established, suchdate
being the first day of the InterestPeriod next following the InterestPeriod inwhich
saidDisbursedAmount is withdrawn.

        (m) "OEC" means the Borrower's Office ofEnvironmentandConsemation,
andany successorsthereto.


        (n) "PNGFA" means the Borrower's PNG Forest Authority, and any
successorsthereto.


        (0)  "PNG Mama Graun Conservation Trust Fund" and the acronym
"PNGMGCTF" mean a non-profit, non-stock organization organized and operating
under the laws and regulations of the Borrower, in particular the Companies Act
1997, and its Constitution datedMarch 18,2000, its Deeddated May 12,2000, and
the Certificate of Incorporation issued by the Registrar of Companies on May 10,
2000, to provide an ongoing, reliable source of in-comtg fimding to finance
ecologically based forestry development enterprises, and forestry       biodiversity
conservation and ecologically sustainable development Sub-pmjects, through,inter
alia, Sub-grants, andany successorthereto.


forth the(p) "PNGMGCTF OperationsManual" means the operations manualsetting
         policies andprocedures for fundingSub-projectsunderPartBofthe Project,
adopted by the PNG Mama Graun Conservation Trust Fund on May 12, 2000, as
amendedonNovember 13,2000, as the same may be further amended h mtime to
time.


        (q) "PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust FundGrantAgreement" meansthe agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and the PNG Mama Gram Conservation

                                          - 4 -



 Trust Fundfor carrying out part o f Part B of the Project, as such agreement may be
-amendedf?om time to time, and the term "PNGMGCTF-GEF Grant" means the grant
 providing therefor.

          (r) "Project iManagement Unit" and the acronym "PhX;" mean h e unit
 establishedon October 26,2000, inthe Borrower's Department o f NationaI Planning
 andMonitoring.


          (s) "Project Oversight Committee" means the committee established and
 maintainedby the Borrowerpursuant to the provisions o fparagraph l(a) of Schedule
 5 to this Agreement.


          (t) "PNGMGCTF-Recipient" means the PNG Mama Gram Conservation
Trust Fund.

         (u) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (71) of
this Agreement.


         (v) "Sub-_mt" means 3 grant inKina made or proposed to `w made by the
PNGMGCTF to a 3eneficiaxy for a Sub-projecr out of              the proceeds of the
PNGMGCTF-GEF Grant made available to the PNGMGCTF pursuant to the
provisions of the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, allocated h m
time to time to Category (4) o f Schedule 1 to said Grant Agreement, and the tem
"Sub-grants" means, collectively, all of such Sub-grants.

         (w) "Sub-grant Agreement" means the agreementto be enteredinto between
the PNGMGCTF-Recipient and a Beneficiary for Ghancing a Sub-project out of the
proceeds of a Grant or Sub-grant pursuant to provisions of the PNGMGCTF
Operations Manual, as the same may be amendedh m time to time, and such term
includes all schedules supplemental to the S u b - p t Ageenex, and the tem "Sub-
grantAgreements" means, collectively, all o fsuch Sub-grantAgreements.


Project to be"Sub-project"bymeans,
         (x)                       aspecific development project uuderPartBofthe
              carried out   a Beneficiary utilizingthe proceeds of a Grant or Sub-
grant, andthe term"Sub-projects" means, collectively, allo fsuch Sub-projects.

         Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to the PNG Mama Graun
Conservation TrustFund.

                                           - 5 -



                                     ARTICLEI1

                                       TheLoan

       Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
 conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to seventeen
 million three hundredsixty thousand Dollars (%17,360,000), as such amount may be
 converted from time to time through a Currency Conversioninaccordance with the
 provisions of Section2.09 ofthis Agreement.

       Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn h m the Loan
 Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
 expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for Parts A, C and D of the
Projectand to be financed out of the proceedsof the Loanand inrespect of the hnt-
endfee referredto inSection2.04ofthis Agreement.

         (b) The Borrower may, for the purposesof Parts A, C andDof the Project
open and maintain in Kina a special deposit account ina commercia1bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriateprotection against set-
off, seizure andattachment. Deposits into, andpayments out of, the SpecialAccount
shall bemade inaccordance with the provisionsof Schedule 6 to thss Agreement.

         Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,2008, or such later date as
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly no@ the Borrower of such later
date.

         Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a hnt-end fee in an
amount equal to one percent (1%) o f the amount of the Loan. The Borrower agrees
that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw h mthe LoanAccount andpayto itself the amount of such fee.

         Section 2.05. The Borrower shallpay to the Bank a commitment charge on
the principal amount of the Loannot withdrawn h m time to time, at a rate equal to:
(i)eightyfiveone-hundredthsofonepercent(0.85%) perannumh mthedateon
which suchchargecommences to acme inaccordancewiththe provisions of Section
3.02 of the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such
date; and (ii)seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per m u m
thereafter.

         Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principalamount of the
Loan withdrawn andoutstandingh mtime to time, inrespect of each InterestPeriod
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the ConversionPeriod, pay
interest on such amount inaccordance with the relevant provisions o f Article IV of
the GeneralConditions.

                                          - 6 -



   .     Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in
 arrears on March 15 and September 15 ineach year.

       Section 2.08. The Bomwer shall repay the principal amount o f the Loan in
 accordancewith the amortization scheduleset forth inSchedule3 to this Agreement.

         Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following
Conversions o fthe terms o fthe Loaninorder to facilitate prudentdebt management:

         (i)amount oftheLoanCurrencyofall
                change
                        of the Loan, withdraw or unwithdrawn, to an Approve4
                                                       OF any portion of the principal

              Currency;

         (ii)principaloamountinterestratebasisapplicabletoalloranyportionofthe
              a change f the
                                o f the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
              vice versa; and

         (iii)thesettingoflimitsontheVariableRateapplicabletoalloranyportion
              of the principal amount o f the Loanwithdrawn and outstanding by the
              establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said
              Variable Rate.

         (b) Any conversion requested pursuantto paragraph(a) o f this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section
2.01(7) o f the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions o fArticle N o fthe General Conditions ando f the Conversion Guidelines.




                               Executionof theProject

         Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project, and, to this end:


        (i>  shall carry out Part A o fthe Project through the Department ofNational
             Planning andMonitoring, Part C of the Project throughthe PNGForest
             Authority, andPartDof Project through the Office ofEnvironment and
             Consenation, with due diligence and efficiency and m conformitywith
             appropriate forestry, environment, managerial, financing, adminisnative
             practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
             services andother resourcesrequiredfor suchpartso fthe Project; and

        (ii)without anylimitationorrestrictionuponthat
             ..-_I)- k e L;x
             L-, Xgte:~xx, :Z:LJC                         any of its other obligations
                                                              the PNG Mama Gmm
             Conservation Trust Fund shdi perfom in accordance with the
             provisions of the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant

                                           - 7 -



               Agreement all the obligations o f the PNG Mama Gram Conservation
               Trust Fund therein set forth, including the making of Sub-grants
               pursuant to the provisions of the PNGMGCT'F Operations Manualfor
               purposes of carrying out of Part B o f the Project, shall take or cause to
               be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
               and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the PNGMama
               Gnun Conservation Trust Fundto performsuch obligations, and shall
               not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
               interferewith suchperformance.


Section andexcept as the Borrower andthe Bankshall otherwise agree, the Borrower
         (b)      Without hutation upon the provisions o f paragrafh (a) of #is

shall cany out       Parts A, C and D o f the Project in accordance with the
ImplementationProgramset forth inSchedule5 to this Agreement

         Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts A, C and D of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds o f the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

         Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) o f
Section 3.01 ofthis Agreement, the Borrower shall:

         (a) open and maintain an account in Kina in a commercial bank, under
tenns and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes o f channeling ina timely
manner the Borrower's counterpart financing for the costs o f goods and d c e s
required to carrying out Parts A, C and D of the Project not financed out of the
proceedsofthe Loan; and

         (b) deposit into its Executing Agency Trust Account mKina, not later than
the last day o f each calendar quarter, amounts sufficient to cover counterpart funding
for estimated disbursements underthe Project for the succeedingthree-month period

         Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 o f the General Conditions and
without limitationthereto, the Borrower shall:

         (a) prepare, on the basis o f guidelines acceptableto the Bank,andfUmishto
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower andthe Bank a plan for the future
operation o f the Project; and


      (b)     afford the Banka reasonableopportunity to exchange! views with the
Borrower on saidplan.

                                          - 8 -




                                    ARTICLEIV

                                Financial Covenants

       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records'and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect o f the Project o f the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
anypartthereof.

        (b) TheBorrowershall:

               (i)      have the records and accounts referred to inparagraph (a) o f
                        this Section including those for the Special Account as
                        applicable for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                        appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                        independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;


               (ii)     fhnish to the Bank as soon as available, but m any case not
                        later than six months after the end of each mch year, the
                        report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                        such detail as the Bank shall have reasonablyrequested;and


               (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other informationconcerning said
                        records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
                        fromtimeto time reasonablyrequest.

Account(c)
        wereFor all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals h m the Loan
              madeonthebasisofstatementsofexpenditure, the Borrowershall:

                       maintain or cause to be maintained, m accordance with
                       paragraph (a) o f this Section, records andaccounts reflecting
                       such expenditures;

                       retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the
                       audit report for the fiscal year m which the last withdrawal
                       from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts,
                       orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                       evidencing such expenditures;

                       enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
                       and

                       ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                       annual audit referred to inparagraph(b) o f this Section and

                                          - 9 -


                         that the report o f such audit contains a separate opinion by
                         said auditors as to whether the statements o f expenditure
                         submitted during such fiscal year, together with the
                         procedures    and internal controls involved in their
                         preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                         withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. (a) Without limitationuponthe provisions o f Section 4.01 of this
Agreement, the Bomwer shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the
Bankfor the strengtheningo fits financial managementsystemfor theProjectmorder
to ewble h e Bomwer, pot later than June 30,2002, OF such later date as the Bapk
sbplr iagree, to prepare semi-annual Project management reports, acceptable to the
Bank, eacho fwhich

               (i) (A)     sets forth actual sources and applications o f funds for the
                           Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by
                           said report, and projected sources andapplications o f funds
                           for the Project for the six-month period following the
                           period coveredby saidreport, and

                    (B)   shows separately expenditures financed out o f the proceeds
                           of the Loan duringthe period covered by said report and
                          expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
                          o f the Loan during the six-month period following the
                          periodcoveredby saidreport;

              (ii)(A)     describesphysicalprogressinProjectimplementation, both
                          cumulatively and for the periodcoveredbysaid report; and


                   (B)    explains variances between the actuai and previously
                          forecast implementationtargets; and


              (iii)       sets forth the status o f procurement under the Project and
                          expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds
                          o f the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said
                          report.

        (b)      Uponthe completion o f the actionplanreferredto mparagraph(a) of
this Section. the Borrower shdIprepare andfumish to the Banknot later than45 days
d e r the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period,
inaformandsubstancesatisfactory to the Bank.

                                          -10-



                                      ARTICLEV

                                 Remediesofthe Bank

          Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the
followingadditional events are specified


               (a)   The PNGMama GraunConservationTrust Fundshall have failed
to perform any of its obligations under the PKGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant
A p e " t .

               (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the PNG Mama Graun Conservation Trust Fund will be able to
perform its obligations underthe PNGMGCTF-GEFTrust FundGrantAgreement

               (c)   The Borrower's Forestry Act shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealedor waived so as to affect materially and adverselythe
ability of: (i) the Borrower to perform its obligations under this Agreement or under
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, and (ii)the PNG Mama Graun Conservation
Trust Fundto perform any of its obligationsunderthe PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund
GrantAgreement


               (d)   The PNGMGCTF Operations Manual shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealedor waived without the prior concurrence o f the Bank,
andsuch amendment, suspensions, abrogation, repealor waiver affectsmateriallyand
adversely the ability of: (i)the Borrower to perform its obligations under this
Agreement, and (ii) PNG Mama Graun ConservationTrust Fundto performany
                     the
of its obligations underthe PNGMGCTF-GEFTrust FundGrantAgreement.


               (e)  The Borrower or any other authority havingjurisdictionshallhave
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the PNG Mama Gtaun
ConservationTrust Fundor for the suspensionof its operations.

              (0 (i)Borrower subparagraph(ii)
                        Subject toto                 of this paragraphthe right of the
                                      withdraw the proceeds o f any grant made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been
                        suspended, canceled or terminated m whole or in part,
                        pursuantto the terms of the agreementprovidingtherefor.

                    (ii)Subparagraph (i)of this paragraphshallnot apply ifthe
                        Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A)
                        such suspension, cancellationor termination is not causedby
                        the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                        under such agreement; and(B) adequate h d s for the Project
                        are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and

                                         - 11-


                         conditions consistent wim me ooiigauoG        01 cnc 5urru~,cr
                         under this Agreement.

        Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01Q of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:                                  I . .

        (a) The event specified in paragraph (a) Section 5.01 o f this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 45 days after notice thereof shall have
beengivenbythe Bankto the Borrower.

        @) Any of the events specified inparagraphs(c), (d) and (e) of Sectioq6.01
ofthis Agreement shali occur.

        (c) The event specified inparagraph(f)(i) of Section 5.01 o f this Agreement
shall occur, subject to the provisions ofparagraph (f)(ii) ofthat Section.

                                     ARTICLEVI

                              EffectiveDate; Termination

        Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness o f the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of
the General Conditions:

        (a) the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust FundGrant Agreement has been executed
and delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the
PNGMamaGraunConservation Trust Fundto make withdrawals thereunder, except
onlythe effectiveness ofthe LoanAgreement, havebeenfulfilled;

        (b) the GEF-Trust FundGrant Agreement has beenexecuted and delivered
and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness o f the LoanAgreement,
havebeen fulfilled;


provisions ofthe
        (c)      Project Oversight Committee has been established pursuant to the
              paragraph l(a) o f Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

        (d) the FCP Supply andTender Board has been establishedpursuant to the
provisions ofparagraph 1(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

                                        - 1 2 -



        (f)   the Executing Agency Trust Account has been opened pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agreement, and with an initial amount of
$250,000.OQ equivalent;


the Bank, to implement the recommendationsof the review of all rimber harvesting
       (g)   the Borrower, through PNGFA, has adopteda time-table, satisfactoryto

operations pending approval as of the date of this Agreement pursuant to the
provisionsofparagraph8 ofSchedule5 to this Agreement;


the Bank, for the employment of consultants to undertake the reviewof dl on-going
       (h)   the Borrower, through PNGFA, has adoptedatime-table, satisfactoryto

timber harvestingoperations pursuant to the provisionsof paragraph9 of Schedule5
to this Agreement;

       (i) theBorrowerhasadoptedarrangementstoreviewnewloggingpermit
applications pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement; and


       (i)   the Landowner Decision and Organization Unit has been established
pursuantto the provisions ofparagraph4 of Schedule5 to this Agreement.

         Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is
herebyspecified for the purposesofSection12.04 ofthe GeneralConditions.

                                  ARTICLEMI

                    Representative ofthe Borrower, Addresses

       Section 7.01. The Minister for Finance and Treasury of the Borrower is
designatedas representativeof the Borrowerfor the purposesof Section 11.03 ofthe
GeneralConditions.

      Section 7.02. The followingaddresses are specifiedfor the purposesof Section
11.01 ofthe GeneralConditions:

      Forthe Borrower:

            Ministryfor FinanceandTreasury
            DepartmentofFinanceandTreasury
            P.O. Box710
            Waigani
            NCD,?:cm Yew GuP-.

            Cableaddress:               .     Facsimile:

            TREASURER                         (675) 3288213
            Boroko

                                     - 1 3 -




     For the Bank:

            InternationalBankfor
             ReconstructionandDevelopment
            1818HStreet,N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            UnitedStatesofAmerica

            Cableaddress:                   Telex:              Facsimile:




        IN WlTNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respectivenames inthe DistrictofColumbia, UnitedStates ofAmerica, as of the day
andyear fist abovewritten.


                  THEINDEPENDENTSTATEOFPAPUANEWGUINEA



                  By    Is/NagoraBogan
                                                     AuthorizedRepresentative



                  l"ATIONAL,         BANKFOR
                   RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT



                  By    /s/ Jal-ud-din Kass~m
                                                     AuthorizedRepresentative


                                     - 14-


                                 SCHEDULE1

                    Withdrawalof the Proceedsof the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceedsofthe Loan, the allocationofthe amounts ofthe Loanto each Categoryand
&e percentageofexpenditures for items so to befinanced ineachCategory:

                                     Amount ofthe
                                    banAllocated                   %of
                                     Wressed in
                                                               to be Financed
                                                                Eqeditures
      Categow                           Dollars)

     works underparts                       160,OOO         50%
     C andDofthe Project

     Goods under PartsA, C                1,450,OOO         100%offoreign
     and Do fthe Project                                    expenditures,
                                                            100%oflocal
                                                            expenditures
                                                            (ex-factory cost)
                                                            and 85% oflocal
                                                            expenditures for
                                                            otheritems
                                                            procuredlocally

     ServicesunderPartsA,
     C andDoftheProject:

     (a) Consultants                     7,370,000          100%

     @) Training,workshops,               1,580,OOO         100%
         conferencesandseminars

     Incrementaloperatingcosts           5,290,000          100%inFY2002;
                                                            90%inFY2003;
                                                            75%inFY2004;
                                                            50%inFY2005;
                                                            20% inFY2006;
                                                            and 10%in
                                                            Fy2007and
                                                            thereafter

                                           -15-



                                           Amount of the
                                           LoanAllocated                 %o f
                                            (Expressed in            Expenditures
        Category                              Dollars)              to be Financed


 (5)    Fee                                       173,600         Amount due under
                                                                  Section 2.04 o f
                                                                  thisAgreement

 (6)    Unallocated                             1,336,400

             TOTAL                            17,360,000



2.     For the purposeso fthis Schedule:


         (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency o f
any country other than that o f the Borrower for goods or services supplied b mthe
territory o fany country other than that o f the Borrower;

         (b) the term "local expenditures" meansexpendituresmthe currency o fthe
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the temtory o f the Borrower,
provided, however, that ifthe currency o fthe Borrower is also that o f another country
from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemedto be "foreign expenditures"; and


directly (c)  the term "incremental operating costs" means reasonable expenditures
         related to the Project, incurredby the Borrower (which expenditures would
not have been incurred absent the Project), including expenditures for the cost of
allowances, local travel and perdiem for the staff o f the Project Management Unit,
office costs, including rental, utilities, maintenanceandrepairs, andofice equipment
for the Project Management Unit, and, mappingand informationand dissemination
costs, but excluding salaries.

3.     Notwithstandingthe provisions of paragraph 1above, no withdrawals shall be
made mrespect of:


       (a)    any Category set forth inthe table inparagraph 1ofthis Scheduleunless
anduntilthe Borrower shall havepaidto the Bankinfull the hntendfee referredto
inSection2.04 ofthis Agreement; and


except(b) withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent o f
              payments made for expenditures prior to the date o f this Agreement,
        that
$250,000,maybemade inrespect ofCategories (3)(a) and(4) set forth mthe table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account o f payments made for expenditures before
that date but after November 29,2000.

                                       - 16-


4.    The Bank may require withdrawals h mthe LoanAccount to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; @) goods under contracts costing less than
$100,000 equivalent; (c) services provided by consulting fkms under contracts
costingless than $100,0o0 equivalent; (d) servicesprovidedby individualconsultants
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (e) training, codmces,
seminars and workshops; and (f) incremental operating costs, all under such terms
andconditions as theBankshallspecify bynoticeto the Borrower.

                                    SCHEDULE2

                              Descriptionof the Project

          The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve sustainable

(a) enhanced processes for landowner participation in forest management and
 forest resourcemanagementinThe Independent State of PapuaNew Guinea, through

conservation, @) provision of financing to implement forest management options
consistent with forest biodiversity conservation, (c) streamlined planning, monitoring
and enforcement capacity of the PNG Forest Authority, and (a) strengthened

EnvironmentandConservation
environmental impact assessment wd monitoring capabilities of the           Office af


         The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve
suchobjectives:

PartA: Landowner ForestDecision-Making

1.     Develop and implement processes to enhance forest landowners participation
in forest managementand conservation, including educational activities to improve
landowner access to information, and improved institutional and legal arrangements
for organizing landowner representation, regarding forest management and
conservation, and provision of technical and financial assistance to implement their
chosenforest developmentoption.

2.     Develop andimplementConservationManagementAreas through the adoption
o f policies and enactment of legislation for comunity-initiated conservation and
sustainableresourcemanagementareason customaryland.

PartB: PNGMamab u nConservationTrust Fund

1.     Implementation by Beneficiaries of specific forest biodiversity consemation
and sustainable projects, including the provision of Grants and Sub-grants and
technical assistance therefor.

2.    Develop and implement the PNG Mama Gram Conservation Trust Fund,
including provision of technical assistance, office facilities, office equipment and
vehicles therefor.

PartC: SustainableForestManagement

1.    Enhance the PNG Forest Authority's capability to manage, plan, implement
and monitor sustainable forest operations, including the provision of PNGFA staff

                                          - 18-


training and workshops, field and ofice equipment, vehicles, computers         and
consultants' services.

2.     Improvement o f naturaI production forest management though expansion of
sustained yield post harvest activities, including the provision o f PNGFA staff
training andworkshops, field andoffice facilities andequipment, vehicles, computers
andconsultants' services.

3.     Development o f post b e s t management activities andfeasibility studies fix
development of plantations on degraded forest Iands, including feasibility studies,
development of a f o ~ s tplantation smtegy and testing of metfiod4logyon a pilot
basis.
-
PartD: Environmental AssessmentandMonitoring

1.     Development, testing andimplementing environmental impact assessmentsand
monitoring methodologies, including development of operational manuals, OEC staff
trainingandworkshops, field andoffice facilities andequipmen4 vehicles, computers
andconsultants' services.

2.     Designing and implementing a community-based environmental monitoring
program, including training to trainers within govemment agencies and Non-
Governmental Organizations established inPNG, and testing the approach inseveral
pilot areas.

                                          * * *

            The Project is expected to be completedbyDecember 31,2007.

                                        -19-



                                   SCHEDULE3

                               Amortization Schedule

1,      The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and
the percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (Installment Share). Ifthe proceeds of the Loanshallhave beenM y
withdrawn as of the fmt PrincipalPayment Date, the principalamount of the Loan
repayable by the Bomwer on each Ptincipal Payment Date shall be determinedby
the Bank by multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loanwithdrawn and
outstauding as of the &st Principal Payment Pate; by (b) tbe InstdInwat Skwe for
eachPrincipalPaymeptPate, sucb repaymentmount to beadjusted, as necessary, to
deduct any amounts referred to inparagraph4 of this ScheduIe, to which a Currency
Conversionapplies.

                                                            Installment Share
       PavmentDate                                          (Exuressed as a %)

        15-Mar-2010                                              4.17%
        15-Sq-2010                                               4.17%
        15-Mar-2011                                              4.17%
        15-Sq-2011                                               4.17%
        15-Mar-2012                                              4.17%
       15-Sq-2012                                                4.17%
        15-Mar-2013                                              4.17%
        15-Sq-2013                                               4.17%
        15-Mar-2014                                              4.17%
       15-Sq-2014                                                4.17%
       15-Mar-2015                                               4.17%
       15-Sq-2015                                                4.17%
       15-Mar-2016                                               4.17%
       15-Sq-2016                                                4.17%
       15-Mar-2017                                               4.17%
       15-Sq-2017                                                4.17%
       15-Mar-2018                                               4.17%
       15-Sq-2018                                                4.17%
       15-Mar-2019                                               4.17%
       15-Sq-2019                                                4.17%
       15-Mar-2020                                               4.17%
       15-Sq-2020                                                4.17%
       15-Mar-2021                                               4.17%
       15-Sq-2021                                                4.09%

2.    IftheproceedsoftheLoanshall nothavebeenfully withdrawnas ofthe first
Principal PaymentDate, the principalamount of the Loanrepayable by the Borrower
oneachPrincipalPaymentDateshallbedeterminedas follows:

       (a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have beenwithdrawn
as of the fust Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount

                                         -20-



 withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
 Schedule.

         (b) Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
 repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal m
 amounts determinedby the Bankby multiplyingthe amount of eachsuch withdrawal
byafraction, the numerator ofwhichshallbethe originalInstallmentSharespecifid
 in the table in paragraph 1of this Schedule for said PrincipalPayment Date (the
O r i M InstallmentShare) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all
remainingOriginalInstallment Shares for principalPaymentDatesfallingonor after

mountsreferredfo jp paragraph4 of this Schedule, to which aCurrency Coqversioq
such date, suck vpaymevt ~ o ~totbesadjusteck 5ts ~ecessary,t~ deduct my

applies.

3.     (a)   Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal mounts
payable on any Principal PaymentDate, be treated as withdrawn and outstandingon
the second Principal Payment Date following the date o f withdrawal and shall be
repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal
PaymentDate following the dateof withdrawal.

ifat any(b) theBankshalladoptaduedatebillingsystemunderwhichinvoicesare
             Notwithstandingthe provisionsof sub-paragraph(a) of this paragraph3,
         time
issued on or after the respective PrincipalPayment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billingsystem.

4.    Notwithstandingthe provisionsofparagraphs 1and 2 of this Schedule, upona
Currency Conversionof all or any portion of the withdrawn principalamount of the
Loanto an Approved Currency, the mount so converted msaidApproved Currency
that shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date OcCuTTing during the
Conversion Period, shall be determinedby the Bank by multiplying such mount in
its currency of denomination immediatelyprior to said Conversionby either: (i)  the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchangeratecomponentofthe ScreenRate.

                                        -21  -


                                   SCHEDULE4

                                    Procurement

 Section I. ProcurementofGoodsandWorks
 -
 PartA:      General

         Goods and works shall be procured m accordance with the provisions of
 Section T of the "Guidelines for Procurementunder IBRD Loans and JPA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996,
 September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the followingprovisions of
 Section Iofthis Schedule.

-
PartB:       IntemationalCometitive Bidding

 1.    Exceptas othenviseprovidedinPartC ofthis Section, goods shall beprocured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section TI of the
Guidelinesandparagraph5 ofAppendix 1thereto.

2.     The following provisionsshall apply to goods to be proclaedunder contracts
awardedinaccordancewith the provisionsofparagraph1ofthisPartB.

        (a) GrouDingofcontracts

        To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid
packagesestimatedto cost $100,000 equivalentor moreeach.

             Preferencefor domestically manufacturedmods

        The provisionsofparagraphs2.54 and2.55 of the GuidelinesandAppendix 2
theretoshall applyto goodsmanufacturedinthe temtory oftheBorrower.

Partc:       Other ProcurementProcedures

1.    NationalCometitive Bidding

        (a) Works shall be procuredunder contractsawardedinaccordancewith the
provisions ofparagraphs3.3 and3.4 ofthe Guidelines.

        (b) Except as providedfor inparagraph2 beiow, goods estimatedto costless
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded m accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and3.4 of the Guidelines.

                                               -22 -
B     2.    International or National ShoDDing

             Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
      aggregate amount not to exceed $iOO,OOO        eqiivalen:,  m y 5~ prccured under
     contracts awarded on the basis o f shopping procedures in accOrdance with the
     provisions ofparagraphs 3.5 and3.6 o fthe Guidelines.

     3.     Procurement from UNAgencies



     United Nations Office o f Procurement Services (LJNOPS)
             Vehicles, computers and swveying equipment mayin p"d  beaccordancebxn the
                                                                                  with the
     provisions o fparagraph 3.9 o fthe Guidelines.

     -
     PartD:       Review bv the Banko f Procurement Decisions

     1.    Procurement Planning

             Prior to the issuance o f any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
     procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished    to the Bank for its review and
     approval, in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 1 o f Appendix 1 to the
     Guidelines. Procurement o f all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance
     with such procurement planas shall have beenapproved by the Bank, andwith the
     provisions o f saidparagraph 1.

     2.    Prior Review

           Withrespect to each contract for: (a) works estimated to costS50,OOO or more;
     and (b) goods estimated to cost $100,000 or more, the pmedures set forth in
     paragraphs2 and3 o f Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply;provided,however,
     that with respect to each contract for goods to be procured m accordance with the
     procedures referredto inPart C. 2. above, the followingproceduresshallapply:


             (i)     prior to the selection of any supplier under shoppingprocedures, the
                     Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and
                     evaluation ofquotations received;


             (ii)    prior to the execution o f any contract procured under shopping
                     procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the
                     specifications andthe draft contract; and


            (iii)    the procedures set forth inparagraphs 2(f),2(g) and3 o fAppendix 1
                     to the Guidelines shall apply.

                                       -23   -


3.     Post Review

       With respect to each contract not govemed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
proceduresset forthinparagraph4 o fAppendix 1to the Guidelinesshall apply.

Section11. Emplovmentof Consultants

PartA:       General

        Consulta~ts'services shallbe procured m accordance with the provisions of
the Introduction and Section Tv of the "Guidelines: Selection and Jhployment of
Consultantsby World Bank Borrowers" publishedby the Bank mJanuary 1997and
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the
following provisions of SectionIIofthis Schedule.

PartB:       Oualitv- andCost-basedSelection

      Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions o f
SectionIIofthe ConsultantGuidelines, paragraph3 ofAppendix 1thereto, Appendix
2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to
quality-andcost-basedselectionofconsultants.

PartC:       Other Procedures for the SelectionofConsultants

1.    SelectionBasedonConsultants' Ouah`fiG3tiOnS

      Services estimatedto cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be
procuredundercontractsawarded inaccordance withtheprovisionsofparagraphs3.1
and 3.7 o fthe ConsultantGuidelines.

2.    IndividualConsultants

      Servicesthat meetthe requirementsset forth inparagraph5.1 ofthe Consultant
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines.

                                        -24-



PartD:       Review bvthe Banko fthe Selection o fConsultants

1.     Selection Planning

         Prior to the issuance to consultants o f any requests for proposals, the
proposedplanfor the selection of consultants under the Project shallbe furnished to
the Bank for its review andapproval, inaccordancewith the provisions o fparagraph
1o f Appendix 1 to the ConsultantGuidelines. Selection o f all consultants' services
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been
approved bythe Bank,andwiththeprovisionso fsaidparagraph1.

2.     PriorReview


       (a)   With respect to eachcontract for the employment o fconsulting firms for
estimated to cost the equivalent o f $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1,2 and (other than the third subparagraph o f paragraph 2(a)) and 5 o f
Appendix 1to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.


       (b)   With respect to each contract for the employment o f consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent o f $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second
subparagraph o f paragraph 2(a)) and 5 o f Appendix Ito the Consultant Guidelines
shall apply.


      (c)    With respect to each contract for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications,
experience, terms o f reference and terms o f employment o f the consultants shallbe
hished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The amtract shall be
awarded onlyafter the said approval shall have beengiven.

3.    PostReview

      With respect to each contract not govemed by paragraph 2 o f this Part, the
procedures set forth inparagraph4 o f Appendix 1to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.

                                         -25 -




                              Implementation Program

 1.   .The Borrower shall:

       (a)    establish and maintain its Project Oversight Committee chaired by the
 Chief Secretaryto the Government(Department of the Prime Minster and National
 Executive Council) or M e r duly designated representative, andwithrepresentatives
 o f the Borrower's Department of Lands and Physical Planning, Borrower's
 DepartmentofNational PlanningandMonitoring, Borrower's Officeof$3wiroqen$
 and Conservation, PNG Forest Authority, Non-Governmental Organizatiogs
established and operating in Papua New Guinea, the Landowner Decision and
Organization Unit and the PNG Mama Graun ConservationTrust Fund, responsible
for planning and supervisionof Project implementation, and achievingthe objectives
ofthe Project set forth inSchedule2 to this Agreement;

       (b)   establish and maintain its FCP Supply and Tender Board headed by a
qualified officer from the PNG Forest Authority, with representatives of the
procurement specialist of the Project ManagementUnit, the State Solicitor andthree
representatives appointed by the Minister of Finance and Treasury, including two
govemment employees and one representativefrom the private sector, and provided
with such powers, responsibilitiesand funding as shall be required to undertakethe
procurement of goods, works and services under the Project, regardless of their
source of funding, not to exceed$500,000 equivalentper contract; and

provided(c)with such powers, responsibilities and funding as shall be required to
             maintain the ProjectManagementUnitheadedby a qualifiedofficer and

undertakethe overall implementationof the Project.


2.     The Borrower shalltake all suchactionsas shallbenecessaryto:

budget(a) suchother levelas agreed h mtime to time betweenthe Borrower andthe
             maintainat the 2000 (real) levelthe PNGForestAuthority's operational
        or
Bank For this purposeinNovember of each year, commencingmNovember2002,
the Borrower shall, throughthe PNGForestAuthority, M s hto Bank, for its review
and comments, the proposedbudgetary allocations for the forthcoming FiscalYear,
and

       @)    ensurethe independenceo fthe logexportinginspectionoperation.

3.     The BOHOW~~ by not later than June 30, 2002, issue and thereafter
                      shall,
enforce regulations requiring any personwho is engaging inthe harvestingof timber
under a timber permit, timber authority or timber licenseor any other form of timber
permits, except persons harvesting timber from plantation forests, to post a
performancebondwith the PNGForestAuthority for anamountrepresentingnot less
than 40% o f the estimated average annual operating costs for the operation m
question, at minimum cut production levels, or such other amount as the I3orrower

                                           -26 -



 and the Bank shall otherwise agree, with such bonds subject to forfeiture for non-
 compliance with the provisions ofthe LoggingCode o fPractice.

 4.    The Borrower shall, by not later than August 31,2002, establish andthereafter
 maintain within the Department o f Lands and Physical Planning a Landowner
 Decision andOrganization Unit, satisfactory to the Bank, to assist landowner forest in
 decisionmakingmatters relating to the sustainability o ftheir forest holdings.

 5.    By August 31,2002, the Borrower, through the PNG Forest Authority, shall
adopt and thereafter implement a Forest Land Use Options Strategy, satisfactory to
the Bank.

6.     ByJune 30,2003, the Borrower shall, inconsultation withthe Bank, submitto
Parliament for its consideration a bill enabling landowner forest groups to organize
themselves as legal entities and to designate their forest landholdings as forest
conservation areas, andpromptly upon the enactment o f the respective Act, issue the
requiredregulations for its implementation.

7.     The Borrower shall:

       (a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank,
the carrying out o fthe Project and the achievement o fthe objectives thereoe

       (b)    prepare, under terms o f reference satisfactory to the Bank, and hmishto
the Bank, on or about June 1,2004, a report integrating the resuits o f the monitoring
and evaluation activities performedpursuant to paragraph (a) o fthis Section, on the
progress achieved in the canying out o f the Project during the period preceding the
date o f said report and setting out the measuresrecommended to ensure the efficient
canying out of the Project and the achievement o f the objectives thereof duringthe
periodfollowingsuchdate; and

       (c)    review with the Bank, by August 1,2004, or such later date as the Bank
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) o f this Section, and, thereafter,
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement     o f the objectives      thereof,  based on the        conclusions and
recommendations o fthe said reportandthe Bank's views on the matter.

8.     The Borrower shall: (a) adopt a time-bound action plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, and shall thereafter carry out such action plan in a manner and substance
satisfactory to the Bank to address the recommendations o f the independent review
undertaken o f all logging permits pendingof approval as ofNovember 30,2001; and
@) approve logging permit applications submitted after November 30, 2001, m
accordance with the relevant provisions o f such action plan. For the pu~posesof this
paragraph the term "logging permits'' means Forest Management Agreements, Timber
Permits, Timber Authorities and geographic extensions to Timber Permits.

9.    To determine the status o f compliance with the Forestry Act, including the
Logging Code o f Practice and thereafter take the required remedial actions, the
Borrower shall, through PNGFA, review any on-going timber harvestingoperations

                                        -27-



in the Bonower's temtory which has an expuy date after December 31,2003, or
which is due to expire before that date but seeks an extension in time andwhich is
currentlycalculatedto haveat least 15 percentof the net hawestablevolume of forest
resource remaining. For this purpose, the Borrower undertakes to review at least
fifteen (15) operations by June 30, 2003, and the remainder by June 30,2007. To
assist PNGF.4 in this undertaking, PNGFA shall employ and retain consultants with
qualifications, terms of reference and terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Bank. These consultants shall be retainedm accordance with the
provisions set forth m Section II,Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. For
purposes of this paragraphthe term "on-going timk harvesting operations" means
Timber Permits, Timber Authorities or any other forestry operations active as of the
dateafthisAgreement.

10.    To determine the status of compliance with the Forestry Act, including the
LoggingCode of Practice, the Borrower shall, through PNGFA, review all logging
permit applications submitted &er      the date o f this Agreement under their
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. To assist PNGFA inthis undertaking, PNGFA
shall employ andretain consultantswith qualifications, terms of referenceand tenns
andconditions ofemploymentsatisfactoryto the Bank, untiltheBorrowerestablishes
and maintains a Probity Commissioner to carry out forest resource allocation
processes under the Project, on terms and conditions satisfactoryto the Bank. These
consultants shall be retained inaccordance withthe provisions set forth inSectionII,
Part B o f Schedule 4 to this Agreement. For purposes of this paragraph the term
"logging permits" means Forest Management Agreements, Timber Permits, Timber
Authorities andgeographic extensions to Timber Permits.

                                        -28  -


                                   SCHEDULE6

                                   Special Account

 1.     For thepurposesofthis Schedule:


         (a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (l),   (2), (3) and (4) set
 forth inthe table inparagraph 1of Schedule 1to this Agreement;

         (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in ~espectof the
reasonable cost o f works, goods and services required for Parts A, C and D ofthe
Project andto be financed out ofthe proceeds o fthe Loanallocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and

         (c) h e term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn fiom the Loan Account and deposited in Kina into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) o f this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to
a0 amount equivalent to  $500,000 untilthe aggregate amount ofwithdrawalsfromthe
LoanAccount plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitmenfs entered
into by the Bankpursuant to Section 5.02 o f the General Conditions shallbe equal to
or exceedthe equivalent o f $8,000,000.

2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures inaccordancewith the provisions of this Schedule.

3.     After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the        Special
Account has been duly Qpened, withdmwals of the A u t h o h d Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shallbe made as follows:

        (a) For withdrawals of the AuthoIized Allocation, the Borrower shall
fumish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amouut of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit mto the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall haverequested.


        (b)      (i)    Forreplenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
                        fiunish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
                        Account at such intervals as the Bankshall specify.


                 (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                        shall fumish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                        required pursuant to paragraph4 of this Schedule for the
                        payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is

                                            -29-



                           LC~UC>lEU.V I 1 Lllcu a I >U L L d L A L ~ U L A I
                                                                          ICqYc>L, UIC UdLh DlldlL,
                           on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw fiom the LoanAccount
                           and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the
                           Borrower shallhaverequestedand as shall havebeenshown
                           by said documents and other evidence to have beenpaidout
                           of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such
                           deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank h m the Loan
                           Account under the respective eligible categories, and mthe
                           respective equivalentamounts, as shall havebeenjustifiedby
                           saiddocumentsandother evidence.

 4.     For each payment made by the Bonower out of &e Special ACCOUQ~                         h e
 Borrower shall, at such time as the Bankshall reasonablyrequest, fumishto the Bank
 suchdocumentsandother evidence showingthat suchpaymentwas made exclusively
 for eligible expenditures.

 5.     Notwithstanding the provisions o fparagraph3 of this Schedule, the Bankshall
notberequiredto make further deposits into the SpecialAccount:

          (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly &om the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the GeneralConditions andparagraph
(a) of Section2.02 ofthis Agreement;

          (b) if the Borrower shall have failed to fumish to the Bank, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)of this Agreement, any of the audit
reportsrequired to be furnished to the Bankpursuantto said Sectioninrespectofthe
audit o fthe recordsandaccounts for the SpecialAccount;

          (c) if, at any time, the Bank shallhavenotified the Borrower ofits intention
to suspendinwhole or inpart the rightof the Bomwer to makewithdrawals &omthe
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions;
or


        (d)   once the total unwithdrawnamount of the Loanallocated to the eligible
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the Gened Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal h m the Loan Account of the " i n h g
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall havebeen
satisfied that all suchamounts remainingondeposit inthe SpecialAccount as ofthe
date of suchnotice will beutilized inmakingpaymentsfor eligible expenditures.

6.     (a)    Ifthe Bankshallhavedeterminedat any time that anypaymentout of
the Special Account: (i) made for an expenditure or in an mount not eligiile
                           was

                                        -30-



pursuant to paragraph 2 of h s Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice h mthe Bank. (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, r e h d to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amountof suchpaymentor the portion thereofnot so eligible orjustified.
Unlessthe Bankshallotherwiseagree, no further depositbythe Bankintothe Special
Account shall be madeuntilthe Borrower hasprovided such evidence or made such
depositor refund,asthe casemaybe.


       (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount

eligible expenditures, the Bomwe~shall, pmmpfly u p o ~notice tiom the Bauk,
outstandinginthe SpecialAccount willpotbe     qmt~coverfrlrther      paymentsfor

refundto the Banksuchoutstandingamount


anyportion ofthe fundsondeposit inthe SpecialAccount.
       (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refimdto the Bank all or

                                             I

       (d)   Refundsto the Bank made pursuant to pamgraphs 6 (a), @) and (c) of
this Schedule shall be creditedto the LoanAccount for subsequentwithdrawal or for
cancellationm accordancewith the relevant provisionsof this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.


            ANNEX K


E-MAILFROMGREENPEACEONMORATORIUM
           26 JUNE2000


1  From:     "greenpeace"<gpacific@dg.com.pg>on 06/26/2000 11:23PMZElO
   To:       "Klaus Rohland"<Krohland@worldbank.org>
   cc:       "World Bank POM" <wbpng@datec.com.pg>,"JamesDouglas"<jdouglas@worldbank.org>
   bcc:
   Subject: papua new guinea:log moratorium


   There is a very serious discrepancy betweenwhat was agreedto betweenthe
   Bank and the NGOsover the log moratorium,and what the GofPNG has signed up
   to.

   What we thought the Bank was supportingwas a moratoriumon all new logging
   projects, until there has been a compete review of all existing concessions.
   A report in todays PNG Post Courier (Skatetabled in Parliamentthe 19
   conditions set by the World Bank) seems to bear this out (seeannexureA).

   But we now know that the Submissionby the Ministerfor Foreststo the NEC
   on the moratoriumasked for a moratoriumwhile only the Skate Government new
   fast-track projectswere evaluated (annexureB).

   And the NEC agreed with that (annexureC).

   This is not good enough, becausethe reasonwe needed a moratoriumwhile
   existing projectswere evaluatedwas becauseof the high levels of
   non-complianceby existing operators.

   It simply makes no sense to evaluatethe processof concession acquisition,
   when the issue is industry non-compliance.A review of the allocation
1  processof the fast-tracked projects does not addressthe issueof
   non-compliance.Already Chris Marlowe, GeneralCounselof the PNGFA is
   allegedto have indicatedthat the reviewof the allocation process is a
   technical matter that could be completedin a few days by his staff.

   Meanwhilethe PNG ForestAuthority is ignoringboth the spirit and the terms
   of the moratorium.It is quite clear from the NEC decisionthat it applies
   to all processes(FMA acquisition and timber permit issuing).The PNG FA has
   called for tenders on two concessions since the moratoriumcame into
   effect. Semabo, Western Province.This concession is too smallto be
   sustanable, and is 65% subject to inundation.The previouspermit holder
   turned the permitin becauseit was uneconomical.



   They have also advertisedAmanab blocks 1to 4 in the Sandaun Province. The
   PNGFA is probablytrying to drive the process so far that it will create
   contractualrelations (as it did with Vailala Block 3) and lock the
   Government into a an agreement by virtue of the threat of court awarded
   damages. The applicants for these concessions include Damansera,RH and WTK,
   companieswith an established record of non compliance.

   1. Canwe have some comfortthat the Bankwill ensurethat the moratorium
   stays in place until there has been an indepedemtand transparent evaluation
   of existing concessions?

   2. will the Bank undertaketo fund a full-scale review of existing
   projects?

   Brian Brunton


             ANNEX L


         LOANAGREEMENT:
GOVERNANCEPROMOTIONADJUSTMENTLOAN


                                                     .-
                                                     Ie/\


?




                                               CONFORMED



                                      LOANNUMBER7021PNG




           LoanAgreement

          (GovernancePromotionAdjustment Loan)



                        between



     THEINDEPENDENTSTATE OFPAPUANEWGUINEA



                         and



      INTERNATIONAL BANKFORRECONSTRUCTION
                  AND DEVELOPMENT




                   DatedJune 16,2000


                                                            LOANNUMBER7021PNG




        AGREEMENT, dated June 16,2000, betwezn between THE INDEPENDENT
STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA (the Borrower) and I"ATI0NK                            BANK
FORRECONSTRUCTIONAM> DEVELOPMENT(the Bank).

        WHEREAS(A) the Bankhasreceivedfromthe Borrowera letter, datedMay 15,
2000, descriiing a prop&       of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (bereinafter called the Program),
declaring the BOKOWC~'S    commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank. insupport o fthe Programauringthe execution thereoc and
                           -.

        (B)     onthe basis, inter alia, o fthe foregoing, the Bankhasdecidedinsupport
o f the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by makingthe Loan inthree
tranches as hereinafterprovided;

        NOWTHEREFOREthe parties heretohereby agree as follows:

                                       ARTICLEI

                             GeneralConditions; Defmitions

         Section 1-01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1,1999 (the General
Conditions) constitute an integralpartof this Agreement.

         Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


         (a)    "Bank of Papua New Guinea'' and the acronym "BPNG mean the
central bankof the Borroweq

         (b )   "Deposit Account" means the account referred to inSection 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;

                                             - 2 -


           (c)     "DFT" meansthe Borrower'sDepament ofFinameand'Trtwq;

           (d)     "Fiscal Year'' m d "W mean the Borrower's fiscal year commencing
  January 1andendingDecember31;


           (e)     "Kina" means the currency ofthe Borrower,


..          (0     "NEC" meanstheNationalExecutive Council o fthe Borrower,

           (g)     "First Tranche" means the amount ofthe Loanref&       to inSection2.01
  (a) o fthis Agreement;


  2.0 1 9)o fthis Agreement; and
           01)     "Second Tranche" means the amount of the Loann f m e d to inSection


           (i)     "Floating Tranche" means the amount of the Loanreferred to inSection
  2.01 (c) ofthis Agreement.


                                         ARTICLE 11

                                          TheLoan

           Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
  conditions set forth or referred to in'the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to ninety
  millionDollars ($90,000,000), inthree tranches as follows:


  thousand(a)Dollars ($34,100,000) (the First Tranche);
                   a first tranche in an amount equal to bty-four million one hundred


           @)      a second tranche in an amount equal to thirty-five million
  Dollars ($35,000,000) (the SecondTranche); and

           (c)     a floating     tranche  in an amount        equal  to twenty million
  Dollars ($20,000,000) (the FloatingTranche).


           Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions o f paragraphs @), (c) (d) and (e) o f
  this Section, the Borrowershall be entitledto withdraw the proceedsofthe Loanh mthe
  Loan Account insupport of the Programand inrespectofthe fiontcnd fee referred to in
  Section 2.04 o fthis Agreement.

                                         - 4 -



                (iii)   that the nc:ions Zosc:lbed in Part B 0; Scheduie 3 to rfiis
                        Agreement havebeentaken. If,after saidexchangeof views, the
                        Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give notice to the
                        Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice,
                        the BOKOWC   shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Ba&
                        in respectof (i),(ii) (iii) thenthe Bankmay, bynotice
                                            and      above,
                        to the Bonower, cancel the unwithdram amount of the Loanor
                        any partthereof.

        Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall beDecember 31,2001 or suchlater date as
the Bank shall establish. TheBankshall promptly not@ the Borrower of suchlater date.

        Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fiontcnd fee in an amount
equal to nine hundredthousand Dollars ($900,000). The BOKOWU           agrees that on or
prompuy after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower. withdraw
fromthe LoanAccount andpay to itselfthe amount ofsuchfee.

        Section 2.05. The Bonower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the
principal amount o f the loan not withdrawn from time to time, at the rate equal to:
(i)eighty-five one-hundredthso f one per cent (0.85%) per annumf?om the date on which
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 o f
the General Conditions but not to include the fourth anniversary o f such date; and
(ii)sevetty-five one-hundredthso fone per cent (0.75%) per annumthereafter.

        Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the loan
withdrawn and outstanding firom time to time, in respect of each interest period at the
variable rate; provided, that upon a conversion of all or any portion o f the principal
amount o fthe loan, the Borrower shall, duringthe conversionperiod, pay interest onsuch
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV o f the General
Conditions.

        Section 2.07. Interest andcommitment charges shall be payable semi-annually in
arrearsonNovember 15 andMay 15 ineachyear.

        Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordancewith the provisions o f Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

        Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any o f the following
conversions o fthe terms ofthe loaninorder to facilitate prudentdebtmanagement:




                                                                                            c

                                                    - 6 -


                 (b)     W s h to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
         four months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy o f the
         report o f such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in suchdetailas the Bank shall
         havereasonably requested;and


         Account(c)       furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit
                  andthe audit thereofas theBankshall havereasonablyrequested.

                                               ARTICLEIV

                                     AdditionalEventof Suspension

                 Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 @) of the General Conditions, the
         following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall
         make it improbable that the Program,or a significant partthereof, willbecarriedout.

                                                    ARTICLE v

                                       EffectiveDate; Termination
,--
                 Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) dayr after the date ofthis Agreement is hereby
         specified for the purposesofSection 12.04 ofthe GeneralConditions.                         c
                                               ARTICLEVI

                               Representativeof the Borrower; Addresses

                 Section 6.01. The Minister for Finance and Treasury of the Borrower is
         designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
       ' General Conditions.

                 Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes o f Section
         11.01 of the General Conditions:

                                        - 8 -


       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorizedrepresentatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed intheir respective
namesinthe DistrictofColumbia, United States ofAmerica, as ofthe day andyear first
above wiitten.



                              THEINDEPENDENTSTATEOF
                                PAF'UANEWGUINEA




                              By     /dJohnKaputin
                                                          AuthorizedRepresentative



                              INTERNATIONALBANKFOR
                                RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT




                              By      /s/ Klaus Rohland
                                                         EastRegionalPacificRegion
                                                                      Vice Resident
                                                              Asia and


                                          - 10-


            -
            Group                            Subgroup           DescriptionofItems'

            718                                  718.7          Nuclear reactors,and
                                                                parts thereof; fuel
                                                                elements(cartridges),
                                                                non-irradiated, for
                                                                nucleaireactors

            728                                 728.43          Tobaccoprocessing
                                                                XIlaChiIlely

            897                                  897.3          Jewelry o fgold,
                                                                silver or platinum
                                                                group metals(except
                                                                watchesandwatch
                                                                cases) and
                                                                goldsmiths' or
                                                                silversmiths'
                                                                wares (including
                                                                set gems)

            971                                       -         Gold, non-monetary
                                                                (excluding gold
                                                                ores andconcentrates)


4.      expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for
luxuryconsumption;

5.      expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes o f this
paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture,
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or intemational
agreementsto which the Borroweris aparty);

6.      expenditures (a) in the territories o f any country which is not a member of the
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on
account ofany payment to personsor entities, or any import o fgoods, ifsuchpayment or
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under
Chapter W ofthe Chartero fthe UnitedNations; and

7.      expenditures under a contract in respect o f which the Bank determines that
compt or fraudulentpractices wen engagedinbyrepresentativesof the Borroweror ofa
beneficiary o fthe Loanduringthe procurementor executiono f suchcontract, without the

c                                             - 12-


                                          SCHEDULE2

                                      AmortizationSchedule

             The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loanand the
     percentage of the total principal amount of the Loanpayable0x1each PrincipalPayment
     Date (Installment Share). Ifthe proceedsof the LoanshallhavebeenM ywithdrawnas
     of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loanrepayableby the
     Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
     multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loanwithdrawn andoutstandingas of
     the fmt Principal PaymentDate; by (b) the InstallmentShare for eachPrincipal Payment
     Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
     referred to inparagraph4 ofthis Schedule, to whicha CurrencyConversion applies,
     .                                                             Installmentshare
               Payment'Date                                     (Expressedas a %)

             November 15,2005                                           1.93
             May 15,2006                                                2.00
             November 15,2006                                           2.07
              May 15,2007                                               2.14
             November 15,2007                                           2.2 1
              May 15,2008                                               2.29
             November 15,2008                                           2.37
             May 15,2009                                                2.46
             November 15,2009                                           2.54
              May 15,2010                                               2.63
             November 15,2010                                           2.72
              May 15,2011                                               2.82
              November 15,2011                                          2.92
              May 15,2012                                               3.02
              November 15,2012                                          3.12
              May 15,2013                                               3.23
             November 15,20 13                                          3.35
              May 15,2014                                               3.46
              November 15,2014                                          3.58
              May 15,2015                                               3.71
              November 15,2015                                          3.84
              May 15,2016                                               3.97
              November 15,20 16                                         4.11

                                          -14-


4.      Notwithstandingthe provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upona    Q
CurrencyConversionof all or anyportionof the withdrawnprincipalamountofthe Loan
to an Approved Currency, the amount so convertedinsaid ApprovedCurrencythat shall
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the ConversionPeriod,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denominationimmediatelyprior to said Conversion by eithcc (i)the exchauge rate that
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currencypayable by the Bankunder
the C m c y Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii)   if the Bank so
determines in accordancewith the ConversionGuidelines,the exchangerate component
ofthe ScrecnRate.

5.      IftheprincipalamountoftheLoanwithdrawnandoutstandinghmtimetotime
shall be denominatedin more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to
produce a separateamortizationschedulefor eachsuchmount.

                                                - 16-


       8.       Completion by the Borrowerof a review of its compcti?h?c!ic,j.,>%lio i
                                                                                    i e m
       reference agreedwiththe Bank, discussion withthe Banko fthe results o fthe review, and
       implementation o frecommendationsacceptable to the Bank

                A (2). ImprovingGovernance
                General

       9.       Publication by DFT of budget reconciliations and projections according to a
       schedule agreed with the Bank, and the completion o f additionalmeasures to improve
       fiscal transparencyandaccountability as agreedwiththe Bank

       10.      Securing o f fimdjng secured for the Rural Development Program and its
       managingagent, for 2001; andthe appointment o fthe managingagentbytheBorrower m
       accordancewithprocedures,criteria andterms ofreferenceagreedwiththe Bank

       11.      Strengthening, by each respective agency, of the Borrower's Auditor General's
       Office, Ombudsman Commission and Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee in
       accordance with an implementation planagreedwith the Bank, andthe allocation, inthe
       Borrower's FY2001budget, o ffundsnecessary for carrying out the implementation plan.

       12.      Strengthening o f the Borrower's Central Government Procurement System in
       accordancewith an implementation planagreedwith the Bank
/-
                Improvingthe EfficiencyandEffectiveness ofthe Civil Service
     . 13.      Incorporation in the Borrower`s FY2001 budget o f the recommendations of
       functional reviews, as agreedwith the Bank.

                Improvingthe ResourcesandDelivery o fHealthandEducation Services

       14.      NEC approval of the National Health Plan, acceptable to the Bank, for
       implementation inthe FY2001budget.

        15.     Standardization by the Borrower o f the procurement of pre-packed medical
       supply kits for aidposts.

                ImprovingForestry Management

        16.     Implementation by the Borrower o f reforms to its forestry revenue and royalty
       regime,satisfactory to the Bank

        17.     Completion o f an independent review of Forest Management Agreezknts
       (FMAs),timberpermitsandgeographic extensionsto timberpermits.

                        ANNEX M


        RESPONSEON CLAIMS RELATED TO ECONOMIC
VIABILITY OF LOGGING AND SUSTAINABLEFOREST MANAGEMENT


B    Industrial-scale Forestry is Not Economically or Ecologically Feasible in Papua New
     Guinea

         a    "hut, most importantlv,,for the purposes qf'this submission: un industrv whose
             sales revenue is less than its out-goings, cm industry that is uneconomic.
              "The uneconomic nuture of'the logging industry has been apparentjbr some time.
              Loggingcould oniv hejustified in very nurrow profit-and-loss terms.from the
             point of view of'an export loyger. In terms qf'real economy9cxternaiities were
              never taken into uccount. However. now prices are low, the industry is
              uneconomic. even in u narrow profit-and-loss sense. Goodfaith requires a
             government to look ut the rcui,.fill1or mre economic impact upon its econom-vof
             an activity.  ' *                                         [Request. Section 2. p. 61

              "Thepolicy mandate in OP 4 36 of'sustainable management of naturalforests is
             problematic in Pcipiru iVew Guinea '.s mixed-species forests. The evidencepoints to
              industrial scale sustainable forestry not being either economicuilv or ecologicullv
             jeasible. Reasons given in the Request are that the cost of restoring the forest to
                        "
              its original condition is very high; selective logging on an industrial scale tends to
              kill off high value. slow-growing hardwoods; logging companies do not observe
             the Logging Code o f Conduct and often manage to clearcut their concessions; and
              mortality o f 53 to 79 percent o f the trees left standing after selective logging has
              been reported in Papua New Guinea.                       [Request, Subsections 5.14 -
             3.241

     Response

     The Ecologicaland Economic Feasibilityof Sustainable Forest Managementin
     Tropical Moist Forest

     1 .     The Requesters claim (see page 6) that the logging industry is uneconomic. when
     externalities are taken into account. and that therefore its continuation or expansion is
     irrational. Inparagraph 5.16, the Request states that the available evidence points to
     sustainable forestry being neither economically nor ecologically feasible and asserts that
     "there are no examples in the world where industrial logging in a mixed tropical forest
     has shown to be ecologically or commercially sustainable". Earlier in paragraph 5.14. the
     Request refers to a paper by Bowies et ui (reproduced in Annex 16) which argues that
     sustainable forest management is not an effective tool for tropical forest conservation and
     funds should be directed to protected weas rather than to supporting sustainable forest
     management.

     2.      Some o f the broader issues relating to sustainability and viability are addressed
     below this paragraph. At this point. it can be said that the economic viability o f the
     logging sector cannot be judged on the basis o f its performance under current procedures
     and the revenue formula which appiies. It is in the nature o f the logging sector. as with
     many commodities. that the market is volatile. and it is not possible to assert on the basis
     of a relatively few number o f years whether the industry is viable in the longer term or

D    not. This is a decision that individual investors make. and the appropriate role o f the State
     is to ensure that it collects reasonable economic rent from forest operations. that
     landowners also receive an equitable share. and that rules governing sustainability and
     environmental protection are applied.

     3 .       Inno country -developed or developing. tropical or temperate - is there a forest
     that has been subject to several industrial scale cutting cycles accompanied by rigorous
     scientific monitoring to demonstrate that forest structure and species compositions have
     been maintained oi'er this period. The empirical research to undertake such an exercise
     would require hundreds o f years and the ecological concepts that underpin such issues
     have only emerged as matters for public policy and resource management practices over
     the last several decades.' Nor is there m y direct empirical evidence o f the natural
     changes in species composition and structure that would occur in these dynamic forest
     ecosystems in the complete absence of human intervention over similar time scales.

     4.        On the other hand. there is considerable empirical experience with the
     conservation and management o f all forest types for timber and other purposes. Over the
     last decade. this empirical knowledge of best practice has been codified and regularly
     updated in various principles. criteria and indicators of international and inter-
     governmental certification systems. In tropical forests. there is a long history o f deliberate
     silviculture going back many centuries and more than 200 years o f deliberate scientific
     timber management. The recent work by Dawkins and Philip (1998)demonstrates that
1    sustainable management o f tropical moist forests is not only feasible but that key
     operational techniques have been known for many decades and are being refined and
     improved in response to emerging researchand accumulating management experience.
     Failures o f implementation are due more to institutional and capacity issues than lack o f
     technical knowledge per se. Importantly. these are factors which can be addressed
     through development assistance and other measuressuch as the recently approved FCP.

     5.        The economic concern raised in this claim has already been addressed in part in
     the response to Claim #3 regarding the forestry revenue regime (seeparas.XX). The
     economic feasibility o f sustainable forest management in tropical forest has been the
     subject o f recent review (Pearce cf ai. 1999). In narrow financial terms based on timber
     outputs alone. sustainable forest management of tropical forest is capable of earning
     returns inexcess o f modest discount rates o f 5 percent and in some cases 10 percent. The
     fact that non-sustainable timber operations can earn more than this in the short term is not
     surprising. Howei,er, more comprehensive economic anaijxis of all environmental \,dues
     increases the relative attractiveness o f sustainable forest management as against the non-
     sustainable alternatives.

     6.        As key economic benefits are often public goods that may not immediately
     generate cash income for particular stakeholders. this may create difficulties in terms o f
     promoting consenlation and sustainable management alternatives to conventional timber
     harvesting. But Lvhile the prospects for sustainable forest management are low inthe


     '
     ~~



       Franklin J.F.. 1992. "Scientitic basis for new perspectives in torests and streams". Pp 25-72 in R.J.Naiman (Ed).
     Watershed Alanu,qemenr.Balancing Siisrainabiiiy and Environmental Change. Springer-Verlag. New York.

D    early stage o f a country's development. this changes as the values attached to forests and
     the full range of services they provide increase over time. Inthe context o f Papua New
     Guinea. the incorporationo f a conservation trust fund inthe recently approved FCP. and
     the potential emergence o f new markets for environmental services such as biodiversity
     and carbon. increase the likelihood o f both the protection of key forest areas and the use
     of best practice timber harvesting.

     The Questionof Appropriate Cutting Cycles

     7.       InParagraph 5.15 of the Request. it is claimed that "The PiVGForest Authorirv
     bases ~111its,forest management on a 3.f-vear.f~restrycycle or rotationperiod. There is
     no scicntlfic evidence that mixed species tropical rciinfi7rest.s will regenerate within u
     period of35 >*earsclfrer (heyhave heen logged. The esidcnce is to the contrary. High
     value hardwood species invnriably take longcr than 33 )rurs to regenerate. '*

     8.       It is true that the rotation length- defined as the time for a tropical hardwood (or
     any tree) to grow from germination to maturity - is usually much more than 35 years.
     However. in the context of tropical forest management. a rotation length is not
     synonymous with a "forestry cycle" or. as it is more commonly known. a cutting or
     harvesting cycle.

     9.       For clear-felling harvesting systems. the cutting cycle and the rotation length are
     synonymous. However, for selection logging systems (see further discussion below), the
1    harvesting practice involves only partial cutting with harvesting restricted to trees above a
     defined size (for example 50 c m diameter). The smaller trees are allowed to grow until
     the next harvest. Inventory plots gather information on both the nature and condition of
     residual stands and the growth rates they achieve after logging. Inthe equatorial climate
     and relatively young geological sub-stratums in much o f Papua New Guinea. it is likely
     that growth rates following lorrging would be about 0.40 m3/ha /year for logged stands
     left to benign neglect to 2.1 m':ha/yr         for stands with modest post harvesting treatment.'          '
     (Vigus. 19953. b).

     10.      Thus the suggestion o f a 35 year cutting cycle is a scientifically defensible interim
     measure while more detailed information is gathered. In this regard. it should be noted
     that more than 100 detailed growth and yield plots were established by the Papua New
     Guinea Forest Research Institute with support from the International Tropical Timber
     Organization and Australian Council for International and Agricultural Research in the
     period 1993-1998. Under the Sustainable Forest Management Component o f FCP (see
     Annex D). the data from these plots will be used for modeling to determine more specific
     cutting cycles for various forest types and geographic provinces. Technical assistance
     will be usedto analyze the plot data. undertake modeling and train Forests Authority
     staff. Technical assistance in this area focused on the linkage to management decision-
     making systems is also expected from a parallel AusAID project.


     'Vigus. f 1995aRe/oresrafion .\'oturoils. Reponof the Kandrian Gloucester Integrated Development Project.
     ANUTECIIPly Ltd. CanberraAustralia.
     'Vigus. f 1995b."Regenerating logged torest in Papua New Guinea". T~oprcalForesr Updare.Volume 5 (I) pp 6-7

B    The Nature of Selection Logging

     11.     Inparagraph 5.17. the Request argues that "thesustainable management of'
     naturalforests is problematic in Papua New Guinea, in that selective logging, on an
     industrial scale. tends to kill-oflthe high value slow-growing hardwoods *'and that
     "selective logging destroys between 53 und 79% of'the high value trees. Elsewhere in
                                                                                 "
     paragraph 5.19. the Request states that "The term "selective logging" is a euphemismfor
     "high grading"....rhe logger removes the high-valued hardwood species which are
     generullv slower jyowing. The @ct of'this is to give living space to,fnster growing,    btlf
     commerciallv less vciluuble .softwoodspecies. The ecological hulance of 'the,forest is
     disrupted and a systematic degradation takes pluce into secondarv growth.

     12.     As noted above. the fundamental distinction in forest harvesting systems is
     between complete removal systems (clear-felling systems) and partial harvesting systems
     (selection systems). Clear-felling systems. by definition. remove all trees and. inthe
     context o f tropical forest ecosystems. will be replaced by non-forest covers or extensive
     areas o f degraded secondary forest regrowth. These forest ecosystems will require very
     long periods to redevelop high levels o f species and structural diversity and consequent
     timber and environmental \dues.

     13.     Intropical rainforest ecosystems. any selection logging system will be less
     intrusive and environmentally disruptive than a clear-felling system. The impact o f a
1    selection system will depend on the nature of the system being employed. Most
     experienced conservation and managements specialists. like the authors o f the Request,
     feel that in most timber rich tropical environments. a highgrading approach i s naive and
     will lead to significant degradation o f the forest. In Papua New Guinea. there is
     considerable evidence that both codes of practice and field compliance with these codes
     of practice can be significantly improved to enhance the environmental, economic and
     social sustainability o f forest management systems (see discussion on logging damage
     and its control below). Bringing about these improvements is a key focus o f the FCP
     under. in particular. component 3 (ii)- Forest Management and Planning.

     The Levels of LoggingDamage

     14.     Annex 16 of the Request presents logging damage data collected by Vigus and
     provides the support for the earlier statement that "selection logging ciestro-vshefween 53
     und 79percent of the highcr lrees (see paragraph 89). However, the Annex only
                                          "

     presents a small part of the tindings by Vigus. who demonstrates on several plots that
     have been established in logged over forest in Oro, East and West Britain and West Sepik
     Provinces of Papua New Guinea that:

         0   Logging practices used in Papua New Guinea do invariably cause damage and
             loss to seedlings. saplings and a significant number o f residual trees (50 to 80
             percent loss ifresiduals after 8 to 10 years);

         0   Regeneration is profuse following logging;

          0   Species regeneratewith location. but invariably undesirable species such as Mum
              spp and Macurango spp were prevalent. as are other fast growing species of low
              to mediumvalue. while vines grow vigorously, often to the detriment of smaller
              commercial tree species:

          0   Many residual trees show little or no growth response 8 to 10 years after logging,
              andthose that do are invariably those that had not beendamagedby logging;

          0   Benign neglect of the stand 10 years after logging results inan impoverished
              stand from a commercial species perspective that is likely to result in a much
              reducedvalue stand after 35 to 40 years. Vigus reports treated stands with nearly
              four times the number of commercial trees per ha as neglectedstands:

          0   Removal of weed species. thinning of non-commercial species and the cutting o f
              vines for two years after logging results insubstantial growth and domination o f
              the stand by medium value commercial species ,such as Octomeles sumatrana.
             Anthocephalris chinenisis. and Endospernum sp. These are present largely as a
              result of recruitment from seedling regeneration: and

          0   Relatively low cost stand treatments have the potential to result in significant
              improvements in the value of the stand for the next cutting cycle. Vigus calculates
              a financial rate of return of 12 percent using a weighted log price of K130/m' and
              a production of 75m'/ha, compared with a first harvest averageof 20-25 m3/ha
              and 15m3/hafor loggedstands left to benign neglect.
B      15.    Thus, rather than demonstratingthe inevitability of excessive damage and reduced
     quality and economic value of forests being logged, the work of Vigus demonstratesthe
     potential of harvesting control and stand management to overcome this. Llrgusestimates
     that effective post harvesttreatments would cost as little as 72Wha and that improved
     harvesting would reduce both the level of logging damage and the cost of post-harvesting
     treatments.

       16.    Inthis regard. the Center for Intemational Forest Research(CIFOR) has. over the
     last several years. given high priority to research that has quantified the environmental
     effects of reduced impact logging (RIL). As part o f its broader research programs on
     sustainable forest management, CIFOR has worked with a range of partners to undertake
     RIL studies in Brazil. Bolivia. Cameroon, Guyana. Indonesia. Malaysia. Tanzania and
     Zambia (CIFOR. 1998).'

       17.    This researchhas demonstratedthat environmental damage can be minimized
     through the use of site-sensitive harvestingtechniques. Among the findings, it has found
     that RIL methods can reduce impacts on the soil from heavy logging machines by 25
     percent. and lead to a gain of as much as 50 percent inthe carbon storehousebenefits
      from the remaining vegetation. Insome RIL experiments in lowland tropical forests, the
     amount of damage to the soil and to advanced regeneration was reducedby about 50
     percent relative to conventional logging.

     ~~


1    RYAN - ALSO "ARGUS" REF ABOVE IS NEEDED (UNLESS THIS IS VIGUS): Ryan. P. 1999 Working Paper on
       CIFOR. 1998. Annual Repon. Ccntre lor international Forest Research. Bogor. Indonesia. WHERE TO PUT REFTO

     Sustainable Forest ManagementComponent. PapuaNew Guinea Forestry and Conservation Project.

B    18.     InPapuaNew Guinea. as inmost countries. resource owners and those
     responsible for managing the resource face limited options: the possibilities for protecting
     large tracts o f forest from any major use whatever are limited. For the remainder. the
     choice comes down to whether that forest is used well. and sustainably, or whether it is
     allowed to degrade under destructive and unsustainable operations. While the task of
     gaining control over forest operations and implementinglow impact and conservation
     technologies should not be minimized. the FCP has the potential to make a material
     difference in outcomes in this regard. It will mobilize considerable resources (US$8.71
     million) to promote more sustainable forest management to reduce logging damage. and
     to promote effective post harvesting management to maintain the value o f forest
     resources for both traditional landholders and the nation as a whole. These resources \vi11
     be allocated under the FCP to improved forest operations. inspection and monitoring
     (Component 3.1 o f the Project - US $3.72 million); forest management planning
     (Component 3.2 ofthe Project - I!S$1.83     million); and post-harvest forest management
     and plantations (US$3.16 million). This will be supplemented by additional support of
     some US$4.68 million for environmental assessment and monitoring, including some
     US$0.83 million for environmental monitoring by local communities.

     19.     The FCP \vi11 also be able to contribute to solutions to the problem ofcontrolling
     logging damage and its impact on future forest values. Key aspects that the FCP will
     promote inthese areas will include:


1        e   Full involvement and commitment o f the landholders, with them being advised of
             the operational meaning o f sustainable forest management and the prerequisites
             for this;

         e   Promoting effective co-operation and communication between the NFS,
             landholders and forest industry companies:

             Tree felling and extraction carefully planned and controlled. including the
             marking and retention o f undamaged residuals: and

             Conscientiously undertaking treatments to promote the emergence and growth o f
             marketable species.





