DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use                FILE  COpy
Report No. 117a-YU
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
May 25, 1973
-EMENA Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authonzation. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Fiscal and Accounting Year
January 1 to December 31
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit  = Yugoslav Dinar (Din)
US$1             Din 17
Din 1          = US$0.0588
Din 1 Million  =  US$58,824
Measurement Units
All units are metric, except pipe diameters,
which are in inches.
1 centimeter (cm)        = 0.393 inches (in)
1 meter (m)              = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         - 0.62 mile (mi)
1 cubic meter (m3)       = 35.32 cubic feet
(cu ft)
1 inch (in)              = 2.54 centimeters(cm)
1 metric ton (m ton)     = 2,204 pounds (lb)
1 ton of petroleum fuels = 10.762 million kilo-
calories (Kcal x 106)
L2,705 million Bri-
tish Thermal Units
(BTU x 106)
Abbreviations
Nm3  - m3 at standard conditions of temperature
and atmospheric pressure
tep  -  Tons of petroleum providing equivalent
heating value
IPG  -  Liquified petroleum gas, chiefly pro-
pane and butane
INA  - The oil industry company of Croatia
od   - Outside diameter



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                             i
I*   INTRODUCTION ...........  ......................................  1
II.   BACKGROUND ........................... 
A.  Present Energy Demand and Supply in Yugoslavia............ 1    .
B.  The Energy Market in Ssrbia and Vojvodina.................  2
C.  The Policy of the Government and the Project         .............  3
III.   THE BORROWER            .........              .    *........ -
A.  Background . .................. .a...... ............. ..........   5
B.  Organization and Management ..............................  6
IV.   THE INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT                              7
As  The Irvestment Program ...g*&...............................  7
B.  Description of the Project ...............................  7
C.  Cost Estimates .......                  ........... 0.0...      9
D. Exsecution and Timing of Construction ....................11
E. Procurement ................................ .            ..  .11
F.  Design and Engineering Services    .......................... 12
G*  Disbursements                 ............................. 13
H.  Operation of the New System                                    13
I.  Environment and Land Rights ..................       .13
V.   FUTURE ENERGY MARKET                                               14
A. Future Energy Demand                                            14
B.  Sources and Cost of Gas                                       315
C.  Tariffs ...................16
VI.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION  .................                             17
A.  Basis for the Economic Evaluation       ........................ 17
B.  Employment                 . . .    ..    . ..........         18
This report was prepared by Messrs. P. Bourcier (Economist), 3. Ristorcelli
(Engineer), and A. Clark (Financial Analyst).



- 2 -                               CONTENTS
(Continued)
Page No.
VII.  FDIANCIAL EVALUATION                    ............        * ..   19
A. Introduction                                                    19
B. Financial Evaluation .............. .....    19
C. Audit                                 .......................    22
VIII.   RECOISENDATIONS .................                  ..    .. O.    24
ANMEXES
1.  Energy Reserves in Yugoslavia.  Gas Supply for the Project
2.  Demand for Natural Gas in Relation to Total Energy Demand
3.  Basis for the Economic Evaluation of the Project
4.  Basis for the Determination of the Selling Price of Gas
5.  Bases and Assumptions used in Financial Analysis
TABLES
1.  Primary Energy Demand in Yugoslavia
2.  Future Demand for Crude Oil and Oil Products in Yugoslavia
3.  Primary Energy Demand in Serbia and Vojvodina
4.  Distribution of Proven Energy Reserves in Serbia
5.  Summary of the Investment Program of the Energy Sector in Serbia
(1971-1976)
6.   Naftagas' Investment Program (1971-1975)
7.  Current Prices of Gas in Europe
8.  Project Cost Estimate
9.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
10.  Net Energy Demand in Serbia and Vojvodina
11.  Projected Demand for Oil Products in Eastern Yugoslavia
12.  Historic Naftagas Sales by Customer
13.  Naftagas Gas Sales Forecast
14.  Determination of the Price of Fuel Oil (High Sulphuw Content)
15.   Determination of the Price of Fuel Oil (Low Sulphur Content)
16.  Determination of the Price of Coal
17.  Determination of the Price of Imported Nafta
18.  Economic Cost of the Project
19.  Alternative Solution
20.  Projected Gas Sales and Sources of Gas
21.  Revenue Accounts
22.   Source and Application of Funds Analysis
23.  Balance Sieets
24.  Thetermination of the Selling Price of Gas (Fuel Usage)



_ 3 -                         CONTENTS
(Continued)
CIHARTS
1. Organization - Naftagas
2. Organization - Borrower
MAPS
1. Appraisal of Gas Transmission and Distribution System of Naftagas -
IBRD 10308
2. Projected Connections with East European Gas Transmission Systems -
IBRD 10309






YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TPANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
SUMMAB2 AND CONCLUSION
i.        During the past ten years consumption of energy in Yugoslavia
has increased rapidly, accompanied by a growing trend to change from the
use of solid fuels to petroleum products. Local crude oil is short of
the demand and Yugoslavia has to rely increasingly on imports.  In order
to save on foreign exchange and to lower the cost of energy to consumers,
the Federal Government, in its current social development plan, recommends that
greater attention be given to the development of indigenous hydrocarbon fuels
and, particularly, natural gas. There are natural gas fields in the north-
eastern part of the Republic of Serbia (Autonomous Province of Vojvodina)
which have been only partly developed, so far, for lack of resources to
expand the existing treatment, transmission and distribution facilities.
ii.       Studies sponsored by the Government of Serbia and Vojvodina and
Petrolunion (an association of oil and gas producers and distributors)
show that while total primary energy demand in Serbia and Vojvodina is
expected to increase 2i times .between 1970 and 1985, the demand for hydro-
carbons would increase by about five times and would be met primariJy
by imports of crude oil and refined oil products unless local natural
gas resources are developed.
iii.      On the basis of these studies, Naftagas, the only enterprise
dealing with oil and gas production and gas transmission and distribution
in the area, has prepared a long-term plan for the development of hydro-
carbons in eastern Yugoslavia including the full exploitation of the
existing natural gas reserves. Naftagas' program is based on surveys
of the energy market in Serbia and Vojvodina which were carried out in
1971/72 by the Belgrade and Subotica Economic Institutes. The surveys
show that by 1985, natural gas could meet economically 18% of the primary
energy demand in easternYugoslavia compared to about 6% in 1970, provided
that a gas transmission and distribution system is constructed before
1976. These studies were reviewed by the appraisal mission with the
assistance of Mr. A. Boykiw of Hu Harries and Associates (consultants,
Canada) and were found satisfactory.
iv.       The project for which Bank assistance in financing has
been requested consists of the construction of gas treatment, transmission
and distribution facilities which, with the addition of line compressors
in 1980 and 1985, will serve the demand of 145 major industrial consumers
in Serbia and Vojvodina until 1992. The gas supply will come originally



- ii -
from local gas fields and will be supplemented after 1977 by gas imported
from USSR under arrangements presently being negotiated. The Naftagas
evaluation of the volumes of gas available locally to serve the project
has been reviewed by the appraisal mission with the assistance of Mr.
Michelutti of Institut Francais du Petrole (consultants, France) and
found adequate.
v.        The project includes:                                                          *
(a) field compressors;
(b) about 1250 km of pipelines of various sizes;
(c) a gas treating plant and a fractionation plant;
(d) distribution rings;
(e)  an automated central dispatch station and control system; and
(f) accounting services.
vi.       The total _ost of the project, including interest during construction,
is estinated at UJS$130.4 million equivalent, of which US$59.4 million equivalent
(46%) would be in foreign exchange. Cost estimates are based on the assumption
that local contractors will form joint ventures with foreign contractors. The
estimates are realistic and compare with costs of recently completed projects
elsewhere. Price cantingency allowances have been made of 6% per annum for
foreign costs and of 10% falling to 6% for local costs.
vii.      The total amount of the Bank loan will be US$59.4 million, which
will finance the foreign exchange cost of the project, including US$0.4
million to finance a training program for the Social Accounting Service
(SAS) staff, and US$6 million to finance interest during construction on
the Bank loan.
viii.     The Borrower will be the autonomous gas treatment transmission
and distribution unit of Naftagas,  which has prepared the project and
will be the eventual owner and operator of the facilities.
ix.       The Borrower will be responsible for carrying out the project
with the assistance of Naftagas' staff and of consultants to assist in
planning and implementation, for whose services retroactive financing up
to US$150,000 has ueen requested; staff for operating the expanded system
will be recruited and trained by the existing capable staff. Construction
is expected to start in the second half of 1973 and be completed in the
first half of 1976.
1/ Naftagas is an association of independent units dealing respectively
with oil and gas exploration, oil refining, gas transmission and
distribution and construction.



- iii -
X*        Procurement will be by international competitive bidding, with
the exception of items not suitable, which include:
(a) small items of material which would be procured in small
packages and are not expected to exceed US$1.0 million
in aggregate; and
(b) buildings for control and metering stations, and the instal-
lation of distribution rings and hUeld compressors;
these are scattered or interrupted in nature and require
small, individual contracts.
Two pipelines totaling about 80km would be built during the second
half of 1973 to meet the rapidly expanding demand in Vojvodina. As
these pipelines have to be completed before the winter, 1973/74, there
is no time to go through international competitive bidding. These pipe-
lines would not be financed under the Bank loan. Customs duties and
taxes will be excluded in bid evaluation, except When local preference
applies.
xi.       The economic evaluation indicates that the most likely rate
of discount which equalizes the cost streams of the project and the
next best alternative is 23% based on quantifiable benefits principally
saving in fuel and transport costs. Other important but unquantifiable
benefits include environmental benefits through reduction of presently
serious air pollution,improvement in industrial products quality, and
the development of a petro-chemical industry where the project will
permit the use of natural gas as feed stock as well as fuel.
xii.      The finance plan will be satisfactory.  Local currency costs
will be financed largely by grants from the Governments of Serbia and
Vojvodina, US$26.5 million, and by loans from future customers, channelled
through the Belgrade Bank, US$30million; smaller contributions, totaIing
Us$14.5 million, will come from Naftagas' common investment funds, the
Production Unit and the Borrower. The Belgrade Bank loan would also cover
possible cost overruns in local or foreign exchange costs. In all, total
investment costs during the construction period of the project would be
financed by new debt 66%, new equity capital 31.51, and the Borrower's own
resources 2.5%.
xiii.     Construction and taking into use of the project will be phased
and the project will commence to be revenue earning before completion of
construction. The financial forecasts indicate that, after completion of
construction, the Borrower would earn an average financial return of 13%
p.a. on investment during the assumed 20-year total life of the project;
a minimum rate of 10% on gross fixed assets will be required. The
Borrower's financial situation generally will be good. Maximum debt/equity
ratio will be 62/38 and interest and total debt service average will be
ample; funds will be generated for reinvestment in further expansion projects.
xiv.      Sub4ect to conditions specified in Chapter 8, the proposed nroject
is suitable for a Bank loan to the Borrower of US$59,4 million equivalent, to
be guaranteed by Yugoslavia, for a tern of 20 years including a four-year
gracs periAd-






YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01       NAFTAGAS through the Federal Government of Yugoslavia has requested
a Bank Loan of US$59.4 million equivalent to help finance a natural gas
transmission and distribution system in the Republic of Serbia and the Autonomous
Province of Vojvodina. The total cost of the project, including interest during
construction, is estimated at US$130.14 million equivalent.
1.02      This will be the Bank's first gas pipeline loan in Yugoslavia and
the ninth in the transport sector; there have also been three loans in the
power sector. The Bank loan would cover the foreign exchange cost of the
project, estimated at US$59.4 million equivalent, including US$0.4 million for
a training program of the Social Accounting Service Staff and interest
during construction presently estimated at US$6 million. Local expenditure
(U5$71 million equivalent) would be financed by grants already authorized
by the Governments of Serbia and Vojvodina, Naftagas' own funds and a loan
from the future gas users and commercial banks. The latter source would
also finance any cost overruns in local currency or foreign exchange. The
Bank loan would be to the Gas Unit of Naftagas (para. 3.05) which prepared
and will undertake the project; it will be guaranteed by Yugoslavia.
1.03      This report is the result of an identification mission in 1971, a
pre-appraisal mission in July 1972 and appraisal missions in November 1972
and January 1973. The appraisal mission comprised Messrs. P. Bourcier
(Economist), A.H. Clark (Financial Analyst) and J. Ristorcelli (Engineer).
Mr. A. Boykiw of Hu Harries and Associates and Mr. Michelutti of Institut
Francais du Petrole (IFP) assisted the appraisal mission as consultants
in the evaluation of the gas market and of the gas reserves respectively.
II.   BACKGROUND
A.     Present Energy Demand and SUPPlY in Yugoslavia
2.01      The sustained growth of the Yugoslav economy in recent years is
reflected in a rapid increase in the total demand for energy, which rose
from 14.5 million ton petroleum equivalent (tep) to 18.7 tep from 1965 to
1970, at an average rate of 5.2% which is comparable to the average
European rate.   However, in 1971 and 1972 the growth accelerated to an
average of 10% per year, reflecting the recovery of the economy after 1968.



- 2 -
2.02      As with most European countries at an earlier stage of development,
Yugoslavia is rapidly changing over from the use of locally produced coal
to large-scale use of refined oil products and natural gas.   From 1965 to
1970 the share of coal in the total demand declined from 72% to 51% while
the share of hydrocarbons (petrolem and natural gas) increased froTn 22%
to 12%.  Despite progress in crude oil production ,the local supply is short
of the demand and Yugoslavia has to rely increasingly on imports from the
USSR and the Middle East to meet the internal demand for petroleum.
2.03      The rapid growth as well aa the structural changes in demand,
coupled with an increase in world crude oil prices and inadequate pricing
policies for the various fuels, somewhat disrupted the supply of energy.
Local shortages of power and petroleum products occurred and in the winter
of 1970/71,the Government had to imsport directly 125,000 tons of refined
products in a crash program in order to avoid an acute supply crisis.
2.04      The Federal and Republican Governments, as well as energy producers
and distributors, realized that an integrated approach to energy supply
and demand and pricing policy was required to avoid further disruptions in
a sector which is vital for the development of the economy.   In 1971 and
1972,steps were taken to improve the pricing of liquid fuels and to bring
internal prices in line with the rising prices of imported crude oil and
refined products, and to enable the economic enterprises to finance a
reasonable portion of their future investments.   These measures are an
improvement on the past situation, bult they should be followed by a
comprehensive review of energy problems to prepare and implement a long-
term development plan of the energy sector based on natural resources and
market requirements.
2.05      Within the framework of the decentralized Yugoslav political and
economic system little can be done in this respect at the Federal level.
Presently the energy sector consists of a number of self-managed,
independent economic organizations.   They have conflicting commercial and
regional interests and attempts to co-ordinate development programs have
so far been only partly successful.   The preparation of a long-term
development plan, co-ordinating regional efforts with complementary
development policies based on the availability of natural resources, will
take time.   There are, however, indications that the Governments and the
organizations are moving towards a closer integration of their energy production
and transmission facilities.   This is evidenced in the agreement which
under the recent Power Transmission Project (Loan 836-YUG) involves eleven
different enterprises in six different Republics and by the proposed project
which results from an analysis of the energy sector in eastern Yugoslavia.
B.    The Energy Market in Serbia and Vojvodina
2.06      Since 1965 the total demand for energy in Serbia has been growing
at a faster rate than the Yugoslav average.   The following table shows that
growth has not been evenly distributed and the demand for electricity,
petroleum products and natural gas has grown at a faster rate than the demand
for coal.



- 3 -
Primary Eiergy SuPP1Y and Demand in Serbia
(Million tep)
1965               1970               Average
Volumes            Volumes              Growth p.a.(%)
Local Production
Hydroelectricity           .10      2          .30      4            24.6
Coal                      3.85     79         3.90     55
Crude Oil                  .63     13          .80     11             4.9
r;atural Gas               .14      3          .40      6            2304
4.72     97         5.40     7              2,7
Imports
Crude Oil and
Production               .14      3         1.70     24            65
Total                     4.86    100         7.10    100             7e9
Source: Government of Serbia.
2.07      Total proven energy reserves in Serbia (including Vojvodina and
Kosovo) amount of about 2,250 million tep, equivalent to about 315 years
of the 1970 consumption, of which 90% consists of low grade coal unsuitable
for use in modern industrial and heating equipment (Table 4). The remainder
is divided between hydroelectricity, crude oil and natural gas. Coal
reserves are located in Serbia proper while oil and gas reserves are
located in Vojvodina. It is estimated that about 50% of the potential
oil and gas structure has been explored and that the proven reserves
could be doubled within the next ten to twenty years. The rate of ex-
ploitation of the reserves is considered satisfactory for oil but not
for gas. Present gas production is only 30% p.a. of the discovered
potential because of the lack of transmission and distribution facilities
to serve the market. Detailed analyses of reserves and the energy market
are given in Annexes 1 and 2.
C.  The Policy of the Government and the Project
2.08      The inadequacy of the present energy supply, largely based on
local coal, has been of growing concern to the Government of Serbia,
which decided in 1969 to undertake a study of the long-term development
of the energy sector in order to (a) establish demand projections for
the period 1970-1985; (b) find solutions which would ensure an adequate
supply of energy and a rational development of available natural resources;
(c) define the areas where closer cooperation between energy producers and
distributors could minimize the cost of energy to the consumers; and (d)
establish a pricing policy for fuels which would take into account the
possibility of inter-fuel substitution. The study was undertaken by
PETROLUNION, a study group set up by oil and gas enterprises, and completed
early in 1972.



2.09      The main conclusions of the study are:
a)   The demand for energy in Serbia will grow at an average rate
of 10% per annum between 1970 and 1985 and will be increasingly
oriented towards electricity and hydrocarbons which, by 1985,
are expected to account for about 90% of the net energy demand.
b)   Coal should be used primarily for power generation in large
thermal3 plants located near coal deposits.   Only those coal
deposits which could be operated economically should be kept
in operation , small uneconomical mines being closed down as
social problems resulting from their closure are resolved.
c)   Local oil production will cover only a small part of the
demand for hydrocarbons and oil imports will increase.
However, locally produced and imported natural gas could be
economically substitu-ted for heavy fuels in the industrial
sector, provided that the necessary treatment, transmission
and distribution facilities are built by 1975-1976, natural
gas could account for 18% of net energy supply in 1985.
d)   Fuel prices should be allowed to rise to levals which would
enable producers and distributors to finance a reasonable portion
of their future investments and eliminate disparities in the
prices of substitutable fuels.
2.10     'These conclusions are sound, and should enable the Government and
the enterprises to improve considerably the allocation of resources by
co-ordinating investment programs.   On the basis of the study, the Serbian
Government has prepared long-term projections of energy demand and a long-
term development plan wW4.ch has been used as a guideline by producers and
distributors in preparing their current five-year investment programs
(Annex 2).   The overall investment program in the energy sector for the
period 1971-1976 amounts to Din 19,000 million divided between Din 13,600
million for the power sector and Din 5,400 million for the oil and gas
sector (Table 5), of which Din 1,993 million are for the construction of
a gas transmission and distribution system in Vojvodina and Serbia proper
(The Project), which is the subject of this appraisal.
2.11      The proposed project consists of the first phase of a larger
program based on the findings of market surveys (sponsored by Naftagas,the
only oil and gas industry in the area and Petrolunion), which show that
by 1985, about 5,000 million m; p.a. of gas could be economically distributed
in Eastern Yugoslavia. The proposed project is considered to have high
priority by the Governments of Serbia and Vojvodina who have decided to
contribute with equity capital to its financing.



-5-
III. THE BORROWER
A. Backgrouna
3.01      In 1949 the Federal Government of Yugoslavia founded the state-
ownec "Enterprise for the E?cploration ana Production of Petroleum". In
1966 this Enterprise was registered as an autonomous self-managing work
organization with legal personality under the name of Petroleum Industry
Naftagas (Naftagas), dealing with all aspects of the oil and gas industry
from exploration to distribution of finished products to consumers.
3.02      Naftagas follows the general Yugoslav concept of decentralized
economic control and workers' self-management of "social property".
The policy-making body is a Worker's Council elected by the personnel of the
enterprise (workers collective) which acts in much the same fashion as a
board of directors of a corporation in a non-socialist economy.   The Workers'
Council appoints the general manager.
3.03      Upon reorganization in October, 1971, Naftagas became an association
of seven operating work units each of which is a separate legal en;ity and
has its own Workers' Council and Manager.   These units include: 1
(a) oil and gas exploration and production (Production Unit), (b) gas treatment,
transmission and distribution including the distribution of liquified
petroleum gas, (Gas Unit) (c) three refineries, (d) an engineering and
construction unit, and (eS a commercial unit.   There is also a unit providing
various common services to the operating units  (Chart I).
3.o4      Each unit or association of units with legal personality is
independent and responsible for the provision of funds required to carry
out its business and for maintaining the value of capital vested in it.
Since October 1971, no unit with independent legal status has had any
responsibility for the commitments of other units incurred subsequently
unless mutually agreed, but, they have had joint and several responsibility
for commitments outstanding on October 1, 1971. Recent changes in the law,
require this relief from inter-unit liability to be specified in Self-
Management Agreements, which have to be registered with the appropriate
court (paras. 3.05 and 7.14). On December 31, 197l4total liabilities of
all Naftagas units, other than the Gas Unit, in respect of debt incurred
before October 1, 1971, were about Din 920 million, which is the maximum
contingent legal liability of the Borrower in respect of such debts.
3.05      Since the Gas Unit;/is autonomous and will be the ultimate owner
and operator of the project and be responsible for its construction, it
is recommended that the Gas Unit be the Borrower.   This does not present
particular legal problems and is acceptable to Naftagas ana the government.
However, under a new Law governing the status of economic enterprises, the
units constituting the Borrower must enter into a Self-Management Agreement,
not later than December 31, 1973, which will restate the internal organization
of the Borrower.  At the same time the Borrower and the other legally indepenaent
units of Naftagas will enter into a Self-Management Acreement with Naftagas which
will, amongst other things, restate the inter-unit liability for debt.
1/ Some of these units are subsided into smaller units not having legal
personality.
2/ The Association of Work Units for Gas Transmission, Treatment, Application
and distribution, Legal person.



-6-
It was agreed that, the execution, ratific.tion and registration with the
appropriate court of such agreements, satisfactory to the t3ank, be a condi-
tion of effectiveness.
B.     Organization and Management
3.06      The Borrower consists of: (a) three individual work units
dealing respectively with the management and operation of the gas
treating plant at Elemir, the existing gas pipeline, and the distri-
bution of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), and (b) a common services
unit (Chart 2).
3.07      The Borrower's management is competent and energetic, but
operations have been on a small scale compared to those envisaged
after the project is completed. Additional personnel are being recruited
and trained to cope with the additional workload for the preparation and
supervision as well as for the operation of the project and the Borrower
has requested the assistance of other units of Naftagas to provide spe-
cialized services such as procurement, contracting procedures and legal
advice. Project preparation is handled by a project group which, when
complete, will consist of about 30 engineers and technicians specialized
in the various fields covered by the project. However, because of the
size and complexity of the project it will be necessary to employ
consultants to assist the project group in the execution of the project.
During negotiations the Borrower agreed to employ supervisory consultants
on terms of reference provided by the Bank. A contract satisfactory to
the Bank was signed with Protech, Avery and Lawrence, (Netherlands and the
UK) a joint venture of two consulting firms acceptable to the Bank.
3.08      The accounting staff of the Borrower and of Naftagas are
competent; however, there are no cost accounting systems and management
information systems are inadequate. There is an efficient internal
audit section, which carries out its functions well, within the
limitations of the accounting systems.  The Borrower has agreed to
employ foreign accounting consultants to design and assist in implementing
cost accounting and management information systems and to review the inter-
nal audit procedures and recommend improvements as part of the project;
the ccnsultants would also provide any necessary training. At the request
of Naftagas, the Project includes such consulting services for the whole
enterprise. At this stage it is not possible to give a firm estimate of
the time involved but a total of 200 man-months, with a foreign exchange
cost of US$500,000, has been included in the project costs. Terms of
reference would be subject to Bank approval.
3.09      The Borrower has full and adequate insurance coverage for all
risks including Third Party risks.



- 7 -
IV. THE INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
A.  The Investment Progra
4.01    'REthin the overall investment program of the energy sector (para.
2.10), Naftagas plans to invest Din ,325 million in oil and gas exploration,
oil refinery expansion and the construction of gas treatment, transmission
and distribution facilities (Table 6). The Naftagas investment program will
be financed by internally generated funds  (Din 2,040 million), loans (Din
1,735 million) and by grants from the Governments of Serbia and Vojvodina
(Din 550 million). Other retail organizations will also invest Din 930
million in distribution facilities.
. 02      The Borrower's investment  rogram is designed to meet the expected
demand for natural gas ank  LPG to'1992.  It aooounts for 42.5% of Naftagas'
total program, oil afid gas production accounting for 34% and refinery expan-
sion for 23.5%. The Borrower's program eonsists primarily of the Project
plus about Din 166 million (US$10 mdllion) mainly for investments in LPG.
B. Description of the Project
4.03      The project comprises the facilities necessary to expand the gas
transmission and distribution capacity of the Borrower from 700 million to
about 2,500 million N m,3 per year by 1977. This will require gas field con-
pressors, pipelines, treating plants, distribution rings and a control system.
The project will form the backbone of a natural gas system covering practically
the whole of Serbia, from Senta in the north, near the Hungarian and Rmanuan
borders, to Nis in the southeast, near the Bolgarian border.
4e.4      The preliminary designs were reviewed by the Bank and by a pipeline
engineering firm and were found to be souna.  The system is designed to cater
for instantaneous peak loads and for slightly higher demand than forecast
and will permit further expansion of the capacity with the addition of line
compressors in 1980 and 19859 to reach a maximum capacity of 4,750 million
NO3 per year in 1985 (Map 1).
4.o5      The project includes:
(a) Field Compressors. The procurement and installation
of gas compressors at the Mokrin ana I'ilva fields
with a total capacity of about 5,000 hp.



- 8 -
(b)  Pipelines.  The procurement and installation of:
(i)  Gas Sapply.  Approximately 30 km of 26 in od and
65 km of 8 5/8 in od high pressure pipelines to
supply gas from seven fields to the gas trans-
mission pipeline. Eight other gas fields are
already connected to the existing system.
(ii) Gas Transmission. Approximately 390 km of high
pressure pipeline, varying between 30 and 14 in
od, and totalling approximately 8900 in km., to
transport gas from the Hungaro-Yugoslav border,
in a southeasterly direction to the city of Nis,
via Belgrade.
(iii)  Gas Distribution.  Approximately 710 km of high
pressure pipelines, varying in diameter between
20 and 4 1/2 in od and totalling approximately
9800 in km, to transport gas from the transmission
line to the consumer areas.
(iv) Other. Approximately 54 km of 6 5/8 in od pipe-
line to transport condensate from an absorption
plant at Mbkrin to a fractionation plant at Elemir,
and about 24 km of 12 3/4 in od high pressure supply/
distribution pipeline to transport gas between the
Srbobran gas field and the gas transmission line.
(c)  Distribution  Rings.  The procurement and installation of ap-
proximately 45 control and metering main stations, including
buildings, at city limits, with about 270 km of low pressure
distribut'ion rings totaling approximately 2600 in km., and
control and metering stations for approximately 146 indus-
trial consumers.
(d) Treating Plants.
(i) The procurement and installation of facilities to
treat approximately 3 million N m3 per day of wet
gas from the Mokrin field to remove condensable pro-
pane, heavier hydrocarbon fractions and water vapors.
(ii) The procurement and installation of facilities to
treat approximately 160,000 tons per year of con-
densate to separate the LPG (propane and butane)
from the heavier fractions and the installation of
tanks to store products.
(e)  Control 42tem.  The procurement and installation of
Instrumentaion, telecommunications and telecontrol and
an automated central dispatch station which will receive
critical operating data from important outlying stations



- 9 -
and will regulate operating conditions automatically
or by voice and manually as desired.
(f) Accounting Consultancy Services. As described in para.
(g) Training of Social Accounting Service Staff. As described
in para, 7.12.
C. Cost Estimates
4.o6      The total cost of the project including interest during construction
is estimated at US$130.4 million equivalent (Din 2,217 million).  The proposea
loan of US$59.4 million would cover the foreign exchange costs, estimated at
46% of total costs. The various major elements of the project are shown in
the table below. Additional details are shown in Table 8.
Din (l.fllmn)             US$ (Millions)
% Forelgn
Local   Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Exchange
Field Compressor a/       20        31       51      1.2      1.8       3.0       60
Treating Plantsa          82       115      197      4.8      6.8     11.6        59
Pipelines Control 0S    a22        532    1,054     30.7     31.3      62.0       50
Distribution Rings=      206        49      255     12.1      2@9b/   15.0,       19
Fkgineering Services      73        29      102      4.3      1.7-     6.0(-    28
Spare Parts               -         5         5      -          .3       .3      100
Preliminary Studies
and Planning            10        -        10       .6      -          .6       -
Accounting Consultants     2         8       10       .1       .5        .6       83
Working Capital           70        -        70      4.1      -         4.1       -
Training of SAS Staff     -          7        7      -          .4       .4      100
Subtotal               985       776    1,761     57.9     45.7    103.6        44
Contingencies:
Physical                28        24       52      1.7      1.4       3.1       44
Price                  144      108       252      8.5      6.3      14.8       43
Subtotal             1,157      908    2,065      68.1     53.4    121.5        414
Interest during
Construction                    102       152      2.9      6.o       8.9        7
TOTAL PROJECT COST     1,207    1,010    2,217      71,0     59.4   130.4         46
a/Installation costs are included.
b/Includes US$0.8 million for treating plants which may be procured on a turnkey
basis.



- 10 -
4.07      The cost estimate was prepared by the Borrower's staff and is satis-
factory. The basic figures for the estimates were obtained as follows: (a)
the cost of imported pipe from recent quotations for the Ploce-Stovanski 9rod
pipeline and of locally produced pipe, from recent market conditions, (b) the
cost of the treating plants was based on a 1970 supplier quotation; it assumes
significant participation by a local contractor and was updated to take account
of inflation; and (e) the cost of pipeline construction, based on a mixture of
local and foreign contractors (see para. 4.14), was supplied by the Borrower
and is based on recent experience in Yugolsavia; it was checked by Bank staff
and found to be reasonable after it was compared with similar works in Tunisia
and the U.S. A.
4.08      A physical contingency of 3% has been applied to both local and
foreign exchange costs; this is considered to be sufficient for the reasons
discussed in para. 4.07. Price contingencies of 61 per annum were applied to
foreign exchange costs, and to local currency costs 10% and 8% respectively
for expenditures in 1973 and 1974, and 6% for 1975 and 1976, to cover antici-
pated inflation in Yugoslavia. This is based on the assumption, made after
the November 1972 Basic Economic Mission, that the measures being taken to
curb inflationary pressures will largely succeed. The local currency portion
includes customs duties based on normal tariffs for imported goods.
4.09      The finance plan for the projectwhich is reasonable, is given
in Page 1 of the cash flow statement, Table 22. During negotiations it was
agreed to by all contributors to the financing of the project.  It is
summarized below, with the addition of Din 6.8 million (US$400,000) to
finance training of Social Accounting Service Staff (para. 7.12).
Mivllion Din            Percent
Equity
Serbia and Vojvodina               450                    22.0
Naftagas                            50                     2.5
Production Unit                    150                     7.0
Borrower                            50
700
Loans
Belgrade Bank                      457                    22.0
IBRD                               908                   44.0
2,065                  100.0
Interest during construction
Belgrade Bank                       50
IBRD                               102
Total Financing                  2,217



- 11 -
D.  Execution and Timing of Construction
4.10      The Borrower will be responsible for carrying out the project and
is capable of doing so with the assistance of consultants to be engaged (para.
4.20). Project execution is expected to start in the second half of 1973 and
to finish at mid-year 1976. The construction schedule is based on a total
elapsed time from loan approval to completion of approximately 36 months and
this is realistic. During negotiations the Borrower agreed that customers'
conversions of natural gas be phased to match pipeline construction and
that the Bank will be kept informed on the planning and progress of conversions by
submitting detailed planning schedules and updating them on a quarterly basis.
4.11      The construction of the system will proceed by stages so that sections
of the Project can be put into use as soon as they are completed. The first
stage will include all treatment,supply, transmission and distribution facilities
in Vojvodina and the Belgrade area. It will be completed by mid 1975 and will be
served by local gas. The second and third stages will respectively include the
facilities between BBlgrade and Paracin and South of Paracin and will be completed
by the end of 1975 and mid-1976,respectively.
E. Procurement
4.12      Procurement will be by international competitive bidding in accor-
dance with the Bank's Guidelines with the exception of (a) those small items
of material which would be procured in small packages and are thus not suitable
for internationial bidding; the value of these is not expected to exceed US$1.0
million in the aggregate, (b) the procurement and installation of the buildings
for the control center and the control/metering stations, and (c) the instal-
lation of field compressors and distribution rings. Both of the latter will
be tendered locally only, as they are not suitable for international bidding
because of the interrupted and scattered nature of the work which requires
small individual contracts averaging US$65,000 each.
4.13      Other work that will not undergo international competitive bidding
will be the two pipelines listed under 4.05(b) (iv). These pipelines will
not be financed by the Bank because the Borrower prcposes to install them in
1973 and there is insufficient time to go to international bidding. The
condensate line is needed on a priority basis to be used to transport gas
from parts of the Mokrin field which are in the vicinity of the Romanian
border. The Srbobran line is needed to supply gas to Novi Sad this winter.
These arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank.
I.114     There are three pipeline constbructioncompanies in Yugoslavia.  None
is considered capable of undertaking alone the construction of the pipelines
for the projeot. It is possible, although improbable, that they will form a
consortium to bid for the pipeline construction. It is more likely that each
of these firms would form a joint venture with foreign contractors. The Bor-
rower intends to use prequalification procedures for the pipeline works. No
decision has yet been made in this connection concerning the supply and erection
of the treating plants and control system, but it is expected that prequali-
fication procedures will be applied, and that these contracts will be won by
joint ventures of local and foreign firms or by foreign firms utilizing local
firms as subcontractors. Because the conaercial agreements for import of



- 12 -
gas from the USSR through Hungary have not yet been finalized (para. 5.o8),
the construction contract will be for the entire project with an option to
cancel or confirm stages 2 and 3 (para 4.11) by October 31st 1974.  This may
imply an additional cost if the imported gas is not available but it vould
not adversely affect the economic and financial feasibility of the Project.
As procurement of material will proceed according to construction, it is not
envisaged that cancellation of stages 2 and 3 would result in unusable
equipment being ordered.
4.15      Yugoslavia has no regional preference treaties, therefore bids for
goods will be compared on a CIF basis net of customs duties. For purposes
of bid comparison, preference will be given to local manufacturers who qualify
as preferred biddersl/ to the extent of 15% of the CIF price of imported goods
or the actual customs duty, whichever is less.
4.16      It is envisaged that procurement will develop as follows: (a) direct
contracts with suppliers for the pipe and materials for the compressors, pipe-
lines and distribution rings excepting materials for buildings; (b) one or
several large contracts for the installation of the pipelines; (c) small
contracts for the supply and erection of buildings and for the installation of
compressors and distribution rings; (d) design, supply and erect contracts
for the treating plants and for the control system, if it is decided not to
include the latter with (a) and (b).
F. Design and Engineering Services
4.17      The Borrower, together with other Naftagas staff has undertaken
the preliminary engineering studies and some of the final route survey as
well as the preparation of cost estimates.
4.18      The detailed designs for the facilities wil be bazdled as follows:
(a) the pipelines will be done by Industroprojekt, a Yugoslav consulting firm
acceptable to the Bank; (b) the treating plants will be done by the supplier on
a turnkey basis; and (c) the distribution rings will be undertaken by a con-
sortium comprising the Naftagas Engineering Unit, and two consulting firms,
Masinoprojekt and the Mining Institute. W&th the assistance of the supervis-
ory consultants mentioned in para. 4.20 this arrangement will be satisfactory.
4.19      Inspection of construction and of materials and equipment at sup-
pliers plants will be done by the firms mentioned in para. 4.18 or by specialized
inspection firms hired for the purpose after consultation with the Bank.
14.20     For the overall implementation of the project the Borrower has agreed
to hire promptly an engineering consulting firm to supply a nucleus of highly
qualified engineers who will provide supervisory con8ultancy services. Since
these services will be procured abroad, US$500,OCO have been included in the
project cost estimate to finance the foreign costs. It is proposed that the
Bank finance retroactively, in an amount not to exceed US$150,000, that part
of these services which would be performed before the signing of the Loan.
1/ Those whose local value added to the goods covered by the bid is at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price.



- 13 -
G. Disbursements
4.21      Loan disbursements would cover the actual foreign exchange costs
of imported pipe, materials and equipment and consultancy services and 35%
of all other expenditures, representing the foreign exchange costs thereof.
There will be no disbursements for Preliminary Studies and Planning, which
have been largely completed, for Working Capital which is a legal require-
ment and has to be financed entirely by the Borrower and for the condensate and
Srbobran pipelines (see 4.13). Disbursement arrangements were discussed and
agreed during negotiations. Disbursements are expected to take place over a
three year period from mid 1973 to mid 1976. The disbursement schedule is
given in Table 9.  Since this is a self-contained project, any surplus loan
amounts should be cancelled.
H. Cperation of the New System
4.22      During negotiations an assurance was obtained that adequate additional
staff waald be recruited and trained to man the expanded facilities as they
come into use. No major difficulties are envisaged in training the additional
staff since there is a nucleus of experienced operators and maintenance per-
sonnel capable of providing on-the-job training. HEintenance is not expected
to pose major problems, since MONTAZA (the construction arm of Naftagas, see
para. 3.03) can supply the necessary specialized equipment. The field compres-
sors to be financed under the project will be operated by the Production Unit
under a long-term lease agreement. Existing gas facilities will be integrated
with the expanded system.
I. Ehvironment and Land Rights
4.23      Installation of the pipelines will cause no damage to the environ-
ment. The lines will be buried at sufficient depth to avoid interference withk
land cultivation and natural drainage; at river crossings they will be either
suspended by a structure high enough to avoid interference with shipping or
buried under the river beds. Since natural gas is a much cleaner burning fuel
than the liquid fuels or coal that it will replace, a substantial reduction
in air pollution will be achieved.
4.24      The Borrower has no legal condemnation rights, but in the past has
enjoyed full cooperation of local authorities in obtaining access for con-
struction along pipeline routes. Approximately US$2.2 million equivalent has
been included in the project cost estimate for land easements and crop damage;
this is ample.  During negotiations an assurance was obtained that the Bor-
rower will acquire all necessary land rights in good time for construction
and keep the Bank informed.



- 14 -
V.   FUTURE ENERGY MARKET
A.     Future Enerzy Demand
5.01      Between 1965 and 1970 the total demand for energy in Serbia and
Vojvodina increased from 4.90 to 7.10 million tep at an average rate of
about 8% per annum (para. 2.06).   The consumption pattern is changing and
locally produced coal is being rapidly replaced by hydrocarbons (petroleum
and natural gas).   Current projections show that in future the demand
will continue to grow rapidly and will be increasingly oriented towards
el ctricity and hydrocarbons, which together will account for about 90% of
the demand for net energy in 1985. (Table 10).
5.02      The increased demand for hydrocarbons results from the development
of a modern industrial sector, from increased road transport, urbanization,
and the substitution of liquid fuels for coal.   The demand projections
have been prepared within the framework of the Government's social
development plan and are based on an analysis of past trends, and a market
survey of energy requirements for individual sectors.   These projections
are considered reasonable, and are in line with the growth of the hydrocarbon
market in Europe over the past 15 years.   A detailed analysis of the
energy demand is given in Annex 2.
5.03      Additional relinery capacity will be required to serve the demand
for hydrocarbons.   It is expected that by 1985 the total refining capacity
in Eastern Yugoslavia will be about 16 million tons compared to 4.0 million
tons in 1972, and that new refineries will be oriented towards the production
of light and middle distillates which will account for about 65% of the
yield by 1985, while residual fuels will account for 25%, (Table 11).
The production of residual fuel oils will not be sufficient to meet the
demand of the industrial sector and will have to be supplemented by imports
of fuel oil and/or by natural gas.   The volumes of fuel oil which could
be economically substituted by natural gas are as follows:
(Million tep)
1z97      1980       1985
Total demand for residual fuels             2.10       4.20      7.40
Production                                  L.50       2.70      l.00
Potential Substitution                 .60      1.50       3.40
Equivalent Natural Gas       3
(million m3at 8,500 Kcal/m )               700     1.75D      4.700
5.04      The Borrower conducted a detailed market survey which shows that
such substitution will enable it to increase the supply to existing
cor_n-umers (listed in Table 12), and supply economically some 145 new
industrial customers in Serbia and Vojvodina with locally produced and
imported gas through the proposed project system.   On the basis of this
survey, gas demand is expected to increase from about 700 million m3
in 1970 to 4,750 million in 1985. (Table 13).



- 15 -
5.05      This demand forecast is realistic.  The Borrower intends to enter
into long-term sales contracts with the future gas consumers. Execution of
these contracts has not been made a loan condition, since they are related
to the funds being contributed by the consumers towards financing the
project.
5.06      The existing transmission facilities are insufficient to meet the
demand. The proposed project, with which existing facilities will be inte-
grated, will enable the demand to be met, and ensure the least cost supply
of energy to industrial consumers.
B.   Sources and Cost of Gas
5.07      Annex 2 gives details of total energy demand in Yugoslavia and
sources of gas to meet the demand for gas. The reserves of Naftagas' Pro-
duction Unit will be sufficient to meet expected demand in full until 1977
when they will be supplemented by imports (Table 20).  USSR will deliver
gas to the Russo-Hungarian border. To save transport costs, Hungary will
use the Russian gas and delivery equivalent volumes to the Borrower from
its own Algyo field, located near the Yugoslav-Hungarian border but far
from Hungary's consumer area. This arrangement will require separate
Yugoslav agreements with USSR and Hungary.
5.o8      The volumes and schedule of delivery have already been agreed
with the USSR and Hungary, but although two protocols have been signed
between Yugoslavia and the USSR in 1971 and 1972, no cammercial agreement
has yet been entered into. During negotiations the Federal Government and
Naftagas explained that is was not customary for the USSR to sign any
commercial agreement four years prior to the first delivery. It was agreed,
however, that the Borrower will negotiate such an agreement with its Soviet
counterpart and will submit this Agreement to the Bank as soon as possible,
and in any case prior to October 31st, 1974. If the import agreement is
not signed by that date, the Bank could exercise the right to limit the
Project to the supply of Vojvodina and the Belgrade area, which can be
satisfied frcm the local reserves, before any disbursement has been made
for the procurement and construction of the transmission and distribution
facilities south of Belgrade.
5.09      The commercial agreement will provide for the delivery of up to
35,000 million Nm3 of gas during the period 1977 to 1992 inclusive, at a price
comparable to prevailing market prices in Europe. The present evaluation
is based on a price of Din O.290/Nm3 delivered at the Yugoslav-Hungarian
border which is 25% higher than the average price presently charged 1y
the USSR to other European countries (Table 7). The production Unit and
the Borrower have entered into a long-term gas supply contract, which
was approved by the Bank, providing for the supply of up to 40,000 million Nm3
of gas over the next 20 years at a price of Din 0.270/Nm3. About 50% of the
supply price is intended to cover the cost of future exploration in Eastern
Yugoslavia (para. 5.12).
5.10      At the projected rates of consumption and imports, the present
reserves would be exhausted by about 1988. To meet the demand to 1992, an
additional 10,500 million m3 must be assured by either new finds or by
additional imports. It is expected that the additional volumes will be
met from new fi5ds in Serbia. New finds are presently forecast at
5,500 million mJ on the results of shallow drilling undertaken to date,
but this is conservative, since no account is taken of the results of deep



- 16 -
drilling which will commence after 1980, and will largely be financed out
of revenues from the sales of gas to the Borrower.
5.11      About 24% of the total gas supply for the project comes from
the Mokrin field which straddles the Yugoslav/Rumanian border. Rumania
has been exploiting its side at a faster rate than Yugoslavia and it is
believed that about 1,h00 million m3 of gas have migrated froa the
Yugoslav to the Rumanian side. Naftagas is taking measures that should
be effective in preventing further migraticns and Yugoslavia has
concluded a joint exploitation agreement (unitization) with Rumania
(Annex 1, para 11). The draft agreement was reviewed by the Bank and
found satisfactory except that it lacks an arbitration clause.
5.12      The continuous supply of local gas competitive with other
imported or locally produced fuels is essential to the economic and
financial feasibility of the Project0 It was therefore agreed during
negotiations that the Production Unit will have its production and
exploration programs periodically reviewed by specialized consultmats
employed by the Borrower on terms of reference prepared by the Bank.
These consultants will evaluate the production practices and reservoir
data of the various oil and gas fields and the economic feasibility
of further exploration and will keep the Bank informed of the results of
their evaluation. The Production Unit agreed to implement the consultants
recommendations after (.onsultation with the Bank.
C.     Tariffs
5.13      Although the selling price of natural gas is theoretically free,
it has been under Government control since October 1971,following the
general freeze on industrial prices and the Borrower has not been able
to increase its prices, which are presently 60% lower than the price of
competitive fuels. Naftagas has submitted a request to the Federal
Government to lift the freeze and to allow free negotiation of gas prices
between consumers and producers. Naftagast request is supported by the
coal and oil distributors who have asked the Government to reconsider its
fuel pricing policy, (Annex 4).  During negotiations the Government
informed the Bank that, owing to its present price stabilization policy,
it was not in a position to lift the freeze on gas prices.  However, the
Federal Government has indicated that it will allow the Borrower to set
up tariffs  beginning January 1, 1974 at an average rate of at least
Din O.hl/m) of gas sold. This is acceptable to the Bank (Table 24) and
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Borrower has been so authorized
is a condition of effectiveness.  The Federal Government has also guaranteed
that in future it will enable the Borrower to maintain tariffs compatible
with the financial viability of the Borrower (para. 7.11).
5.14      However, whereas the proposed average selling price of gas is
related to cost, there are anomalies in individual tariffs and the Borrower
has hired consultants to carry out a comprehensive tariff study. It was
agreed during negotiations that the results of the study will be available
to the Bank for review prior to July 1st, 1973 and that new tariffs will be
prepared and introduced prior to the first gas delivery from the project.



- 17 -
VI.     ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.    Basis for the Economic Evaluation
6.01      The basis for the economic evaluation is discussed in Annex 3.
The next best alternative to the project consists of (a) the use of imported
fuel oil and LPG to meet the demand of new industrial consumers and part
of the future demand of existing ones,and (b) the use of napEtha to produce
fertilizer.   The comparative costs of alternative fuels to consumers are
analyzed in Tables 14 to 17 and summarized below:
Economic Cost of Alternative Fuels
(Taxes and Custom Duties Excluded)
Din/000 Kcal US$/000 KaJ.
Imported Fuel Oil
low sulphur                                      0.056         0.300
high sulphur                                     0.047         0.275
Locally Produced Coal                               0.106         0.630
Imported LPG                                        O.045         0.265
6.02      The economic cost of the project including the conversion of
consumerst plant is estimated at Din 2,200 million, equivalent to US$129.5
million (Table 18), consisting of Din 1,940 million for the construction of
the treatment facilities and transmission and distribution system and
Din 260 million for the conversion of consumers' plant.   The economic
cost of the gas treatment, transmission and distribution system is lower
than the estimated project cost (para.4.06) since customs duties have been
considered as transfer payments and therefore eliminated.
6.03      Two alternatives have been considered regarding the cost of
locally produced gas depending on whether further exploration costs are
considered as a cost to the project or not.   Differing assumptions have
been made also regarding the rate of conversion from coal and liquid to
gaseous fuels and for the quality of imported fuel oil.
6.04      The economic evaluation is conservative insofar as it does not
account for some important benefits from the project which cannot be
quantified for lack of reliable data.
(a) environmental benefits - gas is a clean fuel and would contribute
to reduction of air pollution which is quite heavy in this area;
(b) developmnntal effects - gas will be used mainly in industries
where its physical and chemical characteristics will help
improve the quality of products mainly in export-oriented
industries  (glass, ceramics, refractories, non-ferrous
metallurgy);



- 18 -
(c)  the only means of gas transmission is by pipeline from the
source of supply to the bumer.   Without the project,
additional large volumes of other fuels would have to be
transported by other modes.   This would greatly worsen the
present serious congestion on railways and highways which has
already been an obstacle to the development of the region.
6.05      A detailed description of the assumptions used in the economic
evaluation is given in Annex 4.   Under the most conservative assumptions,
the rate of discount which equalizes the cost streams of the project and
the next best alternative is 16% ; under the most optimistic assumptions
it is over 40%.   The most probable rate is 23% (Table 19), taking into
account the most likely values of the various parameters, conservative
timing for the conversion to gas, and provision for further exploration to
maintain the existing reserves.
6.o6      If negotiations with the USSR and Hungary for the import of
additional gas fail, and therefore the construction of stages 2 and 3
is not carried out, the demand of Vojvodina and the Belgrade area could
be ensured from the local reserves and Stage 1 would be economically
justified in itself (Annex 4),
B.     Employment
6.07      Construction of the project will have a direct, although short-
lived, effect on employment since direct labor costs will be of the order of
US$25 million equivalent.   In the longer term, completion of the project
will greatly expand the Borrower's work force and operating labor costs
are forecast to rise from a current annual Us$1.5 million to US$)4,5 million
equivalent in 1982.   The project will also benefit employment in the
Production Unit and in gas consumer enterprises by permitting expansion.
Since conversion from coal to hydrocarbons is inevitable, for cost reasons,
the proposed project will not accelerate the closure of uneconomical coal
mines (para. 2.09).



- 19 -
VII.     FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.     Introduction
7.01      The legal form of past revenue accounts and balance sheets
have been restated in conventional form by Naftagas staff who also
prepared estimated accounts and balance sheets for 1972, based upon
the latest available figures, and the forecasts. Those statements
have been modified as necessary for this analysis.
7.02      Bases and assumptions used in the forecasts are given in
Annex 5 together with information on certain financial matters. The
purchase and selling prices of gas and the question of tariffs are
discussed in Chapter 5 (paras. 5.09 and 5.13) and Annex 4. The
financial forecasts are those of the Borrower as a whole and include
sales of LPG and services as well as natural gas. They exclude the
costs and financing of training of Social Accounting Service Staff
(paras. 4.05 and 7.12 ), since they do not affect the Borrower's
finances.   Revenue Accounts are given in Table 21, Cash Flow
Statements in Table 22, and Balance Sheets in Table 23.
B.     Financial Evaluation
Revenues (Table 21)
7.03      The capacity of the system after completion of the project will
be about seven times that of the present system so that a comparisan of the
future earning capacity and financial situation of the Borrower with the
present situation is not strictly relative. The new facilities will come
into operation progressively from late 1974. when additional revenues will
be earned and capital recovery from depreciation will commence. Representative
revenue accounts are summarized below for 1972, 1977 (the first full year
after completion of the project), and 1982.
Din Millions
1972             1977            1982
Operating Revenues                                                       u1kl  16126  QZ6=
Operating Excpenses                    209.4          1,169.5          1,544.5
Depreciation                        39.2             131.8            140.5
Gross Operating Surplus                 23.1            238.0            362.5
Interest Income                         0.7               1.8               0.7
Amortization of deferred debits          -                24.2             24.3
Net Operating Surplus (before
interest expense)                                     ailk             Il8i&
Operating Ratios                        91%               85%              82%
Interest coverage                        h.7x              1.8x             3.8x
Debt Service coverage                                      1.9x             2.4x
Financial Rate of Return:
Gross fixed assets                  7.5%            10.0%            14.3%



- 20 -
7.04      Interest and total debt service ratios are satisfactory, the
former rising from 1.8 times in 1977 to 3.8 times in 1982 and the latter
from 1.9 to 2.4 times. Since the present depreciation policy of the
Borrower results in total recovery of capital invested in about 20 years,
a financial rate of return based on average net fixed assets would not
be appropriate in this case; such a rate would increase fran about 12.0%
in 1977 to infinity in the 1990s in the absence of further expansion. A
financial rate of return on gross fixed assets would be more relevant
and this would vary between 10.0% and 14.7%, averaging nearly 13% during
the period 1977 to 1982; this would be satisfactory.
Cash Flow - Construction Period
7.05      The Borrower's total cash flow for the years 1973-19-82 is given
in Table 22, pages 1 and 2; for the project construction period, 1973-1976,
it is summarized below. The finance plan for the project is summarized
in para. 4.09.
Din Million
Funds Required                                                            %
Investments:
IBRD project                      2,057.9
Interest during construction        152.0
Other                               166.1          2,376.o
Sources of Funds
loans:
IBRD (excluding SAS)              1,003.0
Belgrade Bank                       506.9
Other                                97.3          1,607.2           67
New Equity Capital:
Grants from Serbia and Vojvodina   450.o
Naftagas and Production Unit        200.0           650.o            28
Internally Generated
Operating Surplus and
Depreciation                     549.7
Less: -Debt Service          150.7
-Increase in working
capital and reserves  87.7
-Loans and contri-
butions              122.4
-Bank commissions      15.4  376.2
173.5
Deduct accumulated cash surplus           54.7
Borrower's contribution to
investment                                             I18.8            5
2,376.0          100



- 21 -
7.06      The cash flow analysis indicates that there will be cash shortages
during 1974 and 1975. However, this is after making considerable provision
for increases in operating working capital, loans, contributions to housing
funds and contributions to Naftagas common funds, many of which provisions
are voluntary. Further, it does not take account of the project working
capital of Din 70 million required by Law and included in the project costs.
Finally, provision is made for other investments, which could be delayed if
necessary. It is therefore unlikely that the Borrower will be faced with
the necessity to raise short-term loans to cover temporary cash shortages
during the construction period. In any case, financing of the project is
assured (para. 4.05) and funds to meet cost overruns are guaranteed by the
Belgrade Bank (para. 7.07), under its Loan Agreement. Since the Borrower
would not generate funds during the construction period to pay interest on
the Bank loan disbursements, the financing of interest during construction
under the loan is necessary. This also applies to the Belgrade Bank loan
and that Bank will also finance interest during construction on its loan.
Presently interest during construction on the Bank loan and the Belgrade
Bank loan are estimated at US$6 million and Din 50 million respectively.
7.07      During loan negotiations, a draft Joint Venture Agreement between
the Borrower, Naftagas and the Production Unit, under which the two latter
concerns will contribute equity capital of Din 50 million and Din 150 mil-
lion respectively to the project costs was reviewed and a revised document
agreed upon. A draft agreement between the Borrower and the Belgrade Bank
was also reviewed and approved, under which that bank would lend Din 456.9
million towards the cost of the project, plus interest during construction.
Details are given in Annex 5. Effectiveness of both agreements are condi-
tions of effectiveness of the Loan.
7.08      The Laws under which the Government of Serbia and Vojvodina will
provide by way of grants respectively Din 200 million and Din 250 million,
towards the cost of the project through Naftagas were also reviewed during
negotiations and found satisfactory. However, agreements will be entered
into between the Governments and Naftagas specifying the procedures under
which the funds will be made available to the Borrower. Execution of these
agreements also will be a condition of effectiveness.
Future Cast Funds Position
7.09      The only further extension of the gas distribution system fore-
seen at present is a possible extension in southeastern Yugoslavia (Kosovo,
Bosnia and Macedonia), which may be constructed between 1978 and 1981 at
a total cost of Din 505 million. This investment has not been taken into
account in the forecasts but could be largely financed by the Borrower
from its own sources, with additional debt to cover foreign exchange costs.
A statement of available funds derived from the Cash Flow Statement, after
completion of the present project, to 1982, is given below, taking the
possible extension into account.



- 22 -
Din Million
Unused at December 31, 1976                        54.7
Surplus 1977-1982                                 356.o
U10.7
Extension to Kosovo and Macedonia                 505.o
Deficit to be financed
Balance Sheets (Table 23)
7.10     The balance sheet position indicates an acceptable situation
estimated at the end of 1972, but with no funds for investment in the
project. After completion of the project, the financial situation
becomes progressively and rapidly stronger; the debt/equity ratios
will be satisfactory, being highest at the end of 1976 at a moderate
62/38 and falling to 43/57 in 1982 . Subject to any further
substantial expansion, all debt will be extinguished by 1993.
Financial Objectives
7.11     The financial analysis indicates that, with an average gas selling
price of Din 0.41 per Nm3 (para. 5.13), at snch prices, the Borrower will
be able to meet its obligations, 4ncludimg payment of dividends to
Naftagas and the ^roduction Unit in accordance with the Joint Venture
Agreement, maintain adequate working capital and finance a reasonable
part of future expansion. During loan negotiations the following
assurances were obtained:
(a) depreciation rates will be set, based on economic
asset lives, acceptable to the Bank;
(b) tariffs will be set to earn a financial rate of
return of at least 10% on gross fixed assets in use;
(c) the Borrower will, at intervals of not less than
one year, submit its investment program to the Bank
for review;
(d) the Borrower will not undertake any project other than
the present project, which, in the opinion of the
Bank would prejudice the present project or the Borrower's
financial situation or operational efficiency; and
(e) the Borrower will not incur any further debt if thereby
total interest coverage would be less than 1.5 times.
C.     Audit
7.12     The Borrower has undertaken to appoint independent com-
petent auditors. The Guarantor has undertaken to carry out
a training program, beginning not later than January 15, 1974, of
members of the staff of the Social Accounting Service with the
objective of enabling such staff members to carry out audits in
accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank and to others.



- 23 -
The Guarantor has also requested the Bank to provide, in the present
loan, up to US$400,000 to cover the foreign exchange costs of such
a program. An agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, for the Borrower
to relend this anount to the SAS is a condition of effectivenes.



- 24 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS
8.01      During loan negotiations agreement was reached with the Borrower,
Naftagas, the Production Unit, the Belgrade Bank and the Government on the
Finance Plan (para. 7.05) and on the timing of investment contributions
(para. 7.08). The agreements referred to in paras. 7.07 and 7.08, the
Belgrade Bank loan agreement and the Serbia and Vojvodina Laws for the
provisions of funds for the project were reviewed and found satisfactory.
8.02      During loan negotiations the Belgrade Bank agreed to guarantee
the provision of funds to cover possible cost overruns, such funds to be
provided on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
8.03      During loan negotiations the following events were agreed as
conditions of effectiveness:
(a) the execution and effectiveness of the following agreements
(i) the Joint Veinture Agreement between the Borrower,
Naftagas and the Production Unit (para. 7.07);
(ii) the long-term gas supply contract and the lease agree-
ment between the Borrower and the Production Unit
(paras. 4.22 and 5.09);
(iii) the agreements between the Republic of Serbia and the
Autonomous Province of Vojvodina and Naftagas to specify
the procedure under which the funds provided by the two
Governments will be made available to the Borrower
(para. 7.08);
(iv) the loan agreement between the Borrower and the Belgrade
Bank (para. 7.07);
(v) the subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
the Social Accounting Service (para. 7.12);
(b) the execution, ratification by appropriate court, and effective-
ness of the two Self-Management agreements referred to in
para. 3.05. Such agreements to be satisfactory to the Bank,
(c) submission, by the Federal Government, of evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that the Borrower is allowed to set its tariffs,
beginning January 1, 1974l, at an average rate of at least
Din 0A1/m3 of gas sold (para. 5.13).
8.04      It is recommende& that supervisory consulting services be financed
retroactively up to a maximum of US$150,000 equivalent (para. 4.20).
8.0;%     On the basis of the foregoing the Project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$59.4 million equivalent for a period of 20 years including four
years of grace.



ANNEX 1
Page I
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
Energy Reserves in Yugoslavia
Gas Supp3y for the Project
1.       In addition to water power resources, Yugoslavia possesses mary
mineral deposits. The extent of these mineral resources was not appre-
ciated before 1945. Intensive geological research has been carried out
since then to establish their precise location, size and range. The
result has been a very substantial increase in the extent of known, prob-
able and recoverable reserves. Prospecting continues and there is every
chance of further upward assessments of the reserves.
2.       Known and probable energy reserves in Yugoslavia amount to
about 12,000 million tons of petroleum equivalent (tep), equivalent to
about 1,000 years of the 1972 consumption, placing Yugoslavia among the
first ten European countries with about 600 tep energy resources per
capita. Hydro potential and coal are of almost equal importance with
respectively 48% and 43% of the total reserves; natural gas and oil
account for the balance.
Coal
3.       Although coal reserves are important, 97% is low grade coal,
(brown coal and lignite) with high moisture and ash content. Domestic
coals are unsuitable for coke and gas manufacture and can only be used
economically in power generation and steam raising. Efforts have been
made to improve the quality of domestic coals by briqueting, drying and
mixing techniques, but the results have not always been satisfactory and
industrial consumers are more and more rapidly switching over to liquid
fuels.
4.       Approximately 15% of the brown coal reserves are located in east
central Serbia, around Despotovac-Senjski-Rudnik and Aleksinac. The largest
reserves of lignite are located in Kosovo, Kostolac, Kreka and Kolubara.
In total, Serbia possesses nearly half of Yugoslavia's total coal resources.
5.       Between 1939 and 1965, coal production in Yugoslavia increased from
6 million tons to 30 million tons and coal played a key role in the indus-
trialization of the country. Expansion has been achieved by rationalization,
closing down small high cost mines, especially in Croatia and Slovenia, and
by replacing primitive underground lignite mines by large open pit mines.
As a result, importaait shifts in the location of coal production occurred and
Serbia and Kosovo have emerged as significant producers. Since 1965, hcwever,
coal production has stagnated, and in certain cases has declined slightly.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
o.       In the future, there is little expectation for domestic coal to
play a significant role in the supply of energy- to the modern industrial
and residential sectors. Rising transport and handling costs have increased
the cost of coal, which is less and less competitive with refined oil
products. According to Government plans, coal will be used primarily in
large scale thermal power plants constructed near or on the coal deposit.
Une of the factors preventing the fature use of coal, in domestic as well
as in industrial sectors, is high air pollution in the coal consuming areas.
Oil and Natural Gas
7.       About fifteen years ago, the combined oil and natural gas reserves
were estimated to be about 10 million tep. Subsequent drillings revealed
much larger resources and in 1970, the recoverable oil and gas reserves
were estimated at 200 million tep.   Domestic production of oil had risen
to about 3 million tons by31970, while the production of natural gas re-
mained below 1.0 billion m per year for lack of transmission and distribu-
tion facilities to develop the existing fields.
8.       Most of the oil and gas reserves are concentrated in Croatia,
Slovenia and Serbia, which, according to recent estimates possesses more than
30% of the known oil and gas reserves. The prospect for further oil dis-
coveries in Yugoslavia is difficult to assess as only the shallow structures
have been explored. It is estimated that only 50% of the potential con-
tinental structures have been explored and that the exploration of the
remaining 50% would require deeper drilling. Offshore prospecting has
started in the Adriatic sea, but although some structures look promising,
no industrial deposits have yet been discovered.
Assessment of the Gas Reserves Available to Serve the Project
9.       Over the twenty Sears ending in 1992, the projected gas sales will
amount to 75.45 billion m  of natural gas (Table 20).  Of this quantity,
34.80 billion m3, or 46%, will be imported from Hungary.  No first-hand
information has been obtained on the Hungarian gas reserves, but according
to various te5hnical publications, Hungary has reserves of approximately
100 billion m , half of which lie in the Algyr field, not far from the
Yugoslav border. Gas imports from Hungary for the project are expected to
reach a level of 2.50 billion mJ per year by 1985; production from the
Algyb field should be at this level in 1975. Programmed additions to the
natural gas treating capacity at Algyd call for increases of 2.9 billion m3
per year in 1973 and 1974. It appears, therefore, that from-the standpoints
of reserves, deliverability and treating capacity, Hungary should have no
problem in meeting its commitments to Yugoslavia.
10.      The remainder of the gas svpply for the project, 40.65 billion m3,
or 54% of the total requirements, will be provided by reserves, which lie
in Vojvodina. An independent appraisal of the Naftagas reserves was made
for the Bank by Franlab, a reservoir consulting Department of Institut



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Francais du Petrole, located in Paris. This firm estimates the recoverable
reserves at 30.2 billion m3 and the probable new finds at 5.5 billion m3,
which would made a total 35.7 billion m-' available for the project versus a
requirement of 40.65 billion m3 indigenous sources.  The shortage, 4.95
billion m3, or 6.5% of total requirements, is expected to be made up by
either additional imports or by additional discoveries over the 5.5 billion
mJ estimated by Franlab.  It should be noted that the estimate of additional
discoveries is conservative, since it covers a span of only 10 years, and
it excludes exploratory drilling at deep levels, which will be started
after 1980.
11.      Sixty percent of the Vojvodina proven reserves (24% of the project
requirements) lie in the Mokrin field which extends into Romania, where it
is called the Teremya field. Rumania has been producing the field at a
relatively faster pace than Yugoslavia with the result that approximatel2y
1.4 billion m3 of Yugoslav gas have migrated to Rumania.  Naftagas is taking
measures to prevent further gas migration to Rumania; these include drilling
driving wells along the border, shifting production from Mokrln South to
Mokrin North and accelerating the construction of the Mokrin-Elemir con-
densate pipeline so that it can be used temporarily to transport the gas
produced near the Rumanian border. Ordinarily, a unitization agreement is
required for successful joint exploitation of a hydrocarbon reservoir.
In the Mokrin case, however, the Bank's reservoir consultants advised that,
because of the lack of a reservoir water drive and because of the relative
impermeability and consolidated nature of the reservoir rock, it is not
likely that severe damage to the field will result from inefficient
production practices. However, discussions with Tumania, at government
level, towards a joint exploitation agreement (unitization) have been
concluded and the Yugoslav Government advised the Bank that an agreement
was signed with Rumania.
Imports of Gas from the USSR
12.      Yugoslavia is presently negotiating the importation of natural
gas from the USSR through Hungary. These negotiations are taking place
within the framework of the trade agreements negotiated periodically be-
tween Yugoslavia and the USSR, and dealing with the exchange of raw mater-
ials and manufactured goods. Under a swap agreement with Hungary, Hungary
would use gas delivered from the USSR to the Budapest area and deliver the
equivalent volume to Yugoslavia from their Algyd field located near the
Yugoslav border, thus saving the cost of transport through Hungary (see
Map 2).
13.      Agreement has already been reached in principle for the delivery
of 3 to 4 billion m3/year by 1980, with a provision for a further increase
of 0.5 billion m3/year after 1985, of which 40% would be delivered to



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Industrija Maf'te (:lin) in Slovenia, the remainder being used by Naftagas
to supplement its oma production. The volumes to be delivered to Nafta-
gas at the Yugoe1avA!mwzgarian border have already been agreed upon, but
the price at which the.gas would be sold has not yet been determined;
however, it is expected to be fixed by compariaen vith exsting contracts
between the USSR and other European countries (Cse Table 7). An agree-
ment on the price str-Uture and the price escalation formula is expected
to be entered into prior to October 31, 1974. It has been agreed bitween
Naftagas and Hungary that a transport cost equivalent to US0l/100 mi will
be charged to Naf'tagae to account for the transport from the Russian
border to the Budapest area.
14.      The terms of the Nafsagas contract with the USSR will provift  for
the delivery of 2.0 billion M/Y from 1977 to 1985, and 2.5 billion X /Y
onwards, and would cover a period of a minimuna of 15 years.
Other Possible Future Sources of Gas
15.      Besides its own production and imports from the USSR, Yugoslavia
is looking for other sources of gas to expand the project to Bosnia and
Macedonia. Natural gas is becoming an international comnodity and there
is already an extensive transmission system in Europe. The USSR, which
is the main continental supplier has expressed its willingness to export
increasing volumes to the rest of Europe, and there are already two proj-
ects which could provide more gas for Yugoslavia. One pipeline will be
built to connect Bulgaria (Sofia) with the Russian gas fields and could
be connected to the system near Nis and supply gas to expand the system
to Skopje. Another pipeline is projected to supply Italy through Austria
and could be connected to the Naftagas system and enable it to exand to
Sarajevo. Hovever, nothing definite has yet been decided on these two
possibilities, but it is likely that the Naftagas system would eventually
be integrated into the East European gas sy*tem, and therefore, would
benefit from alternative sources of supply (see Map 2).



ANNEX 2
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSKISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
The Demand for Natural Gas
In Relation to Total Energy Demand
A. General:
1.        Within the framework of their long term development plan,
1970-1985, the Governments of Serbia and Vojvodina have prepared long
term projections for energy demand. These projections are based on
an analysis of past trends, a comparison with other countries and the
future development of the economy. Over the past 5 to 7 years total
energy demand in Serbia and Vojodina has grown at an average rate of
about 8% per annum and in 1970 it was estimated that per capita consum
consumption was equivalent to about 0.9 t.e.p. or slightly below the
world average. The reasons for such a low consumption were (a) the
predominance of agriculture; (b) the low level of car ownership; and
(c) the relatively low number of modern housing facilities.
2.        During the period 1966-1970 substantial progress was made in
developing and modernizing industry thraigh concentration of production
and acquisition of new equipment. In 1970, less than 2% of industrial
enterprises accounted for more than 20% of the industrial production,
and automatic equipment for more than 50% of the machincery used.
Industrial production has grown at an average rate of 6% per annum
while agriculture grew at only 3%. The most dynamic branches were ferrous
and non ferrous metallurgy, chemicals, electric construction and food
processing.
3.        The current economic development plan (1971-1976) indicates
that this trend will continue. Industrial production will grow at an
average annual rate of 8 to 10% and will absorb more than 50% of total
investments. The development of production based on locally produced
raw materials will be emphasized especially in chemicals, which are
expected to use petroleum and gas produced and processed in Vojvodina.
Regarding agriculture, the plan foresees a faster mechanization and
the production of quality products which will be processed on location
to supply the local demand and for exports. It is also indicated that
more attention will be paid to the decentralization of economic activities
to avoid congestion in the Belgrade area, this will be achieved by
developing medium size cities and by creating modern housing facilities.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        The long term objectives of the Government planners are to
bring Serbia and Vojvodina to the present level of development of
Western Europe by 1985. Per capita income which was estimated at
Us$650 in 1970 is expected to increase to Euro ean levels within
the next 15 years and substantial changes are Wreseen in the structure
of the active population since the secondary (manufacturing) and
tertiary sectors (services, adminstration) will expand at the expense
of the primary sector (mining and agriculture).
Distribution of the Active Population
1970          1985
Primary Sector                          26            15
Secondary Sector                       42             51
Tertiary Sector                         32            34
j00           100
5.        These changes in the structure of the economy will be
reflected in an increased demand for better quality energy. The
plan foresees that between 1971 and 1976 the demand for oil products
will double the demand for natural gas quadruple and the demand for power
double. The Government planners consider that the provision of an
adequate energy supply is essential to the success of their program
and that failure to meet the demand would result in the postponment or
even cancellation of parts of the program. It has been estimated that
if the proposed project is not carried out there is no other possibility
to develop economically the fertilizer and chemical industry in Vojvodina
and the rate of growth of industrial production would likely be lower
by 2 to 3% than expected.
6.        The mission has reviewed the projections for total energy
demand prepared by the Government in light of the development plan and
has found them reasonable.
(a) demand projection for coal: the Government rightly believes
that local coal is not suitable for modern industry and should be used
principally in power generation and in urban central heating plants. The
demand projections have been calculated assuming future technological
improvements in usage and the assumptions made are in line with industry
practices.
(b) demand projection for hydrocarbons: the projections of the
demand for hydrocarbons are realistic for the following reasons:
i. heavy hydrocarbons and natural gas will displace low grade
coal in the industrial sector and therefore grow at a faster rate than
the average;



ANNEX 2
Page 3
ii. the demand for light and middle distillates (gasoline, naphtha
and diesel oil) will continue to grow at a rapid pace following the
expansion of the road transport residential and chemical sectors
7.        The projected rate of growth of 11.5 per annum, which is
comparable to the average growth in the demand for hydrocarbons in
the OEMD European countries from 1955 to 1969, has therefore be retained
for analysis purposes.
Averagre Rate of Growth Per Annum of Hydrocarbons
in OECD European Countries
(1955-1969)
Grude Oil                                          12.5%
Natural Gas                                         18.5%
Hydrocarbons                                       13%
Source: OECD Statistics of Energy (1955-1969)
8.        This plan is a first attempt to quantify energy requirements
in Serbia and Vojvodina and to allocate fuels to various usages. The
original projections have already been revised to account for recent
economic changes; however, the changes which were introduced do not
conflict with the major orientations and rather confirm the past trends
According to the latest data the structure of net energy will demand as
follows.
Projected Demand for Net Energy'
1970             1985
Volumes    %        Volumes      %
Electricity                             0.75     14         3.45      16
Coal                                    1.90     37         2.20      11
Hydrocarbons                            2.90     52        15.00      73
3       12.65                100
1/ Net energy = Gross energy less losses and internal uses



ANNEX 2
Page 4
The Demand for Hydrocarbons
Liquid F*8e1o
9.        In 1970 light and middle distillates accounted for 64% of
the total deiand for refined products and fuel oils and residuals only
for 36%.  This structure of demand did not fit the yield pattern of the
Serbian refineries which are presently fuel-oil oriented. Light and
middle distillates had to be imported from other refineries which had an
excess in these products. Although the share of fuel oil will increase
in the future the demand for refined products will remain imbalanced
(Table 3 )
10.       There are two possibilities to meet the expected demand:
(a) to build simple refineries with capacities large enough
to meet the demand for fuel oil. The result would be a deficit in
light and medium products which would have to be imported;
(b) to build complex refineries, at a higher cost, with
capacities large enough to meet the demand for light and middle distillates.
The result would be a shortage in heavy fuels which would have to be
imported or substituted for by alternative fuels such as natural gas.
The economic comparison of the two alternatives shows that the second
solution is more economical and has a net present value, at 10% discount
rate over 15 years, which is lower by US$200 million that the net present
value of the first alternative. The second alternative has therefore
been retained by the two Regional Governments as the basis for the
development of further refinery capacities and it has also been decided
that natural gas would be substituted for imported fuel oil to the maximum
economic extent,
B. Natbural Gas
11.       Natural gas has been used in Vojvodina since 1965 to supply
some industrial consumers and a fertilizer plant located at Pancevo
(Table 12 ). Although substantial reserves exist in Vojvodina their
development has been postponed because of the lack of resources to
build treatnent, transmission and distribution facilities. The current
social development plan provides for the creation and development of
these facilities and for an increased utilization of locally produced
natural gas which will be sumplemented by imports from the USSR.
Natural gas will cover three fields:
(a) supply to existing industrial consumers;
(b) supply to a fertilizer plant and its projected expansion
(c) supply to new consumers which are presently using coal
or fuel oil but which would change over to gas.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
The Demand for Natural Gas
12.       The Borrower, assisted by consultants, has carried out a market
survey of the potential demand for gas in Vojvodina and Serbia. The
market survey only covered the industrial sector and central urban heating
and power generation plants. Domestic consumers were not included.
13.       The conclusions of the market survey could be summarized as
follows:
(a) at a price based on calorific value parity with fuel
oil the potential demand for natural gas in Vojvodina and Serbia exceeds
the possibilities of the local supply;
(b) because of the advantages of natural gas over competitive
fuels (cleanliness, flexibility, continuous supply, etc.) potential
consumers are willing to participate in the creation of transmission
and distribution facilities through commercial loans to the Borrower and
to bear the cost of the change over from their present fuel to gas.
14.       On the basis of the market investigation and the supply
possibilities from local as well as external sources, the Borrower
selected those potential consumers which presented the most suitable
characteristics of consumption and has prepared a sales programme
until 1985 (Table 13    ).  According to this program, natural gas
sales should increase from 700 million m3 in 1972 to about 4,800 million
fn3 in 1985.
15.       The mission reviewed the program and found that the Borrower's
assumptions on the probable volumes of sales were realistic and in certain
cases conservative. This program has been agreed upon by the selected
consumers who were asked, in September, to confirm their readiness to
use gas once the pipeline system is completed and to indicate the likely
evolution of their offtakes in the future. At present consumers accounting
for about 40% of the future consumption have answered the Borrower's
questionnaires and have supplied the information requested, negotiations
are continuing with the remainder.
Structure of the Gas Market
16.       Natural gas will complement rather than compete with other
fuels, and more particularily with liquid fuels.  The projected facilities
will provide gas to about 145 consumers in Serbia and Vojvodina. The 10
largest consumers represent 54% of the 1980 sales volumes the Pancevo
ferttilizer plant alone accounting for 17% of the 1980 consumption.
17.       The distribution of future consumers by branches of Industry
is shown on Table 13, Page 3. The major industrial consumer is the
the fertilizer and chemical industry which will use gas as feedstock as



Annex 2
Page 6
as well as fuel. Fuel usage will account for about 40% of the sales.
Other major industrial branches are (a) building material plants
(cement, bricks..) where gas will substantially increase the yield and
the quality of the products; (b) food and beverage processing plants
and (c) ateel and ferrous industries consisting of a number of large
manufacturing plants (Smederovo, Bar ..) where the cleanliness and
flexibility of gas will improve the operation. No gas distribution
to domestic customers is envisaged, but there are some large urban
central heating plants among the future consumers. In these plants
gas will be used instead of heavy fuel oil and/or low grade coal and
will contribute to reduction of air pollution, which, despite emission
control regulations, is quite heavy in that part of the country.



ANidEA v
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEK
Basis for the Economic Evaluation of the Project
A. General
1.         The project is a component of a medium term investment program
which will contribute to the achievemcant of the 'east cost supply of ener-
gy in Serbia and Vojvodina. The benefits accruing to this project are of
tlree types:
(a) bavings in the use of fuels. Tshese benefits must be stated
in terms of alternative fuel costs at the burners of the gas
users. The substitution of locally produced and imported natural
gas and LPG will minimize the economic cost of supplying energy
to the consumers.
(b)  Environmental benefits resulting from a reduction of the
air pollution created by the use of low grade coal and fuel oil.
Although these benefits can hardly be quantified at the present
time, they will be substantial. The industrial areas of Seroia
and Vojvodina and more particularly the Belgrade area are affected
by smog created by the emission of pollutants resulting from the
use of coal and fuel oil. The use of gas will considerably re-
duce the emission of pollutants (unburned particles and sulphur)
and will contribute to an improvement of the situation.
(c) development benefits - Gas is a high quality fuel which is
particularly convenient in building material, glass and ceramic,
non-ferrous metallurgy and fertilizer industries. The future
supply of gas to these branches forms the bulk of the gas sales,
about 60% in 1980, and gas will contribute to an improvement of
the quality of the manufactured products. This is particularly
important for the export-oriented industries, such as ceramic,
glass, refractory materials, in which Yugoslavia has already at-
tained an international reputation. in the fertilizer industry
(Pancevo) gas will be an ideal material which will be used as
feed stock as well as fuel thus minimizing the investment costs.
It is estimated that the initial investment for a natural gas fed
plant is 10 to 15% lower than the cost of a i.aphtha plant. The
availability of low cost fertilizers is particularly important in
a region which will remain predominantly agricultural for a period
of 10 to 15 years.
2.         As explained in Annex 2 the development of the supply of hydro-
carbons in the hastern part of Yugoslavia is based on the following premises:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(a) the utilization of refining process oriented towards the
production of light and middle distillates;
(b)  the utilization of locally produced and imported natural
gas and LPG to supplerment the production of fuel oil in order
to achieve the least cost supply of energy.
Therefore the cost of the project has been compared to the cost
of the next best alternative i.e., :Liporting fuel oil, LPG and naphtha in
quantities equivalent to the projected gas sales.
B. Main Assumption Used for the Evaluation
Cost of locally produced gas
3.         two different alternativeo have been considered regarding the
cost lof locally produced gas.
Alternative T: the cost of local gas has Deen calculated on the basis of
direct operating costs, not accounting rcr previous investments in oil
and gas exploration, drilling and field developme.xt. The investments needed
to uevelop the fields and ensure the production have been included in the
cost stream of the project as and when they occur.
Alternative II: The cost of local gas has been calculated taking into ac-
count a provision for the reconstitution of the reserves, which will be used
in further exploration and new field development. Conceptually this could
be considered as preferential use of part of the benefits of the project to
extend its economic life beyong the 20 years considered in the analysis.
Cost of imported gas
4.         The economic cost of imported gas has been estimated to YD 290/rmn
equivalent to US$0.017/m3. This price is the maximu-mw price that Naftagas
intends to pay for the gas delivered from USSR through Hungary.  No adjust-
ment has been mace for a shadow rate of exchange as the value of the gas is
expected tD be calculated on the basis of the official Yugoslav rate i.e.
US$l = Din 17.
Cost of alternative fuels
ln estimating the price of tne various fuels, custom duties and
taxes have been considered as transfer payments and therefore excluded from
the calculations.  The following alternative fuels have been considereq.
ta)  iiquid Fuels:  uow sulphur fuel oil (less than 1% sulphur)
to be comparative with the purity of natural gas.. This type of
fuel oil is more expensive than the normal type (3.5% su4phur)
but would have the same enviromnental effect as natural gas.
(b)  aolid ruel: iocally produced brown coal with a gross calorific
value of 3,400 Kcal/kg. The estimated cost of the various fuels
are given in tables3 14 to 17).



ANNEX 3
Page 3
6.         Although the use of high sulphur fuel oil would eliminate the
environmental benefits, the sensitivity of the economic feasibility of
the project to lower cost of fuel oil has been tested, by calculating the
effect of the use of high sulphur fuel oil on the rate of discount which
equalize the. cost streams of the various alternatives.
Rate of conversion
Y.         Ln the absence of gas, the industrial consumers who are still
using coal would progressively change over to fuel oil.  The speed at which
such conversion would be carried out would affect the economic feasibility
of the project. Therefore two alternatives have been considered.
(a) Alternative I: by 1976, coal would be completely eliminated
from the industrial sector;
(b)  Alternative II: coal would progressively disappear over the
next 15 years and would be completely eliminated from the indus-
trial sector in 1990.
Economic evaluation
8.         The rate of discount which equalize the costs streams of the
various alternatives varies from 18% under the worst assumptions. (use of
high sulphur fuel oil, fast rate of conversion and provision for the recons-
truction of reserves) to about 40% under the best assumption (use of low
sulphur fuel oil slow rate of conversion and no provision for reconstituting
reserves).
9.         Best estimate of the rate o. discount which equalizes the cost
streams of the two alternatives is 28% based on the following premises.
(a) Local Gas: the provision for reconstituting the reserves has
been included as a cost to this project because the physical lif-
of the pipeline will exceed the 20 years considered in the analysis
and this provision represents the investment required to either
continue the supply of gas or build alternative means of production;
(b) Alternative Fuels: the main substitute will be low sulphur fuel
(il, especially in the industrialized urban areas.  tiowever, it is
very likely that in the absence of strong regulation on pollution
control high sulphur fuel oil would be used in some areas. There-
rore the mission has considered a mixture of the two fuels in about
equal ratios;
(c) Rate of Conversion: it is physically unLikely that coal could
be completely eliminated by 1976, however, it is expected that the
industrial users would favor a relatively fast conversion. It has
therefore been estimated that coal would be completely eliminated
by 1985
10.        The 28% rate of discount which equalizes the cost streams of the
two alternatives is in excess of the opportunity of capital in Yugoslavidi which
is estimated at 12%.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
11.       The southern part of the project is only justifiable if gas
is imported from the USSR through Hungary. Should this gas not be
available, then the project would have to be limited to the construction
of the facilities needed to supply the industrial market in Vojvodina
and in the Belgrade area. Even in this case, the project would be econ-
omically justified and the rate discount which equalizes the cost atreams
of the project and of the next best alternative would be of the order of
15 to 20%.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
APPFiAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTPIBUTION SYSTEM
Basis for the Determination of the Selling Price of Gas
A.   General:
1.        Theoretically natural gas prices have been free since 1965
however, since October 1970, they have been controlled by the Government
following decisions to freeze the price of industrial products to fight
inflation. Prices of competitive fuels, including fuel oil, have been
adjusted twice to account for increases in the world price of crude oil.
Presently the price of gas is lower by 60% than fuel oil prices. Naftagas
and INA, the only prod.cers of gas in Yugoslavia, have requested that the
freeze on gas prices be lifted and that they be allowed to fix the price
of gas by mutual agreement with their consumers. Because of its stabili-
zation policy, the Government cannot lift the freeze of the gas price,
but has decided to increase the average price of gas in time to enable the
Borrower to earn an average revenue of at least Din 0.41/m3 of gas sold
beginning January 1, 1974. This is acceptable to the Bank.
B.   Proposed Selling Price:
2.        The determination of an adequate selling price for natural gas
has always been a controversial subject. Gas being a substitute to other
fuels, the potential users must find an incentive to change over to gas
and therefore the maximum price that the market would allow is limited
upwards by the price of alternative fuels. From the producers point of
view the price at which the gas is sold should cover the cost of production,
treatment, transmission and distribution, provide for further exploration
to maintain the reserves which are being used up and a reasonable profit.
3.        Depending on the source of supply and the structure of the
market the ap between the minimum level acceptable to the producer and
the maximum Tevel agreeable to the consumer varies considerably. In
Yugoslavia the inadequacy of the local supply of energy and the relatively
small size of the producing gas fields tend to reduce this gap and limit
the possible fluctuation ofthe price of gas within a relatively small
bracket.
4.        The approach used by the Borrower to fix the average selling
price of the gas is adequate insofar as it is based on the parity price
of the net thermal unit and takes into account the cost of conversion
which will be carried out at the consumer expenses. The average price



ANNEX 4
Page 2
calculated by Naftagas is Din 0.410/m3 for fuel usage (Table 20) and Din
0.380 for usage as feed stock in the fertilizer industry. These prices
adequately cover costs. The average prices have been discussed with
consumers who found them attractive enough to justify the change over.
Tariffs
5.        The Borrower has prepared a tariff based on the scaling down
of the price of gas according to the volume of the annual consumption.
The mission reviewed the tariffs and found them inadequate and inequitable.
The tariff structure proposed by the Borrower does not take into account
the various types of costs, and does not provide incentives for the con-
sumers to regulate theirdemand. The Borrower agreed with the mission's
suggestion to undertake a comprehensive tariff study based on the analysis
of demand related and consumer related costs. The mission provided the
teruis of reference of the study and agreed on the choice of the Economic
Institute of Belgrade as executing agency. The study should be completed
in time for the tariffs to be implemented before the first gas deliveries.
6.        In future Naftagas intention is to link the price of gas to the
price of fuel oil. This policy is in accordance with normal industry
practice in Europe and should enable the Borrower to maintain its profit-
ability. The Borrower will enter into long-term sales contracts with the
castomers. The sales contract will define the delivery conditions and
will include inter alia price escalation clauses linking the price of gas
to the price of alternative fuels. Within the framework of the tariff
study, the Economic Institute of Belgrade is in charge of preparing a
draft sales contract which will be submitted to the Bank for review before
it becomes effective.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
Bases and Assumptions used in Financial Analysis
1.   Gea purchase and sales prices are as given in Chapter V.
2.   Remuneration to workers (labor costs) is based on the planned rates
for 1972, i.e. as originally budgeted and amended after the six and
nine-monthly review. No provision has been made for any increases in
rates, nor for any final distribution to workers usuaIly made after
profits for the year are ascertained.
3.   Terms of Belgrade Bank loan will be:
Interest at 8%., no commitment charge, repayment in 20 half-
yearly installments on annuity basis, first payment October 1,
1977. The Belgrade Bank will act as fiscal agent for the
whole project, for which a commission will be charged.
4. Terms of IBRD loan assumed:
Interest at 7i%, commitment charge 3/4%,
Repayment in 32 half-yearly installments, first payment May 15,
1977.
5.   The following investments, additional to the Bank project, have
been taken into account:
a) additional compressors, 1980,
b) investments for LPG distribution facilities,
c) other minor capital expenditure.
60   The following possible expansion projects have not been taken into
account:
a) Phase II (see para.2.11); however, see para. 7.09 for available
finance generated internally;
b) possible future development of gas facilities in Yugoslavia
generally.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
7.   No allowance has been made for investment of surplus funds nor
for income therefrom.
8.   Grants from Serbia and Vojvodina will be made to Naftagas and
treated as Naftagas permanent (non-repayable) equity capital. Contribu-
tions from Naftagas' and Production Units own funds are repayable, bat
subordinated to the Bank loan; the first repayments are not expected
until the IBRD and Belgrade Bank Loans are repaid.
9.   No provision has been made for inflation, other than in the cost
estimate. It is assumed that increased operating costs will be covered
by meeting the stipulated financial rate of return. Fixed asset values
will be adjusted for inflation periodically by Government decree.
10. Present depreciation rates are higher than Government prescribed
minima and are assumed to be continued (see para. 12(h)).
11. No provision has been made for any contingent liability the Borrower
may have for the debts of other Naftagas units, including Naftagas itself,.
12. Brief principal particulars of the joint financing agreement
relating to division of profit are as follows:
a) Distribution of profits is based on respective capital
contribution- which are expected to reach the following
totals on completion of construction of the project:
Din Million     %
Naftagas
Common investment funds                               50.0
Grant from Serbia                                    200.0
Grant from Vojvodina                                 250.0
5-0-0.0     20.72
Production Unit                                           150.0        6.22
Borrower
Value of existing fixed assets                       202.3
IBRD loan                                          1,003.0
Belgrade Bank loan                                   506.9
Own generated resources                               50.0
1,762.2       73.06
2,412.2      100.0%



ANNEX 5
Page 3
b) Borrower has priority in profit distribution: (i) minimum of
8% of total investment or the actual profit, if less than the
minimum, (ii) if the profit is greater than 8% of total invest-
ment but less than that needed for full distribution according
to contributions, the Borrower receives 8% of total investment,
the balance being divisible between Naftagas and the Production
Unit in ratio 77.23.
c) Each year is taken separately, no surplus or deficits of other
years being taken into account.
d) Proportions for any one year are fixed according to the respective
capital contributions at the end of the previous year.
e) Capital representing grants from Serbia and Vojvodina is not
repayable; Naftagas meets its obligations as to re-investment
out of dividends.
f) The Din 50 million contributed by Naftagas and Din 150 million
by the Production Unit are repayable after Bank loans have been
amortized, but earlier repayment is provided for should funds
be available.
g) In the event of further joint financing of investments of the
Borrower, new profit distribution ratios will be established.
h) Depreciation charges are to be at rates prescribed by the Government.
(Note: This is for purposes of profit distribution only,)






YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF INAFTAGAS
GAS TRA1NSMISSION Ab]f DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM4
Primary Bnersy Demand in Yugoslavia
Million Tons Petroleum Equivalent_
1965           1970           1975             1980           1985
Volume   L ~T    Volume Voue %             Volume      %    Voum
MRzdro and Nuclear Electricity    .75     6     1.25    7      2.00     6        3.10      7     4.75      9
Coal                            10.50    72     9.60  51    14.25    45        15.00      36    16.20    29
Crude Oil                        3.00    20     7.00   37    12.50    40       19.00      47    28.50    52
Natural Gas                      0.25     2     0.85    5     2.75      9       4.20      10     5.60    10
Total                      14.50   100    18.10  100    31.50   100        41.30    100    55(05   100
Average rate of growth
per annum (%)                                  5.2           11.0              5.70             5.70
1/ 1 ton of petroleum equivalent = 10 million kilocalories.
Source: Naftagas and INA
April 1973



TABLE 2
YU(LOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND D1ISTRIBUTION
Fiture Demand for Crude Oil
and Oil Products in Yugoslavia
(000 tons)
1970      1275        1980        1298.
Demand For Oil
Products:
Gasoline          1,100       2,400       4,000       6,200
Gas Oil           2,150       3,300       5,850       8,150
Fuel Oil          2,900       5,000       6,700      10,350
Others            1,050       1,800       2,450       3,800
Total      7,200      12,500      19,000      28,500
Production
Local             2,800       4,500       6,000       7,000
Inported          4,400       8,,000     13,,000     21,500
Total      7,200      12,500      19,000      28,500
Source: Naftagas and INA.
April 1973



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TANSMISSION AND DISTRIBJTION SYSTU41
Primary Energy Demand in Serbia and Vojvodina
(Mlllion Tons Petroleum Equivalent)
1965            1               1975        1980           1985
Vol_  %      Vo-            To Vol-  X    Vol_   %      Vol_
ume          ummes           anas       uune
Hydroelectricity            0.10   2      0.30   4       0.70   6      0.90  5      1.15     5
Coal                       3.85  79       3.90  55       4.25  39      6.75 39      8.35    34
Petroleum
Locally produced         o.63  13       0.80  11       1.00   9      1.25  7      1.50     6
Imported                 0.14   3       1.70  24       3.50  31      5.25 30      9.20    37
Total          0.77           2.            4.  5  0       37657    10.70    43-
Natural Gas
Locally produced         0.14   3       0.40   6       1.60  14      1.60  9      2.00     8
Imported                    -    -         -   -       0.10   1      1.70 10      2.50    10
Total           tIh   3        0.40  -6     1.70  Ti       3.30 1 9     i 7.5   1
Grand Total                 4.86  100     7.10  100    11.15  100    17.45 100   24.70    100
Average Annual Rate
of Growth                                   7.9           9.5          9.5          7.1
Sources: Naftagas, Eccnumilc Institute of Belgrade, Development Plans of SR Serbia and
Vojvodlna;
Petrolunion and mission's eatimates.
April 1973



TABLE 4
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF I4AF1AGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
Distribution of Proven hiergy ReAerveg in arbiA
As of 1970
Million ron
Petroleum
Equivalent
- iydro Electricity                             187               8.2
- Coal, brown coal and Licnitel/              2.025              89.4
- Crude Oil                                      20               0.9
- .atural Gas                                    34               1.5
Potal                            2.266               100
1/ I.ore than 95% of the coal reserves consists of lignite with a low
calorific value. (2,800 k cal/kg) high moisture content (up to
56%) and high ash contents (8 to 17%).
Source:  Charmber of Economy of Serbia
April 1973



YUGOSLAVIA                              TABLE 5
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSMIN AND DISTRIBUTIDN SYSTEM
Summary of the Investment Program of the Energy
Sector in Serbia, (1971-1976)
Din
(million)           %
I. Power
Hydropower generation                                  2,600             14
Thermo-power generation  /                             2,500             13
Transmission network                                   3,000             16
Distribution network                                   5,000             96
Others                                                   500
Total                     13,600              72
II. Petroleum
Exploratior and production                             1,460o
Refinery expansion                                       9R5              5
Oil products distribution                                930              5
Others                                                                   _
,-,hon ~18
Total
III. Natural Gas
Gas transmission and distribution                      2,000              10
Grand Total                19,000            100
v/    Including investments in coal prodlietion to supply the power induistry
Sources: Serbia and Vojvodina Chambers of Economy Petrolunion and Naftagas.
April 1973



TABLA  6
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF X&FTAGAS
GAS TRANSKISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SISTEM
Naftagaw'Inve stment Program
(171-1975).
(Million Dinars)
1971     1972     1973     1974     1975     Total
I. Oil and gas exploration       181.0     301.0   327.5   329.5    319.0    1,458.0    34
II. Gas transmission and
distribution                 1.6       2.0   279.8    828.2    726.4   1,838.0    42.5
III. Refinery expansion
Pancevo                               23,0    34,2    183.1   168.6         406.9     9.5
Novi Sad                    60.0      41.9   162.6    135.6   110.5         510.6    12.0
Belgrade                                       51.6    33.4                  85.0     2.0
Sub Total            60.0      64.9   248.4   352.1    279.1    1,004.5    23.5
IV.  Other work units               6.6       3.2      3.5      6.3       6.7       26.3      -
Grand Total         249.2     371.1    859.2  1,516.1 1331.2    4,326.8  loo
Source:  Naftagas and mission's calculations
April 1973



TABLE 7
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
Current Pricet of Gas in Europe
US per
Exporting Countries        To             Mil.BTU
Netherlands             Belgium             33.0         0.198
FRG                33.0          0.198
France             36.5          0.219
Italy              39.5          0.237
USSR                    FRG                 37.5         0.225
Italy              36.5          0.219
Austria            42.1          0.252
I delivered at the Border.
Source: United Nations - Economic and Social Council
Gas/working papers No.269. September 5, 1972
April 1973






TABLE 8
Page 1
YULGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
Estimated ProJect Capital Costs
(Dinars and US$)
(in Thousands)
Foreign
Foreign      Local                              Exchange
Exchange    Currency      Total        Total    as g of
-(U$ $)        (US$)        (US$)        (Din)    Total
MATERIALS
Pipelines
Pipe                          14,187        5,888       20,075        341,275     70.9
Coating                        1 ,559         --         1, 559        26,503    100.0
Bridges & Crossings             --             17           17            289      0.0
Valves & Fittings              1,487          --         1,487         25,279    100.0
Cathodic Protection              246          --           246         4,182    100.0
Telecommunications             2,1100         --         2,100         35,700    100.0
Custaos & Taxes                 --          6,028        6,028       102,1476      0.0
Transport in Yugoslavia          --           818          818         43,906      0.0
Subtotal                        19,579       12,751       32,330       549,610      60.6
Distribution Rings
Materials & Equipment          2,999        4,475        7,L474       127,058     40.1
Customs & Taxes                 --            604          604        10,268       0.0
Transport in Yugoslavia         --            128          128          2,176      0.0
Subtotal                         2,999        5,207        8,206       139,502      36.5
vield Compressors
Compressors & Materials        1,800          --         1,800        30,600    100.0
Customs & Taxes                 __            603          630        10,710       0.0
Tramsport in Yugoslavia         __             36           36           612       0.0
Building Materials              --            21 6         216          3,672      0.0
.Subtotal                        1,800          882        2,682        45,594L    67.1



TABLE 8
Page 2
Foreign
Foreign        Local                               Exchange
lDxchan e    Currency      Total       Total       as % of
(US$)       (US$)        (US$)       (Din)       Total
Treating Plant
Columns, Exchanges & Vessels    1,429           __         1,429       24,293        100.0
Piping, Valves & Fittings         1,385          __        1,385       23,545        100.0
Compressors, Pumps & Drives      2,143                     2,143       36,431        100.0
Electr. Instr. & Controls        1,429          --         1,429       24,293        100.0
Building Materials                 --            264         264        4,488          0.0
Customs & Taxes                    --         2,235        2,235       37,995          0.0
Transport in Yugoslavia            --            314         319        5,423          0.0
Subtotal                            69386       2,818        9,204      156,468         69.4
TOTAL MATERIALS                      30,764       21,658       52^422     891,174          58.7
CONSTRUCTICN
Pipelines
Land Fights                        -          1,469        1,469       24,973          0.0
Rtight-of-Way Grading               118        1,033       1,151       19,567         10.3
Bl.asting                           116          766         882       14,994         13.2
Stringing                           118       1,023        1,141       19,397         10.3
welding                           3,677        2,155        5,832      99,144         63.0
Ditching                          2,178        2,451       4,629       78,693         47.1
Coat, Lower & Backfill            2,699          983       3,682       62,594         73.3
Valve Asemblies                     227        1,111       1,338       22,746         17.0
Bridges & Crossings               2,276       5,279        7,555      128,435         30.1
Cathodic Protection                  92          533         625       10,625         14.7
Telecommunications                  192         l420         612       10,404         31.4
Civil iJorks                       --            756         756       12,852          0.0
Subtotal                           11,693      17,979       29,672      504,424         39.4
Distribution Rings
Installation                       --         2,938        2,938      49,946           0.0
Land Rights                        __           706          706     12,002            0.0
Ciil ^<orks                       __          3,190        3,19C     54,230           0.0
Subtotal                             --         6,834        6,833    116,178            0.0
Treating Plants
Acceso Poads & Paving             --            200          200       3,400          0.0
Mechanical Works                    300         800        1,100      18,700          37.5
Electrical Works                     50          50          100       1,700         50.0
In3truments & Controls               26         124          150       2,550         17.3
Civil Y7orks                      --            826          826     14,042           0.0
Subtotal                              376       2,000        2,376      40,392          15.8
F-ield Comoressors                   --           252          252       4,284           0.0
TOTAIL COs.TRIJCTION                 12,069       27,065      39.134    665.278           30.8



TABLE 8
Page 3
Foreign
Foreign      Local                              Exchange
kchange    Currency      Total      Total       as % of
_ _(US$)      (US$)       (Us$)      (Din)        Total
TECiNICAL SERVICES
Project and Design Engineering       8          2,511       3,311     56,287          24.2
Equipment & Material Inspection       55          578         633     10,761          8.7
Constr. Supervision & Inspection     350          430         780     13,260         44.9
Supervisory Consultants              488          100         588      9,996         83.0
!ngineering for Town Networks         -           708         708     12,036          0.0
TOTAL TECMNICAL SERVICES             1,693        4,327        6,020   102, 340         28.1
SPARE PARTS                            300          -            300     5,100        100.0
PRELIMINARY STUDIES                    -            585          585     9,945          0.0
WORKING CAPITAL                        -          4,118        4,118    70,060           0.0
ACCOUNTING CONSJLTANTS                 500          100          600    10,200         83.0
2/
SAS STAFF TRAINING4                                - 040                 6.800        100.0
SUBTOTAL                         45,726       57,853      103,579 1,760,843         44.1
Physical Contingency              1,360        1,736        3,096    52,632         43.9
Price Contingency                 6,314        8,,469      14,783   251,325         42.7
TOTAL PROJECTS COSTS                53.400       68.o58      121,648  m2u800           44.o
1/ For treating plants which may be procured on a turnkey basis.
2/ Training of Social Accounting Serwice Staff.
Source: Naftagas, modified by Bank Staff
April 1973



TABLE 8
Pange 4i
Basis for Estimate
I. Hungarian Border-Belgrade (Stage I)
a) Supply Lines                      Km         Diam (in)        in-Km
Mokrin-Senta                       27           2               702.000
Mokrin-East-Mokrin                  8            8.625           69.000
Exist Trarnsm-Line-Milosevo        18            8.625         155.250
Exist Transm-Line4Mokrin           18            8.625         155.2S0
Mramorak-Tilva                      4            8.625          34.500
Cornji-Breg-Transm.Line            10            8.625          86.250
Ada Dolje-Transm. Line             10            8.625          86.250
Sub total                       95                         1288.500
b) Transmission Line
Hungarian Border-Senta             35           26             910.00
Senta-Batajnica                   115          30             3450.00
Bat-Belgrade (Umka)                24           24             576.00
Sub-Total                     174                         4936.00
c) Dtstribution Lines
Transm.Line-Kanjiza                 5            4.5            22.50
Transm.Line-Cokp                    5            4.5            22.50
Transm.Line-Senta                   2            4.5             9.00
Transm.Line-Ada                     5            4.5            22.50
Transm.Line-Becej, N.Becej          7.5          4.5            37*75
Transm.Line-Zabalj                  4            4.5            18.00
Transm.Line-N.Sad                  24            4.5           258.00
Transm.Line-Indija                 11            4.5            49.50
Transm Line-St Pazova               8            4.5            36.00
Transm Line-Zemun                   8            8.625          69.00
Transm.Line-4N.Belgvade            12           14             168.00
Transm.Line-Umka                    5            8.625          43.125
Batajnica-Pancevo                  34          20              680.00
Bat-Pancevo-Krnjaca                12           6.625           79.50
Tilva-Banatski Karlovac             9            6.625          59.625
Exist Transm.Line-Secanj            3.5         4.5             15.75
Begejci-Zitiste                     3                          _19.875
Sub Total                      158.0                       1606.625
d) Distributi3m Pings for 100 consumers in:
Kanjica, Coka, Senta, Ada, Becej, N.Becej, Zabalj, N.Sad, Indija,
St. Pazova, Zemun, Belgrade, N.Belgrade, Umka, Pancevo, Bunatski,
Karlovac, Zitiste, Secarcj, Smederevo, Srbobran



TABLE 8
Page 5
e)  Other Pipelines Mokrin -Elemir Cond. Srbobran Supply/Distribution
subtotal.                                                 72,700
II Belgrade-Paracin (Stage II)
a) Transmission Line
Belgrade (Umka) - Arandjelovac        11        18        198.00
Arandjelovac-Cuprijz                 107        i3       1926.00
Cuprija-Paracin                      13         18        234.00
Sub-Total                        131                  2358.00
b) Distribution Lines
Transm.Line-Arandjelovac             22          6.625    145.75
Transm.Line-Madenovac                 2          6.625     13.25
Transm.Line-Smederevo                40        12.75      510.00
Transm.Line-Kragujevac               30         14        420.00
Kragujevac-Kraljevo                  47          8.625    405.38
Transm.Line-Svetozarevo               2          6.625     13.25
Transm.Line-Cuprija                    2        6.625      13.25
Transm.Line-Paracin                    2        6.625      13.25
Transm.Line-Bor                        3        12.75      38.25
Transm.Line-Bor                      81         10.75     870.75
Distribution Bor-Popovac              5          8.625     43.72
Distribution Bor-Zojecar              18         6.625    119.25
Sub-Total                         254                 2606.50
c) Distribution Rings for 22 consumers in:
Arandjelovac, Madenovac, Kragujevac, Kraljivo, Svetozarevo, Cuprija,
Paracin, Bor, Popovac, Zajecar.
III  Paracin-Nis   (Stage III)
a) Transmission Line
Paracin-Nis                          85         18       1530
b) Distribution Lines
Transm.Line-Krusevac                  27         8.625    232.87
Transm.Line-Alecsinac                 10         4.5       75.00
Batajnica-Loznica                    108        18       1944.00
Bat.Lozn.-Sr.Mitrovica               20          8.625    172.50
Bat.-Loznica Ruma                    12          4.5       54.00
Bat.-Loznica Sabac                    10         8.625     86.25
Srbobran-Apatin                      75         10.75      16.25
Transm.Line-Subotica                 32          6.625    212.00
Sub-Total                        294                  5552.02



TABLE 8
Page 6
c) Distribution Rings for 24 consumers in:
Krusevac, Alecsinae, Nis, Ruma, Sr.Mitrovica, Sabac, Loznica,
Urbas, Krla, Orvenka, Sombor, Apatin, Subotica.



TABLE 9
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
Estimated Schedule of Diabursements
IBRD Fiscal
Year and Quarter                               Cumulative Disbursements
at end of Quarter
(000's US$)
1 973/74
September 30, 1973
December 31, 1973                                     1,320
March 31, 1974                                        6,526
June 30, 1974                                        10,755
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                   18 ,479
December 31, 1974                                    26,626
March 31, 1975                                       33 435
June 30, 1975                                        39,518
1 975/76
September 30, 1975                                   45,559
December 31, 1975                                    51,888
March 31, 1976                                       55,982
June 30, 1976                                        59,400
Source:  Naftagas and Bank Staff
April 1973
J Including interest during construction.



YUGOSLAVIA                         TABLE 10
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYST34
Net Energy Demand in Serbia and Vojvodina
(million t.e.p. %)
1970               1985          Average Rate
Volumes     %     Volumes       %      of Growth
Electricity                               0.75    1          3.45     16          10.7
Coal                                      1.90     35         2.20     11           1.0
Hydrocarbons                              2.90      o        15.00     V            11.5
Total                   g.55    100        20.65   loo             9.2
Induxstry                                 2.50     45       10.75      52          10.0
Transport                                 1.00     18         h.15     20          10.0
Agricultture                              0.20                0.80      4            9.5
Others                                    1.85     33         4.95     2             6.8
Total                5.55    100        20.65    10O            9.2
!,let energy   Gross energy less losses, transfers and internal uses.
April 1973



TABLE i
YUGOSIAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGA S
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTREBUTI0N SYSTBN
Projected Demands for Oil Products in Eastern Yugoslavia
Without Gas Substitution
(Million tons)
1970          1975         1980         1985
Volume   %   Volume  %   Volume  %  Volume   %
Gasoline             0.145   14   1.00   15      1.90   18    3.15   18
Medium Distillates    1.50    48   2.90   43    3.50  32    4.60   27
Fuel Oil             0.95    30   2.10   31      4.20  39   7.140   43
Others               0.25     8   0.70   U       1.20   11   2.00   12
Total                3.15   100   6.70  100   10.80  100  17.50   100
Source: Petrolunion July 1972
April 1973



TABLE 12
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
Historic NaftagaB Sale  by Customer
Mi Ii ons  -n'
Location Customer         1965    1966     1967    1968     1969      1970    1971
Pancevo  HIP              91.1   95.0    98.3   103.2   127.2    282.5   332.1
Pancevo   Staklara        15.9   45.O    44.8    40.3    43.1    L42.3    41.8
Kikinaa   T. Markouie       .3     4.2    10.4    3.1.5    12.1        14.3    15.0
Ursac    Home Heating    14.0   18.6    19.3    19.7    18.7           10.7    20.3
Beocin   Fabrik Cementa    -        -        -        -      30.3      34.9    59.6
Novi Sad  Toplana           -       -        -        -     10.8       46.0    19.6
3nederou  Zelezara         -        -       -        -        -         -      15.4
Others                   27-7   22.2      30.7    53.3    69.8         49.3    83.2
Total                 149.0  185.0    203.5   228.0   312.0    480.0   587.0
Average Sales Price N3   .169    .177      .216     .233   .236     .242      .272
Source: Naftagas
Apri' -1973



TABL1S 13
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
APRISAL OF NAGAS
GAS TRANSMIS8]  AND DBTRIBUT1DN SISTIN
Naftagas Gas - Sale. Forecaat
000 *u3
1974         1975         1976       1980          1985
Vojvodina
Old Customers on Old System          556s730      551i530     186.600     152.500      138.800
Old Customers on New System           30000      172,670     633.590   1,120.750   1.153.850
Subtotal - Old Customers         586,730     724s200      820,190   1.273,250   1.292,650
New Customers on Old System           90,200      100,200     142,200     189,500      230,000
New Customers on New System           73,530      200,600     376,428     628,459      732.045
Subtotal - New Customers         163-,730     JrOJaWO    518,628      817,959      962,045
Vojvodina - Total                    750,460   1,025,000   1.338,818.  2.091,209   2.254,695
Serbia Proper
Old Customers on Old System           70,00aD                   --           - _
Old Customers on New System.                      1220000     139,000     207,000      409,000
New Customers on New System                       130,900    324.069   1.229,154   1.386.910
Serbia Proper - Total                 70X00      252,900    463,069 11.436,154   1.795,910
Belgrade
New Customers on New System                       160,10O     228.113      547637
Total Naftagas Sales Forecast         820,460   .A38000   2,100,000   4.075 ,000 4AU10-00
Distribution between Systems           716930      651,730     328,800      3Z2,000      368,800
Supply from Old System                10,930       6,70   1,7 00    3,,000             3,,00
Supply from New System                13,3         8,7       27,0         ,3,o         ,4i10
Source: Naftagas



TABLE 13
Page 2
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
Distribution of Sales by
Size of Customer
1980 Sales Volumes
Sales to Customers
Sales Volune to           Customers                3     % of
Customer - Million Metre03     No. Tof total   000 Nm          Total
From O to  1              15         8.7        9,350       .2
I  "   5                71        41.0      180,050       4.5
5 n  10              28        16.1      197,696       4.9
" 10"  20               19        11.0      261,755       6.5
20"  30               10        5.8       253,114       6.3
" 30"  50               14         8.1      479,273      11.9
' 50" 100               6         3.5      456,74o      11.3
"100 " 250               8         4.6   1,240,000       30.7
"1250)" 500              1          .6      292,700       7.2
"500" i 750              1          .6     7o4.,322      16.5
173      100.0    4,075,000    100.0
Source: Jaftagas data



TABLE 14
YUGOSLAVIA
APPPAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTIDN SYSTEM
Determination of the Price of Fuel Oil
(high sulphur content)
US$ Ton            DdTon
CIF Price Black Sea or Italy
Winter                                    14.5              246.5
Summer                                    12.5              212.5
2/
Average CIF Price-                               13.5              229.5
Transport                                  5.5               93.5
Storage              3/                    1.2               20.0
Delivery to Consumers-                     2.6               44.0
Cost Delivered to Consumers                      22.8              387.0
Cost of Handling      (5%)                        1.1               19.3
Efficiency Factor    (10%)                        2.2               38.6
Calorific Value Ratio (7%)                        1.6               27.1
Total Cost                                 27.7              472.0
Rounded Off                               27.5               470.0
Cost of Net 000 Kcal.                   0,00275              0,047
1/ Based on quotation late 1971 and earJy 1Q72.
2/ Based en Winter 55%, Summer 45%.
2/ Based on weighted average for distances and volumes,
Taxes excluded.
Source: Nafatagas, Chamber of Economy of Serbia.
April 1973






TABLE 15
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRLNSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTDN SYSTEM
DetermimEtion of the Price of Fuel Oil
(low sulphur content)
US$/TON      Din/TON
C.I.F.  Price Black Sea or
Italy I/
Winter                                                18.50          314.5
Summer                                                16.00         272.0
Average C.I.F. price 2/                                  17.4           295.8
Transport                                                 5.5            93.5
Storage                                                   1.2            20.0
Delivery to consumers3/                                   2.6            44.0
Cost delivered to consumers                        26.7          453.3
Cost of handling (5%)                                     1.3            22.7
Efficiency factor (10a)                                   2.8            47.5
Calorific value ratio (7%)                                2.2            37.5
Total cost                                         33.0          561,o
Rounded off to                                           33.0           560,o
Cost of net ooo Kaal                                    0.003           o.o56
J Based on the price of low sulfur fuel oil offered in late 1971 and early
1972. Low sulfur fuel oil has been selected to be comparable to natural
gas.
2/ Based on: winter 55%, summer 45%
3/ Based on weighted average for distances and volumes. Taxes excluded.
Source: Naftagas - Chamber of Economy of Serbia.
April 1973



TABLE 16
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
rGAS TRANSMISS3MN AND DISTRIBUTIPN SYST.W
Detoeriknation of the Price of Coal
U|TON               Din/TON
Average retail price2/                  11.0                  i86.oo
Tran.sport cost?/                        2.1                   36.00
Cost delivered to consumers             13.1                  222.00
Cost of handling (20%)                   2.6                   44.oo
Effitiency factor (30%)                  h.7                   P0.00
Calorific value ratio (4%)              0.8                   1h.00
Total Cost                      21.4.                 360.00
Cost of Net OOOK cal;2/                 0.0o63                 0,106
1/ Taxes excluded
j/ Based on weighted average for distances and volumes
/ Based on average calorific value of 3,,400 Kcal/kg
Source:  Naftagas - Chamber of Econony of Serbia
Mining Institute (Belgrade)
April 1973



TABLS 17
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
Determination of the price of Imported Nafta
US$/TON         Di/TON
CIF Price Mediterranean
Zonel/                                           33.0            561.0
Transport Cost                                    5.0             85.0
Storage                                           1.3             20.0
Distribution2/                                   22.0             34.0
Total                           41.3            700.0
Efficiency factor (-20%)                         -8.3           -lho.oo
Total cost to users                 33.0             560.00
/ Based on quotations fcr large shipments, January 1972
/ Based on,weighted average for distances and volumes.
Source: Petroleium Press Service and mission estimates.
April 1973



YUGOSIAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AWlD DISTRIBUTIOiN SYSTEM
Economic Cost of the Proposed Project
(million Dinars)
Capital Costs                    Oper_.w    Purchase of Gas                           Total
ating
Cost                                    Alternative I  Alternative II
Treatment                                                                   Provision for  Provision for
Transmission                             Local gas   Imported gas          reserves re-   reconstitution
and 1/                                  at            at                constitution   of reserves
Years   Production  Distribution  Conversion  Total         Din.270/m3  Din.029o/m3             not included    included
1973                    100           60         16o   10                                          160               160
1974                   800           100         900   20                                         920                920
1975                   840            60         900   4o      190                                940               1120
1976                    200           40         240   50      380                                 290               660
1977                                              -    50      365           290                   340               695
1978                                              -    50      350           390                   440               780
1979       25                                     25   55      320           510                   590               880
1980                                              -    55      300           64o                   695               985
1981                                              -    55      320           640                   695              1005
1982       25                                     25   60      365           640                   725              1055
1983                                              -    60      420           64o                   700              1110
1984                                              -    60      445           640                   700              1135
1985       25                                     25   65      405           725                   815              1185
1992                                                   65      405           725                   790              1185
2,100
1/ Customs duties excluded.
Source: Naftagas and Mission Estimates
April 1973



TSLP 19
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIUTION SYSTEK
Alternative Solution
(Din Millions)
Fuel Oil at  Coal at   LPG at
Project Cost DinO.051/    DinO.106/ DinO.045/
Year          Stream 1/    000 Kcal    000 Kcal  000 KXal  Total                  Savigs
1973             160                                                          160
1974             920                       265        10                      920
1975            1120       150             375        15        425!          695.
1976             660       315             475        30         820                      100
1977            695        560             725        55        1340                      645
1978            780        675             730        55        1450                      670
1979            880        800.            680        55        1535                      655
1980            985        940             695        55        1690                      705
1981           1005       1020             605        55        1680                      675
1982           1055       1165             430        55        1650                      595
1983           1110       1300             305        55        1660                      55o
1984           1135       14t5             155        55        1625                      490
1985           1185       1540             -          55        1595                      410
1992           1185       1540             -          55        1595                      410
Rate of discount which equalizes the two cost streams: 23%
_/ as per Table 1d Alternative II.
Source: Mission's Calculations
Apir2 1973






TABLE 20
Page 1
YUGOSIAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
ProJeoted Oas Sales and Sources of Gaa
~~~ ~ (Billion io- )
1972-77  1978-82 1983-87  1988-92      Total
Gas Demand
Gas Sales                   8.75   19.65   23.30    23.75        75.45
Gas Supp2,
Local Production            7.75   10.25   11.40    11.25        40.65
Imports                     1.00    2.40   11.90    12.50        34.80
Total                  8.75   19.65   23.30    23,75       75.45
Local Production/bemand (%)  88.5    52.2    48.9      47.4       54.0
Imports/Demand (%).5    47.8    51.1                   52.6       46.o
100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0       100.0
Source: Naftagas and Mission's estimates



TABLE 20
Page 2
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRA&SaL OF NAFLAGAS
4,A-9    S1TS8SI(ThT A1'n DTqT1fq10AT gv9'Mpvm
Ga DumndOoeraVe
billion
p3 jg
Total Gas 8ales 1973-1992       =75.4
PeAerves s
Mokrin fteld                         18.10        24.0
Ot-z' PFilds                         12.10        16.0
To be found                          10.45        14.0
Totoi.                        4o.65        54.0
34.80        46.0
Grad Total                    75.45       100o0
Source: Naftagas and Mission's Estimates
April 1973



YVC0vSLAVlA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMtSSION AMD DISTRIBUTION SYSTEI
Revenue Accounts - Year. Endi)ng Deceetoer 31
(Di. Millionu)
Actual       E.tietted                                                                                                   a O  r  e  '      t
1971           1972           1973           1974            1975           1976           1977             1978           1979            1980           1981            1982
OPERATINC REVENLES
S-ese  - N.a1-1 C-s                          178.8          178.2           230.1          336.4          589.6          861.4           1,307.9         1,419.0         1,53i.8        1,670.8         1,719.5        1,772.A
- LPC                                   50.8           52.9           80.2            97.2          115.8          119.5             185.5           192.1           181.6          194.6           206.8          219.1
Services .nd Renln                            12.3           20.6            24.0           26.7           30.5           41.8              45.9            47.2            51.6            53.2           54.6            56.0
242.8          251.7          334.3          460.3           735.9        1.082.7           ..539.3         1.658.3        1.765.0         1.918.6        1.980.9         2.047.5
OPERArrI   C;STS
Purchsees:
ftt'rc,  .,, -   ,louctton VoS.t        l14.7          130.S           155.3          221.5          3e8.3          567.3             621.0           621.0           621.0          621.0           621.0           621.0
_ Ieorts                                                                                                                  258.1           336.7           416.4          514.8           549.3           586.7
LPG .nd Conde.ns,scn                     28.7           18.5            34.4           43.7           56.1           92.4              91.9            91.8            75.1            70.3           85.3            91.2
143.4          149.3          192.7          265.2          444.4           659.7            971.0          1,049.5        1.112.5         1,206.1         1,255.6        1,298.9
HiDnt nacCe                                   26.8           27.5            52.5           *6.4           60.9            75.4             81.9             84.5           88.1            91.6           97.1           101.0
Lab.t  C..ts                                  21.2           25.0            28.0           35.7           43.1            56.1             63.0             67.5           72.7            78.7           85.6            93.5
nAftc  .8 CoMon Soruic.n                       2.5            2.3             2.2            3'9            4.6             5.1              5.4              5,7            5.8             6.0            6.2             6.5
Bank Ch-rges and CToisulon.                    0.1            0.4             0.S            0.8            1.4             3.9              6.7              6.5            6.3             6.3            6.0             5.8
Insurance                                      1.4            1.8             2.0           14.7           23.4            31.6             30.1             28.7           27.1            25.4           26.0            24.1
Other Operating Coers                          3.0            3.1             4.7            7.9            9.2           51.6              11.4             12.2           12.5            13.3           14.0            14.7
198.4          209.4          262.1          374.6           587.0          843.4          1,169.5          1,254.6        1,325.0         1.427.4         1,490.5        1,544.5
Depreviatinr - Vi-d Assets                    15.5           19.2            20.3           29.9           63.2           126.7            131.8            133.2          133.6           134.7          140.0           140.5
213.9          228.6          282.4          404.5           650.2          970.1           1.301.3         1.387.8         . 6            1.56211                        1,685.0
CROSS OPERATING SURPW1S                            28.9            23.1           51.9           55.8            85.7          112.6            238.0            270.5          306.4           356.5           350.4          362.5
ADORTIZATION - DEFERRn2  DEBITS                     -               -              0.3            -              -               -               24.2             24.3           24.2            24.2           24.2            24.3
INTEREST lSCOd                                     -               0.7             0,-9           0. .           0.6            I*S               I.S              1.5            1.3             1.1             1.2            0.7
NET OPERATIN SURPUS                                28.9           23.8            52.5           56.4           86.3           114.1            215.6            247.7          283.5           333.4          327.4           338.9
oSDUIOSS -9 HOUSING FUNDS                           4.4            4.3             4.8            6.1             7.4            9.8             11.0             11.8           12.7            13.8            11.7           12.8
- NFTAGAS CPl"  FUNDS               'p.3            1.5            8.5           16.6            20.0           18.6             23.8             29.5           36.7            47.8           37.4            38.1
Y8AIE FOR A7P?OPRIATICIR                         1.2             18.0           39.2           33.7            58.9           85.7            180.8            206.4          234.1           271.8           278.3          288.0
SHARE OF R1OFT - JOINT V RE5670
Maftags.                                                                                                                                    17,4             42.1           58.8            69.1            67.a           70.2
Ptod.ction Unit                                                                                                                              5.2             12.6           17.6            20.7            20.4           21.1
INT2'REST PA95kRrS                                  3.7            5.1             5.6            5.9            7.1            46.8            121.9            118.2          111.4           104.5           96.6            88.3
P9MLINCEN'Z rs4SFRVE FUOD                           0.1            0.2             2.0            1.2            0.4             0.6              1.4              1.8            1.2             2.5             2.8            3.0
MORRIIIG CAL .'E ND                                                               13.5           23.0            23.7           23.3              31.2            20.o            21.7           235.            16.0            16.5
8ALANCE TO GENERAL RFSERVE                         14.4            12.7           18.1            3.6           27.7            15.0              3.7             10.9           23.4            51.1            74.7           88.9
OPERATING RATIOS                                    88%             91            84R            t88            88%             90%              84% .4%                          837            81%             82%            82%
?Bs LNTBERST 0VERD                               7.8.           4.7x            9.4.          9N5.             12.2x          2.4n              I.8x            2.1x            2.5x           3.Zx            3.4x           3.6x
Tr2C  DEIT SERVICE WnERE                                                         3.0x           3.3.             5.4x          3.3x              l.91 1.9x                       2.Ix           2.3S            2.3x           2.4x
rrc7ML RATES O 8 R
01 AVERACE 0ROSS F106D ASSETS                                7.5h          15.27.         18.57            7.97.          S.0%             10M0%           11.5%           12.8%          14.7%           13.9%          14.3%
Sourc-:  6ftags. Nata revised by Bank Staff
$ay 1973






YrnOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS THSMISSION AND DISXRJBUUlON SYSTDE
Cash Flow Statement - 1973-1982 - Pagel
(Din X=iliSnw
PF.JECT' FINANCE PLAE                          1973        1974         1975        1976         Sub-Total        1977         1978         1979        1980         1981         1982        Total
A;k rR JJE CT COS TS
Fixed Assets                                      59. 3      792.8        842.3       167.4          1,861.8
Deferred Expenditure:
-ygineerirg Studies ar10
Consultants                                  25.5        47.6         26.3        10.2            10936
Aconunting Comsultanta                                      3.4                                       3.1
.nterest durirg Construction                    3.65 29.4              71.2         48.o            152,0
NaFtagas - Accounting Cornultants                              6.8                                       6.8
Snare Parts                                                                 3.1          3.2             6.3
Working Capital                                   20.0        40.0         10.0                         70.0
108.2       920.0       952.9        228.8         2,209.9
SC'5RES OF FINANCE
Naft'agas:                                                     214.0       16.0         10.0            5b.o
Serbia                                         29.8        100.2        70.0                        200.0
7ojvodina                                      60.5        107.5        82.0          _             25D.0
Total of Naftagas                            90.3       231.7        160           MO p.0
Production Uni t                                              72.0         18.0        30.0            10.0
Gas Unit - Own Funds (Page 2)                                  24.0        16.0         10.0 
90 3       327.7        MU            3.0
22.5       428.4       4s31.5       120.6         1,003.0
Belgrade Bank                                                 15.3        289.4        58.2            p36.9
112.8       915.4       952.9        228.8         2,209.9
StIRPIUS (DEFICIT) - ANNUEL                          1.6        (4.6)
Source:  Bank Staff, derived frcm Naftaga- data.
MOq 1973



YWO0SlAVJA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRhAS2ISSION AND DISTRIBUrIDN SYSTEX
Cash FIM Statement - 1973-1982 - Page 2
kvin mliliions)
CONSTRUCTION PERIOD
FUND  197b Sub-Total    1977                                                       78         1979         1980         1981        1982         Total
FtmiN3 RBQUIi3ED
rBRD Project - Page 1
Pinance Plan                         -          24.0        16.0         10.0           50.               -            -            -            -           -            -           50.0
Other Investents                     28.1         77.3        38.7         22.0          166.1            24.4          7.9         19.9         96.0         9.4        11.0          334.7
Bank Connissions (ProJect)            0.8          6.6         6.6          1.4           15.4              -            -            -            -           -           -           15.4
Debt Swvice:
Interest                           5.6          5.9         7.1         46.8           65.4           121.9        118.2        111.4        104.5        96.6         88.3         706.3
Repay- t                           18.7         20.6        20.8         25.2          85.3            70.4         96.4        100.4         107.6       115.1       122.6         697.8
Loans (Net of Repaments)              5.1          7.4         9.4          8.7           30.6             8.5         11.4         14.9         38.3        21.0        25.0          149.7
Increases in Opwating
Working Capital                     13.5         23.0        23.7         23.3          83.5            31.2         20.8         21.7         23.9         16.0        16.5         213.6
Contributiomn:
Housimg Funds                      4.8          6.1         7.4          9.8           28.1            11.0         11.8         12.7         13.8         11.7        12.8         101.9
Naftagas Common Funds               8.5         16.6        20.0         18.6          63.7            23.8         29.5         36.7         47.8         37.4        38.1         277.0
Profit Distribution,
Joint Venture                        -            -           -            -             -              22.6         54.7         76.4         89.8         88.2        91.3         423.0
Continguscy Reserve
Investmant                          2.0          1.2         o.4          o.6          _.2               1.4          1.8          1.2          2.5         2.8          3.0          16.9
87.1        188.7       150.1       166.4          592.3           315.2        352.5        395.3        528.2        398.2       408.6       2,986.3
=  =                 =~~~~~~~_ =                                      =                                -= 
FUDS AVAILABLE
Net Operatirg Surplum                52.5         56.4        86.3        114.1          309.3           215.6        247.7        283.5        333.4        327.4       338.9       2,055.8
Depreciation - Fixed Assets          20.3         29.9        63.2        126.7          240.1           131.8        133.2        133.6        134.7        140.0       140.5       1,053.9
Amortization - Deferred Debits        0.3           -           -            -             0.3            24.2         24.3         24.2         24.2         24.2        24.3         145.7
Other Borrowings                     16.3         45.8        22.6         12.6           97.3            14.0          4.1         11.3          4.4         5.1          5.4         141.6
89.4        132.1       172.1       253.4          647.0           385.6       48W.3         452.6        496.7        496.7       509.1       3,397.0
S88PLUS (DEFICIT) - Annual              2.3        (56.6)       22.0         87.0                           70.4         56.8         57.3        (27-5)       98.5        100.5
Cumulative                       (58 3)      (32.3)        54.7           54.7           125.1       181.9         239.2        211.7       310.2       410.7         410.7
Source: Bank Staff, derived fr Naftagas data.
May 1973



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSHISSION AND DISTRIbUTION SYSTEM
Balance Sheets a. at Decenber 31
(Din Milliose)
Act..l       Esti-ated                                                         F        o          r          e          c                   a a     t
1971          1972           1973           1974           1975           1976             1977            1978            1979           1980           1981           1982
ASSETS
FIS ASSEM IN USE - Gross                         304.5          314.3          341.6          616.8        1,549.2        2,347.5          2,369.5         2,393.9        2,401.8        2,421.7         2,517.7        2,527.1
Less Depreciation                            98.7          112.3          132.6          162.5          225.7          352.4            484.2           617.4          751.0          885.7         1.025.7        1.166.2
Net                                    205.8          202.0          209.0          454.3        1,323.5        1,995.1          1,885.3         1,776.5        1,650.8        1,536.0         1,492.0        1,360.9
WORK IN PROGRESS                                  29.1           27.3           87.4          682.3          630.9           22.0             24.4             7.9            19.9           96.0            9.4           11.0
DRED DEB7T, Less A-nrtiation                       0.3            0.3           29.7          123.5          227.6          280.4            256.2           231.9          207.7           183.5          159.3          135.0
LOANIS                                            34.3           22.3           27.4           34.8           44.2           59.7             68.2            79.6           94.5           132.8          153.8          178.8
CONTIN:EIC RESERVE INVEST3MI                       0.1            0.6            2.6            3.8            4.2            4.8              6.2             8.0            9.2            11.7           14.5           17.5
269.6          252.5          356.1        1,298.7       2,230.4        2,362.0           2,240.3         2,103.9        1,982.1        1,960.0        1,829.0         1,703.2
MET FIED ASSETS
Project Working Capit-l Funds                                              24.6           60.0           70.0           70.0             70.0            70.0            70.0           70.0           70.0           70.0
Operating Working Capita1 Funds              11.3           41.4           57.2           23.6           72.4          185.9            287.5           365.1          444.1           440.5          555.0          672.0
11,   41.4     81.8       .  83.6        __42,4            255.9            357.5           435.1          514.1          510.5           625.0          742.0
281.1         293.9          437.9         1.382.3       2.372.8        2,617.9           2,597.8         2,539.0        2.496.2        2,470.5        2.454.0         2.445.2
CAPITAL
DEbT
E.isting Loans                               98.8           98.2           79.5           60.3           44.0           28.0             20.9             16.4           12.1            9.4            7.8            6.0
188D                                                                       22.5          450.9          882.4        1,003.0            968.1           930.7          890.5           847.4          801.1          751.4
Belgrade Bank                                                                            159.3          448.7          506.9            489.9           453.8           414.8          372.6          326.9          277.5
Other Nev Debt                                                             16.3           60.7           78.8           82.2             84.8             70.5           64.9           49.7           33.3            17.0
98.8           98.2          118.3          731.2        1,453.9        1,620.1          1,563.7         1,471.4        1.382,3        1,279.1         1,169.1        1,051.9
Gee Unit - Own Fu,ds
Contingency Reser-e                      1.5            1.8            3.8            5.0            5.4            6.0              7.4              9.2           10.4           12.9           15.7            18.7
W-ki.Z Capital Reserve                                                13.5           36.5           60.2           83.5             114.7           135.5          157.2          181.1           197.1          213.6
General Reserve                        180.8          193.9          212.0          215.6          243.3          258.3             262.0           272.9          296.3          347.4          422.1           511.0
182.3          195.7          229.3          257.1         308.9          347.8             384.1           417.6          463.9          541.4           634.9          743.3
N atage  nd Production Unit                   -                            9 l          _394_0          610.0          650.0            650.0            650.0          650.0          650.0          650.0           650.0
182.3          195.7          319.6          651.1         918.9           997.8          1,034.1         1,067.6        1,113.9        1,191.4         1,284.9        1,393.3
281.1          293.9         437,9         1,382.3       2.372.8        2.617.9           2.597.8         2.539.0        2.496.2        2,470.5         2,454.0        2.445.2
DEBT/EWUM  RA1TO                                 35/65          33/67          44/56          53/47          61/39          62/38            60/40            58/42          55/45          52/48          48/52           43/57
Source:  Naftaga. Data revised by Bank Staff.
may 1973



TABLE 24
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF NAFTAGAS
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
Deteriination of the Selling Price of Gas
( Fu.iel Usage)
Heavy Fuel Oil    Light Fuel Oil    Coal
Price per Ton delivered (Din)                  530                616          184
Average calorific value
(000 KCal/Ton)                         10,000              10,000          4.ooo
Price per Gross OQOKeal                    0,0530              0,0616         o,o060
Efficiency factor                           0.R5               o.85            0.70
Price per net OO0Kcal                      0o623               0,0725         o,o657
Average price per net ooo Kcal                                0,o66P
Discount for conversion (19%)                                 0,0126
Substitution price per net oooKCal                            0.0542
G2s efficiency factor                                          0.00
Suibstitution price per gross oooKcal                         0.0489
Average price per m3 of gas at
P,400 Kcal/m3                                              0.41
Source: Naftagas
April 1973



/VA/  TA G A 5
ORGANIZATIONAL LAY-OUT OF ENTERPRISE
NAFTAGAS
PETROLEUM  INDUSMY  _            _
NOVI SAD
LAL       F ERSON          LERAL PERSO,                LEGAL PRNE                        ERN                            ROGAL PRERSO                           S          L               L   PER             R
ASSOCIATON or W              A       O  OF  FR                 oIL                                                       OIL                  ASSOCtAATOO OF WOvK             R NI T C0rcL           _ASSOCIArION OF WORK
OC'A "ON OF UWITS FOIR OI AND 'AS                                                                               UI OKWR  NrCV4RANITS COMIMON SERVICE
UNIT FOR O.1IL AND GAS      TRAA9I15SI, TRANI                 EFIERY                      RINERY                      REFINERfY               UNI Ts INZINIERING'           DEPARTFMENT                 ENTERPRIS
RSEARCrN ANr   APPsrNATIDu  NOA                             NOVI SAD                     SEOGRAD                      PANCE                       NOVI SAD                     NOVI                          NOVI SAD
PRODUCTION                  o6TrwvU7I                       AMCVORAIP CEv                                                                                                            SAD                    MV   A
NOVI SAD                    NOVI SAO
. CDON SERVICES                                                                                                                                                            ECONOMIC/FINANCAL
OFASSOCIATRiON OF                                                                                                    CONS RUcION                                               SERVICES
WORK UNITS                                                                                                           DIVISION                                                 NOVI SAD
NOVI SAD
C VAI                                                                                                                                                                   GENERAL
7*DA 7/Vf'V1 PLANT                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SERVICES
ELEMIR                                                                                                                                                                    ADOWN'S TRA TION
|   V   UNIt       |
DESr TRIU Y10 OF
LAUIO GA S
j EOGRAD
GAS PIPEL INES
|   'ISCtrON OF WORKX uNi rs|
ZREAANAIN                                         FOR GAS WSISO47 REArEA
COMMtON SERWVCES
NO VU SA D
DEVELO PIAN                  NATURAL EAS                  LIQUID GAS                    INVESTENrT                 FINANCIAL                    PLANNIN  ANDO
DEPARrMENT                   DEPARrMENr ToEAmrNENr                                     CENrER                         DEPARrMENr               ANALYSES






SELF- MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION SYSTEM OFNAAFTAGAS,'
NOVI SAD
/ ~ ~ ~ a~           AZS5/?E3:5O5- Iloi M
0// RPRDCE/O1 
CO+ TRUCT/0   iV/r5/ N               S-,                                 v,
ZREALZ4A'/iW    / Af /r/}l  # 4'                                       VO'ERC.'AL D'Pr
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R?R OSsOCZ/0z of 1ov imda "m  uni'\( 
PA W SAD AJCEIc  g ntroi
~XO6S ..                                    (                                         PA   A. di (?)  )
OIL      )~-  - l-A-YCII                                                                          AGI E-7R'A169
COM57RUC T/OXOVS// 
zRei7e associeli7aft of wom-/' WVxs-w .-
GO   drctr  acei                          .
0    managing drco 
_$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                              W P   1fi.S  &Z r s-wSds






SELF-MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION  SYSTEM  IN ASSOCtATION   OF  WORK   UNITS   FOR
GAS TREATMENT   AND   DISTRIBUTION  LEGAL  PERSON
woRu uu,r-rTA rlA/4G kAPur  Z                             WORA UNTr-6'ds D/St '!-
/             ,1 \~~ /1                               /RL
ZRL \ 7                  /          /                           WRJ    WORe IVAIr- GASD1/JRI5VT1A ON
WORM UNIJI- SU5p,Pg                    / P//                     / I  S 7                    VOWV SAD
W0,RA' t2Aw/  - CtHWO/ A                                  <
I  /                  -\ A\6BtC
W44PAQ UV#17 - /\\  DAS70/5UT/OAI
WORA UIMr- GAS D0708r1UOTIO'J                                       woRe uvAr-6As D/67RSCTIOov
4 tOGAO7   w orrErs aIX               c ova sft '
RRJ  C,i'iA of worAe uni
UWORK UNI- G45 DIS6TR18/7U01                 wLIORN afI7- IAS DJ7A/8u7/0A/ P6   wore andl
ZRE/.t7A Al/N                                   eA eA N             P   b"InaSs con7;tite
So4 w e~ *-Z. ~#9o, w  >is                                                                   2RJ Q$OCic79ee OliOf ,Oc M0ni/s
{*c~784et;   ~   ~  ~   XFv                                                                    tvz7fF_
_~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '  ,                                             EM.7V j,ig)






18RD 10308
GAS IMPORTS FROM   I                                                              I                              FEBRUARY 1973
IS                                 W                            UGRY       SOii*                       2W                                 22?
ho H U N G A R Y                                                     on                                                     YGSAI
YUGOSLAVIA
46 S._                                    P   rz                   l  >. iK                               APPRAISAL OF GAS TRANSMISSION AND
C .  .55,              DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM OF NAFTAGAS
PROJECT
B-      dA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_____ Moam Pipeline
Supply Pipeline from Gas fields to Mom Pipeline
DistribUtion Pipeline s Consumers
hinds  ~ ~  ~     ~     i) ~Gas Treaing PlNtw
~~~iX \e ~~~~~~~~~ )~~M.d.
n                                                        Ezi 'sin  Existing Pipelines
EI Exsting Gas Treating Plant
B   2   G >vto|^                                  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sl    ^~~~~   G.s fi.lds
.0. SAO                                                      F.t~~~~~~~~~~~~- - Pto Enpannan of Gas Pipeline System
*                    B . |oundorbis of Repu1l-s & AtA-nomouis Pro-nes
45-                                                                                                          N,k-,i Sii                           So Po1tSales 1975-85            45
njfltsu?            1                                K O S            0       V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -          im0Y
_                                             \-->=WX                                                                                                .,, 
184                      \CI-  W 
(N                                          Mov 0           / OF   v    0
20                                                                   22 <   S   0?     %
4    J 't _5+ v tw isXe -              t                  /~~         ~            ~         ~~~~I  v                      I\y  






9  12                 1S~ i4                                         ti24-                                          27
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF GAS TRANSMISSION  AND DISTRIBUTION  SYSTEM                                                                              EXISTiNG GAS TRANSMISSION LINES
- -PROJtCTED GAS TRZANSMISSION LUNES,
OF   NAFTAGAS                                                                                NAPTAGAS PROCt GAS TRANSMISSION LINES
PROJECTED   CONNECTIONS  WITH   EAST   EUROPEAN   GAS  TRANSMISSION   SYSTEMS                                                     NAFTAGAS PROJECT GAS DISTRIBUTION LINES
PRAGUE                                                                      GASFIELDS
RG                                ,                                                    -    INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES
P        0    L    A      N 
6    E   R   M    A   N    y                                                                                                                      KitOMcTitkS        
S   T   R   I                                        UDAPEST       &4 A     * -
A. AlV{iNNA    >   -  t_-{   z/    u     z         \S            A
A \ 2 , + > r ~R    u    M     A                                                N I   A ,
-' 45'<                             \- BELGRA    PANE
<'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '.'' A C K  </   5
'A~~~~~~~~~
I:\                                   KRAL.EVO ,        \                                          / K            SEA
-3f                                                                                           8Y U  L  <            ; N5 )   C   AR   I  A  /
*  A     ~~SOFIA
42                             <-                                                                                           -  -   -
-V; X OROME                                 \O\                                                                                                                ) < A  AO\ \  42'-
Thc Imp-v Vm h,. Lhi1,wp r, ,rr, tp  )            0        jT                                          R
Ii',l mp k~,jt cffi pw- I                                    *. y           -       -,LiRhE
Z;mdtstttite                                                                      o12                                        G  R E  E C  E                     2-
1              12                 \       15                 \         18              \TIRANE       21'                          24'                  ;                                -2O



