Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
MDTF GRANT NUMBER TF055353 IND 
 
Multi-Donor Trust Fund for 
Aceh and North Sumatra 
 Grant Agreement
 
(Reconstruction of Aceh Land Administration System Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
Acting as Partner Agency under the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and North 
Sumatra 
 
Dated June 24, 2005 
 
Page  2
MDTF GRANT NUMBER TF055353 IND 
MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND FOR ACEH AND NORTH SUMATRA 
 GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as Partner 
Agency under the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a joint resolution of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and International Development Association 
(IDA) (Resolution No. IBRD-2005-0004 and IDA-2005-0002) (hereinafter referred to as 
the Resolution), a Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra (MDTFANS) 
has been established to finance a post-earthquake and tsunami emergency rehabilitation 
and reconstruction program (the Program) in the Republic of Indonesia, and IDA 
appointed as trustee thereof (the Trustee); and 
(B) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance from the 
resources of the MDTFANS for funding the Project, and said request has been approved 
in accordance with the provisions of the Resolution; and 
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
make available to the Recipient a Grant to be administered by the Association upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Adjudication Manual” means the Manual issued in accordance with 
paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
 “Aceh” means the Recipient’s Province of Aceh. 
(c) 
“BRR” means the Recipient’s Aceh and North Sumatra Reconstruction 
and Rehabilitation Agency, established by Presidential Decree No. 63/2005. 
Page  3
-
2
-
(d) 
“BPN” means the Recipient’s National Land Agency, and any successor 
thereto. 
(e) 
“BPN Community-Driven Adjudication Manual” means the Manual 
issued in accordance with paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(f) 
“DIPA” means the Recipient’s budget allocation document for the 
Project. 
(g) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(h) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
(i) 
“Financial Management Manual” means the Manual issued in 
accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(j) 
 “Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared 
in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(k) 
“Kabupaten” means a district in a province of the Recipient. 
(l) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated 
June 22, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation. 
(m) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Grant Account referred to in Part A.6 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
(n) 
“Tsunami Affected People” means the people of Aceh and North 
Sumatra who have been devastated by the natural disasters covered under the Program. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount not exceeding 
twenty eight million five hundred thousand United States Dollars ($28,500,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account: (a) to the extent that amounts are available to the Association from the 
MDTFANS for the purposes of the Project; and (b) in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, 
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for 
carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through BPN, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, and management practices, and sound 
environmental and social standards acceptable to the Association, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
Page  5
-
4
-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.6 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of
 
statements of expenditure, 
the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
Page  6
-
5
-
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
Section 4.02. (a
)
Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 
5.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Project Implementation Unit has been established and a Project 
Manager appointed in accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(b) 
the circular referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
has been issued by the Ministry of Finance and BPN. 
Section 5.02.  The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 
6.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Treasury 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
P. O. Box 1139 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Republic of Indonesia 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY  
 
45799 DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859 
 
Jakarta 
   44319 
DEPKEU-IA 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI) 
 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
By: /s/ Andrew Steer 
 Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
acting as Partner Agency for the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for 
 
Aceh and North Sumatra 
 
By: /s/ Mulia Nasution 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
United States Dollars
)
to be Financed  
(1) Goods 
(excluding 
 vehicles), 
works, 
 
22,000,000 
100% 
 
services and Incremental  
 
Operating Costs under 
 
Part A of the Project 
 
(2) Goods 
(excluding 
3,800,000 
100% 
 
vehicles), works and 
 
services under  
 
Part B of the Project 
 
 
 
(3) Goods 
(excluding 
2,700,000 
100% 
 vehicles), 
services 
 
and Incremental Operating  
 
Costs under Part C of  
 the 
Project 
 
________
TOTAL 28,500,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means 
the reasonable costs of incremental expenditures incurred by BPN and the PIU in the 
carrying out of the Project (which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the 
Project), including communications, rental of office space and vehicles, operation and 
maintenance of vehicles, and Project-related travel expenses and allowances but in all 
cases excluding salaries and salary supplements of civil servants. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000, 
Page  10
-
9
-
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after June 1, 2005. 
4. 
The Recipient may withdraw amounts of the Grant only to the extent that such 
amounts are available to the Association from the MDTFANS for the purposes of the 
Project. 
5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; and (e) Incremental Operating Costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
6. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements).  In 
the case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has 
been made from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in 
Bank Indonesia or in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
Page  11
-
10
-
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the 
Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement. 
Page  12
-
11
-
Annex A  
to  
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of US$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  13
-
12
-
Annex  B  
to  
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.6 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in: (i) recovering and 
protecting ownership land rights of the Tsunami Affected People in Aceh; and (ii) 
rebuilding the land administration system in Aceh. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
Part A
:
Reconstruction of Property Rights and Issuance of Land Titles
1. 
Reconstruction of land records, including initial storage fees, copying and 
reproduction of recovered land records, development of a computerized land records 
management system, and reproduction of cadastral maps. 
2. 
(a) 
Provision of training to facilitators and selected civil society 
organizations for the carrying out of community-driven adjudication. 
 
(b) 
Provision of materials including maps and ground markers for 
community mapping activities. 
(c) 
Carrying out of a public information campaign targeting tsunami affected 
communities and other communities in Aceh and addressing common concerns with 
regard to protection of property rights, including advertising in mass media and other 
means of information dissemination. 
3. 
(a) 
Carrying out of surveying and mapping, adjudication and registration of 
rights, and issuance of land titles in accordance with the following priority: (i) areas 
designated as settlement and housing areas, including areas necessary for the construction 
of public buildings such as schools, hospitals and government offices; (ii) all other 
tsunami affected areas; and (iii) land areas adjacent to tsunami affected areas. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of additional aerial photography and acquisition of satellite 
images, as required. 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance to BPN for the carrying out of policy analysis to 
resolve specific policy and regulatory issues in order to accelerate the reconstruction of 
the land administration system in Aceh.  
Page  15
-
14
-
Part B
:
Reconstruction of BPN Institutions in Aceh
1. 
Reconstruction of about three (3) BPN offices in Aceh, and renovation, structural 
strengthening and expansion of other BPN offices in Aceh, including provision of 
furniture and office equipment. 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of the BPN land offices in Aceh, including provision 
of relevant training to BPN staff and provision of technical assistance. 
3. 
(a) 
Automation and computerization of selected BPN offices in Aceh. 
 
(b) 
Establishment of a computerized back-up system for land records, 
including safe off-site storage. 
Part C
:
Project Management
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Project Implementation Unit, including 
provision of furniture and equipment and Incremental Operating Costs. 
2. 
Establishment of a Project monitoring system and a mechanism for handling 
community complaints during the adjudication process in Aceh. 
3. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Project Implementation Unit through provision 
of technical assistance. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services
)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Limited 
International 
Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$300,000 equivalent but not less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, and which for 
reasons of urgency justify a departure from full International Competitive Bidding 
procedures, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Limited 
International Bidding.  
2. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods (excluding vehicles) estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, and works, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the additional 
provisions set forth in Annex A to this Schedule.   
3. Shopping
.
Goods (excluding vehicles) estimated to cost less than 
$25,000 equivalent per contract  and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Shopping. 
4. Force 
Account
.
Works which the Association agrees meet the 
requirements for Force Account may be carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
said procurement method. 
Page  17
-
16
-
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $400,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 
3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Single 
Source 
Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval 
of the Association. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (b) each contract 
for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, and services (other than 
consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (c) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000
 
or more.  In addition, with respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on 
the qualifications and experience of all evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and 
the terms of employment of the consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the 
Association.   All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Page  18
-
17
-
Annex  A  
to  
SCHEDULE 3 
National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those 
set forth in Presidential Decree (Keppres) 80/2003 of the Republic of Indonesia with the 
clarifications and modifications described in the following paragraphs required for 
compliance with the provisions of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” (the Guidelines).  
REGISTRATION 
(a) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms. 
(b) 
Where registration is required, bidders: (i) shall be allowed a reasonable 
time to complete the registration process; and (ii) shall not be denied registration for 
reasons not related to their capability and resources to successfully perform the contract, 
which shall be verified through post-qualification. 
PRE-QUALIFICATION 
 
Pre-qualification shall not be required under this project.  However, for large or 
complex works, with Bank’s prior concurrence, pre-qualification may be allowed and 
should be in accordance with the following: 
(a) 
Eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-
qualification; and 
(b) 
Invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one 
(1) widely circulated national daily newspaper for a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to 
the deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications. 
JOINT VENTURES 
 
A bidder declared as the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required 
to form a joint venture or to sub-contract part of the work or part of the supply of goods 
as a condition of award of the contract. 
PREFERENCES 
(a) 
No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
(b) 
Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial and local 
regulations which restrict national competitive bidding procedures to a class of 
contractors or a class of suppliers shall not be applicable to procurement procedures 
financed under the Grant. 
ADVERTISING 
(a) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and to accelerate the process, allowing a minimum of fifteen 
Page  19
-
18
-
(15) days for the preparation and submission of bids and allowing potential bidders to 
purchase bidding documents up to twenty-four (24) hours prior to the deadline for 
submission of bids. 
(b) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee. 
(c) 
Bidders domiciled outside the area/district/province of the unit 
responsible for procurement shall be allowed to participate regardless of the estimated 
value of the contract. 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding.  If a registration 
process is required, a foreign firm declared as the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a 
reasonable opportunity to register. 
BID SECURITY 
 
Bid security, at the bidders’ option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or 
bank guarantee from a reputable bank. 
BID OPENING AND EVALUATION 
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids, and if bids are invited in two (2) envelopes, both envelopes (technical 
and price) shall be opened at the same time. 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
declared in the bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
bidder. 
(c) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of 
minor, non-substantial deviations. 
(d) 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the 
owner’s estimate and budget ceiling without the Association’s prior concurrence. 
REJECTION OF BIDS 
(a) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Association’s prior concurrence. 
(b) 
When the number of responsive bids is less than three (3), re-bidding 
shall not be carried out without the Association’s prior concurrence. 
SUPPLEMENTAL LETTER 
 
The supplemental letter should reserve the right to require that in contracts 
financed by the Association under this Project, a provision will be included requiring 
suppliers and contractors to permit the Association to inspect their accounts and records 
relating to performance of the contract and to have them audited by auditors appointed by 
the Association. 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex  B  
to  
SCHEDULE 3 
Without limitation on the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and of the 
Procurement Guidelines and Consultant Guidelines (as such terms are defined in said 
schedule), the following provisions shall apply in respect of goods, works and 
consultants’ services to be procured under the Project: 
1.
 
To ensure end-user participation in the procurement of goods, works and 
consultant services under the Project, the requestor/user of such goods, works or 
consultant services (as the case may be) to be acquired, shall be represented on the 
relevant procurement/selection committee.  The criteria for the selection of procurement 
committee/selection members shall in all cases be consistent with the provisions of the 
Procurement Guidelines and Consultant Guidelines and the Project Manual (provided, 
however, that in the event of any inconsistency between the Project Manual and the 
Procurement Guidelines and Consultant Guidelines, the provisions of the Procurement 
Guidelines and Consultant Guidelines shall apply). 
2. 
The annual procurement plans and consultant selection plans referred to in this 
Agreement, including all updates thereof, shall be made publicly available promptly after 
their finalization. 
3. 
All bidding documents and requests for proposals issued in accordance with 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement shall be made available to any member of the public 
promptly upon request, subject only to payment of a reasonable fee to cover the cost of 
printing and delivery.  In the case of requests for proposals, the relevant documents will 
only be made available after notification of award to the successful firm.  Each such 
document will continue to be made publicly available until a year after completion of the 
contract entered into for the goods, works or consultants’ services in question. 
4. 
All short lists of consultants and, in cases of pre-qualification, lists of pre-
qualified contractors and suppliers shall be made available to any member of the public 
promptly upon request. 
5. 
A summary of the evaluation of all bids and proposals for specific contracts shall 
be disclosed to all bidders and parties submitting proposals therefor, promptly after the 
notification of award to the successful bidder/consultant.  Information in such summaries 
will be limited to a list of bidders/consultants, all bid prices and financial proposals as 
read out at public openings for bids and financial proposals, all bids and proposals 
declared non-responsive (together with reasons for such an assessment), the name of 
winning bidder/consultant and the contract price.  Such summaries will be made available 
to any member of the public promptly upon request. 
6. 
Contract award information for all contracts for goods and works of $100,000 
equivalent or more, and all contracts for consultants of $50,000 equivalent or more, shall 
be made publicly available and published widely, and be made available to any member 
of the public upon request, promptly after such award. 
Page  21
-
20
-
7. 
A list of all contracts awarded in the three (3) months preceding the date of such 
request, including, with respect to each such contract, the name of the 
contractor/consultant selected, the contract amount, the number of bidders/makers of 
proposals in respect thereof, the procurement method followed and the purpose of such 
contract shall be made available, promptly upon request by member of the public. 
8. 
Representatives of the end-users of goods or works being procured shall be 
permitted to attend public bid openings in respect thereof.  
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain until completion of the Project, the Steering 
Committee, whose mandate, composition and terms of reference shall be acceptable to 
the Association, to be responsible for overall coordination and oversight of the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of the 
Project, a Project Implementation Unit in the provincial BPN office in Banda Aceh, 
consisting of suitably qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers, including a 
Project Manager having qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association, to be 
responsible for coordination of the day-to-day implementation of the Project. 
3. 
The Recipient shall cause BPN to issue a revised adjudication regulation, 
acceptable to the Association, reducing the documentary evidence requirements for 
registration of title in Aceh. 
4. 
The Recipient shall cause the Ministry of Finance and BPN to issue a circular, 
acceptable to the Association, exempting Tsunami Affected People from the payment of 
taxes and fees for the issuance of replacement land titles or new land titles. 
5. 
The Recipient shall cause BPN to issue a Community-Driven Adjudication 
Manual, acceptable to the Association, and designed to promote community-driven 
adjudication of ownership right, land boundaries and inheritance issues. 
6. 
The Recipient shall cause BPN to issue a Financial Management Manual, 
acceptable to the Association, for purposes of the Project. 
7. 
In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association by August 31 of each year, commencing August 31, 2006, and until 
completion of the Project, an annual work plan and related budget for the following year, 
and, thereafter, carry out such plan taking into account the comments of the Association, 
if any. 
8. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1 of 
each year, commencing September 1, 2005, and until completion of the Project, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
Page  23
-
22
-
(c) 
review with the Association, by March 31 and September 30 of each 
year, commencing March 31, 2006, and until completion of the Project, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the two (2) most recent reports referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Performance Indicators 
Components/Sub-Components 
(Intermediate indicators) 
Results Indicators for Each Component 
Component A   
 
Reconstruction of Property Rights and 
Issuance of Land Titles  
 
A.1 
Reconstruction of BPN’s Land 
Records  
 
Document recovery and imagery completed. 
 
A.2  
Community-Driven Adjudication, 
Community Awareness and 
Participation  
 
Community-driven adjudication manual 
completed and approved. 
 
CDA Facilitators trained. 
 
Community awareness program established. 
 
A.3 Surveying 
and 
Mapping, 
Registration of Rights and Issuance 
of Title Certificates  
 
Teams are operational, with maps and 
equipment. 
 
All land records reconstructed and held in 
digital records management system; by March 
31, 2006. 
 
Community-driven adjudication is completed 
in all areas, as follows: 
·
Priority 1 areas (100,000 parcels) 
completed by December 31, 2005. 
·
Priority 2 areas (200,000 parcels) 
completed by December 31, 2006 
·
Priority 3 areas (300,000) completed by 
December 31, 2007 
 
Title distribution completed as follows: 
·
Priority 1 areas are completed by June 
30, 2006. 
Page  25
-
24
-
A.4 
Policy, Legal and Regulatory 
Support  
 
Policy requirements identified. 
 
·
Priority 2 areas are completed by June 
30, 2007 
·
Priority 3 areas are completed by June 
30, 2008 
 
Policies/regulations implemented. 
 
Component B  
Reconstruction of BPN Institutions in Aceh 
 
B.1 
Reconstruction of Facilities and 
Provision of Equipment and 
Furniture  
 
New sites selected. 
Designs completed. 
Building contracts in place. 
Reconstruction/rehabilitation completed. 
B.2 
Training and Capacity Building  
 
Training course implemented. 
Staff to be redeployed selected
.
B.3. 
Computerization and Development 
of Back-up System  
 
System developed. 
Training completed. 
Procedures developed. 
 
Newly constructed land offices fully 
operational by December 31, 2006.  
 
Renovated and structurally strengthened land 
offices fully operational by March 31, 2006. 
 
Training of BPN staff completed July 31, 
2005. 
Redeployment of staff commenced by July 31,  
2005. 
 
System operational June 30, 2006. 
 
Project Component C  
Project Management 
 
Page  26
-
25
-
C.1. Project Management Support  
 
C.2. Monitoring and Evaluation.  
 
C.3. 
Technical Assistance.  
 
Staff hired and trained. 
Systems operational. 
 
Hotline established and complaint response 
follow service standards. 
 
Procedures established. 
 
Audits carried out. 
 
TA is operational.  Guidance and advise 
provided to the PIU, PMU and implementing 
agency. 
 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.06, 6.05 and Article VII are deleted 
in their entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(d) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read “Multi-
Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra Grant Agreement”. 
 
3. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra 
Grant Agreement to the extent and subject to any modifications set forth 
in such agreement.” 
 
4. 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“3. 
“Recipient” means the party to the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and 
North Sumatra Grant Agreement to which the Grant is made.” 
 
5. 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Multi-Donor Trust Fund 
for Aceh and North Sumatra Grant Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Grant may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Recipient on the goods or services to be 
Page  28
-
27
-
financed under the Grant, or on their importation, 
manufacture, procurement or supply.  Financing of such taxes 
is subject to the Association’s policy of requiring economy and 
efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its credits and grants.  
To that end, if the Association shall at any time determine that 
the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant is excessive or 
otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by notice to the 
Recipient, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or 
referred to in respect of such item in the Multi-Donor Trust 
Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra Grant Agreement as 
required to be consistent with such policy of the Association.” 
 
6. 
Article VI is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The word “credit” in paragraphs (a)(ii) and (c)(i) of Section 6.02 is 
replaced with the words “credit, grant or financing”. 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) is modified by replacing the words “corrupt or 
fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive”. 
 
7. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“(a)  
All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under 
the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra Grant 
Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes 
levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
 
8. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and 
North Sumatra Grant Agreement. 
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for 
Aceh and North Sumatra Grant Agreement shall terminate on the date 
twenty (20) years after the date of the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh 
and North Sumatra Grant Agreement.”
 
