                                           Document of
                                         The World Bank

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                          Report No. 32716-ID




                              PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT




                   PROPOSED MULTI DONOR TRUST FUND FOR ACEH
                                AND NORTH SUMATRA GRANT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$28.50 MILLION

                                              TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                              FOR THE

   RECONSTRUCTION OF ACEH LAND ADMINISTRATION SYSTEM PROJECT




                                            June 22,2005




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region




   This document has a restricted distribution and maybe used by recipients only in the performance of
    their official duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization
-

                         CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                      (ExchangeRate Effective May 25,2005)


                       CurrencyUnit = Indonesian Rupiah
                          IDR 1,000 = US$0.105
                               US$1 = IDR 9,470

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    - December31




                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONIMS




AusAID     Australian GovernmentOverseasAid Program
AWP        Annual Work Plan
Bapel      Aceh ReconstructionAgency (also called BRR)
Bappenas   National DevelopmentPlanning Board
BPK        SupremeAudit Agency
BPKP       DevelopmentFinance Controller
BPN        National Land AdministrationAgency
BRR        Bureau for Rehabilitation and Reconstructionfor Aceh and Nias
CDA        Community-DrivenAdjudication
CQ         Selectionbased on Consultants' Qualifications
CSO        Civil SocietyOrganization
DPA        Dafter Isian Proyek Pusat (Approval for Release of Funds)
EIA        EnvironmentalImpact Assessment
FMR        Financial Management Report
GAM        Free Aceh Movement
GO1        Governmentof Indonesia
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB        International CompetitiveBidding
IC         Individual Consultants
IDA        InternationalDevelopment Association
JICA       Japan International Cooperation Agency
KDP        Kecamatan Development Program
KPK        National Anti-corruption Commission
LAP1       Land AdministrationProject I
LCS        Least Cost Selection
LMPDP      Land Management and Policy Development Project
MDTFANS    Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra
MOF        Ministry of Finance
NBF        Not Bank Financed
NCB        National CompetitiveBidding
NGO        Non-Government Organization
NS         National Shopping
PCAR       Procurement Capacity Assessment Report

                                                          FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY




     PMM            Project ManagementManual
     PMU            Project ManagementUnit
     PIU            Project ImplementationUnit
     QBS            Quality-Based Selection
     QCBS           Quality and Cost Based Selection
     RALAS          Reconstructionof Aceh Land AdministrationSystemProject
     RFP            Request For Proposal
     SFB            Selection under a Fixed Budget
     SOE            Statementof Expenditure
     SSS            Single-SourceSelection
     TA             Technical Assistance
     TNI            Indonesian National Army
     UN             United Nations
     UNDB           United Nations Development Bulletin
     UNDP           United Nations DevelopmentProgram
     UF'P           Urban Poverty Project
     UN-Habitat     United Nations Human SettlementsProgram
     USAID          United StatesAgency for InternationalDevelopment
     YIPD           Foundation for Aceh Governanceand DevelopmentProgram




                                Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                             Country Director:       Andrew D. Steer
    I          Sector DirectorISector Manager:       Mark D. WilsonIRahul Raturi
          Task Team LeaderlCo-Team Leader:           Wael ZakoutIKeith Bell         II




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                                            INDONESIA
 RECONSTRUCTION OF ACEH LAND ADMINISTRATION SYSTEM PROJECT


                                                             CONTENTS


                                                                                                                              Page


Executive Summary.............................................................................................................i

Technical Report............................................................................................................... 1

Background.........................................................................................................................1

Detailed Project Description............................................................................................... 3

Project Costs .......................................................................................................................9

Community Driven Adjudication and Relationship with Other Bank................................9

Implementation Arrangements .........................................................................................12

Social Issues Arising from Tsunami and Related to Land................................................13

Procurement Arrangements..............................................................................................15

Financial Managementand disbursement Arrangements................................................. 18

SafeguardPolicies ............................................................................................................21

Complaints Handling and Anti-Corruption Strategy........................................................23

Project Results Summary..................................................................................................27


                                                INDONESIA

                     Reconstruction of Aceh Land AdministrationSystem Project

                                 PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                           East Asia and Pacific


                                                    EASRD




 Date: June 22,2005                                       Team Leader/ Co-Team Leader: Wael ZakoutIKeith Bell
 Country Director: Andrew Steer                           Sectors: Central Govt. Admin (100%);
 Sector DirectorISector Manager: Mark D.                  Themes: Land Administration and Management (P)
 WilsonIRahul Raturi                                      Environmental Screening Category: Partial Assessment
 Project ID: PO95883                                      Safeguard Screening Category: Limited Impact
  end in^ Instrument:Emergency Recovery Loan
                                            Project Financing Data
 [ ] Loan     [ ] Credit   [ X ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee[ ] Other:
 Total Project Costs: US$28.5 million
1MDTFANS Grant Amount: US$28.50                                                                                   1
 Government Contribution: N/A
                                            Financing Plan (US$m)
           Source                      Local                         Foreign                        Total
I        Borrower            I                             I                            1                         I
        MDTFANS                         18.50                          10.00                         28.50
            Total                       18.50                          10.00                         28.50

 Grant Recipient: The Republic of Indonesia

 Responsible Agency: National Land Agency (BPN)
 Address:             J1. Sisingamangaraja No. 2, Jakarta, Indonesia
 Contact Person:      Dr. Lufthi Nasution, Chairman, BPN
                      Tel: (62-21)-722-872313.Fax: (62-21b726-7531
 Estimated disbursements (CYNS$m)
 CY                              2005                 2006                 2007                      2008
 Annual                           5.OO                11.OO                 8.00                     4.50
 Cumulative                       5.00                16.00                24.00                     28.50
 Project implementation period: Start: July 1,2005    End: July 1,2008
 Expected closing date: December 31,2008
 Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other significant respects?
                                                                                        [ ]Yes     [ X ] No
 Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                            [ ]Yes      [ X ] No
 Have these been approved by Bank management?                                           [ ]Yes      [ X ] No
 Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                            []Yes       [ X I N O
 Does the ~roiectinclude anv critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?              T X 1Yes T      1 No

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation? [ X ]Yes [ ] No
Re$ PAD
Project development objectiveRe$ PAD: Part I1 Para 1
                                                   -

The proposed project is to improve land tenure security in Aceh after the devastation caused by the
tsunami and the destruction of evidence of ownership. The specific objectives of the proposed project
are: (i) to recover and protect ownership land rights of the people in the affected and surrounding areas;
and (ii) to rebuild land administrationsystem.
Project description [one-sentencesummary of each component] Re$ PAD: Para I1-Para 2

Component A: Reconstruction of Property Rights and Issuance of Land Titles (US$22.10 million) The
objective of this component is to reconstruct the land administration records system in the tsunami-
affected provinces and to recover the property rights of both formal, and informal land holders

Component B: Reconstruction of BPN Institutions in Aceh (US$3.9 million): This component will
supports the reconstruction of BPN facilities and its human resource base in Aceh.

Component C: Project Management (US$2.5 million): The objective of this component is to support
BPN's Aceh provincial office to implement the project in an efficient and transparent way.


Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Re$ PAD: Part IX

Environnlental Assessment (OPIBPIGP 4.01)
InvoluntaryResettlement (OPIBP 4.12)


Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for: Re$ PAD: Executive Summary
Nil

Loadcredit Effectiveness:

         BPN establishes a Project Implementation Unit and Appoints a Project Manager with skills and
         qualifications acceptable to the Trustee;

         BPN issues a revised adjudication regulation to lower the requirements for documentary evidence,
         since many people lost most of their documents (such as personal ID, tax receipt, etc);

         BPN and Ministry of Finance (MoF) issue a circular exempting the tsunami affected people from
         paying tax and fees for the replacement/issuance of land titles;

         CDA Manual, acceptable to the Trustee, has been issued by BPN; and

         A financial Management Manual and an Adjudication Manual, acceptable to the Trustee, have
         been issued by BPN.

                                  Executive Summary


The earthquakes and tsunami which struck Indonesia and several other countries in the
Indian Ocean region on December 26, 2004, resulted in one of the worst natural disasters
in recorded human history. Indonesia bore the major brunt of the disaster. In Aceh and
North Sumatra, the disaster left more than 230,000 people dead or missing, caused an
additional 700,000 homeless, washed away hundreds of communities, collapsed many
local governments, and devastated normal social, economic, and political life in the
affected area.

The damage to property rights and land administration system is severe. The nature of
the destruction, combined with the large death toll, has wiped out any marks on the
ground which defines property rights, land boundaries and people's memory of the
location of these boundaries. Furthermore, the destruction of land books and cadastral
maps in several land offices will make the reconstruction of property rights even more
difficult. In addition, several land offices were either completely destroyed or structurally
damaged. In Banda Aceh alone, the land office lost 41 staff, approximately, one third of
its staff.

This widespread destruction has resulted in significant insecurity in land and property
rights. After suffering huge economic and emotional losses from the tragedy, for many
people, land may be the only thing of value they may still have. There is a risk of land
grabbing, particularly in urban areas where the communal traditions are weak, and
opportunists seek to take advantage of others' misery. Almost immediately after the
disaster, many survivors started to install marks on sites where previously their houses
had stood   - a behavior symbolizing worries over the security of their land and property
rights. However,physical demarcation of the possessory rights is not sufficient and these
rights require both physical marking and official recording (registration) by the
government to ensure its legality and security. Land rights recovery and protection
clearly shouldbe an urgent and priority task tackled.

Linkage with Other Reconstruction Projects. The RALAS project is proposed as part
of a group of four projects, which have the overriding objective of accelerating the
process of community rehabilitation in Aceh. The restoration of the land administration
system and land rights of communities is an essential first step in this process of
rehabilitation, which is also closely linked to the proposal presently being finalized for
the provision of housing for the affected communities. Separately, two other proposals
are being processed for supporting rural and urban communities respectively, in
recovering their livelihoods. The preparation of the RALAS project proposal has been
closely coordinated with other donors' activities related to land, notably, restoration of
land records financed by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), development
of aerial photography maps for Aceh, funded by the Government of Norway, as well as
programs supported by United Nations Development Program (UNDP), the Australian
Government Overseas Aid Program (AusAID) and UN Habitat. The project will help
bring consistency to the Community-Driven Adjudication (CDA) process (often referred

to as "community mapping"), working with and supporting the other donors who are
working with communities in doing this; and the National Land Administration Agency
(BPN) will be able to complete the surveying, titling and registration of communities
supportedby the other donors, on the samebasis as proposed for the project.

The Proposed Project. The overall goal of the proposed project is to improve land
tenure security in Aceh after the devastation caused by the tsunami and the destructionof
evidence of ownership. The specific objectives of the proposed project are: (i) to recover
and protect ownership land rights of the people in the affected and surrounding areas; and
(ii) to rebuild land administration system. The project would rely in the first instance on
getting active community engagement of the affected communities to help sort out
ownership rights, and to initiate the adjudication process. This would be done using
facilitators available from existing projects (Kecamatan Development Program - KDP,
Urban Poverty Project    - UPP, other donors and NGOs financed community mapping),
and where these are not available, by hiring using RALAS funding NGOs and other
qualified members of civil society. This process would be guided by a manual, to be
issued by BPN, which will standardize procedures for communities to follow. The
recently established Aceh Bureau of Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency (BRR or
BAPEL) will help prioritize the phasing of areas where the project would engage. The
first priority would be given to areas designated as settlement and housing areas. In doing
so, the project will harmonize land parcel inventorying and boundary demarcation to
enable housing constructionunder the proposed Housing Project to be expedited. Service
standards have been agreed with BPN, which will be responsible for project
implementation, for the completion of survey work and the award of titles. Finally, the
project includes provisions aimed at securing transparency and accountability to respond
to the concerns on potential corruption and mismanagement. The proposed project will
includethe followingthree components:

Component A:         Reconstruction of Property Rights and Issuance of Land Titles
(US$22.10 million). The component would provide support for: (i) reconstruction of
land records and provision of support to ensure that the recovered documents are usable;
(ii) CDA to sort out ownership rights, land boundaries and inheritance issues within the
communities, led by the community leaders and with the support from NGOs and
facilitators; (iii) surveying and mapping, registration of rights and issuance of title
certificates for around 300,000 parcels in tsunami affected areas, and around 300,000 in
other urban and low agriculture land that are not affected by the tsunami. Resettlement
and housing areas will be completed within 6 month, tsunami affected areas will be
completed in 18months, and the rest will be completed within 3 years; and (iv) assistance
in policy, legal and regulatory issues which may potentially slow down project
implementation.

Component B: Reconstruction of BPN Institutions in Aceh (US$2.20 million). The
component would provide the support for: (i) reconstruction and rehabilitation of
minimum three land offices that were destroyed, structural strengthening and renovation
of the remaining land offices, and provision of computer and other necessary office
equipment and furniture; (ii) training and capacity building for BPN staff, especially
those who are recruited to replace the deceased staff; and (iii) computerization and

development of a back-up system to ensure that all land-related data will have a proper
off site back-up so that property rights will be protected in case of another catastrophic
event.

Component C: Project Management (US$1.50 million). This component would
include: (i) support to project management to ensure that the project is implemented in a
transparent and effective way; (ii) monitoring and evaluation, and complaint handling
mechanism; and (iii) technical assistanceto project implementation.

The total project costs are US$28.5 million. Government contribution will include staff
salaries which will be around US$1.44 million. These costs are not included as part of
project costs, as the latter only includes the incremental costs associatedwith the project.

The Adjudication Process. Agreement on the ownership rights, land boundaries, and
any inheritance issues will be reached at the community level through CDA, facilitated
by community leaders and with the support from NGOs. The project will assist in this
process through hiring NGOs in areas identified by Bapel, heading project Steering
Committee, as priority for housing and settlements. The process would also be facilitated
through support from existing projects (such as UPP and KDP, which are already under
implementation in some parts of the affected areas, and will be further expanded with a
support planned from the MDTFANS), other donors and NGOs. A CDA manual is being
developed through a consultative process between BPN and the NGOs, and will provide
guidance to the various NGOs/facilitators, who would also be provided up-front with
essential training. A BPN/NGO secretariat was already established to coordinate the
CDA activities. BPN will survey the areas after the completion of community driven
adjudication and will issue temporary title certificates no later than 30 days after the
survey is complete. Full title certificates will be issued no later than 90 days after
completion of the survey.

Implementation Arrangements. The BPN will be the agency responsible for project
implementation. To ensure local ownership, BPN will manage the project through its
provincial office in Banda Aceh and the project manager will be delegated a full authority
to manage project activities. Also, to ensure a full coordination with other reconstruction
programs, a locally based Steering Committee will be established, chaired by BAPEL,
and will include representatives from the relevant national and local government
institutions.

Transparency and Accountability. The project includes several layers to ensure full
transparency and accountability in all activities carried out under the project. These are:
(i) the use of a computerized accounting system to monitor all payments; (ii) the
procurement committee will include a member of the Bapel and a civil society
representative; (iii) a hotline will be established to receive any complaints with regard to
project implementation; (iv) NGOs hired for the CDA will also be used to monitor
implementation activities and report to the Steering Committee and the Bank any
irregularities.




                                               iii

Effectiveness Conditions. To ensure that project implementation starts as quickly as
possible, the following are the effectivenessconditions:

            BPN establishes a Project Implementation Unit and Appoints a Project
            Manager with skills and qualificationsacceptableto the Trustee;

            BPN issues a revised adjudication regulation to lower the requirements for
            documentary evidence, since many people lost most of their documents (such
            as personal ID, tax receipt, etc);

            BPN and Ministry of Finance (MoF) issue a circular exempting the tsunami
            affected people from paying tax and fees for the replacement/issuance of land
            titles;

            CDA Manual, acceptable to the Trustee, has been issued by BPN; and


            A Financial Management Manual and an Adjudication Manual, acceptable to
            the Trustee, have been issued by BPN.


Key Agreements Reached During Appraisal. Key agreements reached during appraisal
are outlined in this project appraisal document and the draft grant agreement. These
include: (i) project design parameters; (ii) pre-implementation activities (outlined above
as effectiveness conditions); and (iii) measures to ensure transparency and accountability
in project implementation.

                                    Technical Report


PART -I: Background


1.       Overview of Damage to Land Administration System. The disaster-affected
area is about 220 km long and around 5 km wide along the coastline of Aceh and North
Sumatra. In Kota Banda Aceh, the tsunami affected area accounts for 70% of the
district's geographic area. In Kabupaten Aceh Besar and Kabupaten Aceh Barat, over
90% of their geographical areas were affected by the tsunami. Within the affected area,
there was a severe damage to the land administration system:

        Significant loss of BPN stafl. InAceh Province, more than forty BPN staff lost
        their lives, most of them from the Kota Banda Aceh Land Office which suffered
         about a 30% staff loss;
        Destroyed and damaged land offices: Land Offices, including District Land
        Office in Banda Aceh were completely demolished or damaged at different
        degrees and need to be rehabilitated;
        Loss and serious damage of land books: BPN estimates that about 10% of land
        books were lost. However, a significant amount of the remaining 90% of land
        books were found in a critical condition (e.g., flooded with sea water and mud)
        requiring urgent (within a short period of time) conservation and restoration work.
        In addition to the land books, there was also a serious loss of other land
         documents;
        Almost complete loss of other land documents, including cadastral maps: BPN
        assessed that about 80% of land documents were lost, including almost all
        cadastralmaps;
        Serious shortage of officefacilities: There was a severe damage and destruction
        of office facilities, and currently, there is a shortage of computers, photocopiers,
        scanners, digital cameras, printers, and stationery to support urgent record
        recovery;
        Damage and disappearance ofproperty rights evidence: The tsunami destroyed
        much of the physical evidence of property boundaries. Moreover, the disaster
        also washed away the witness evidence held in the minds of many of the land
        occupants, who were among the hundreds of thousands of human lives lost in the
        tsunami; and
        Large number of parcels was affected: Approximately 300,000 land parcels
        have been affected by the tsunami. These comprise 170,000 urban land parcels
        and 130,000 rural land parcels. As is the case in many areas of Indonesia less
        than 25% of land parcels can be expected to be titled. Therefore, of the total
        number of affected land parcels, approximately 60,000 have been titled (40,000
        being urban and 20,000 being rural). It is also estimated that 5% of titled land
        parcels were mortgaged, and these mortgages have been registered by BPN.

2.      Importance of recovery of property rights. The land rights recovery and
protection are important and should be conducted as soon as possible for the following
reasons.   Firstly, recovering and protecting land property rights will lay a solid
foundation for the reconstruction work, spatialplanning, compensation, and long-term
economic development.         There are already examples of localities where the
reconstruction of facilities notably, financed by international donors, was hindered by
unclear possessory rights to the land assigned for the construction.

In addition, recovery and protection of land rights is essential for establishing social
justice and ensuring a long-term social stability. Urgency of this matter is implied by
the fact that as time passes, any damaged but remaining physical evidence of land
ownership is likely to be destroyed in the general clean-up operations. Moreover,
opportunists will begin to make spurious and illegitimate claims over land holdings or
rights of vulnerable and disadvantaged group. The most vulnerable groups are widows
and children who often cannot effectively defend their rights and hence, their land could
be more likely subjected to land grabbing.

For the purpose of protecting both registered and unregistered land rights, special
attention should be paid to safeguarding the rights of vulnerable groups, such as
women, children, and orphans. Most of these vulnerable groups, for many reasons, are
in a disadvantageousposition for defendingtheir rights.

3.      Land rights protection process. Land rights protection has two integral parts.
First, protection should be provided to those whose rights were registered before the
tsunami. Property rights should be revalidated and confirmed, with new title certificates
to be issued to those landowners. Second, an equally important, but more difficult issue
is concerned with occupiers of lands, whose possessory rights were not registered and
now require protection. Although their possessory rights were not registered within the
government's land records, in reality, they have actually held possessory (or occupancy)
rights to land, which has been widely accepted and mutually recognized by the
community.

4.      Initiated activities. Already, a number of Civil Society Organizations (CSOs)
have started the process of community-driven adjudication in the affected areas. These
activities should be better coordinated, results further verified and the determined rights
formalizedby the government.

The recovery of the retrieved documentation and cadastral mapping has been also
initiated, with the support of international donors (e.g., governments of Japan and
Norway). This work has to be continued and enhanced through necessary additional
efforts in order to fully rehabilitate and strengthen the land administration and
management system in Aceh province.

PART 11.-       Detailed Project Description




1.      The objectives of the proposed project are:


        (i)     to recover and protect ownership land rights of the people in the affected
                areas; and


        (ii)    to rebuild land administrationsystem

2.      The project will consist of the followingcomponents and activities:


Component A: Reconstruction of Property Rights and Issuance of Land Titles
(US$22.10million)

The objective of this component is to reconstruct the land administration records system
in the tsunami-affected provinces and to recover the property rights of both formal, and
informal land holders.      The project will support: (i) reconstruction of land records
damaged by tsunami; (ii) community-driven adjudication, public awareness and
participation; (iii) surveying,mapping and adjudicationof land parcels to enable property
rights to be registered and certificates of title to be distributed to land holders or their
heirs; and (iv) preparation of new regulations, laws and decrees to support the expedient
implementationof the project.

Approximately 300,000 land parcels have been affected by the tsunami. These comprise
170,000urban land parcels and 130,000rural land parcels. As is the case in many areas
of Indonesia less than 25% of land parcels can be expected to be titled. Therefore, of the
total number of affected land parcels, it can be assumed that approximately 60,000 have
been titled (40,000 being urban and 20,000 being rural). It is also estimated that 5% of
titled land parcels were mortgaged, and these mortgages have been registered by BPN.

Sub-componentA.l: Reconstruction of BPN's Land Records (US$0.5 million)

The tsunami damaged all of BPN's land records that were stored in the various province
and district land offices. All of these records were paper-based and stored on the ground
floors of the respective buildings. Severe damage was sustained by all land register
books (which hold the title certificate records) and all cadastral land parcel plans.
Unfortunately, all of the cadastral index maps, showing land parcels were irretrievably
damaged. No duplicate copies of these index maps are held outside of the offices. BPN
has received initial support from JICA, which has initiated the recovery of damaged land
books retrieved from the Banda Aceh land office. Almost fifieen tones of records have
been airlifted to Jakarta for stabilization, and are currently stored in a fi-eezer awaiting a
special chamber for controlled vacuum drying. The situation regarding land records is
fbrther complicated by the destruction of almost all title records held by land owners, the
majority of whom are now deceased.

Over the next 12-15 months, the records to be recovered will be specially treated and
cleaned to enable digital reproduction using mounted 8 megapixel cameras. JICA
fundingwill provide for only the initial freezing of the documentsuntil June 2005.

The project would support: (i) additional storage fees in the special freezer beyond that
funded by JICA, at least 3 months fiom June to September 2005; (ii) reproduction of all
necessary paper-based working documents to enable BPN to provide its land
administration services; (iii) development of a computerized land records management
system, which will hold all of the imaged documents produced during the JICA-funded
recovery operation; (iv) any additional measures necessary to retrieve and use the land
record documentation.

Sub-component A.2: Community Driven Adjudication/Community Awareness and
Participation (US$2.20 million)

Broadly speaking, CDA (what is commonly called "community mapping") is a bottom-
up approach to establish agreement among the community members in the presence of
communityleaders on the legal owners of land parcels, to demarcate boundaries, and also
to sort out the inheritance issues in case the legal owner is deceased. The situation is
complicated by the very large loss of life, more than 70% of the population in many
areas, and the destruction of the physical evidence of land occupation boundaries such as
walls and fences. CDA has already started in some districts of Aceh. This process has
emerged either through support from CSOs or the communities themselves. At present it
is not widespread and is undertaken in an ad-hoc manner.

To streamline this CDA process and develop a common understanding of its procedure, a
CDA Manual will be prepared in the coming weeks in close consultation with CSOs,
community and religious leaders, and BPN. By doing so, BPN can move speedily to
adjudicate, survey, map and register property rights and boundaries after CDA is
completed.

The project will also dovetail on the existing KDP program in rural areas, and the UPP
program in urban areas, to increase the scope of such participatory approach to
adjudication.

To ensure that the confidence, support and morale of the community is maintained, it is
essential that a public awareness and information campaign, which targets communities
and addressesconcerns with regard to protection of the property rights is carried out.

The project will support: (i) preparation of a procedures manual for CDA; (ii) training of
at least 50 facilitators, or local CSOs to support the community participation and
adjudication, and to interface with BPN surveying and land registration staff; (iii) on-
going community awareness and education programs including the preparation of public
relations and information; (iv) provision of materials such as information collection
proformas, pre-tsunami satellite image maps for the communities; (v) supply of ground

markers for community "mapping"; and (vi) provision of support and training to CSOs to
work on CDA in other priority areas.

CDA could also be initiated by other donors, CSOs and other World Bank-financed
projects. Likewise, these initiativeswill follow the agreedmanual and will be coordinated
with the Bapel and BPN. It was agreed that BPN will send the surveying and adjudication
teams no later than 30 days after the completion of CDA, and that land titles will be
issued no later than 90 days from the beginning of the surveying work. In order to enable
BPN to meet this timeline, CSOs, and other organizations need to inform BPN of the
villages they work in, and expected completion date of the CDA. A detailed description
of the CDA is provided in Part IV of this document.

Sub-component A.3: Surveying and Mapping, Registration of Rights and Issuance
of Title Certificates (US$19.20 million)

The priority of effort for providing security of property rights will be: (i) Priority 1  -

areas designated as settlement and housing areas, including areas necessary for the
construction of public buildings such as schools, hospitals and government offices
(estimated at 100,000parcels); (ii) Priority 2 - all other tsunami affected areas (estimated
at 200,000 parcels); and (iii) Priority 3 - land areas immediately adjacent to tsunami
affected areas (estimated at 300,000parcels).

Already, BPN has purchased a small amount of pre-tsunami satellite imagery and test-
produced maps at a scale of 1:3,500. It is assessed that suitable pre-tsunami satellite
imagery, when ortho-rectified, will reliably produce 1:5,000 scale maps, which would
provide a positional accuracy of about 1meter.

The European Union will fund the provision of very high resolution color pre-tsunami
satellite imagery and also technical assistance for 2 weeks. The imagery is expected to be
supplied in late June 2005. In addition to this, the project will fbnd further imagery or
aerial photography as its necessary for implementation.

The project will support: (i) acquisition of suitable high-resolution pre-tsunami satellite
imagery to prepare maps to support BPN's mapping, surveying and adjudication for
reconstruction of the land administration system and to also prepare maps to be provided
for CDA; (ii) adjudicate community to prepare a complete official inventory of land
parcels, parcel boundaries and land holders; (iii) survey all land parcels and produce
digital cadastral records and index maps necessary for the land administration system;
(iv) validate CDA and distribute land titles for previously titled land and also informal
lands for which legitimate possessory rights can be claimed; (v) additional land
surveying, geodetic infrastructure, mapping and imagery to support post-tsunami
reconstruction of affected and adjoining areas, (vi) hiring of contract staff, allowances;
(vii) payment of allowances and travel expenses for BPN staff to be re-deployed to Aceh
and North Sumatra; and (viii) procurement of any private sector surveying and mapping
services.

Sub-component A.4: Policy, Legal and Regulatory Support (US$0.2 million)

The policy and regulatory framework for land administration framework is being
reformed under the Land Management and Policy Development Project (LMPDP),
approved by the Bank Board of Directors in 2004. However, this legal framework is one
which provides the governance under normal circumstances. The challenges facing both
the government in dealing with post-tsunami reconstruction of the land administration
system and recovery of property rights require extraordinary measures to ensure that
"red-tape" is minimized to enable a more rapid response and one that compassionately
deals with the needs of the people who have suffered.          Because of the need for
streamlining, the existing framework requires specific tsunami responses to enable the
reconstruction to proceed.

There are many areas that may require policy or regulatory support including:          (i)
clarification of inheritance in accordance to the Syariah law; (ii) treatment of mortgages
of properties already destroyed by the tsunami; (ii) waiver of fees and charges for land
titling for tsunami-affected areas; (iv) public notification periods; and (v) surveying
regulations.

The project would support the provision of consulting services to undertake analysis and
provide options to BPN and the project Steering Committee

Component B: Reconstruction of BPN Institutions in Aceh (US$3.9 million)

The impacts of the tsunami on BPN has severely affected its capacity not only to respond
to the needs of the community following the disaster itself, but to actually deliver its
normal land administration services and fulfill its lawhl responsibilities. At least 41
BPN staff died in the tsunami. As a result, BPN now has insufficient capacity. In
addition, three BPN buildings have been destroyed and others have been severely
damaged. The damage and destruction of buildings has also seen the destruction of
computing and communicationsequipment, software, furniture and vehicles.

This component will support the reconstruction of BPN facilities and its human resource
base in Aceh through: (i) construction of new land offices to replace the ones destroyed
by the tsunami, and the repairlrenovation the offices damaged by the tsunami and
subsequent earthquakes; (ii) provision of the necessary furniture, computing and
communicationsequipment, software and vehicles to support reconstruction work as well
as normal land administration service delivery; (iii) training and capacity building of
BPN staff to support the implementation of the project and the on-going land
administration services provided by BPN; and (iv) development of a back-up off-site
storage system and procedures for the land records.

Sub-component B.1: Reconstruction of Facilities and Provision of Equipment and
Furniture (US$3.2 million)

Three BPN Land offices have been destroyed. These are located at: (i) Kota Banda Aceh
(including staff guest house); (ii) Kabupaten Aceh Besar; and (iii) Kabupaten Simelu
(island). In addition, many of the district land officeswere severely damaged and require
structural strengthening.

All buildings to be constructedwill meet international standards for earthquakes and will
be constructed to ensure that vital equipment and records is above the tsunami flood
levels. Buildings to be renovated will be structurallyassessed by professional engineers,
and structurallyenhanced to meet internationalearthquakestructural standards.

The proposed project will support: (i) design and construction of minimum three new
BPN offices (the final number of buildings to be reconstructed will be determined after
the structural assessment of the damaged facilities); (ii) renovation and structural
strengthening (if needed) of other BPN offices; (iii) provision of furniture, computer and
communicationsequipment, software and othernecessary office equipment to all offices.

Sub-componentB.2: Training and Capacity Building (US$0.3 million)

About 30% of BPN staff died in the tsunami. The majority of surviving staff have lost
families, their homes and belongings. As a result, BPN now has insufficient local
capacity to respond to the implementation of this project and also to continue to provide
normal land administration services. In order to strengthenthe entire structure of the land
offices to cope with the increased demands of the implementation of the project, the
government plans to recruit and train new staff and deploy trained staff from other
regions, and employ new personnel who will need to be trained. Temporary staff may
also need to be hired and trained to meet the needs of the reconstruction efforts.

The project will support: (i) the training of staff and contractors; (ii) preparation of
training materials and conduct of training courses; and. (iii) consultant services.

Sub-component B.3:          Computerization and Development of Back-up System
(US$0.4 million)

A major impediment to the recovery of property rights and the reconstruction of the land
administration system has been the destruction of the one and only land records system
by the tsunami. This must never be allowed to happen again. Paper-based records
systems are susceptible to all forms of disasters, including tsunami.          They require
significant storage space.     The key outputs of the recovery of land records under
component A will be digital land records and a computerized land records management
system. The back-up system must also be computerized, and include safe off-site storage
to ensure that the loss of information can never recur.

The project will support: (i) development and implementation of a computerized back-up
system for land records management, including off-site storage; (ii) development of a
procedures manual; (iii) training of staff; and (iv) other additional requirement to ensure
implementation of the system.

Component C: Project Management(US$2.5 million)

The objective of this component is to support BPN's Aceh provincial office to implement
the project in an efficient and transparent way. The component will include the following
sub-components:

Sub-component C.l: Project ManagementSupport (US$1.5 million)

This sub-component will finance all expenses of the PIU including the cost of contract
staff, relocation allowances of government staff, travel costs, furniture, equipment, and
the cost of the financial management and administration system established in the PIU to
manage the project. The sub-component will also finance the expenses of the PMU to
supportthe project.

Sub-component C.2: Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.3 million)

This sub-component will finance the monitoring of the adjudication and surveying
process to ensure that the entireprocess is transparent and no corruption transpires during
the CDA, and the surveying and adjudication. The sub-component will finance a hotline
to be operated by an independent private operator who will receive community
complaints through phones and letters. The private contractorwill log all complaints and
submit it to the PMU and the SteeringCommittee.

Sub-component C.3: Technical Assistance (US$0.7 million)

This sub-component will finance short-term international and Indonesian technical
assistanceto the PIU to implementthe project.

PART -111: ImplementationArrangements


1.      Project Costs

A. Reconstruction of Property Rights and Issuance of Land Titles
           A.l Reconstructionof BPN's Land Records                                                0.50
           A.2 Community DrivenAdjudication                                                        2.2
           A.3 Surveyingand Mapping, Registration of Rights and Issuance of Title Certificates     19.2
           A.4 Policy, Legal and Regulatory Support                                                 0.2
Subtotal                                                                                          22.10

B. Reconstruction of BPN Institutions inAceh
           B.l Reconstructionof Facilitiesand Provision of Equipment and Furniture
           B.2 Training and Capacity Building
           B.3 Computerizationand development of back up system
Sub-total

C. Project Management
           C.l ProjectManagement Supporl

           C.2 Monitoring and Evaluation
           C.3 TechnicalAssistance
Sub-Total

Grant Total                                                                                        28.5


Government contribution will include staff salaries which will be around US$1.44
million. These costs are not included as part of project costs presented above, as the latter
only includes the incrementalcosts associatedwith the project.


PART -IV: Community Driven Adjudication and Relationship With Other Bank
                  - And     Mdtfans-Funded Projects


1.      How Will RALAS Reconstruct Property Rights? Delays in reconstruction and
rehabilitation of tsunami-affected areas has given rise to "community-mapping", often
facilitated by NGOs and CSOs, to enable identification and demarcation their respective
land parcels to enable re-building.             This informal process has generally involved
facilitation of community agreement on land ownership and the positioning of parcel
boundaries. People desire to rebuild on and without dispute of ownership, location or
extent of the land parcels that they occupied prior to the tsunami. It is recognized that the
outputs of "community mapping" of property rights has no legal status. Legality can
only be provided through the formal adjudication, cadastral surveying and registration by
the national land agency BPN.

The challenge facing all reconstruction and rehabilitation for the tsunami-affected areas,
is to be able to expedite implementation, whilst at the same time protecting and restoring
legitimacy of property rights to land owners both living and deceased. In the case of the
deceased, the rights of heirs must also be protected, especially the direct descendents
such as widows and children who lack any wealth or livelihood.

Clearly, the priority is to enable people to commence rebuilding houses, and for related
infrastructure services to be able to be constructed, whilst ensuring property rights are
secured. BPN's legal responsibilities for land registration are to be seen as supporting
reconstruction and rehabilitation and not being an impediment.

For this reason, RALAS will regularize "community-mapping" into a process called
CDA. Through CDA, the communities themselves will prepare inventories of land
owners (or heirs of land owners) and demarcate boundaries. BPN will support CDA
through: @)issuanceof a CDA manual which standardizesprocedures for communities to
follow and outputs to be provided; (ii) provide support materials for communities to use
to in "inventorize" ownership and demarcate boundaries; (iii) train agencies such as
NGOs and CSOs to facilitate the "community mapping"; (iv) coordinate implementation
of CDA to meet the Bapel priorities. Prior to CDA being undertaken in any programmed
community, BPN will demarcate all roads and sections of land parcels to provide a
reliable ground framework for "community mapping" to be undertaken. Upon
notification by a community that it has completed its "community mapping", BPN will
within a period of no longer than 30 days ensure that the land parcels are officially
surveyed and adjudicated. Within a period of 90 days, title certificates will be issued.
BPN will not title any parcels which are in disputeby the community.

2.      Retrospectivity for Already Completed Community Mapping.                  Where
"community mapping" has already been undertaken, BPN will act retrospectively to
adjudicate, survey and register. This is basically analogous to the current situation for
systematictitling under LMPDP and formerly Land Administration Project I (LAPI).

3.      Unsuitable Land Parcels. It must be recognized that in some circumstances
"community mapping" may have been undertaken on land parcels which are not
suitabilityfor housing. These parcels may be subject to inundation, be wholly or partially
submerged or for some other reason be unsuitable. The decision to build or not build is
not for BPN to determine.

4.      Community Spatial Planning and Land Consolidation. BPN's immediate
responsibility is to reconstruct property ownership and land boundaries as they existed
immediatelyprior to the tsunami. This is also BPN's legal responsibility. In some cases
it may desirable to propose changes to the spatial planning of communities in order to
improve the quality of life or public safety. However, before such changes are made, the
pre-tsunami land ownership status and property rights must be resolved through CDA,
and subsequently further community consultation and agreement and government
determination on any spatial planning design. Clearly, once community agreement and
government determination is given to newly designed roads and parcel boundaries, BPN
would formalizethe survey and registration of these.

5.      Land Disputes.       RALAS will establish procedures for dispute resolution.
RALAS will not register ownership over parcels which are in dispute. Also, where errors
are identified in the community agreements on ownership and boundary demarcation,

BPN will endeavor to resolve using available records and pre-tsunami satellite imagery
and air photography, which in the majority of cases clearly show boundary positions of
all tsunami-affected parcels. BPN expects to recover 90% of land parcel records that
were damaged by tsunami waters which clearly identify ownership and boundaries.
(However these cover only about 20% of all affected land parcels.)

6.      Recovery of Property Rights to Support Other Programs.                Security of
property rights is a key issue for all four of the first group of MDTFANS reconstruction
projects and also for reconstruction and rehabilitation efforts being supported by other
donors and NGOs. BPN under the RALAS project will train CDA facilitators to work
with other projects to ensure that the outputs of community-mapping from these efforts
can be readily processed by BPN.

7 .     KDP. The Community Recovery in Rural Areas project, in addition to the KDP
will support full restoration of community infrastructure in 200 kecamatan (up to 3,000
villages), recapitalization of up to 6,000 micro-enterprises and training of thousands of
villagers. KDP is progressively establishing a network of facilitators for its program.
These facilitators will support CDA by disseminating information about the land project
reconstruction, and ensuring that CDA facilitators engage with the correct village
community leaders and village religious leaders. KDP facilitatorswill be trained by BPN
to ensure that KDP community-mappingoutputs will be meet BPN requirements. Where
required, BPN will provide additional facilitators to support KDP facilitators in the
undertaking of community-mapping. It is expected that KDPYsexpansion to all rural
areas will provide the most effective approachto community-mappingof rural localities.

8.      UPP. The CommunityRecovery in Urban Areas Project, in additionto UPP, will
rehabilitate and develop community-based infrastructure in 352 kelurahan through the
construction of roads and bridges, schools, water supply and sanitation, community
buildings, and drainage. RALAS will harmonize with the implementation of UPP. UPP
will have a network of facilitators who will receive CDA training from BPN to facilitate
land parcel "inventorization" and boundary demarcation. These facilitators will work
with UPP facilitators, as required, to ensure that community-mapping is completed in
accordancewith BPN requirements.

9.      Community Based Settlement Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project for NAD
and NIAS. As part of the Government's larger settlement reconstruction strategy, this
two-year program is financing the construction of 20,000 new houses and rehabilitation
of 30,000 damaged houses along with related infrastructure in one thousand
communities. The Housing Project is working closely with UPP. BPN will train CDA
facilitatorsto undertaking community mapping in the project communities. RALAS will
harmonize with land parcel "inventorization" and boundary demarcation to enable
housing construction to be expedited. Where community mapping has already been
completed,BPN will retrospectivelyto survey, validate and register property rights.

10.     Other Reconstruction Programs Supported by NGOs and CSOs. A number
of other donors, NGOs and CSOs are supporting "community-mapping" to enable them
to fund housing. These include UNDP, UN-Habitat, USAID-financed Foundation for

Aceh Governance and Development Program (YIPD), and AusAID. These agencies are
prepared to receive CDA training to ensure their "community-mapping" outputs are
submitted to BPN for adjudication and survey. As with other programs, BPN trained
facilitatorswill work with existing facilitatorsto ensure that the outputs from community-
mapping meet BPN requirements. Any work already completedby facilitators supported
by these agencieswill be retrospectivelyprocessed by BPN.


PART -V:        ImplementationArrangements


1.      The responsibility for project implementation will be vested with BPN. A PlU
will be established in the provincial BPN Office in Banda Aceh, which will be
responsible for coordinatingproject implementation. The PIU in Aceh will be headed by
highly qualified and motivated manager, who has been involved previously with LAP1or
LMPDP projects.        The PIU will include some staff from Aceh as well as staff
experienced in procurement, financial management, and other project related aspects,
who will be seconded from the LMPDP PMU.

The Project Manager will be fully authorized to sign payments, contracts, purchase
orders, and travel authorizations. The LMPDP project financial manual, after some
modifications, will be used for the implementation to ensure transparency and
accountability in all financial transactions.      Furthermore, the project procurement
committees will include, in addition to BPN members representatives of the Bapel and of
civil society, as selected by BPN and agreed by the SteeringCommittee.

LMPDP Director will also serve as the Director of the Project. This will ensure necessary
link between the LMPDP project and the Aceh project since the two of them will follow
similar financial management and procurement procedures, and to share lessons from the
two projects. The LMPDP PMU will provide support to the PIU.

A locally based Steering Committee will be established to ensure full coordination with
the Bapel, local governments, and other national government institutions. The PIU
manager will ensure that selectionof areas is determined in consultationwith the Steering
Committee. The Chair of the Steering Committee will be the Head of the Bapel or hislher
designee, and the Deputy Chair will be nominated by BPN. BPN will provide the
Steering Committee Secretariat.       BPN will also serve as the Steering Committee
Secretariat. Composition of the Steering Committee will be further determined by the
Bapel and BPN. The PIU will submit a monthly report summarizingprogress and issues
to the Steering Committee. A copy of the report will be submitted to the Chairman of
BPN and the World Bank.

2.      Risks. The project has four identified risk areas: (i) Capacity of BPN. The
project is relatively complex and has rather short implementation period. BPN in Aceh
has lost 41 trained staff in the tsunami and will need to be able to respond to the demands
of community driven adjudication in a timely manner. This risk will be mitigated by
training new staff, using private sector for surveying and mapping, and redeploying of

trained BPN staff from other provinces. This risk is assessed as medium. (ii) Capacity
of the CSOs and community leaders to facilitate the community driven adjudication
process. Because of the wide spread devastation and the large number of people who
died, the project will depend on the ability of community leaders with the help of CSOs
to organize the survivingmembers of the community to agree on ownership rights, parcel
boundaries, and resolve inheritance issues. Titling will only be done in communitieswho
completed this process to avoid social conflicts. This risk will be mitigated by training
CSOs and community facilitators to work and train community leaders. Also, the
existing frameworks of the on-going community-driven Bank programs such as KDP and
UPP will be utilized in organizing the communities to agree on land rights before titling
can take place. This risk is assessed as medium. (iii) Security and conflict in Aceh.
This is an external risk to the Project. The risk will be mitigated by working in areas
where conflict does not occur and by carrying out the activities closely with the Aceh
communities. (iv) Potential for Corruption. There are significant opportunities for
corruption to occur during implementation. Demands for informal fee payments by
government and contract staff, and community leaders are possible. The risk is assessed
as high. In addition to the standard financialmanagement and procurement requirements,
the risk will be mitigated by: (i) opening the procurement committee to members outside
BPN, including representatives of civil society; (ii) external monitoring of project
activities by CSOs and community members; and (iii) establishment of a complaints
hotline and a clear complaints handling procedures.


PART -VI: Social Issues Arising From Tsunami And Related To Land


1.      In the aftermath of the disaster, the geography and social structures has changed
and the land control and ownership has become a crucial issue not only for the national
reconstruction efforts but also at an individual level, for the survivors who need to
recover their livelihoods.

There are parts of the affected communities which are particularly vulnerable and which
need to get a special attention in the recovery process, including property rights of these
groups. The vulnerable populations are especially the widows and orphaned children.
Sadly, they are potentially the first victims of land grabbing.

During the appraisalmission, the mission undertook a quick social analysis to identify the
social issues arising from the impact of the earthquake and the subsequent tsunami, to
determine how these issues are affecting property rights, and the options available in the
context of the project to address them. The mission identified three critical social aspects
that affect decisions on property rights: (i) inheritance aspects, especially that many
members of the community have died; (ii) potential land conflict, not only outside the
family structure, but also within the family; and (iii) rights of surviving widows and
children, some of which were adopted outside the community.

2.      Inheritance. So far, the tsunami has resulted in an estimated 100,000inheritance
cases. Within three months of re-opening the Syariah court (based on a religious law) in
Banda Aceh, close to 6,000 inheritance-related caseswere already filed.

Although Syariah law is mandated for resolution on inheritance cases amongst Muslims
(per the local law since Aceh has a special autonomous status), the practice and
interpretation of the law varies across the affected areas. The roles of inheritance were
discussed in a workshop held in April 2005 among 600 Ulama Leaders (religious
leaders), it was agreed to use a common interpretation of the Syariah law on inheritance
to ensure that it is applied consistentlyacross Aceh. The interpretation will be included
in the CDA manual.

There are two specific elements that were agreed to ensure the proper application of the
Syariah law. These are:


    (i)     Village chief and Ulama would be included in the determination of the
            rightful heir(s).
    (ii)    Village level "bait a1 maal" (treasury) will be the trustee to manage unclear
            inheritance. This land will be used by the entire community. In case a legal
            inheritor has been found, the land will be transferred in accordance to the
            Syariah law.

3.      Ownership and rights of the surviving widows and children. The head of
Syariah court estimated that there are around 10,000 children orphaned by the tsunami
and some of them could lose their inheritance rights (according to Syariah) if there is no
proper protection system. In order to protect the rights of the orphaned children and
widows, it was agreed that:


    (i)     A village would utilize the existing administrative and religious leadership
            structure in the village to protect the rights of the vulnerable groups. This
            structure includes the village chief, Ulama as well as the representatives of the
            community.
    (ii)    The village council should establish a form of custodianship for underage
            inheritors. The custodian of the child could be overseen by the surviving
            relatives and village council. The land title will be issued in the name of the
            deceased parents and the property will be transferred to the surviving child
            after the child reaches the legal age.
    (iii)   Disseminate basic rights of widows and children under the Syariah Law
            accordingto the adjudicationmanual.

4.      Potential for Conflicts. There is a high likelihood that some conflictswill occur.
This could include conflict over boundaries, ownership, inheritance, and between
individuals and government.

    In order to address this potential conflict,it was agreed to:


    (i)     Create a clear information and communication strategy that taps on various
            actors such as NGOs, civil society organizationsand the local media.
    (ii)     Village council should be encouraged to mediate the disputes among the
            neighbors. A clear and accessible process for resolving disagreements and
            handling complaints would be establishedas part of the CDA manual.

To ensure that ownership rights, demarcationof boundaries and inheritance issues will be
agreed at the community level with no intervention of government, the proposed project
would support CDA in which local leaders will be trained to facilitate a process in which
community members, in the presence of community leaders agree on the land rights,
boundaries between neighbors, and any inheritance issues. CDA could be also supported
by other donors, local and international CSOs. In order to ensure consistency during
CDA process, a manual will be prepared through a consultative process between BPN,
CSOs, selected community and religious leaders. The manual will be completed before
the start of the project.


PART -VII: Procurement Arrangements


1.      General.     Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in
accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in
the Legal Agreement.         The general description of various items under different
expenditure category is included below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant
from the Multi-Donor Trust Fund, the different procurement methods or consultant
selection methods, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed
between the Grant Recipient and the Bank project team in the Procurement Plan. This
plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementationneeds and improvements in institutional capacity.

2.      Special Procurement Provisions. Considering the emergency nature of the
project and to accelerate the procurement process and provide more business opportunity
for local/regional contractors and suppliers, the advertisement or specific procurement
notices for NCB will allow for a minimum of 15 (fifteen) days for preparation and
submission of bids, and shall be published in a newspaper of national circulation as well
as in a newspaper of regional circulation.

3.      Procurement of Works. Works procured under this project, would include:
construction and rehabilitationlrenovation of six BPN offices in Aceh province. The
procurement will be done using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for all
ICB and National SBD agreed with (or satisfactory to) the Bank. The contracts are
relatively small (ranging from US$24,000 to a maximum of US$700,000 equivalent per
contract) and contracts that will cost US$100,000 equivalent or more but less than

US$1,000,000 equivalent per contract will follow NCB procedure, while contracts for
simple works which are less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract will follow
Shopping procedure. Any contract with a cost of US$1,000,000 equivalent or more (not
expected) will be awarded through ICB procedure. A model bidding document for NCB
and Shopping which have been developed under LMPDP and approved by the bank will
be used.

4.      Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under this project would include: (a)
pre-tsunami orthorectified satellite imagerylmaps: (b) survey equipment; (c) ground
markers for survey; (d) office equipment (IT and communication equipment) and
furniture. The procurementwill be done using Bank's SBD for all ICB and National SBD
agreed with (or satisfactory to) the Bank. Procurement of goods with a value at or above
US$200,000 equivalent per contract (not expected) will follow ICB procedure.
Procurement of goods with the value at or above US$25,000 but less than US$200,000
equivalent will follow NCB procedure in which any interested foreign suppliers shall be
allowed to participate. Procurement of goods with the value of less than US$25,000
equivalent per contractwill follow Shoppingprocedure.

5.      Procurement of Non-consulting Services. These services are related to works
for cadastral surveys, mapping and data conversion. There will be contracting of many
local small survey teams and mapping. The procurement for these services will follow
NCB procedure. Agreed SBDs for these works developed by BPN under LMPDP and
agreed by the Bank will be used.

6.      Selection of Consultants. Consultant services will be required to assist in the
project implementationwhich include: (a) reproduction and digitalization of paper based
working documents; (b) development and implementation of computerized land records
management and back-up systems; (c) preparation of manual and training material for
CommunityDriven Adjudication (CDA); (d) support for land policy, legal and regulatory
matters; (e) design and supervision of civil work construction; and (f) consultants for
training and capacity building of BPN in Aceh province. Contracts are small and it is
expected that only one package which is estimated to cost at US$200,000 equivalent.
Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$400,000 equivalent
per contract may be composed entirely of qualified national consultants in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. Certain technical
training of staff will engage universities and training institutions, and public campaign or
awareness activities about the project prior to the actual land adjudication will engage
local community based organizations (CBO). Considering the small contracts and
emergency nature of the project, the selection of consultants will follow CQS and IC
(individual consultants) methods, and for specific training and engagement with local
CBO, SSS method may be used with prior approval from the Bank.

7.      Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement. Procurement
activitieswill be carried out by BPN Aceh Provincial Office (Kanwil BPN Nangroe Aceh
Darussalam) in Banda Aceh as the implementing agency. A Project Implementing Unit
(PIU) will be established which will be responsible for coordinating project

implementation. The PIU in Aceh will be headed by highly qualified and motivated
manager, who has been involved previously with LAP-I or LMPDP projects. The PIU
will include some staff from Aceh as well as staff experienced in procurement, financial
management and other project related aspects, who will be seconded from LMPDP PMU,
without affecting adversely LMPDP implementation. It was agreed that the LMPDP
Director will also serve as the Director of the project. This will ensure necessary link
between the LMPDP project and the Aceh project since the two of them will follow
similar financial management and procurement procedures, and to share lessons from the
two projects. The LMPDP PMU will provide support to the PIU. The LMPDP project
financial and procurement manuals (including SBDs for works and goods), after some
modifications related to the emergency nature of the project and the new Financial and
Treasury Laws, will be used for the implementation to ensure transparency and
accountability in all financial transactions.     Furthermore, the project procurement
committees will include, in addition to BPN members, representatives of other
agencylinstitutions and of civil society, as selected by BPN and agreed by the a locally
based Steering Committee. Their roles and selection process will defined in the project
manual. The establishment of the Steering Committee will ensure full coordination with
the Bapel, local governmentsand other national governmentinstitutions.

8.      An assessment of the capacity of the Implementing Agency to implement
procurement actions for the project has been carried out during the appraisal mission on
May 2-12,2005. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for implementing
the project and the interaction between the project's staff responsible for procurement
officer and the Ministry's relevant centralunit for administration and finance.

9.      Most of the issues1 risks concerning the procurement component for
implementationof the project have been identified and include legal aspects, procurement
cycle management, organization and function, support and control system, records
keeping, staffing, general procurement environment and private sector assessment where
in general the conditions are poor. The corrective measures which have been agreed are:
(i) The LMPDP Director will also serve as the Director of RALAS project; (ii) a Steering
Committee to oversee and monitor the project will be established prior to Grant
effectiveness; (iii) experiencedlqualified procurement and financial staff from Central
BPN will be seconded to Kanwil BPN Aceh before Grant effectiveness; (iv) training of
Kanwil BPN Aceh staff on procurement and financial will be provided at the earliest
opportunity; (v) tender committees will include members from other independent
agency/institutions/civilsociety to enhance transparency and accountability; (vi) LMPDP
Project Management Manual (which include financial management and procurement
manuals), after some modifications, will be used       for the implementation to ensure
transparency and accountability in all financial transactions. The overall project risk for
procurement is high. More detailed information the assessment of the agency's capacity
is provided in a separate report.

10.     Procurement Plan. The Grant Recipient, at appraisal, developed a Procurement
Plan for project implementation which provides the basis for the procurement methods.
This plan has been agreed between the Grant Recipient and the Project Team on May 12,
2005 and is available at Kanwil BPN Nangroe Aceh Darussalam, Banda Aceh, and BPN,

J1. SisingamangarajaNo. 2, Jakarta. It will also be availablein the Project's database and
in the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with
the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation
needs and improvementsin institutionalcapacity.

11.     Frequency of Procurement Supervision.             In addition to the prior review
supervision to be carried out fi-om Bank offices, the capacity assessment of the
Implementing Agency has recommended at least once every six months supervision
missions to visit the field to carry out post review of procurement actions.


12.     Details    of   the    Procurement Arrangement Involving            International
Competition.

A.      Goods and Works and Non-consulting Services


        (a)    List of Contract Packages which will be procured following ICB and
               direct contracting:      None is expected

        (b)    ICB Contracts estimated to cost above US$200,000 for goods and
               US$1,000,000 for works per contract (not expected) and all direct
               contractingwill be subject to prior review by the Bank.

B.      Consulting Services.


        (a)    List of Consulting Assignments with short-list of international firms:
               None is expected to include international firms as contracts are small, i.e.,
               less than US$200,000 equivalentper contract.


        (b)    Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$100,000 equivalent per
               contract for firms and above US$50,000 equivalent per contract for
               individual consultants, and all Single Source selection of consultants
               (firms)will be subject to prior review by the Bank.


        (c)    Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of
               consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$400,000 equivalent
               per contract, may be composed entirely of qualified national consultants in
               accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant
               Guidelines.




PART -VIII: Financial Management And Disbursement Arrangements


1.      Overview. The Executing Agency for the Trust Fund will be the National Land
Agency (BPN). The project management unit will be managed by the same unit which
implements LMPDP. The LMPDP project management manual (PMM) will be modified

for the trust fund purposes, especially for reconstruction activities. Since the project
activities for the trust fund are mostly similarto the loan project, except reconstruction of
Land Office.

The financial management assessment should take into account the loan project
assessment as a whole, included a risk on adequacy of BPN staff on project accountingin
Aceh. A conclusion on the previous assessment stated "Although BPN as the lead
implementing agency has had prior experience in managing Bank financed projects, it is
anticipated that weak implementation and financial management capacity in the regions
will impose special challenges. Based on these factors, financial management risks
inherent in the project entity have been rated as substantial.

2.      Accounting and Reporting. The accounting system and procedures will follow
the government accounting system. The specific accounting procedures for the project's
activities will be included in the Project Management Manual. The Project Management
Unit in BPN, will maintain separate accounting records, on cash basis, PMU in BPN
Jakarta will responsible to prepare a consolidated financialreport and submit to the Bank
on quarterlybasis.

3.      Audit Arrangements

4.      External Audit. The project management unit in BPN will prepare and produce
consolidated project financial statements. The format of annual financial statement will
be the same as financial statement in the FMR. The audit for the financial statement will
be carried out by independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. The annyal audit report
will be furnished to the Bank no later than six months after the end of the government's
fiscal year.


5 .     The audit assignment will be in accordance with the agreed Terms of Reference.
The annual audited financial statementwill include a review and reconciliation of Special
Account transaction and quarterly FMRs. The audit report will be accessible to the
public.

Audit Report            Due Date
Project    Financial A single annual Audit Report, six months after FY closed
Statement

6.       Disbursement Arrangements

Flow of Funds.        The project will follow the standard government flow of funds
mechanism, which is acceptable to the Bank. All expenditures funded by this Trust Fund
will be budgeted in the annual central government budget. The project manager will be
responsible to administer and prepare reports on project activities. The project manager
submits their payment requests (SPM) to the nearby Treasury Offices (KPPN) who will
issue payment orders (SP2D) to the operationalbank; to transfer the money directly to the
recipients' account (supplier/consultant/contractor). The operational bank will debit the
project Special Account. Based on SP2D issued, the project management unit prepares a

project financial report which should be submitted to the World Bank on a quarterlybasis
and used as the basis for disbursement. The flow of fund is depicted in a diagram below.
                              TF Aceh
                      Flow of Fund Mechanism

           p-=1           The World Bank

                                        .                            Steps 6 to 10 relate to
                                                                     release of funds from
                                                                    Central Govt. Treasury
                                                                        offices and the
                                              DG Treasury
                                                                        disbursementor
                                                                       replenishment of
                                                                       IBRDIIDA funds
                                                                      through the Special
       F               I
          Commercial

            I                                                         Steps 1 to 5 relate to
                                                                      release of funds from
                                                                    Govt. Treasury offices in
                                                                   the districts to Contractors
                                                                    as payment for goods and
                                                                        services supplied.




7.      Special Account. GO1 will establish a Special Account (SA) at Bank Indonesia
or State owned commercial government bank denominated in US dollars, with an
authorized ceiling in accordance with the standard Bank disbursement procedures. The
SA will be under the name of the Directorate General of Treasury (DG Treasury),
Ministry of Finance.      The DG Treasury shall provide copies of the weekly bank
statements of the SA to the project management unit at BPN who will arrange to
reconcile the transaction with the financial record. Special Account withdrawal
procedures will be followed the governments' procedures which have accepted to the
Bank. The project will follow FMR-based disbursementprocedures.

8.      Action Plan. There are three issues that recommended to be completed before
implementationcommences:

    (a) Preparation of project financial management manual
    (b) Agreement on auditor assigned for audit of project financial statements
    (c) Agreement of format for Financial Management Reports (FMR)

10.    Allocation of Grant Proceeds

            Category                            Amount                   % of Expenditures
                                          (in US Million Dollar)           to be Financed

                                                   22                            100
 1. Goods, works & servicesfor
 Reconstructionof Property
 Rights and Issuance of Land
 Titles


 2. Goods, works & servicesfor                     3.8                           100

 Reconstruction of BPN
 Institutions in Aceh

 3. Goods and Services for
 Project Management                                2.7                           100
 Total Grant                                       28.5



PART -IX: Safeguard Policies

1.      Environmental Safeguards

A quick environmental assessment was undertaken as part of project appraisal. The
assessment is based on the earlier thorough assessment carried out during the preparation
of LMPDP approved by the Bank Board of Directors in 2004. The study shows that the
project is not expected to have large scale, or irreversible adverse environmental impacts.
The project is, therefore, classified as environmental Category"B".

The Project will finance construction of minimum three land offices destroyed as a result
of the tsunami and the subsequent earthquakes (the final number of buildings to be
renovated will be determined after the structural assessment of the damaged facilities).
These offices are small (two to three story office buildings). Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) of these offices will follow the normal governmental EL4 procedures
as stipulated by the Indonesian regulations. The project will also finance structural
assessment and retrofitting and refurnishing of other offices that were damaged in the
tsunami and the earthquakes. EL4 for the renovation and retrofitting will also follow the
regular requirements.

Reconstruction of property rights will be limited to settlements areas and low agriculture
land. Evidence from other land titling programs show that improving security of tenure
contributes to more investment in environmental facilities in the urban settings, and more
environmental and sustainable use of farming practices in agricultural land. Cadastre
maps to be generated as part of the activities related to issuance of titles would be used by

local governments in land use planning and development control, which is important for
ensuringproper environmentalpractices.

2.      Social Safeguards

Resettlement Safeguards Policy. Construction of new offices of BPN will be carried out
on vacant land acquired by government through commercial transactions. Acquisition of
the land for the reconstruction will not involve involuntary resettlement. Therefore, the
ResettlementPolicy Frameworkwill not apply.

Disputes settlement over land rights and boundaries will be supported as part of CDA,
which will be undertaken by CSOs with a support from international CSOs or donors.
Land titling will only take place after the consultative CDA is completed and the
community agrees on the ownership, and marks on the boundaries of their land are made.
Where agreementis not reached, rights will not be registered and titles will not be issued.

To protect the rights of deceased individuals and their survivals, land where no survivors
are found will be placed under the trust of Beit A1 Ma1 for 25 years. If within this period
legal inheritors are found, this land will be registered to them. If not, ownership of the
land will be registered in the name of Beit A1Ma1 after elapsed 25 years.

Indigenous People. To protect the rights of indigenouspeople and ensure that customary
land rights are protected, land titling will only be issued for land occupied and used
individually, and where the community agrees on the rights and boundaries of land.
Therefore, the consultation and CDA will always be carried out before land titling can
take place.

Cultural Heritage. No private rights will be issued in cultural heritage sites. The project
will utilize the list of cultural heritage sites from The Ministry of Culture. The list will be
given to the adjudicationteams to ensure that no rights legalized in these lands.

Forestry and Protected Areas. The project will not issue titles in forest or protected
areas as the titling will be limited to the settlements and low land agriculture areas.
Community-driven adjudication as well as maps from the Ministry of Forestry and other
relevant agencies will be used to ensure that land titles are not issued in the protected
areas or forest land.

PART -X:        Complaints Handling And Anti-Corruption Strategy

1.      BPN will ensure that project implementation and use of funds are free of
corruption through: mechanisms incorporated in project design; strengthening internal
controls, and enhancing the release of information about all aspects of project
implementation. Internal controls will be strengthened by adopting general safeguards
for procurement and financial management. In addition, the following specificmitigation
measures will be undertaken: (i) enhanced disclosure provisions; (ii) prevention of
forgery, fraud and collusion through the standardization of procurement and financial
management processes and documents; (iii) development and monitoring of service
standards for the issuance of land titles; (iv) partnership with the Civil Society for the
Community-Driven Adjudication (CDA) and independent oversight and feedback; (v)
robust complaint handling mechanisms with sanctions in place for corruption, collusion,
and nepotism; and (vi) financial accountabilitythrough strengthened internal controls on
project implementation and payment validation.

2.      Mitigation measures

The standard measures to improve procurement and financial management are provided
in Part VII and VIII of this document. The specific mitigation measures which would be
utilized to reduce corruption are presented below.

3.      Enhanced Disclosure Provisions. To facilitate external review in general, BPN
will pursue an enhanced disclosurepolicy. It will:

      Make publicly available financial audit reports and the mid-term review of
      components implementedby BPN;
      Make publicly available all annual procurement plans and schedules;
      Make publicly available all bidding documentsupon requests;
      Make publicly available all short lists of consultants and, in cases of pre-
      qualification,lists of pre-qualified contractors and suppliers;
      Disclose to all bidders and parties submitting proposals for specific contracts,
      promptly after the notification of award to the successful bidderlconsultant, the
      summaryof the evaluationreport;
      Allow representatives of the end-users of the goods or works being procured to
      attend the public bid openings;
      Make available a list of all contracts awarded in the three months preceding the date
      of such request in respect of a project, including the name of the
      contractor/consultant, the contract amount, the number of bidderslmakers of
      proposals, and the procurement method followed and the purpose of the contract

The project will hold meetings, open to the general public for:

      launching each new project cycle, to popularize the project concepts, explain
      objectives,detail scope and obtain direct feedback prior to implementation;

     progress reporting, at least once, mid-way through the implementation of each
     cycle;
     handover/accountabilityat the end of each implementationcycle.

  These meetings will be held at province level and kabupaten level. Consultants and
  contractors must attend these meetings as presenters. Invitations to these meetings
  should be provided to the local CSO/NGO forums at least one month beforehand.

  The Multi-donor office in Banda Aceh houses an Information Center. The project will
 prepare spare copies of relevant public informationmaterials,progress reports and audit
 reports for display and disseminationat this Center.

4.     Prevention of Forgery, Fraud and Collusion through Standardization. The
largest expenditure category under the project would be "Title Development Costs",
including costs of surveying, transport costs and allowances of adjudicators, and land
recording and titling.    These activities will be systematically replicated at various
locations and are, therefore, amenable to standardization.          Some of the standard
procedures the project would consider are:

       Agreement on the standard wording of advertisements (no changes to be allowed
       in general provisions during implementation except for provisions specific to a
       particular procurement).
       Agreement on the list of newspapers, with nation-wide circulation, in which
       specific advertisements will be placed. The idea is to advertise in national
       newspapers systematically, removing geographic and other restrictions,
       permitting greater competition among suppliers.
       Agreement on all standard bidding and contract documents (including for NCB,
       NS), and request for proposals (for consultancy services), including an agreement
       that no further changes can be made in the documents without the Bank's prior
        approval.

5.      Service Standards Development and Monitoring. For the land-related services
BPN land offices continue to provide, service standards will be developed and BPNYs
performance of these service standards will be monitored. The monitoring of service
standards will assist to reduce opportunities for corruption because of greater
transparency and greater comparability across locations.          BPN agrees to send the
surveying and adjudication teams no later than 30 days after the completion of the
CommunityDriven Adjudication, and issue the land titles after 90 days. Also, as part of
the public notification process, the list of landowners in each community will be made
publicly available. This will list all people who would receive titles, permitting the
beneficiaries to find out the status of their application for a title (subject to any privacy
consideration).

6.      Costs for Land Titles. Since MoF is to exempt tsunami-affected victims from all
fees and taxes, all servicesprovided to the beneficiaries will be done free-of-charge. This
will be monitored throughout the project.

7.      Civil Society Oversight and Feedback Because procurement of goods and
services is vulnerable to corrupt practices, procurement committees in BPN for project
related activities will include a representative of BRR and an external (non-
governmental) member. In addition, for systematic land titling where 70 percent of
project expenditure is planned, civil society oversight and feedback will be maintained
through the adjudicationteams (AT).

Space will be made available for CSOINGO representation to join project supervision
missions.   The CSO/NGO representation will be approved by at least one of the
acknowledged CSO/NGO forums based in Aceh province, and be asked to report back to
them.

A short, routine updates will be required for the project. These updates will be available
from the Information Center and distributedas photocopies and by email.

The team will hold routine meetings with related agencies and civil society organizations
in order to explain project progress.

Civil society oversight and feedbackwill be especiallyimportant for the strong groups in
society (including TNI and GAM) from pressuring weaker members from society from
giving up land.

8.      Complaints Handling Mechanisms and Use of Sanctions.                In the project
management structure, a sub-unit within the PMU, will deal with all compliance issues.
This sub-unit will ensure that all complaints are recorded and results of the investigations
maintained for review. This sub-unit will deal with all complaints related to LMPDP and
the RALAS projects. It will establish a reasonable time for dealing with complaints and
seek explanationswhen delays are unreasonable. Anonymous complaints will be treated
in the same way as those that can be traced, and in all cases the sources will be kept
strictly confidential. It will maintain a hot line and a postal address to make it easier to
make complaints. When appropriate, the sub-unit will refer cases to the internal auditor,
BPKP (state auditor) or to the Police. If a case is not resolved to the satisfaction of the
Bank, it will be reviewed by BPKP who might refer it then for further review by the
Office of the Attorney General. The project will engage independent entities annually to
undertake technical reviews and identification of lessons learned, monitor service
standards of land offices, and report misconduct of adjudicationteams.

It is foreseen that a joint complaints handling system for MDTFANS projects. The
project-based systemwill feed into the larger system, and get information from the larger
system thus helping ensure greater objectivity in the recording, referral and tracking of
complaintshandling.

The project management will open their accounts to any special inspections and audits as
agreed between the MDTFANSIdonor team and relevant agencies, such as the BPK,
BPKP and KPK (Anti-corruption Commission). Results of inspections may be made

public. Periodically the Information Center will issue statements concerning progress of
audits, investigations and follow-up, includingdetails of any sanctions.

9.      Financial Accountability through Strengthened Internal Controls on Project
Implementation and Payment Validation.               Financial accountability for project
expenditure will be enhanced by incorporating strengthened internal control procedures,
in particular for documentingcompletion of project activities and validation of payments.
In order to help reduce risks of fraud and collusion, existing internal control procedures
for each kind of activity, project expenditure and corresponding payment validation
procedures will be strengthenedbased on the followingprinciples:


        (a)     Payments to Adjudications teams will be supported by an evidence of
               number of titles issued by each teams.

        (b)    For technical assistance, workshop and training activities, the unit
               receiving training will be required to certify satisfactory completionbefore
               training expenses are fully paid to the external provider. Direct evidence
                of training imparted, details of participants and expenses documentations
                for travel incurred will be required before payments to contractors or
               vendors are authorized (details are included in the Financial Management
               Manual).

        (c)    Documentarytrails required for completion of project activities and claims
                for expenditurewill be specified.

Appropriate training, certification and supervision will be required for key officials (in
procurement, administration, financial management and disbursement). Similar training
will also be extended to civil society organizationsthat wish to monitor projects.

The Project staff will endeavor to harmonize the efforts above with those of other, and
ensure that feedback from communities and civil society reaches the attention of decision
makers in governmentin a timely fashion.

PART -XI: Project Results Summary

     ComponentsISub-                Results Indicatorsfor         Use of Results Monitoring
        Components                     Each Component
(Intermediate indicators)

Component A

Reconstruction of Property
Rights and Issuance of Land
Titles


A.l     Reconstruction of
BPN's Land Records

Document recovery and imagery    All land records reconstructed   Decision on completion of use of
completed.                       and held in digital records      a special chamber.
                                 management system;by March
                                 31,2006.                         Identificationof additional
                                                                  requirements.

A.2      Community-Driven
Adjudication, Community
Awareness and Participation

Community-driven adjudication    Community-drivenadjudication     Sequencingof BPN adjudication,
manual completed and approved.   is completed in all areas, as    surveying and registration.
                                 follows:
CDA Facilitators trained.              Priority 1 areas (100,000  Monitoring of effectiveness of
                                       parcels) completed by      resources in completing priority
Community awarenessprogram             December 31,2005.          areas.
established.                           Priority 2 areas (200,000
                                       parcels) completed by      Further action regarding
                                       December 31,2006           unresolved areas or disputes.
                                       Priority 3 areas (300,000)
                                       completed by December
                                       31,2007


A.3      Surveying and
Mapping, Registration of
Rights and Issuance of Title
Certificates

Teams are operational, with maps Title distribution completed as
and equipment.                   follows:                          Monitoring of effectiveness of

                                       Priority 1 areas are        resources in completing priority

                                       completed by June 30,       areas.

                                       2006.
                                       Priority 2 areas are
                                       completed by June 30,2007
                                       Priority 3 areas are
                                       completed by June 30,2008

A.4      Policy, Legal and
Regulatory Support

Policy requirements identified.                                   Decisions on additional
                                  Policies/regulations            policies/regulations to enable
                                  implemented.                    smoothproject implementation.

Component B
Reconstruction of BPN
Institutions in Aceh

B.l      Reconstruction of
Facilities and Provision of
Equipment and Furniture

New sites selected.              Newly constructedland offices    Timing of outfits and equipment.
Designs completed.                fully operationalby December    Decisions requiring further
Building contracts in place.      31, 2006.                       construction/renovation/additional
Reconstruction/rehabilitation                                     equipment.
completed.                        Renovated and structurally
                                  strengthenedland offices fully
                                  operationalby March 31, 2006.



B.2      Training and Capacity
Building

Training course implemented.      Training of BPN staff completed Decisions on adequacy of
Staff to be redeployed selected.  July 31,2005.                   training; additional training; or
                                                                  training of more staff.



B.3.     Computerizationand
Development of Back-up
System

System developed.                 Redeployment of staff           Decisions on
Trainingcompleted.                commencedby July 31,2005.       reliability/completeness/security
Procedures developed.                                             of system.

                                  System operational June 30,
                                  2006.



Project Component C
Project Management


C.1. Project Management           Staff hired and trained.        Decisions on additional staff,
Support                           Systems operational.            systems.
                                                                  Need for sub-PIUs and sub-
                                                                  accounts.



C.2. Monitoring and               Hotline established and         Decisions on actions to be taken
Evaluation.                       complaint response follow       regarding corruption.

                           service standards.
                           Procedures established.
                           Audits carried out.




C.3. Technical Assistance. TA is operational. Guidance and Decisions on engaging additional
                           advise provided to the PIU, PMU TA.
                           and implementingagency.


