                                                                                                                  92433
Reconstruction of Aceh Land Administration System (RALAS)                                                         April 5, 2006
                                  Grant amount:                   US$28.5 million
                                  Implementation period:          August 2005 – June 2008
                                  Partner Agency:                 The World Bank
                                  Implementing Agency:            National Land Agency
                                  Funding Recipient:              BRR* (for on-budget funding to
                                                                  BPN**)

Background

In much of Aceh, the tsunami and debris obliterated all traces of property boundaries, so it is very unsafe to start building houses because
people might come forward and claim rightful ownership of land on which someone else has built a house. Also, reestablishing land
ownership is a major precondition for rebuilding settlements. At the household level, secure tenure provides access to credit and other
benefits.
                             The Reconstruction of Aceh Land Administration System (RALAS) project seeks to restore property rights
                             using participatory processes. A number of civil society organizations (big international groups as well as
                             Aceh-based ones) have been trained by this World Bank-administered program to conduct Community
                             Mapping and Community Driven Adjudication processes.

                              The survivors of the community are brought together as a "human archive" to discuss and agree whose
                              property was where, the shape of the property boundaries, and so forth. Then a map is drawn up and all
Water buffaloes in marshes of
                              survivors and community leaders sign the map - to say that this is indeed the record of the village.
    grass and water -- on what
          used to be land.
                                 This is then posted for a defined period in a prominent place so that anyone who has a counter claim can
lodge it. If they do, there is adjudication by the whole community but eventually the record is agreed to be true.

The Land Administration Agency, much of which was destroyed, then comes in and draws up highly detailed maps and marks out the
property boundaries as the community indicated with surveyors poles.  The next step is to give over legal title to that land, which is very
important because most of these people, especially the poorest, have never had title deeds to their lands. Even before the tsunami, only
at most 25 percent of land ownership had been registered.

Project Objectives

To identify land ownership through a community-based adjudication process and issue land titles to up to
600,000 land owners. Community mapping conducted as an initial step for the adjudication process is an
important prerequisite for the reconstruction of settlements. This process, facilitated by NGOs according to
the official project manual, enables communities to jointly map out their future settlement.

Project Design

The project includes supporting community-driven adjudication processes that establish ownership rights, land boundaries and protect
inheritance rights according to established guidelines; surveying, mapping and registration of rights and issuing title certificates free of
charge; and reconstruction of land administration offices and establishment of a database for land titles and cadastre documents.

Results to Date

         Over 650 titles have been distributed; Gampong Baro residents received 130 titles so far..
         5,226 titles ready for distribution to beneficiaries, 5,500 more ready to be signed
         More than 17,000 parcels have been posted for public review
         More than 38,500 parcels have been officially surveyed by BPN (land agency).

The US$28.5 million RALAS is a community-driven process and links up with the housing program which fully engages future
house owners. Typically, as in Gampong Baru, block grants from the Urban Poverty Project have contributed to the
reconstruction of settlement infrastructure.
 
More information:
   Project Documents



BRR =Aceh-Nias Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency
BPN = National Land Administration Agency
Back to top

 
