Document of
The World Bank                            g   .w
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                I
Report No.P-2604-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED THIRD LOAN
TO THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
June 21, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit -  Won
W 485         =  US$1.00
W 1           =  US$0.0021
W 1 million   -  US$2,062
W 1 billion   -  US$2.06 million
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -  Asian Development Bank
BOK     -  Bank of Korea
CNB     -  Citizens National Bank
EPB     -  Economic Planning Board
ERR     -  Economic Rate of Return
ESD     -  Extension Services Department (of SMIB)
FFYP    -  Fourth Five Year Plan
FLD     -  Foreign Loan Department (of SMIB)
FRR     -  Financial Rate of Return
GOK     -  Goverment of Korea
ILO     -  International Labour Organization
IRF     -  Industrial Rationalization Fund
KDB     -  Korea Development Bank
KDFC    -  Korea Development Finance Corporation
KDLC    -  Korea Development Leasing Corporation
KFX     -  Korea Foreign Exchange
KIST    -  Korea Institute of Science and Technology
KFSB    -  Korea Federation of Small Business
KOSTIC  -  Korea Science and Technology Information Centre
KfW     -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MCI     -  Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MOF     -  Ministry of Finance
NIF     -  National Investment Fund
OECF    -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
RSD     -  Research and Statistics Department (of SMIB)
SNI     -  Small and Medium Industries
SMIB    -  Small and Medium Industry Bank
SNIPF   -  Small and Medium Industry Promotion Fund
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KORFA
THIRD SM[ALL AND MFDITTM INDUSTRY BANK PROJECT
Loan and Project Summarv
Borrower:              Small and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB)
Guarantor:            Republ:ic of Korea
Amount:                S60 mi:Llion equivalent
Terms:                The proposed loan will bear interest at 7.9% p.a.,
amortization to conform substantially to the aggregate of
the amortization schedules applicable to the specific
investment projects financed out of the proceeds of the
proposed loan. The maximum repayment period would be 17
years, including three years of grace.
Relending Terms:       SMIB will on lend the proceeds of the loan to subborrowers
at an interest rate of 9.97/1 on the average for a
maximun period of 15 years, including 3 years of grace.
Subborrowers will assume the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description: The proposed loan would be used to help cover the foreign
exchange requirements of subprojects to be financed by
SMIB over the next two years. Apart from direct imports,
the proceeds of the loan would be utilized by SMIB to
finance the foreign exchange components of domestically
produced capital goods (estimated at 60%). In order to
ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan will be
directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, it is
intended that S25 million of the proceeds of the proposed
loan be earmarked to finance: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding S300,000; or (b) projects generating
employment at a fixed investment cost per job not
greater than $8,500. The proposed loan would assist
SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy
of increasing the regional dispersal of emplovment
opportunities and of deepening the industrial struc-
ture. It would also assist SMIB in continuing its
support of projects which would comple,ment large-
scale manufacturing enterprises throuRh extensive
subcontracting arrangements. There are no special
risks associated with the Droject.
/1  i.e. 2. percentage points above the interest rate applicable to the ',ank
loan.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
Estimated Disburse-  ------------------- $ Millions --------------------
ments:             Bank FY         1980        1981        1982         1983
Annual          9.2        33.0         13.5         4.3
Cumulative      9.2        42.2         55.7        60.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 2381-KO, dated May 10, 1979



REPORT AN]D RECOt4UENDATION OF THE PRESIDEIIT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BAkNK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED THIRD LOAN
TO THE SMALL AND MEDIUM INIDUSTRY BANK  4ITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
third loan to the Small and M4edium Industry Bank (SMIB), with the guarantee
of the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $60 million. The loan will
bear interest at 7.9% p.a. and will be amortized substantially in accordance
with the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to the specific
investment projects financed out of its proceeds.  The maximum repayment
period applicable to subborrowers would be 15 years, including three years of
grace.
PART I - THE ECONOM1Y
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Rapid Growth and Search
for New Perspectives" was distributed under cover of SECM79-390, dated MIay 24,
1979. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Recent Developments
3.        During 1977 and 1978, the performance of the Korean economy
outstripped on several fronts the targets set out for these years in the
Fourth Five Year Plan (1977-81). In these two years, the growth rate of GNP
was 11.5% per annum (as compared with the annual average of 9.5% postulated
in the Plan), investment in real terms grew at the remarkable rate of 30% per
annum, and the domestic savintgs rate grew much faster than anticipated in the
Fourth Plan. Per capita income in current dollars, which was at a level of
$700 in 1976, reached nearly $1,250 in 1978.
4.        These developments were accompanied by a rapid transformation in
the employmient and poverty situation. The official rate of unemployment
declined tco 3.2% (in 1978), nominal wages rose rapidly at about 34% per annum
in the manufacturing sector, and the labor force in agriculture declined at
the rate of about 3.8% per annum in 1977-78. The problems of low productivity
employment, surplus labor, and extensive absolute poverty began to recede and
gave way to concerns about labor shortage, particularly of skilled labor.
5.        Exports continued to grow according to the Fourth Plan targets in
spite of an uncertain international environment. In addition to export
growth, the terms of trade continued to improve in 1977 and there was a
spectacular growth in net receipts from overseas construction contracts. In
1978, Korea obtained new construction contracts of about $8 billion in the
Middle East:, with gross receipts totalling over $2.0 billion. As a result of
continued export growth, improvement in the terms of trade, and growth in
receipts from overseas construction contracts, the current account balance
improved alhead of the Fourth Plan schedule and there was a small current
account surplus ($12 million) in 1977. In view of the improved balance of
payments position, and of the need to promote allocative efficiency and to



- 2 -
counter domestic inflationary pressures, the Government initiated in 1978 a
far-reaching program of import liberalization. Korea's access to international
private capital markets improved considerably enabling the repayment, ahead
of schedule, of large amounts of short-term loans incurred on hard terms
during 1974-75 when the economy faced the twin shocks of rapidly rising
prices of its major imports, especially petroleum and foodgrains, as well as
the international recession.
Some Emerging Problems and Long-Term Prospects
6.        The remarkable progress made in the last fifteen years or so has
carried the Korean economy to a new threshold of development, but the new
opportunities have brought with them new challenges. The critical issue
facing the Korean authorities is how to reconcile a high rate of economic
growth with the social and economic objectives of price stability, equity and
a more balanced pattern of urban development.
7.        Price stabilization is one area in which the performance of the
Korean economy has fallen short of the objectives of the Fourth Plan. The
rise in the consumer price index, which was about 10% in 1977, accelerated to
14.9% in 1978; the corresponding increases in the wholesale price index were
9% and 11.7%. It is believed that inflation has been fuelled by the rapid
rise in the rate of investment, which, in turn, has been associated with the
rapid increase in the demand for consumer goods. The installation of
some excess capacity in the heavy and chemical sectors has been cited as a
contributory factor, and there is also a widely-held view that the emphasis
on exports and growth may, perhaps, have been excessive. The consequences of
a high rate of inflation have been widespread: the low-income groups have
been hit particularly hard by the steep increase in the prices of necessities;
the middle-income groups are concerned about the rising cost of housing and
the eroding of the real value of their financial assets. Moreover, rapidly
rising real wages could affect the long-term competitiveness of Korea's
exports.
8.        Though the Government is seriously concerned about the pervasive-
ness of inflationary psychology, it feels that, in the long run, growth can
be reconciled with reasonable price stability through the coordinated imple-
mentation of a series of measures. Over the short run, it is expected that
the rise in food prices can be moderated by the import liberalization of food
items, a reform of agricultural price policy, the release of food products
from government stockpiles, and increased domestic production. For fuel and
energy prices, some significant upward adjustments may be both inevitable
and desirable for energy conservation. In housing, policies for the control
of land speculation and an expansion in the supply of housing have had a
moderating influence. As for industrial products in general, import liberaliza-
tion is expected to contribute to a reduction in the pace of inflation in the
short-run, and to play a significant part in maintaining productivity growth
over the longer term.  Over the eighties, as the Korean economy becomes more



fully integrated with the iLnternational economiy, a policy of restrained
monetary expansion combined with fiscal discipline and financial liberalization
could play a key role in bringing the Korean rate of inflation in line with
international rates. In April 1979, the Government announced a stabilization
program encompassing a seriLes of initiatives designed to address these
elements of the inflation problem.
9.        Korea's economic development has been widely acclaimed for having
achieved growth with equity. Hiowever, by the mid-seventies there was some
concern about the worsening of the distribution of income. The essential
conclusion reached in the 1977 Basic Economic Report, nevertheless, remains
valid, that a high growth rate is essential if Korea is to achieve the
objectives of greater equity through the creation of additional employment
and the generation of additional public resources to enable the provision of
direct assistance to the poor. However, at the new threshold at which the
Korean economy has arrived, there is the need for a redirection of efforts
towards reconciling growth with equity. In order to achieve a better rural/
urban balance, the Government has reiterated its support of the Saemaeul
Movement, the generation of off-farm employment opportunities and programs to
improve agricultural productivity. It has also announced its intention to
undertake a detailed review of its agricultural price support program. For
interpersonal equity, more resources would have to be devoted to the educa-
tional sector with increased emphasis on improving the lower income group's
access to the system. The Government is attempting to address these issues
through a long-term education plan. To help the poor, the Government is
moving to strengthen programs focussed directly on the target groups and away
from the former reliance on general subsidies, whose effects tend to be
relatively diffused.
10.       Since the early sixties, Korea's pace of urbanization has been one
of the highest among medium- and large-sized countries. In the early phases
of its growth process, Korea economized successfully on social and urban
development expenditures, particularly in transportation and housing. The
severity of the housing shortage, for example, is illustrated by the fact
that the ratio of housing units to households declined steadily from 82.5% in
1960 to 74.4% in 1975. With the rapid growth of household incomes and the
concentration of population in major urban centers, particularly Seoul and
Busan, the demand for urban services is rising rapidly. In addition, environ-
mental deterioration has been accelerated by population concentration and the
pattern and pace of industrialization. The Government has made a beginning
towards meeting these problems by adopting a two-pronged strategy - a dispersal
plan to reduce pressures on Seoul and Busan, and a program to improve housing
and transport within these two cities.
11.       In view of the demonstrated dynamism and resilience of the Korean
economy, it seems reasonable to assume that Korea will be able to tackle its
emerging problems and sustain its rapid growth through the 1980s. The
long-term projections for Korea, prepared by the Korea Development Institute
in collaboration with Government agencies, suggest that Korea could attain,
consistent with its social objectives, an average rate of growtn of about 10%



-4-
per year over the next decade. I-RWile the long-term prospects appear to be
promising, the implications of the increased competition from developing
countries in export markets, protectionism in the developed countries, the
technological complexities of Korea's new industries, and labor and raw
material shortages, etc., should not be overlooked. Moreover, it is important
for Korea to develop, in the context of subsequent 5-Year Plans, appropriate
solutions to avoid the typical pitfalls of affluence experienced by the
developed countries; these include such problems as the dominance of private
automobiles in the transportation system, inefficient use of energy, costly
and inefficient welfare systems, and above all, inadequate systems of industrial
readjustment in response to the country's changing comparative advantage.
N4ear Term Prospects and External Capital Requirements
12.       In the light of these emerging problems and in the context of the
stabilization program announced in April 1979, the Government has prepared a
new Economic Management Plan (EMP) for 1979-81, revising its projections for
the three remaining years of the Fourth Plan. The E14P expects a slowdown in
the growth rate of real GNP from the 11.5% achieved in 1977-78 to 9.3% per
annum during 1979-81, a deceleration in the growth rate of real exports of
goods and non factor services from 22% p.a. to 12% p.a., and in the growth
rate of real investment from 30% p.a. to 13% p.a. The growth rate of imports
is expected to exceed that of exports. Owing to the expected increase in
the value of imports (import prices of crude oil and raw materials are
expected to rise), the current account deficit during 1979-81 is estimated to
be about $2.5 billion per year. Allowing for the repayment of past external
loans (about $1.1 billion per year) and the augmentation of foreign exchange
reserves (about $1.3 billion per year), the total gross requirements of external
capital are estimated to be about $4.5 billion per year during 1979-81. If
short-term inflows are to be limited to about $1 billion per year, gross
disbursements of medium- and long-term capital inflows will have to amount to
about $3.5 billion per year.
13.       WJhile Korea is extending its use of commercial financing from the
traditional suppliers and private bank credits to Euro-dollar syndicated
loans and bond issues in the Euro-bond and Asian bond markets, the magnitude
of these external capital requirements is such that it will have to continue
to rely on considerable capital inflows from official sources, including
Eximbanks. It should, however, be emphasized that the higher anticipated
levels of external capital inflow (relative to the Fourth Plan targets) are a
consequence of its higher investment rates rather than a shortfall in the
domestic savings rate. Thus, more than 90% of Korea's investment will
continue to be financed from domestic savings. The ratio of foreign savings
to GNP is expected to decline in the eighties, following the restructuring
and readjustment planned for the next three years. Servicing of the debt
should not pose difficulties given the present debt service ratio and the
prospects for continued export growth, provided that the proportion of
external debt incurred on shorter tera and at high interest rates is not
excessive. External debt as a percentage of exports has not increased over



the years, and the level of foreign capital inflows required during 1979-81
seems consistent with a reasonable debt service ratio (of about 12-13% in the
early 1980s) and with continued growth with price stability.  It would also
create conditions which would be conducive to the harmonization of growth
with equity.
PART II - BA1iK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.        As of April 30, 1979, Korea had received 43 Bank Loans (including
one Third. Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $2,401.5 million in loans
and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of that date,
$921.5 million of the total Bank lending remained undisbursed on effective
Loans ancd Credits, mostly from commitments in the past two years.  Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments
as of that date and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated
in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally satisfactory.
15.        In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been directed towards assisting the Government's efforts: (a) to
secure the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in
sustaining a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-
oriented industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure
bottlenecks; and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural
and rural development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of
the fruits of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of
life in the rural areas.
16.        A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's three major development
banks.  The Korea Developrment Finance Corporation has received $320.0 mil-
lion, the Korea Development Bank $252.5 million and the Small and Mledium
Industry Bank $85 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry.
The primary beneficiaries of these loans have not been the development banks,
but the industrial enterprises, ranging from large ventures to small ones,
which have been provided with financing through the financial intemrediaries.
This has resulted not only in the overall development of the industrial
sector, but has also contributed to the achievement of institutional improve-
ments and of the Government's objective of decentralizing industry. The loan
of $80 million for a Ileavy Machinery Project was intended to assist in
achievinrg the structural shift to more skill-intensive industries, which is
necessary to ensure the long-term viability of Korea's export strategy. A
recently approved loan of $29 million by the Bank would stimulate and support
the development of technological capabilities in the Korean electronics
indus try.
17.        As Korea's economy continued to grow and the pace of industrializa-
tion has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of transport fa-



- 6 -
cilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the Government's efforts
to modernize and expand the transport sector dating back to 1962, has played
an important role in these developments. Some $340 million has been provided
for six railway projects designed to increase the railroad's capacity and im-
prove its operations; four loans totalling $334.5 million have been made for
highway construction and paving of high priority sections of the national
network and for a countrywide maintenance organization; and two loans amount-
ing to $147 million have been provided for the expansion of port facilities
at Busan, the premier port, and Mugho, primarily for improving coal handling
facilities.
18.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together,
these projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs within
agriculture, fisheries, industry and services.
19.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past fifteen years have seen
agricultural output grow at about 4% per annum, which has resulted in
the country's becoming near self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and
made possible a steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of
the 40% of Korea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily
on agrarian pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent $325.5 million
for the improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and
the provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products. In addition, $155 million has been provided for two rural infra-
structure projects in support of the Government's rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living
in the rural areas. Recently a $125 million loan was provided by the
Bank to help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation
water in the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood
damage; and generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for
Korea's power system.
20.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975 (Loan 1070-KO), has proved
successful. The project was designed to support the Government's policy by
financing high priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural,
southwest region.
21.       Excluding one project that was cancelled subsequently, IFC had, by
March 31, 1979, entered into 24 commitments, totalling $70.9 million (net
of participations and cancellations). Korea's industrial development programs
have required large capital expenditures in the private sector, a situation
which has enabled a substantially enhanced IFC presence in the past few years.



- 7 -
22.       A prinary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea is to
provide assistance in sustaining the growth momentum and in addressing the
emerging issues which the Korean economy is facing.  The basic issue is
whether Korea can deepen and diversify its industrial structure to the extent
necessary to ensure the attainnent of its export targets. Lending to industry
will be diversified by the provision of a loan to the Citizens National Bank
in support of the small enterprises as well as a loan for a second machinery
project, which will provide Einancial and technical assistance to small- and
medium-scale machinery industries. It will also be necessary to introduce
RD&E programs which are bettier adapted to the technological needs of industrial
development. In addition to the loan for the Electronics Technology Project
which was approved on March 22, 1979, a loan for the technological development
of technology-intensive industries is envisaged in the lending program.
23.       Korea's industrialization program, which calls for entering into
more complex fields of manufacturing than hitherto, will require increasingly
high levels of technical competence on the part of its labor force. A loan
to modernize and expand the system of higher technical education so as to
increase its flexibility and responsiveness to the changing requirements
of the economy is, therefore, proposed.
24.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more equitably by
the diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector
and through nationwide development programs. Projects are envisaged for
land/ water resource development, for agricultural credit, marketing and
processing and for the further development of rural infrastructure and
facilities in selected provincial areas, which would enhance incomes and
quality of life in the lesser developed regions of the country and would
have a sigrLificant impact on the problem of migration to the major metro-
politan areas.
25.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural
sectors and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent
infrastruct:ural development. Although the transport sector will be given
less emphasis than in the past, the investments required are large and,
thus, there is considerable support for this sector in the proposed lending
program.
26.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt dis-
bursed and outstanding at the end of 1977 was about 11%, and its share of
debt service was of the order of 6% at that time. These ratios are
expected to increase to around 13% and 7%, respectively, by the end of the
present decade.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
27.       Korea has been ab:Le to sustain an impressive record of economic
performancea for more than a decade, achieving an average growth rate of
aggregate real GNP of nearly 10% p.a. since 1962.  This achievement appears
all the more remarkable when judged in the context of the country's poor
endowment of natural resources.  Most of Korea is mountainous and only about
a quarter of the land area is cultivable; the principal known mineral resource
is anthracite coal, available in quantity but of relatively poor coking
quality.



- 8 -
28.       Korea's growth strategy has been based on the expansion of manufac-
turing activity and manufactured exports. Rapid growth has induced
considerable structural changes in the economy. Although agricultural output
rose at an average of 4% p.a. between 1962 and 1978, the rapid growth of the
manufacturing sector, at nearly 19% p.a., transformed a predominantly agricul-
tural economy (the share of agriculture, forestry, and fisheries, in GNP was
43% in 1962, while that of nining and manufacturing was only 11%) into one
which is largely dependent on mining and manufacturing (by 1978, the share of
mining and manufacturing in GNP rose to around 33%, based on constant prices).
29.       In the early 1960s, Korea's exports, though growing in relation to
GNP, were not very significant. In 1965, commodity exports were $175 million
of which manufactures amounted to $144 million, constituting about 8% of
manufacturing output; by 1978, commodity exports reached $12.7 billion, with
the share of manufactures being close to 90% and representing over a quarter
of total manufacturing output. The growth of manufactured exports was accom-
panied by some changes in the structure of exports. Though Korea's export
pattern continued to display a high degree of reliance on a few labor-
intensive traditional exports (textiles, clothing, footwear, plywood, and
certain miscellaneous manufactures), there was also a discernible switch in
the direction of more sophisticated skill-intensive products. Several new
light industry products, such as travel goods and plastic articles, and heavy
industry products, such as electrical machinery, machine tools, electronic
goods and components, and transport equipment (including ships), were added
to Korea's range of exports. At the same time, the pursuit of backward
linkages, usually from exports, enabled domestic production to replace imports
in certain sectors, e.g. textiles, apparel, sewing machines, certain metal
products and chemicals, and notably after 1968, in particular segments of the
basic metal, petrochemical and machinery industries.
30.       Korea's export performance and its efforts at selective import
substitution are also reflected in the structural changes which occurred in
the manufacturing sector over the last decade. While value added in manufac-
turing rose at a rate of about 19% p.a. between 1962 and 1978 (in constant
prices), the composition of manufacturing output changed quite markedly in
favor of the metals, machinery, electronics, chemicals and shipbuilding
subsectors. The share of these manufacturing groups rose from 23% in 1961 to
about 55% in 1978. Korea's efforts at reducing the concentration of its
exports to the US and Japan and at developing new export markets have
also met with considerable success; the combined share of these two countries
dropped to about 50% in 1978 from a level of 70% in 1973. On the other hand,
commodity exports to the Middle East, which were negligible in the early 70s,
exceeded $1 billion in 1978.
31.       Several factors have contributed to this remarkable industrial and
export performance. These include the impact of the concentration on labor-
intensive activities; the efficiency of factor use in manufacturing; the
rapid growth of labor productivity, due to the high levels of education and
skills, as well as the magnitude of investment in industry which grew at an



- 9 -
average rate of about 14.5%o p.a. during the last decade; the rapid and
continued increase in productivity levels which has helped to maintain
Korea's int:ernational competitive position despite the recent rise in Korean
wage rates; and the combinaLtion of appropriate exchange rate and export
policies which maintained the profitability of Korean exports in the face of
relatively high rates of domestic inflation without jeopardizing the efficiency
of resource allocation.
32.        Korea's long-term development plans are formulated on the premise
that export-led manufacturing growth will remain the key element in its
development strategy, and the Economic Management Plan for 1979-1981, which
supersedes the original FFYE' for these years, projects a further increase in
the relative importance of both manufacturing activity and manufactured
exports by 1981.  The industrial sector is expected to maintain a rate of
growth of about 13.5% p.a., fueled by an annual growthi rate of manufactured
exports of more than 12% for the period 1979-1981.  As in the past, indus-
trializatiDn strategy will continue to link changes in the structure of
Korea's industrial sector to the process of export expansion. Attempts will
be made to deepen the structure of Korean industry and enhance self-sufficiency
in the use of intermediate and capital goods, e.g. by import substitution in
the metals, machinery and chemical sectors.  While a rmild slowdown is now
expected to occur in the process of investment in the heavy and chemical
sectors, in response to the need to counter inflationary pressures, export
expansion is in general expected to absorb an increasing share of the output
of heavy industry.
33.        The FFYP's estirmate of total investment required for the expansion
and restructuring of Korea's industrial sector was conservatively estimated at
about $10.5 billion over the 1977-81 period. In recent years, the Government
has undertaken a major effort to mobilize domestic resources. It has souaht
to stimulate savings by attempting to increase the real rates of return on
financial assets. It has facilitated the flow of funds between savers and
investors by encouraging the growth of commercial banks and the development
banking system, the strengthening of the money market through the establish-
ment of sthort-term finance companies, and the growth of the securities market
to accommrodate the needs of long-term finance.  Several merchant banking
institutions have been estaLblished, large privately held business enterprises
have been encouraged to go public, the Korean Securities Finance Corporation
has been restructured, and Trust Funds have been instituted. Moreover, in
1973, the Government establ]ished the National Investment Fund (NIF) to
supplement the program of l-ong-term resource mobilization through the financial
system. Apart from deposits by banking institutions and savings funds, the
NIF derives its funds from a variety of other sources, such as national
savings associations, pensiLon funds, postal savings and bond sales to the
public. The Government has also sought to direct the flow of available
resources to sectors considered strategic to the success of the Fourth Plan,
the specialized banks, development banks and the NIF, serving as the instruments
for the allocation of credit to selected sectors on preferential terms.
Korea's three major development finance institutions, KDB, KDFC and SNiIB,
were responsible for almost two thirds of the total medium- and long-term
loans extended to Korean enterprises in 1978; in the same year, three quarters
of N4IF funds were directed to the heavy engineering sectors.



- 10 -
34.       The Bank has worked closely with the Government in the formulation
and implementation of Korea's industrial and financial policies, and is in
basic agreement with the main thrust of the programs and priorities. The
Bank has already made three loans to KDB and seven to KDFC; the proposed
loan will be the Bank's third to SIIB. All three institutions have obtained
loans from the Asian Development Bank (ADB); KDB and KDFC have also borrowed
from foreign commercial sources. The magnitude of the demand for term finance
in Korea is such that these three institutions, even if their operations
increase sigr.ificantly, will continue to be complementary rather than compe-
titive.
The Small- and 2ledium-Scale Industrial (S2iI) Sector
35.       In the Korean manufacturing sector, SMI enterprises are defined as
those with less than 300 employees or with total assets below W 500 million
($1.03 million). Within the SMI sector, there is no official demarcation
between small- and medium-scale enterprises. The sector is an important
segment of the Korean industrial structure; within manufacturing, it accounted
for 96% of the total number of establishments, 46% of total employment, 33%
of value added, and 40% of total exports in 1977.  SMIs are generally more
labor-intensive than larger enterprises although the S1I share of total
manufacturing fixed asset investment had increased to 26% in 1976. Since
1972, the average productivity of labor in Sb5Is has increased faster than in
large enterprises, which indicates the subsector's relative efficiency. Four
industries - textiles, fabricated metals, food processing and chemicals -
accounted for 76% of value added and 77% of employment in SMI enterprises in
1976.
36.       As of end-1978, total loans outstanding from institutional sources
to SMIs amounted to W 1,876 billion ($3.9 billion), of which the commercial
banking system accounted for 63%, S21IB for 24% and the Citizens National Bank
(CNB) for 13%./l It has been estimated that up to 60% of the fixed investment
of SMIs is financed from internal funds, and that of the remainder, which is
borrowed, institutional sources account for a further 60%, which suggests
that SfiI enterprises had to rely for onlv a small part of their total financing
requirements or, non-institutional sources, including private borrowings and
the curb market. On the whole, the availability of financial assistance to
SMIs has recently improved with the establishment of the Korea Credit Guarantee
Fund (KCGF) /2 and the growth of leasing services.
37.       Government efforts to assist SMIs started in the early 1960s with
the establishment of SMIB (in 1961) and of the Small Industry Bureau (SIB).
SIB, an agency of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (11CI), plays a central
_/   SIIB provides both short- and long-term credit in domestic and foreign
currencies. CNB makes small domestic currency loans to households and
very small enterprises in the cottage/informal sector. (C2lB has recently
been authorized by the Government to undertake foreign currency term
finance as well.) The commercial banks (five nationwide and ten local
banks) lend mainly for short-term working capital purposes.
/2  This fund was administered by SMIB until 1976 when it was spun off as an
autonomous institution.



- 11 -
regulatory role, formulating and implementing policies in the SKI sector.
These promotional efforts were initially confined to the provision of financial
assistance and extension services through SMIB and to a statutory require-
ment enacted in 1965 that commercial banks direct at least 30% of their total
lending to SMI enterprises. As the importance of the SMI contribution to
generating employment outside the urban areas and to the growth of exports, and
to the deepening of the industrial structure through subcontracting arrange-
ments became more apparent, the Government broadened its promotion efforts
for SMI through, inter alia: (a) the establishment (in 1962) of the National
Federation of Medium Industry Cooperatives (NFMIC), recently renamed the Korea
Federation of Small Businessies (KFSB), an apex cooperative system; (b) the
creation of industrial estates, particularly specialized single-trade estates
(e.g., leather, machine tools) for SMI enterprises geared to realizing the
benefits of economies of scale and common infrastructure and facilities; and
(c) the Saemaeul Program, which promotes small factories in rural areas with
the main objective of providing off-farm employment.
38.       Notwithstanding the considerable success of its industrial policies,
the Government has undertaken a comprehensive re-examination of the system of
financial and non-financial assistance to the SMI sector, which led to the
enactment in December 1978 of the Small and Medium Enterprise Promotion
Law. In accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Small and Medium
Industry Promotion Corporation (SMIPC) was established at the end of January
1979. It is to operate under the broad guidance of MCI and be the central
agency for coordinating and executing the various promotional and assistance
activities. The SMIPC is an autonomous legal entity empowered to incur debt
(including foreign borrowings). The SMIPC will establish and administer a
Small and Medium Industry Promotion Fund which will onlend funds to SMIs
through various Government financial institutions (including SMIB) and in
accordance with specific developmental guidelines. The Act also stipulates
that extens;ion services (both managerial and technical) and training for SMI
entrepreneurs will be provided through a number of specialized agencies
including SMIB and the SMIPC itself. In this connection, the SMIPC will
establish a training institute for SMI entrepreneurs and extension officers.
It is expected that SMIB's role in the promotion of and assistance to SMI
enterprises will be enhanced as a result of this Law, notably through its
role as agent for the Government in allocating resources obtained from the
Promotion Fund.
39.       The prospects for Korean SMI remain highly promising.  It is
expected that SMI will maintain its share of value added in manufacturing at
about 35%. Assuming that the manufacturing sector achieves the 14.2% annual
growth rate as forecast in the FFYP, fixed investment in SMI is projected by
SHIB to increase at an average annual rate of 15%, which implies that the SMI
share of manufacturing fixed asset investment will probably increase to about
30% or more.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report on the Small and Medium
Industry Bank" (No. 2381-KO, dated March 10, 1979) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held



- 12 -
in Washinaton from April 23 to 26, 1979, with a Korean delegation led by
Mr Heung Koo Kang,Counselor at the Embassy of the Republic of Korea
in Washington D.C
41.        The proposed loan of $60 million would be the Bankl's third to
SMIB.  Previous Bank assistance to SMIB totalled $85 million; the most
recent (second) loan of $55 million, which became effective on March 10,
1978, has nearly been fully committed.
SIIIB's /1 Role Within the Financial System
42.        SMIB was established in 1961 as a governnent-owned development
finance institution to promote and assist small- and medium-scale industries.
Within Korea's development banking system, SMIB occupies a median position
between, at one end, KDB and KDFC which both concentrate on relatively large
enterprises and, at the other end, CNB which provides small consumer loans
and domestic currency loans /2 to small-scale enterprises of an individual or
household/cottage type. The SMIB Act confines SM4IB's financing to enterprises
meeting the official definition of SNI, namely, those with total assets not
exceeding W 500 million ($1.03 million) or with less than 300 employees.
SMIB is the predominant institutional source of long-term domestic and
foreign currency financing for SMIs in Korea. Although the lending criteria
for SMIB and CNB overlap somewhat in terms of the size of enterprises
each can serve, in actual practice there is an operational distinction,
namely, that the former concentrates mostly on the organized, relatively
modern subsector of small industry, while the latter operates mostly in the
unorganized/informal subsector.
SMIB's Legal Framework, Organization and Mianagement
43.        The SMIB Act of 1961 sets out the broad framework for its opera-
tions, policies, scope of activities, administration, and capitalization. As
a specialized financial institution, SMIB is subject to the broad supervision
of the Ministry of Finance.  As a banking institution, SMIB is further
subject to the supervision of the Bank of Korea in connection with its
ccmmercial banking activities (notably its mobilization of savings and
deposits) which are regulated by the General Banking Act. SMIB operates
within the framework of government policies but enjoys adequate autonomy in
its operational decisions.
44.        SMiIB is a well-managed and well-organized institution with a
competent staff. Apart from its head office, consisting of 17 departments,
it has a nationwide network of 104 branches and 6 deposit offices which
enables it to reach SMI enterprises throughout the country. As of end-
/1  The Medium Industry Bank (MIB) was officially renamed "The Srmall and
lIedium Industry Bank" (SMIB) in English on January 1, 1979 which is a
correction of a pre-vious mistranslation.  Its Korean name has always been
"The Small and lHedium Industry Bank."
/2  C;S has recently been authorized by the Government to undertake long-term
foreign exchange financing.



- 13 -
1978, its staff totalled 4,032, of which 77% served in the branch offices.
Staff training is well organized. Staff turnover was 7.8% for 1978 -
a level which has had no discernible adverse impact on SMIB's operational
efficiency.
45.       SIfIB's management structure consists of a Board of Policy and a
Board of Directors. The former deals with broad policy matters and con-
prises seven members, including SMIB's President (as Chairman) and designated
representatives of relevant government departments/agencies and of coopera-
tives and small entrepreneurs. The latter is the principal executive body
and comprises SIIIB's President (as Chairman), its Deputy President and
five Directors, all of whom have direct managerial responsibility for three
to four departments.  SMIB's President is Mr. Dong Hee Park, a former Vice-
President of Korea Housing Bank, who has considerable experience in finance
and banking.
SIIIB's Operal:ions and Developmental Impact
46.       The most noteworthy feature of S14IB's financing operations is
its ability i:o meet both the long-term and short-term resource requirements
of its clients. The long-term needs are largely for equipment loans in
domestic and foreign currencies, while the short-term requirements include
general working capital loans, overdrafts and the discounting of trade bills.
At end-1978, SHIB's total outstanding loan portfolio represented about 5.3%
of the total outstanding loans extended by all banking institutions in Korea,
and its term loans accounted for 9.4% of total equipment loans outstanding to
the manufacturing, construction and transportation sectors. SMIB's term
lending financed 25.8% of total fixed investment by manufacturing SMIs in
1977. As of end-1978, SMIB's total outstanding loan portfolio amounted to
W 456.9 billion ($942.0 million), of which W 173.8 billion, or 38.0%, was
long-term and the remaining W 283.1 billion, or 62.0%, wvas short-term.
47.       The developmental impact of SMIB's term lending operations has on
the whole been satisfactory and actively supportive of government policies.
SuIIB's financial assistance to the machinery subsector, which was designated
a priority industry in the current Five-Year Plan, has been maintained at
high levels. In 1978, the average size of domestic currency loans increased
slightly to W 17.3 million ($35,700) from W 15.1 million ($31,000) in 1976
and that of foreign currency loans to W 89.6 million ($184,700) from W 79.4
million ($1E4,000) in 1976. Against a background of the increasing size of
industrial investments in Korea and price inflation, this is a reflection of
S11IB's deliberate policy of giving increasing priority to the financial needs
of smaller enterprises. The labor-intensity oL SMIB-supported subprojects
has continued to show considerable diversity, as indicated by fixed investment
costs per incremental job ranging from $1,760 to $96,000 under the second
Bank loan.  The average fixed investment cost per job for all SMIB's term
lending was $12,200 in 1978, notwithstanding the recent structural shift of
Korean industry to, inter alia, the machinery subsector (which is generally
more capital-intensive) and the increasing scarcity of labor (which justifies
the substitution of capital f'or labor).  SMIB-supported subprojects have been
both financially and economically viable, with recent FRRs averaging 24.4%
and ERRs averaging 51.5%.  Furthermore, between 1973 and 1978,39% of incre-
mental sales generated by S141B-supported subprojects were exported. In
support of the Saemaeul Program, which ains, inter alia, to develop small



- 14 -
factories in the rural areas to provide off-farm employment opportunities for
rural households, SMIB had provided loans totalling W 13.7 billion ($28.3
million) up to the end of 1978. Where appropriate, SMIB has actively promoted
subcontracting arrangements, thereby increasing industrial linkages and
helping to deepen the industrial structure. The developmental impact of
SMIB's operations has been satisfactory, both in its overall operations as
described above and more specifically in the utilization of the two previous
Bank loans, Nos. 1175-KO and 1507-KO. For instance, under the first loan of
$30 million, Bank funds financed an average of 46% of the total investment
costs of 138 subprojects and as much as 76% of total fixed asset costs. In
addition,these subprojects were expected to generate about 6,700 new jobs at
an average capital cost of about $8,700 per job. Under the second loan of
$55 million, Bank resources financed an average of 59% of total subproject
costs of 196 subprojects (by end 1978) in a diverse range of industries.
Estimates at end-1978 indicate that these subprojects should generate about
5,300 extra jobs at an average fixed cost of $11,130 per job.
48.       SMIB has clearly made substantial progress in meeting the specific
objectives of its development strategy in all but a couple of areas. For
instance, the joint share of Seoul and Busan in its portfolio has increased
from 41.7% in 1976 to 49.5% in 1978, which indicates a somewhat disappointing
performance with regard to regional diversification. SMIB intends to take
remedial measures including the opening of additional branch offices. Over
the past two years, SMIB has been unable to expand the provision of its
extension services because of staff constraints. The system for the provision
of extension services to SMI has just been completely revised by the Small
and Medium Enterprises Promotion Law, which envisages a considerable inten-
sification in the provision of extension services by several organizations,
including SHIIB, private consulting firms, the Korea Science and Technology
Information Center, the universities, and, to a very large extent, by the
newly created Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation, which now has
the overall responsibility for coordinating the provision of extension
services to SMI.
49.       For the period 1980/81, SMIB has revised its development strategy
to include among its specific objectives: (a) a continued emphasis on
assisting a greater number of small, relatively labor-intensive projects;
(b) an effort to increase the mobilization of household savings; (c) a better
regional distribution of its portfolio; (d) even more active assistance
to the machinery SMIs and the Saemaeul Program; and (e) a strengthening of
its SMI-related research activities.
Policies and Procedures
50.       SMIB has, as a supplement to the broad policy guidelines contained
in its Act, adopted a Policy Statement outlining in more specific terms its
operating and financial policies and procedures. In addition, an Operational
Manual, periodically revised, spells out the operational and administrative
procedures in greater detail. SMIB's appraisal of subprojects is comprehen-
sive and satisfactory and continues to show improvement. Its project super-
vision work is sound and effective as is reflected in the good quality of its
loan portfolio. SMIB' s procurement and disbursement practices are sat[s-
factory, and have ensured an efficient and appropriate use of funds. The
procurement of imported equipment is usually based on tlhree or more coin-
petitive quotations from foreign suppliers and SMIB's staff carefully checks
the price and suitability of the equipment to be purchased.



- 15 -
Financial Position and Performance
51.       As of end-1978, SMIB's total assets stood at W 733.3 billion
($1.51 billion), of which 62%, represented the total outstanding loan portfolio.
As a result of an agreement reached among the Government, SYIB and the Bank
during the negotiations for the first Bank loan, SMIB's capital structure
has been considerably strengthened since 1976, with the Government's annual
payments into SMIB's equity (W 5 billion in each of the years 1976 and 1977,
and W 7 billion in 1978), bringing the total level of its equity to W 20.06
billion at the end of 1978. Consequently, SMIB's net worth increased from
W 6.9 billion at end-1975 to W 25.8 billion at end-1978. It's financial
position is sound, with the Long-term debt/equity ratio declining from 17.4:1
in 1975 to 8.5:1 in 1978 (wilthin the agreed limit of 10:1), the current ratio
remaining at 1.1:1, and the ,debt service coverage at 1.13. SMIB's gross
income has increased rapidly, but this has been matched by an equally rapid
growth in total expenses, hence profitability has remained modest; net income
amounted to W 722 million in 1978, which represents only 0.1% of average
total assets and 3.3% of average equity. This relatively low profitability
does not indicate institutio-nal inefficiency or an inadequate gross interest
spread (3.5% in 1978, which was satisfactory). Rather, it reflects the fact
that SMIB, by virtue of its role as a government-owned development finance
institution, incurs substantial expenses in undertaking nonprofit development-
oriented activities such as extension services at a nominal fee and research
and support for Saemaeul Projects, and in maintaining a large nationwide
network of branches for the mobilization of petty savings from small depositors.
To some extent, the low profitability also results from the high overheads
usually associated with small business lending.
52.       SI4IB's loan portfolio is of unusually good quality considering that
it operates in the small business sector which is generally considered high
risk, and considering its large clientele./l Total arrears of principal and
interest (for both short- arLd long-term loans) stood at W 7.3 billion at end-
1978, which represents only 1.6% of the outstanding portfolio and is an
improvement: over the mid-1977 level of 3.5%. The collection ratio for all
loans has been above 99% for the last five years.
Business and Financial Prospects
53.       The outlook for the Korean economy, in general, and the manufacturing
sector, in particular, remains favorable. In this macro-context, SMIB has
projected its operations for the period 1979-1982 on the basis of detailed and
reasonable assumptions. Cormmitments are expected to grow at 18% annually
and total W 1,190 billion ($2.45 billion equivalent) over the four-year
period 1979-82, of which foreign loan commitments are expected to account for
W 189.8 billion (16% of the total) or $391.3 million. The achievement of
these targets will depend not so much on adequate staff capability or equity
capital, which are expected to be satisfactory and comaensurate with S11IB's
projected volume of operations, as on SMIB's capacity to mobilize additional
resources, particularly on the foreign currency side (para. 55).
/1 At end-1978, SliIB's portfolio consisted of 42,000 accounts out-
standing with about 25,000 clients.



- 16 -
54.       SMIB's financial position is expected to remain sound.  Total
assets are projected to grow from W 733.3 billion in 1978 to W 2,135 billion
by 1982, with the proportion represented by the outstanding loan portfolio
increasing from 62% in 1978 to 68% in 1982. Profitability is expected to
improve, with net income increasing from W 722 million in 1978 to W 17.3
billion in 1982 (representing 0.1% and 0.9% of average total assets, respect-
ively). Due to continued increases in SMIB's equity capital, the long-term
debt/equity ratio is not expected to exceed 8.5:1, which is well within the
contractual limit of 10:1 (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The projected liquidity ratio would maintain a satisfactory level of about
1.1:1. The quality of SMIB's portfolio is expected to remain sound.
55.       SMIB's resources, on the domestic currency side, will be derived
mainly from the funds it can mobilize in the form of demand and savings
deposits (for short-term resources), while the Government (through its
subscriptions to equity capital), the NIF, and the new Small and Medium
Industry Promotion Fund (SMIPF) will be the main sources of long-term domestic
funds. On the foreign currency side, SMIB envisages mobilizing $413 million
in borrowings over the period 1979-82, of which it hopes to obtain 30% from
the Bank, 42% from ADB, and the remaining 28% from the Government under
the Korea Foreign Exchange (KFX) scheme./l SMIB's foreign currency operations
have historically been, and are expected to remain, a function of its resource
availability. The proposed Bank loan of $60 million is expected to finance
about one-third of SMIB's foreign currency commitments over the two-year
period mid-1979/mid-1981, with the balance to be covered by ADB and KFX.
Main Features of the Loan
56.       Component for Financing Small, Labor-Intensive Projects.  The
proposed loan will enable the Bank to continue assisting small- and medium-
sized industrial projects in Korea. Under the second Bank loan (1507-KO),
this objective has been satisfactorily achieved./2 In particular, SMIB has
assisted subprojects which were smaller as well as more labor-intensive than
those financed by KDFC and KDB, with a weighted average of fixed investment
costs per job of $11,130 in 1978./3 It is important that SMIB should
further pursue its efforts to reach smaller enterprises (in terms of total
assets) and finance projects with a capital/labor ratio which is appropriate
in the prevailing macro-economic conditions and in line with Korea's
employment objectives. It is therefore recommended that a component of
$25 million (or 42% of the proposed loan amount) be earmarked for financing
/1 This scheme was started in 1976 and involves the channelling of the
Korean foreign exchange reserves, via the Bank of Korea (BOK) and the
government-owned financial intermediaries, to Korean industries.
/2 SMIB's subborrowers on average had total assets of only W 280 million
($580,000) and 72 employees.
/3 Under the Second Bank Loan 1507-KO. This compares with an average fixed
investment cost per job of $24,500 in 1977 for KDFC's projects. KDB's
subprojects are generally comparable to, or larger than, KDFC's.



- 17 -
specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or
(b) projects generating employment at a fixed investment cost per job not
greater than $8,500 (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The fixed
asset limit is equivalent to that suggested in the Bank report "Employment
Creation and Small Scale Enterprise Development" (March 1977), adjusted for
subsequent: inflation, and is also well within the W 500 million ($1 million)
total asset limit under Korea's official SMI definition. Because the proposed
limit of $8,500 on the fixed investment cost per job is lower than the
overall avrerage of $12,200 for subprojects financed by SMIB in 1978, it
should result in SMIB's continuing to give due consideration to the labor-
intensity of projects to be financed. The proposed component should help to
ensure that smaller enterprises, as opposed to the medium-sized ones, would
receive a sizeable proportion of the proposed Bank loan.
57.       Other Features, Terms and Conditions of the Loan.  Apart from
direct imports, SMIB would be authorized to use the proceeds of the proposed
loan for financing the foreign exchange component of domestically procured or
manufactured capital goods estimated at 60% of total costs. SMIB was given
this facility under the second Bank loan, which enabled it to support Korean
domestic industries (particularly machinery). The long-term debt/equity
ratio of 10:1, set under the two previous Bank loans, would be maintained
(Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). As the size distribution of
SMIB's subloans remains basically unchanged, it is also recommended that
the free limit be maintained at $0.5 million (Section 2.02(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The limits on individual subloans ($1.5 million) and size
of subborrowers (those with total assets not exceeding W 1 billion) set under
the previous loan remain appropriate, and it is recommended that they be
maintained under the proposed loan (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). SMIB intends to onlend the proceeds of the proposed loan at a spread
of 2 percentage points above its borrowing rate, which is in line with the
general practice of govern,ment-owned development finance companies in Korea
and is aclequate to cover the costs associated with the processing of foreign
currency loans. SMIB's proposed relending rate is appropriate, given a
projecte(d average rate of inflation of the order of 9-10% p.a. over the next
few years and the fact that the subborrowers bear the full foreign exchange
risk. The other terms ancl conditions of the loan would be similar to those
of receni: Bank loans to DFC's, including a flexible amortization schedule
conforming substantially to the aggregate of the repayment schedules of
subloans.
Benefits and Risks
58.       The continued growth of SMI remains an important element in Korea's
development strategy, especially in regard to its contribution to employment
and exports, to the deepeming of the industrial structure, and to the regional
dispersal of industry. As noted earlier, SMI accounted for an average of 40%
of Korea's total industrial exports over the last four years and SMIB's
clients exported 39% of their output during 1973-78 (para. 47). SMIB's
performance continues to be satisfactory from both the institutional and
developmental view points. With its operational capability, SMIB is a
particularly suitable allocator of Bank resources for Korean small- and
medium-sized firms which, by virtue of their size, are not usually financed
by the two other financial intermediaries (KDB and KDFC) assisted by the
Bank. SMIB is not expected to be able to raise foreign commercial loans in



18 -
the foreseeablo future. Consequently, it will continue to need foreign
currency funds from official sources, such as the Bank and ADB.
59.       The Bank's institution-building impact on SMIB has been substantial.
Under the two previous loans, the Bank has been influential in ensuring that
SMIB's capital structure was strengthened considerably by government contri-
butions to its equity and other measures, in urging SMIB to formulate and
implement specific short-term development objectives, and in improving
its economic analysis of projects, including the calculation of ERRs for
selected projects. As a result of the continuing dialogue between the SMIB
and the Bank, SMIB is carrying out SMI-related studies, is introducing a
systematic project monitoring system, and is improving its financial prac-
tices, including the establishment of adequate portfolio provisions. The
Bank will continue to exert its influence in encouraging SMIB to broaden its
developmental role, to be more innovative in its lending approach, to commit
itself to a greater regional dispersal of its financing, to ensure the
viability of investment projects from the economic and social standpoints,
and to intensify assistance to smaller enterprises. The proceeds of the two
previous Bank loans have been allocated by SMIB to industrial projects which
are financially as well as economically viable, especially in terms of export
earnings and employment generation. The projects to be financed under the
proposed loan are expected to produce similar or greater financial and
economic benefits. The project does not entail any unusual risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Small and Medium
Industry Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Korea
and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the loan are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 28, 1979



ANNEX I
-19-                                         Page 1 of 5 pages
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A ERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                KOREA REPUBLIC OP              - MOST RECENT ESTMATE) 
TOTAL            98.5                                                  SAME       SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTUIIAL    24.4                                MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME      INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb      REGION Ic  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                120.0       290.0    810.0            616.0      867.2      1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    258.0       815.0    1038.0           522.0     578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                       25.0        32.2      36.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 28.0       41.2      48.5            30.1       46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                     254.0       327.0    371.0            156.8       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1168.0     1371.0   1496.0            794.8       93.3       116.4
POPULATIONI AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        40.5        42.1      38.6            40.8       42.9        34.8
15-64 YRE.                        55.7        54.5      57.9            55.4      53.5         56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.8         3.4       3.5             3.2        3.5         5.7
POPULATIONI GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.8         2.3       1.8             2.3        2.5         1.6
URBAN                             5.9         6.4       5.4             5.1        4.7         3.4
CRUDE BIR-H RATE (PER THOUSAND)    39.7        35.0      28.8            34.6       37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEA1H RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.9        11.4       8.9             8.7       10.8         9.9
GROSS REPIIODUCTION RATE            3.1 /f      2.6       1.9             2.6        2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       672.0    686.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        42.0      34.2            22.1       20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUT-RITION
INDEX OF ROOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            81.6       100.0    104.5            106.8      107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  85.0       114.0    115.0            108.7      105.3       110.4
PROTEIN! (GRAMS PER DAY)         53.0        65.0      75.7            57.7       63.0        77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      13.0 R/    19.0       16.3            17.0       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      ..          ..        ..             4.0        8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.0       65.0      68.0            59.0       57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          82.9 /h       ..      38.0            44.0       53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATIOII)
TOTAL                              *-        58.0      66.0            21.9       56.8        67.7
URBAN                              ..        84.0      95.0            58.3       79.0        83.5
RURAL                              ..        38.0      38.0             9.8       31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        25.0      64.0            28.6       30.9        70.3
URBAN                              ..        59.0      80.0            66.6       45.4        90.7
RURAL                              *-          *-      50.0            14.8       16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         3220.0      2110.0   2100.0           4103.1    2706.8       1310.8
POPULATIOIN PER NURSING PERSON   3220.0 Xi  2170.0 /i 1440.0 /i        1520.2    1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          251C.0      1900.0   1760.0            657.1      493.9       275.4
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..           145.5      229.6       129.9
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..          1011.8    2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        14.9        *-            19.0       22.1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.6         5.3       5.1             5.2        5.2         3.9
URBAN                             5S.4        5.0       4.9             5.2        5.0
RURAL                             5.6         5.5       5.3             5.4        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.5         2.3        ..              ..        2.0         0.9
URBAN                             2.8         2.7        ..              ..        1.5         0.8
RURAL                             2.4         2.2        ..              ..        2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINiGS)
TOTAL                            28.0        50.0        ..            39.1       64.1        59.2
URBAN                            67.3        92.3        ..              ..       67.8        78.0
RURAL                            12.0        30.0      64.9              ..       34.1        12.5



ANNEX I
-20-                                          Page 2 of 5 pages
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
KOREA REPUBLIC OF                                         La
- MOST RECENT ESTIMLATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJULSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLMARY:     TOTAL                  94.0        105.0      109.0             95.6        99.8         97.6
FEMALE                88.0        105.0      109.0             93.7        93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  27.0         43.0       59.0             43.3        33.8         47.8
FEMALE                14.0         34.0       50.0             38.6        29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 14.0           16.0       16.0             11.3        12.8         22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             58.0         57.0       52.0             30.0        34.9         25.4
SECONDARY                           34.0         37.0       38.0             25.4        22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          70.6         87.0      92.0 /            84.0        71.8         96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER 'ARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4          2.0        2.4              9.3        12.4         32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          32.0        126.0      144.0             97.6       104.5        201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3         13.0       48.0             21.8        28.1         97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTENES'") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   69.0        138.0      175.0              25.9        45.2         70.9
u7NLMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0             5.0       3.0               4.6         4.6          4.4
24 P LO YM EN T
tOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       7500.0      10200.0   13100.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    25.8         32.7       32.8             33.2        25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               66.0         50.4       44.6             48.4        46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.3         20.1       22.8
PURTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  33.4        35.0       36.6              38.9        33.8         33.7
MALE                                   49.5         46.8      48.8              48.6        48.1         50.8
FEMALE                                17.2         23.0       24.2             28.4        17-3          12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5          1.4        1.2              1.2         1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1 /k        17.1       16.1              17.3       23.6         20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.3 /k        44.5       45.3             45.6        52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.7 /k         7.1        5.7              6.5         4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0 Tk        17.7       16.9             17.3        13.1         13.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (tlSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      220.0            140.8       191.9
RURAI                                 ..           ..      200.0            112.8       193.1        15 7.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      194.0                ..      319.8        448.8
RURAI                                  ..          ..      176.0             76.8       197.7        313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        9.0             27.7        19.8         23.2
RURAL                                  ..          ..       14.0             40.4        35.1         54.5
HNot available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusced group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
ib    Vl-ess otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
ic    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /e  Upper Middle Income
(Cl 136-S2500. per capita., 1976);   /f  1950-55;   /R  1962;   /h  1957;   /i  Registered, not all practising
:r] therolncrrv:   /s  Aged 10 years and over;   1k  1965.
September 1978



-21-
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                   ANNEX   I
Page 3 of 5 pages
UiS;   fhe adjusted group averages for each Indicator are popuiation-weighted geometric means, exciudiog the extreme vaiuaa of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries amnong the indicators depends on evailability of data and is not uniform. Due to lock of data,
group a-ecages for Capital Surplus Oil Emporters end indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, hbooing, income diatribotion and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric meons without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousond s   k,m)                                                                Population per hospital bhd - total. urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total ourface area coimrising land area and inland waters.                           urben, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporerily                    available in phblic and private general and specialized hospital end re-
or potmanently for craps, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                       habilitetion centers.   Hospitals are establishments per.anently staffed by
lie fAllow,.                                                                              at least one physician.  Estahlishments providing principally custodial
care are not incloded.   Rural hospitals, however, include health end mdi-
iNP PER CAPITA (US) - GNP per zapita estimates at current market prices,                      cal centers mat pernanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same cooversio- method as World Back Atlas (197'-77 bhei);                 siatant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient acco.modation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                       from hobpitals divided by the number of beds.
(cool and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear end gee-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivelent per capite.                      HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPLIATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A bossehold consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
-   Total population, mid-pear (mIllions) - As of July 1; if not available.,                 and their main mels.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
averagc  of two end-year estinaten; 1960, 1979, and 1977 deta.                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population  (percent of total) - Retio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tics; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per coon - total, urban, and rural - Average mum-
,f data among  countries.                                                                 ber of persons per roon in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
PopuLation density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings e-clude mon-permanent otroct-res and
fer  so. ho. - Mid-your population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of ttlac.Access no electriciypecnofdelgs-tta,rh,adrul-
Per on  kn  agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
fPopultion age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 yeers), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired  165 years and over) as percentages of nid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrol=ent ratios
Population growth rore (percelt) - total, and  bran - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth ratos of total and sibta mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary 1eve1 as percentages of respectively priacay school-age
1960-70, and 170-75.                                                                     populations;  ononally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude hirth rate (pen thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithsetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enroli=ent may exceed 100 percent since sone pupils are below or
1970 and five-year avorege ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                       above the official school age.
Crude death rate (pet thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total. and female - Computed as sbove; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year ar ithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                            rides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupiln
Gross reproduction rate - Average nunber of deughtere a woman sill bear                      usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspcndence coursnn are generally
in her nornal reproductive unriod if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-ynar averages ending in 1960,                    Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clude technical, industrisi, or other programs which operate independently
Portly pianning - accePtors. onnual (thousands) - Annual number of                           or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   Pspil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by n=bhers of teachers in the corrm-
Family plianotog-usorn (peret of married women).   Percentage of                            spending levels.
married womni   of child-(earicg age (1i5-4  peers) who use birth-contr                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) us
devices to aIl nurried women in sane age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years end over.
fOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
Indem of food production per capita (1970-100) - Inden number of per                     Passenger cars (per thousand populatiun) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual prodsction of all food commoditien.                                       seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per  capita  tupply  of                        requirta  tno) - Compoted from             vehicles.
energy equivalent of met fod mupplien available in country per capita                  Radio receivers (Per thousand poDplation) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies  comprise domestic production, isports less                broadcasts to general public per thossand of population; excludes unlicensed
cxports, and chunges cm stcck.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in ford processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; data for recent years nay not be comparable since most countries
q,uirents were eoti=nted iy FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                   abolished licensing.
nul activuty and health coesidering environ=ental temperoture, body                    TV receivers (per thousand copulation) - TV receivers for bhnadcast to general
-eights, age and sex distributions of poPulation, and al-wing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for wasto at househol'l level.                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV sets coo in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (scams per day) - Protein contest of per                    Newspaper circulation  (per thousand population) - Shows the aVerage  irools-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tion of  daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for aLl countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  St ih  considered to
a minimum allowance of 6h  ;rams of total protein per day and 20 grams                    be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of ani=al and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendance per capita per pear - famed on the number of tickets
These stuodards ace lower than hose of 75 grams of tetal protein and                      sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of a.c.ul protein as an average for the world, proposed by                       units.
FAG cc the Third hirld For., Survey.
fa          proiit   supply fr,m animal and Pulse - Protein supply of food              EMPLOYMENT
derived fro  animols and pulses is grams Per day.                                      Total labor force (tho.....do) - Efr.n.mically active persons, including armed
ierived (airs i-i) mctslcy rote (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                 forces and unemployed but excluding houswvs   tdednts, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                tio.s  in various countries are not co=parabli.
Pe=ale (percent) - Female labcr force as percentage of total labor forts.
HEALTH                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expeccocy an  birth (ests) - Average number of years of life                            an percentage of total labor force.
ro-aising at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   ILndustry (ercent) - Labor force in mining, constructi-n, nanufacturing and
und 1977.                                                                                 electricity, eater und gas as percentage of toral labor force.
infaun  hortoucay rote (per thosund) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participation rate (percent) - total, mole, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.,                                                 Feale labor force as percentag-s of their respective popslations.
Acceos to safe water (portent of population) - total, urban  and rural -                     These are TLO's adjusted participatin ratesreilectlftin           e-snr
Nuber of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable uccess to                        structure vf the pop,1ation. and long time -rend.
safe  woer supply (tncludes treated surface waters or vntreated but                    Economic dependency ratio  - Ratio of populatioc order 15 and 65 sod over to
ur-onta-irated water such as that from  protected borehole, springs,                       the labor fore  n age grp of 15-64 yea  .
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an oin area a public fountain or standpoit located not more                        INCOhlE DISTRIBUTION
char 200 meters from a hoone ntay be consideced an being within tea-                   Percentage of private income (both il cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rtoal areas reasonable ac:ebs would                     percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or nmbers of the household do not bave to                         of ho u.holds.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water coeds.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access cc excreta dosposal (percent of population) - total, urban,  and                  Estimated absolute poverty income level (USi   per capita) - mrbam  and rural -
rrurl - Number of people (trial, urban, and rural) served by emrtet                          Absolute poverty incone level is that incoe level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages o.  their respective populations.  Excreta                         nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
diurosal cay include the s-llectoc and disposal, with or without                           affordable.
arrurvoct, of humor excr-ta and wastc-water by water-borne systems                     intimated relative poverty ino=me level (US5 per capita) - urban and rural -
J- tie  'so of pit privies and sinclan  installatios.                                      RIelative poverty incone level is that intone level lens  than one-third
fspoluttcv  -en physican -  .opolat.o.  divided by somber of practicing                      per capita personal income of the country.
ph-s-ctac,  -ulified fran a medical school at university level.                       Eitimated population below yeverty income level (percent) - un an sod rural -
Populuccon per nursing person - Population divided by number of                              Percent of population (turban and rura) WhO are eiter "absolute poor  or
pr-cticig cale and femalo! graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                          "relative poor" chichev.r is greater.
usIstaot nurses.
Econonic sod iocial Data Division
Eonoruic Analysis ard Pro-ectio.s Department



WN:EX I
-22-                                                                    Page 4o  5 pages
ECONOMIC DEViEPMENT MATA SHEET
Actual                                       PeelisitanoY                         Prolerred
1970        19712 973               1974         1975        1976        1977         1978           1979        1980         1985        1990
A. NuEscral Accounts
(Million 59 at 1975 pelo)
i.  CDP                                13,015.5   15.116.7   17,392.1    18,750.0   20,254.3   22,879.8   25,237.5    28,227.2               30,987.0   34u085.0   54,895.0   86,418.0
2.  lairs ft.c  TOT                        297.5       525.0       767.3       287.4          -         858.0    1,511.1        1,874.0       2,639.0    3,125.0    6,921.0   12,011.0
3.  Gncs_ do.eseoi I(scoe              13,313.0   25,641.7   18,159.4   19,037.4   20,254.3   23,738.0   26,749.0    30,101.1                33,826.0   37,210.0   61,816.0   99,429.0
4.  Imports (goods und    )             4,225.0    4,661.0       6,381.1     7,147.4    74641.0       9,468.0   11,723.0      15,162.0       1H,064.0   20,568.0   37,895.0   69,H20.0
5.  Espoess oola.e                       1,962.1    3,134.3    5,025.5    4,969.8    5,679.0    8,173.0    10,211.0           (2,041.0       13,328.7   753357.0   30,344.0   58,425.0
6.  E.poc.s (udjosted for TOT)          2,2 59.      ,79.3       5792.8    5,157.2        1,679.0    8,981.0   11,721.0    13,915.0          15,967.0   18,477.0   37,265.0    70,437.0
7.  Ieso,,rc  gap (adjusted  Fon TOT)  1,965.4         902.2       587.2    2,290.2    1,785.0          487.0         2.8      1,247.0        2,097.0     2,791.7        637.0      -617.0
8.  Total censampelos                  11,267.7   13,086.4   14, (51.6   (5,245.5   15,754.0   17,389.0    16,668.0    20,517.0              23,774.0   25,819 .0   uO,987.0   64,823.0
9.  Investmees                           3,692.8    3,680.7    u,715.9       5,780.0    5,948.5    6,420.0    7,975.0    10,849.0            11,948.0   13.820.0   21,459.0   32,989.0
13. Docaselc suricgs (adjusted
8cr 00T)                          2.510.1     2,553.3    4,107.8       3,791.9     4,500.3     6,349.0    8,081.0        9,584.0       9,951.8    11,729.0    20,029.0    33,608.0
11.  GDP ac ruercor  USS                 8,580.9    17,197.2    13,136.3   18,096.1    20,254.3   277138.8   34,615.3    46,085.0             56,675.2   69,806.1   181,096.6  438,571.4
B. Sector Output
)5I,ee of loP at 1971 prces)
1.Agrloltoe,  Forestry and
fIsheries                            30.4        27.3         25.7        24.5        24.3        11.4        20.8          18.1           19.3        18.9        13.7         9.7
2.  Mising and sao.ctuoruclc 19.6                      22.5        25.2         77.7        29.4         30.2       31.2          J3.1          34.9        30.8         41.3        45.4
3.  Otbcer                                  57.0         58.2       49.9        48.5         47.6        49.4        48.7         44.8           46.8        44.3         45.0        44.9
.  Poios (1975 - 100)
1.   Epo-s price (odes (70S0)               40.2        52.3        64.3        87.9        101.0       110.9       120.7         130.1         142.7       152.5       279.9        277.3
2-  (spoe  price lsdex (7117                314-         45.0       56.3         80.9       100.0       100.3       105.2         1(2.6         110.1        126.7       170.9       224.2
3.  Ter-s of reade i(des                   115.1       116.2       115.7       (                                     115.5                      119.9       120.3        122.8       120.5
4.  GDP deflator                            s2.3        54.9        67.2        80.9        103.0       1180.6      137.7         (63.3         182.9       204.8        329.9       507.4
5.  borage  -tch-rge cre                   310.4       394.0       398,6       405.9        484.0       484.0       464.0        484.0          484.08      484,0        484.0       484.0
D.  Stleoteld Idi-arons                    1978-75    1975-8       1980- 85    1985-90   E.                                          1970           1975        1978        1979         1981 2      198 /9       1991 I
1.  1COR                                    3.1         3.30        3.90        4.00    1.        Labor force (illtios)            10.2          12.3        13.9        1(4.2        15.4        17.9          20.5
2.  Import elasticIty                       2.23        1.46        1.31         (.36   2.   Une-ploryect (I  of  I.11              4.5           4.1         5.7          3.1         3.0         2.0           1.0
1.  loccage dom7seio savingsnatc           0.28         0.30        0.31        0.32   3.   E.ploy-eer (m(lio-)                    9.7           11.6        13.5         13.8        14.9        17.5         20.3
u.  Oacgl( Sosentle It sarings care         0.32        0.33        0.32        0.34            1% shres)
5.  lep!res/C.P                             0.35        Os54        0.65        0.76   3.1  Agriculrure, foresfri, fsh-erses 50.4                45.9        08.4         30.8        30.7        29.1          22.8
6.  Irostenr!/GDP                          0.28        3.33        0.39        0.38   3.2 2Mling.  _u_f_acturing                  (4.4          19.1        23.2         23.2        27.9        32.0          33.8
7.  OEsooroc  gap/GDY                       0.05        7.02        0.00        0.00   3.3  Other                                  35.2          35.0        38.4         38.0        35.4        38.9          43.4
F.  Public Fioance /a (% of GDP)              1972        1973         1974        1975        1976        1977          1978 /d    1979 /d        1980         1985
1.  Correct cererne                        17.1        15.)        16.3        19.1         21.3        28.;7        19.5         19.9          21.0        22.5
1.1 Tas ooesnur                        13.0         17.4        13.9         15.9        17.)        17.3         (1.5        10.7           18.2        19.7
2.  C        --rrest osperdisoec            13.7         0.9        11(.4        13.6        13.4        (4.3         13.6         13.8          15.4        15.9
2.D Df-ense  -speodilrs-                     4.3         3.5         4.0         4.5          5.3         5.7           0.5         5.6           7.0         7.4
3.  looerssertsavings                        3.3         4.9         4.6          5.5         7.9         6.4           5.8         5.9           7.0         8.7
-.  Capital c,0es.itros /b                  13.3         8.2         7.4          9.0        11.5         9.0           7.9         8.1          11.0         (0.8
/a  Sou-c    7FP, Oveell  esources Budget,  1977; Efsc lio M-uage-er-  Plan., 1978-79.
/b  REeflr t    cpital accoust less sepreery-    of debt.
Ic  Sor,-e. -E  K:Lon-Te-  P-p-spect for fcoo...i-  a-d Social D,oelopees-, 1977-79, p.l45.
/d  8udget -st  -t-s
on 12, 1979



_23_                                                                                               ANNEX I
P.ge 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYSEgNTS AND ErTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(5 mitllssn ascurrene prices)
Actual                                         Peeltmisarn                          Peo1ected
1970        1972         1973        1974         1975        1976         1977         1978            1979        1980         1985         1990
A.  Summary  of Balance of Payments
1.  Ezpot.  (intl. NFS)                     1,221       2,075        3,962        5,125       5,679        9,11!      12,508        15,873         19,015      23,411       63,681      157,948
2.  Iop-t. (in-l. NFS)                      2,064       2,577        4,368        7,209       7,464        9,493      12,531        17,255         21,512       26,060      64,757      156,565
3.  Resource balatce                         -843        -502         -406      -2,084       -1,785         -382          -23       -1,382         -2,497      -2,649       -1,076        1,383
4. Set factor serntce Incomle:
(1) Nlt intrest /c                      -29         -138        -166         -229         -399        -411         -479          -632          -700         -790      -2,057       -3,677
Of uflof nntecessocn
public MLT loans                   -68        -120         -150         -201        -290         -345        -437          -6413          -789      -1,034       -2,780       -5,451
(21  l-rcotsneutsenn  Incet               -8           -2            1          -8           -5         -37          -03           -51             55         -52         -150        -215
It) Offer factor tervice
Income (net)                        77         101           72           74          76          167         354           509            700       1,200        1,700        1,950
5.  Corront tra.afees 1net1                   180          170         190          224          226         349          223          472            500          550          600         600
6.  Balance of turrent account               -623        -371         -309      -2.023       -1,887         -31I4          12       -1,084         -2,053      -1.74           -983          40
7.  Provase doren cenvesisent                  65           74         137          104           53          76           94           89            150          200         450          700
aS.  offIcal caplnsl grco                     131           87           61          64            -           - 
Public M & LT Lnoos
S9.  DinO.sr-nt                               414         73 5         75 7      1,155        1,687       1.701        2,218         2,482          4.08        5553        10,47       20,081
13   Aeortlietlon                              205          289         334          391         368          504          717          I70          1,161        15          5,678       11,540
11.  Nle disounsetnt,                          209          446         413          764       1,319        1,197       1,501         1.702          2,927        3,955       4,797        8,541
Other M 4 L- Loans
12.  Stub .rsesemnt                             78           49          71          174           85         120           50           ..            105          110          250         400
13.            I Net   ttunseeIS                                         15           23           28          66           10 -2                       86           95          137         266
II4   ec3lnreen00                                            39          55          151           57          54         -23                            SI                      113         134,
IS.  Use of IMP resources 70 -I0                           -I             -         132          130          97         -24            -2            -25          -25         -25          -25
16.  Shoot-te  capital transactlocs            122          -I9          82         - 45         680          357           59       -1,171-                          -
17.  CapItal transactIons 5E1 /c                71         -87         -110          868          141         -48        -274         1,096              6         -750      -1,208       -2,000
18.  Chtnge in retetset_-35         -159        -340          -15         -493      -1,419      -1,345          -630         -1,024       -1,656      -3,144       -7,390
19.  Forco- n achno rreserccs Jo               584          694       1,034        1,049       1,542        2,961       4,306         4,936          5,945        7,601      18.887       45,665
(end of perood1
B.  Grunt and Loo C..    ttiests                                                                                                                                                                          Actual
1.  Olffcol arans                             131          87           61           64            -           -            -    DeAt  and Debt  Oseolce                             1972   1973    1 974   109735   107-61077
2.  Toal pfitb     1 & LT lon:                475         813        1,o73        1,972       1,304        3,613       3,465     Public tdebt outstandig & disbu rs.d  Ied
(1) l8RD                                  40           73          150          85          362.5       372          426       of PRed)                                        2,691   3,199  3,982   5,277  6,659  8,472
(2l 1DA                                    15          26           20           -            -            -           -       Interest os public debt                            120    150    201       290     380     437
13 t Infer esltnLateral /f                 00          60           46          89          101.5       114          135       Repsyseses on public debt                          289    334    391       368    504    71
(41  ncern4 ects La                      161          479          383         477          360         917          427       Tottl pablic debt  Retvc                           409    484      592    658    59    1, 154
other debt semitye  1net1                          23      33     54       60     105     125
To.al debt service  let)                          432     517     646      718    096  1,209
Of %dioh ic-n-ally planned
2conomics                 -            -           -            -            -           -            -    turdes  on Oeoprt Sarnisas (IL)
(5) Suppliert                            134           94          223         486          232         689        1,067       Pablic debt seroice                               19.7      12.2    11.6    11.6    9.0    9.2
(6) Prloorr hacks                         104          73         240          737          193       1,448        1,341       Total debt asetice                                20.8    13.1    12.6    12.6   10.9   10.2
(71 Bonds                                   -           -            -          19            -          60           68       TDS +   iet IsoestmTt t, Lnc.                     20.7   13.1   12.4   12.6   11.3   10.7
(1)  ofblIc loa-t, NEI hi                   I           -           11          79           34           -            -
Aneess  Term   O  Publc Debt
3.  Oth-r M & IC LoTan  /i                     26           74         213          120          138          97           16       Istr_s :l 9prito  year t0 & I                              5.6     6.3     7.6    0.2      7.3
mosettezation as 2 prior year D0 6 D             12.8   12.4   12.2    9.2    10.9   11.9
Oa-s-asditg Deoo-ber 31. 1977                                                   IB8D debt nutestodieg & disbursed                  94.7  139.6  223.0  403.5  659.0  835.1
Amcont       T                                                         IBRD    7 public debt 0 6 D                          3.5     4.4     5.6     7.7    9.9      9.9
luernal  Oobn  Id-ab-rd  only)                                                                                                      0900 a  I~ public  deb -sntc                         1.7    2.5      3.3    4.9      3.      6.7
I.  D0cc                                                (835.1)    (9.9)                                                         ID0  debt  -utstadlsg  & di.bursed                  47.1   58 5   78. 3   92 .7  102 411  1
2.  5ach Group /1                                         046.7      11.2                                                         IDA as 2 public debt 0 6 D                           1.8    1.8    2.0       1.8    1.5    1.3
3.  Otter Multilateral /k                                 322.0      35.                                                          IDA as X publir debt  at si-                        0.1      0.1     3.1     0.1     0.1     0.1
4.  Gonerseets                                         2,917.7       34.4
Of ulicIc  cryrrally placncd ecsontmcs               -          -
5.  Supplirs                                           1,560.0       19.4
6.  FiPynciol Instlit-ion. /1                          0,518.6       30.7
7.  Eonds                                                 167.1       2.0
0.  PuflIc debt. N I
9.  Iotal pubtic 9M 4 L  debt                          8,472.3      100.0
10.  Otter M & LT debt                                    544.8
11.  Total puhlbI  debt (Icli. u-dib-ursed)            13,483.9
12.  ToT_1 M &i L  debt (disburs-d only:                9,017.1
13.  Total M & LT debt (Intl. _cdlshursodl             14,053.1
At Included In otter foycto r: se.Ice Lnntone.
/b  Nle of datis andb repysentbypurchsen" (IFS).
f      _ Includes  -orroalngs  Ir_a the           bancinssysiee, store  abl  or i con sits  of rcror= as o m ssssoos, n  -  ,cceapt a  do   IobtL   projeclos  for 1965            1990.
/d  Exclodensne  sue of IMF rrsonrces  nhich ire shoes separately.
ft 'Internottonal teserces' (IF1:).
Af ADB.
LA Includes bilateral OD, Eoitds-k.s, official esport credits, i-cluding U.S. CCC credits.
Lh  Other gPasntesd private Icant.
/i  Petinoe IOR9u  tith-ot  garos: or.
t   E.clodas IFC.
l  PFrivat-   books ond other fisa-iol Iss1 ttucions.
Jo Includes Incereust osn shorn -sors capital tgd resernes.
. . nodt o      --t l-lp e
-  oil



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
-24-
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of April 30, 1979)
Loan or                                                                Amount ($ million)
Credit  Calendar                                                      (less cancellations)
Number    Year         Borrower            Purpose                 Bank   TW   IDA  Undisbursed
Thirteen Loans and eight credits fully disbursed                   586.5         106.8
906       1973   Republic of Korea   Education II                  23.0                     6.4
917      1973   Republic of Korea   Ports I                       80.0                      7.6
942      1973   Republic of Korea   Seeds Production                7.0                     1.1
953      1974   Republic of Korea   Tourism                       25.0                      2.4
994      1974   AFDC                   Agriculture                 13.0                     2.9
1070       1975   Republic of Korea   Secondary Cities              15.0                     4.8
1096       1975   Republic of Korea   Education III                 22.5                     8.2
1101       1975   Republic of Korea   Railways V                   100.0                     4.1
1145       1975   KDFC V                Dev. Fin. Co.               55.0                     0.2
1175       1975   SMIB I                Dev. Fin. Co.               30.0                     0.6
1193       1976   Republic of Korea   Second Integrated             15.0                     1.9
Dairy Development
1203      1976   Republic of Korea   Highways III                   90.0                    28.9
1216 &    1976   Republic of Korea   Rural Infra-                   20.0                     0.6
1218-T                                  structure I                       40.0               1.1
1319      1976   ADC                    Irrigation                  29.0                    27.5
1328       1976   Republic of Korea   Agricultural Credit           20.0                     7.5
1338      1976   KDB II                 Dev. Finance Co.            82.5                     5.5
1364      1977   ADC                    Irrigation                 95.0                     85.9
1401      1977   Republic of Korea   Ports II                       67.0                    66.4
1461       1977   KDFC VI               Dev. Finance Co.            70.0                    16.4
1466       1977   Republic of Korea   Heavy Machinery              80.0                     48.9
1474       1977   Republic of Korea   Vocational Training          23.0                     22.4
1503       1978   ADC - Ogseo Stage I Agricul/Irrigation           36.0                     36.0
1507      1978   SMIB II                Dev. Finance Co.            55.0                     9.8
1530       1978   Republic of Korea   Rural Infrastructure II  95.0                         83.8
1542       1978   Republic of Korea   Railway VI                   120.0                   105.6
1574      1978   KDB III                DFC                       110.0                     97.6
1635       1978   KDFC VII              Dev. Finance Co.           100.0                    94.4
1640       1978   Republic of Korea   Highways IV                  143.0                   143.0
1666 /a   1979   Republic of Korea   Chungju Multipurpose    125.0                         125.0
1676 /a   1979   Republic of Korea   Electronics Technology   29.0                          29.0
Total                                                2,361.5  40.0  106.8  1,075.5
of which has been repaid                              85.5    -       1.3
Total now outstanding                                2,276.0  40.0  105.5
Amount sold                    8.5
of which has been repaid   2.9                          5.6    -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                     2,270.4  40.0  105.5
Total undisbursed                                     1,074.4   1.1    0.0  1,075.5
/a Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
-25-                      Page 2 of 12 pages
B. Statement cof IFC Investments (as of April 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                       Amount ($ million)
Year   Obligor                Type of Business               Loan  Equity  Total
1968   KDFC                   Development Financing             -     0.7    0.7
1969   Honan Silk Co.         Textiles                        1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper            Pulp and paper                  4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development        -      0.6    0.6
1974   KDFC                   Development Financing            -      0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development        -      0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development    5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.         Synthetic Fibers                 6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
mnent Company, Ltd.   Tourism                          2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development        -      0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper
Mfg. Co.              Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. Zinc                             15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                   Development Financing          17.8      -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products             10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products                      0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                   Development Financing                   0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market                    -      0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market                  15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                   Development Financing            -      1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co.,       Electronic Products
Ltd                                                     -      1.7    1.7
1979   KIFC                   Capital Market                    -     0.6    0.6
1979   Korea Development:
Leasing Corp.                                           -      0.2    0.2
1979   Gold Star                                               -      1.5    1.5
Total gross commiLtment                               99.4   19.3  118.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                45.0    1.8   46.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                     53.4   17.5   70.9
Total undisbursed
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



ANNEX II
- 26 -                    Page 3 of 12 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 942      Seeds Project; $7.0 Million Loan of November 16, 1973;
Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
Progress of implementation is satisfactory and physical implemen-
tation should be completed about mid-1979. The contractor for the last
cereal plant civil works has declared bankrupcy, and completion of the works
has been let to other contractors; thus, there could be some additional
delay. More than two-thirds of the proceeds of the loan have been disbursed
and it is estimated that disbursements could be completed in 1979. It is
planned that all plants will operate on a pilot basis in 1979 and would reach
an average of 75% of capacity in 1980.
Loan No. 994      Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$13.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project provides long-term funds to the Agriculture and
Fisheries Development Corporation (AFDC) for onlending to subborrowers in the
private sector for the purpose of integrating on-farm production of fruits
and vegetables with modern, hygienic processing facilities, using land that
was idle or underutilized. The vegetables and fruits involved are mainly
asparagus, shiitake (oak mushroom), spinach, mushroom, strawberry and peach.
Implementation of the project was delayed by about 18 months owing to lack
of loan demand for some of the processing facilities included in the project.
However, the project is now progressing satisfactorily since September 1977
when the Bank approved AFDC's proposal to widen the project's scope to meet
changed investor demand. Under the revised scope, AFDC will finance
processing and cold storage of fish, meat, fruits and vegetables, and also
fruit juice extraction and concentration and vegetable drying, for which the
loan demand is strong. Subloan applications and approvals have increased
significantly, and AFDC expects to disburse all the project funds by the end
of 1979. Disbursements as of April 30, 1979 were about 78% of the loan.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX IT
- 27 -                       Page 4 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1193    Second Integrated Dairy Development Project:
$15.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1976; Effective Date:
November 11, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, l982
The project consists of further development of 400 existing dairy
farms which participated in the first project; the development of 450 new
dairy farmts; expansion of existing dairy processing facilities, construction
of a new processing plant; and technical assistance for both farm development
and processing. The effective date was delayed for nearly a year but
implementation has progressed rapidly and the project may be completed ahead
of schedule. The project will benefit 41% more farmers and supply 87 more
cows than was originally estimated. Technical support to the farmers has
been strengthened but more has to be done to improve pasture quality and
establish a feed regime which would ensure the development of a low-cost
dairy industry in Korea.  The expansion of processing facilities is below
the target; however, plans are well underway to complete these during 1979
and it is anticipated that the actual capacity then will be significantly
above the original estimate. KDBC financial condition improved during the
last two years but the net profit for 1978 is less than for 1977. The general
prospects are for a gradually improving trend. As of April 30, 1979, disburse-
ments were over 87% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1216    Rural Infrastructure Project; $60.0 IMillion Loan of which
Loan No. 1218T   $40.0 Milllion Third Window of March 19, 1976; Effective Date:
June 4, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
Project implemenitation is proceeding very well. The Fuelwood, Roads
and Bridges, Water Supply and Pural Electrification components were completed
by the end of 1977. Minor Irrigation will be completed shortly. UJpland
reclamation is proceeding more slowly. Project monitoring and reporting
continue to be satisfactory, the Hydrologic Services Study has been completed
and the evaluation study is already producing useful results. As of April
30, 1979, disbursements were 977 of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; 29.0 Million
Loan of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project, located in the central region of Korea, is being
financed under the first Bank loan for area development in Yorea. A project
office has been established, and construction work has started on the first
of five major civil work contracts. Altogether, the five contracts will
involve construction of 8 large and 19 small earthfill dams, 284 km of main



ANNEX II
- 28 -                       Page 5 of 12 pages
and secondary canals and land development for irrigating 12,700 ha. The
project, which will require five years to complete, also involves construction
of 80 km of river channel improvement and 150 km of village access roads, as
well as feasibility studies for a second stage project in the Mliho Watershed.
Loan No. 1328    Second Agricultural Credit Project; $20.0 Mlillion Loan
of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is a continuation and expansion of the agricultural
program financed under the First Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 335-KO).
It provides funds to the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
for medium and long-term loans to farmers, through selected Gun (county)
cooperatives of NACF, for investments in apple orchard development, silkworm
rearing houses, sprinkler irrigation for orchards, greenhouses for vegetable
production, and on-farm fruit storage. The loan became effective on March 10,
1977 and lending to subborrowers commenced in the following month. Project
implementation continues to progress satisfactorily and total lending is on
schedule. As of April 30, 1979, disbursements were about 63% of the loan
amount.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of Februarv 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on
20,700 ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include
an estuarv dam, sea dike, pumping stations, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of uplands.
Construction of the access roads and a portion of the estuary dam was recently
completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction was awarded in
December 1977, in line with the appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; S36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will benefit some 23,000 farm families by providing
new irrigation on 7,100 ha, improved irrigation and drainage on 3,700 ha and
a more assured water supply on an additional 1,500 ha. Project work consists
of nine pumping stations, 190 km of main and secondary canals and land
development including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, 2,500 ha of improved
drainage (of which 1,500 ha would also be consolidated), 2,200 ha of tertiary
irrigation and conversion of 1,800 ha of upland and forest to paddy land.



ANNEX II
-29 -                          Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 60 minor irrigation, 8,300 river training
and 7,400 water supply subprojects as well as a rural telephone program. The
1978 program for river training, water supply and rural telephones was
completed on schedule. Design work on the minor irrigation component is proceed-
ing satisfactorily and contracts have been awarded for 8 subprojects. The
total area of the revised 11st of irrigation subprojects exceeds the appraisal
area by over 40%. The Government is reviewing the program and is expected to
recommend that certain sites be deleted in order to maintain the original
ceiling of approximately 9,000 ha. As of April 30, 1979, disbursements were
over 12% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years following
its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood damage, generate
an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually and provide 460 MW of
peaking capacity for Korea's power system. The principal features of the
four 115  SW generating units, and associated transmission facilities; a
reregulating dam about 20 km downstream of the main dam; relocation of about
100 km of roads and 10 km of railway, protective works in the reservoir area
including the raising of an existing embankment of a cement plant and other
miscellaneous works; implementation of a resettlement program for some 9,300
families affected by the project; and consulting services.
IndustriaL Sector
Loan No. L145    Fifth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$55.0 Million Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective Date:
September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The loan covered about half the KDFC's foreign exchange require-
ments through the end of 1977. The proceeds are being used to finance
direct imports of machinery and equipment, and the foreign exchange component
of domestically-produced capital goods and of civil works. Over 99% of the
loan proceeds have already been disbursed. KDFC's performance in using
the loan has been highly satisfactory.
Loan No. 1175    Medium Industry Bank (MIB); $30.0 Million Loan of
November 26, 1975; Effective Date: January 28, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides funds to MIB to make subloans to small
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises. The project is progressing
satisfactorily. Disbursements are about 98% of the total loan.



ANNEX II
- 30 -                        Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1338    Second Korea Development Bank Project; $82.5 Million
Loan, of which $7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial
Leasing Company, of December 23, 1976; Effective Date:
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make
subloans and investments to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects
during the period 1977-78; the remainder of the loan, $7.5 million, was
relent by KDB to its wholly-owned subsidiary KILC, to acquire machinery,
equipment, facilities and other property to be leased to investment enter-
prises.  Commitment of funds is progressing as expected; as of April 30,
1979, disbursements were over 93% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1461    Sixth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$70.0 Million Loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:
September 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan was made to help cover the foreign exchange requirements
of industrial subprojects to be financed by KDFC subloans in 1977-78. KDFC's
performance has been very satisfactory. As of April 30, 1979, disbursements
were about 77% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1466    Heavy Machinery Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: December 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project cost has increased to $396 million; $141 million above
the appraisal estimate of $225 million. Tnis is due to increases in civil
works as a result of additional piling and land reclamation, expansion of
the heavy machinery, machining shops and training center; addition and
sophistication of equipment to ensure the highest manufacturing standards
to enhance the plants capability to meet Korea's future equipment require-
ments and devaluation of the US dollar and local inflation. The company
is preparing a detailed financing plan to cover the cost overrun which
will be submitted to the Bank for review shortly. Project implementation
is proceeding satisfactorily in accordance with the revised implementation
schedule and the completion date is still scheduled for April 1980. As of
April 30, 1979, disbursements were about 39% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan
of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 10, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by MIB to help
cover the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects over four
years. A substantial portion of the loan - $20.0 million - would be earmarked
to assist small-scale, labor-intensive subprojects creating employment at a
gross capital cost per job not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed
assets are not greater than $250,000. As of April 30, 1979, disbursements
were over 82% of the loan amount.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                         Page 8 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1574       Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan
of June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan would be used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the proposed loan would be made available to KDB's subsidiary,
the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in
order to finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects.  Overall progress
is satisfactory.  As of April 30, 1979, disbursements were over 11% of the
loan amount.
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Kor(ea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979 Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980. In order
to support, relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 million
would be earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at
a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order
to finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to
$10.0 million of the proceeds of the proposed loan will be made available
to the Kore!a Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company
affiliated to KDFC, by way of subloans. As of April 30, 1979, $5.6 million
have already been disbursed.
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
The project is intended to stimulate and support the development of
technological capabilities in the Korean electronics industry. The project
consists of: (a) Development of the Korean Institute of Electronics Technology
(KIET) com'prising (i) physical facilities including a semi-conductor building,
other buildings, support facilities and equipment, and (ii) technology-related
items including training, expert invitation, and the purchase of technology;
(b) Research, Development and Engineering (RD&E) Program designed to promote
and finance research carriecl out at KIET for the benefit of the Korean elec-
tronics industry.
Education Sector
Loan No. 906       Second Education Project; $23.0 Million Loan and
Credit No. 394   $20.0 Million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project includes assistance for re-equipping 85 educational
institutions at secondary and university levels. The Loan/Credit funds are
mainly used to finance equipment. The Government is financing related works.



ANNEX II
- 32 -                        Page 9 of 12 pages
Project execution remains about two years behind schedule due to initial
delays and some project changes. The project is now making satisfactory
progress. About 88% of the equipment has been contracted, and 60% delivered;
furniture procurement has been completed; civil works were all completed
by the end of December 1978; and the fellowship program is well under way.
The project is expected to be completed in about June 1979, six months before
the present Closing Date, which has been extended by one year to December 31,
1979 to allow full disbursement of the proceeds after project completion.
As of April 30, 1979, disbursements were completed under the Credit and
reached over 72% of the total loan amount; they are expected to improve
rapidly.
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; $22.5 Million Loan of March 31, 1975;
Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project includes assistance for extension and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Administrator of Labor Affairs (ALA). Project implementation has improved for
the MOE part of the project and is about six months behind schedule compared
with being about one year behind schedule in early 1978. Implementation of
the ALA part is satisfactory.  Training operations have commenced in five VTIs.
Project completion is expected before the Closing Date of June 30, 1980 for
both parts of the project. Estimated total project cost now is expected to
be below the appraisal estimates. As of April 30, 1979, disbursements were
over 65% of the total loan and were close to the original forecasts, partic-
ularly for ALA part of the project.
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational Training
Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a Central Vocational Training Institute (CVTI)
and technical assistance, part of which is being provided by UNDP and the
Federal Republic of Germany. The implementation schedule has been revised.
The construction of dormitories are postponed to 1979 and construction of two
VTIs planned in 1979 is being postponed to 1980, because the present budget
has been affected by recent price increases in wages and materials. The
Government's attention has been drawn to the importance of adequate budgetary
provisions. Civil works contracts were awarded in November 1978, approximately
six months behind schedule. Equipment procurement has commenced for two VTIs
and the CVTI with about $4.0 million purchased. Disbursements should improve
significantly in 1979. Technical Assistance from UNDP and Germany is satis-
factory. Initial experience with in-plant training schemes in Korea indicates
lack of interest from industry. The Government's Vocational Training Bureau
(VTB) is exploring ways to improve the system. Disbursements have already
started.



ANNEX II
- 33 -                        Page 10 of 12 pages
Tourism Sector
Loan No. 953      Kyongju Tourism Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
January 4, [974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multipurpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
of Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and tele-
communication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or realign-
ment of about 57 km of roads, infrastructure, including storm water drain-
age, envirconmental sanitation, community facilities, and a golf course; and
and a school for training hotel personnel. Project implementation is now
progressing satisfactorily although completion of some project components is
likely to be delayed by about a year, due mainly to budgetary constraints.
The Government has now taken steps to provide all needed funds. The delay
has had no adverse effects on hotel development.  The first two hotels with
600 rooms are under construction and are scheduled to commence operations.
Negotiations with other private investors are under way for a third hotel and
also for apartments and restaurants in the Bomun resort area. Over 90% of
the loan had been disbursed as of April 30, 1979.
Regional Development
Loan No. 1070    Secondary Cities Regional Project; $15.0 Million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Implementation of the Secondary Cities Regional Project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Three housing sites, two access roads and a city
market have been completed. The Fisheries port complex at Yeosu has been
completed. Construction of houses in the housing estates is nearly completed;
a substantial portion of sites have been occupied. Overall completion of
works is 99%. After the initial delays, mainly in fulfilling conditions of
effectiverLess and establishing the Gwangju Regional Development Unit, the
project has moved extremely well. As of April 30, 1979, disbursement was
68% of the loan amount.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 917      Ports Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Work on the First Port Project is about 95% complete. Final estimated
cost is $144 million inclucling $102 million foreign exchange. The excess foreign
exchange requirement over the $80 million provided by the Bank loan is being



ANNEX II
- 34 -                       Page 11 of 12 pages
provided by a Saudi Fund for Development loan of $35 million to the Korean
Government; this loan was based upon the revised foreign exchange requirements
of $115 million arrived at following the first large increase in the price of
petroleum products. The balance of the latter loan will be spent on additional
civil works. Progress on the project is generally satisfactory. A postponement
of the Closing Date to enable the expenditure of undisbursed funds,which
amount to approximately $7.6 million,is being considered.
Loan No. 1101    Fifth Railway Project; $100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The project will help the Korean National Railroad (IlIR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by providing for: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and
other equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and the
strengthening of its financial position. The main components of the project
are: an increase in station and line capacity and improvements in signaling;
acquisition of rolling stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts
and repair facilities; track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening;
completion of electrification of 71 km of industrial lines; and other
miscellaneous items. Contracts, financed by the loan, have been signed for
procurement of passenger and freight cars, wheel sets, spares for locomotives,
rail, bridge girders and track maintenance machinery, amounting to about
$96.4 million equivalent. About 96% of the loan proceeds have already been
disbursed.
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of
February 20, 1976; Effective Date: Mlay 17, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four national
highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (b) paving and
improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national highways
totaling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by consultants; and
(c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of national and
pro-vincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. Contracts for
construction and paving are progressing substantially on schedule. Feasi-
bility studies by consultants started in January 1978, and are now proceeding
satisfactorily. As of April 30, 1979, disbursements were about 68% of the
total loan.  The Saudi Fund for Development is providing a loan of $35 mil-
lion to assist in financing the project.
Loan INo. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Hillion Loan of
April 28, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) a 700 m extension of container berths
being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m expansion of
the container stacking area provided under that project with ancilliary works;



ANNEX II
- 35 -                      Page 12 of 12 pages
rehabilitaition of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and lighter wharf No. 5;
(b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container handling equipment, and
tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services and (d) Technical Assistance
and Training. Design of the works for the project has started following
delay in appointing the consultants.  The first tenders were called in March
1979. KMPA expects to introduce commercial accounting from January 1981.
Traffic and specially containerized general cargo traffic continues to
increase at Busan. Technical assistance for operating the container terminal
has been provided.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs.  It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of a
permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars and
freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation of
additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of technical
assistance to KNqR. The loan will also finance transport sector studies.
Bids have been received for about 96% of the Bank-financed items. Consultants
have been selected to carry out feasibility studies of major investment items
for 1980 and 1981. As of April 30, 1979, disbursements were 12% of the total
loan.
Loan No.  L640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project cons:Lsts of: (a) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national roads
totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including paving and
supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads totaling about
280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance equipment for maintaining
national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the institutions involved in
the planning, design, maintenance, construction, administration and financing
of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the preparation of a program for
improving the organization and functions of such institutions, upgrading
provincial and gun road maintenance and the future development of the gun
road system, to be followed by detailed engineering of about 2,000 km
of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships for training staff of the
Ministry of Construction.



ANNEX III
- 36 -
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:          The project was prepared through
consultation during regular
supervision of the previous loans
to SMIB.
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:   SMIB
(c)  Date of the first Bank mission to
consider the project:                  November 2, 1978
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:         November 2, 1978
(e)  Negotiations completed:                 April 26, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          October 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
No specific action is considered necessary.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) A component of $25 million of the proceeds of the proposed loan would be
earmarked to finance:
(i) enterprises whose fixed assets do not exceed $300,000 equivalent; or
(ii) projects generating employment at a fixed investment cost per job
not greater than $8,500 equivalent (para. 56).
(b)  SMIB will maintain a long-term debt/equity limit not exceeding
10:1 (para. 57).
(c)  Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be used
by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component (estimated at
60%) of domestically procured or manufactured capital goods
(para. 57).



IBRD 12351R
tySe                         29~~                         rsendoeeo be29
|-S,          i NO RT H. KORZE A
Jopon                                                                                                  Cho~~-an ~  
NKR E Ar _                                                                                                                                              East  Se a
-,REP OF         &-
KOREA                                                                                                      GAG                EN
Ye//OW      -_-~tAF                r               Pouim                                                                                                                                38 -   
Ye Sea                                                                                                                 n GY  0   G  t   e
10'   Pat   rc                ' Eiduteon gbt
E a s t                Ocean                               '
Chinc   seau 
125'                                126'mhg
c &onda, h-tc on. t          do otche
imply edo-emen- o   cepta  by heyan                                                                                                             eon  s
Would Oonlt                                                                Raindays It otnn
~~ '~~<Seloae           aeoe
Yel~~       ||| nlow   y   uner onsruon
_3*                                                     1(j               0s                                                                     < Arot
Jannipjh-    - UNGP-.dl
-36'
Beisog    et                                                                     --       nerslnc   ondre
,'- i                  E                   N                       0 *               o 8    o    2    4    6
Og  8g. ip            Jeo                               17u8                                             eo29
2"-7                                                                        NAE 52
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
35'~ ~ ~ ~ K
C_~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Priemory roads
-.-.- .--  ooys under Ooeeotrocton                     3V
4c Airports
Potts
Rivers
Special cities
- -Peovincial boue,dories
In-- ternaltiontal boundaries
4~~~~EJU ~~~~~0                                20      40       60      50       Too     120      140    id60
KILOM'ETERS
0            20            40            leO           50 
JOsogOipo                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
12 5                                    2                                       0                                      125                                    l



