CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1749 KO
Loan Agreement
(Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Dated July 23, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1749 KO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 23, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK (hereinafter called
the Borrower), a Company established and operating under the laws
of the Republic of Korea (hereinafter called the Guarantor).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Con.itions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(b) "Investment" means an investment, other than a sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds
of the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an investment.
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.


﻿-2-
(e) "Won", "W" and "local currency" mean the currency of the
Guarantor.
(f) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(g) "Act" means the Small and Medium Industry Bank Act,
as enacted by the Guarantor's Law No. 641, dated July 1, 1961,
as amended.
(h) "Decree" means the Guarantor's Decree No.38 relating
to the execution of the Act, dated July 12, 1961, as amended.
(i) "By-laws" means the by-laws of the Borrower approved
by the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance on July 13, 1961, as
amended.
(j) "Statement of Policy" means the Statement of Lending
and Investments Policy approved by the Board of Directors of
the Borrower on November 13, 1969, as amended to the date of this
Agreement,
(k) "Prior Loan Agreement" means any outstanding loan
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower dated before the
date of this Agreement and "Prior Loan" means any loan provided
for therein.
(1) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one
or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one
or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty million dollars ($60,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of


﻿-3-
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a sub-loan or
investment to meet 100% of the reasonable foreign currency cost
of directly imported and 60% of the reasonable local-currency
cost (representing the estimated foreign exchange component)
of locally manufactured or procured goods and services required
for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from
the Loan Account is requested; provided, however, that except as
the Bank may otherwise agree: (i) sub-loans or investments total-
ling not less than $25,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate shall
be made (A) to or in Investment Enterprises whose fixed assets
shall not exceed $300,000 equivalent each (at the time of submis-
sion to the Borrower of the .application for a sub-loan or invest-
ment), or (B) for Investment Projects which shall each involve the
creation of additional employment at a fixed investment cost per
job of not more than $8,500 equivalent; (ii) no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of a sub-loan or investment unless (A) (1) the
sub-loan or investment shall be for an amount not exceeding
$1,500,000 equivalent, and (2) the Investment Enterprise to which
the sub-loan has been made or is proposed to be made or in which
the investment has been made or is proposed to be made shall have
total assets not exceeding W1,000,000,000, and (B) (1) the sub-
loan or investment shall have been approved by the Bank, or (2)
the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank
shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $500,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any Prior
Loan for such Investment Project, the foregoing amount being
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the
Bank's approval or in respect of an investment if such expendi-
tures shall have been made more than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such sub-loan
or investment the application and inforaion required by Section
2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the


﻿-4-
request and information required by Section 2.03 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than
a free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the
schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to the
Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the investment; and
(iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before December 31, 1981.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. (a) The Borr(wer shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the
schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of investments,
which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the
Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement and (ii) take
into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under
Section 2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due
hereunder shall be made on June 15 and December 15 in each
year. Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments
to the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace,
and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i)
shall not extend beyond fifteen years, including a maximum grace
period of three years, from the date of approval by the Bank of
such sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a free-limit
sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals from
the Loan Account in respect thereof, and (ii) shall provide for
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate
payments of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an
investment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred,
assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the
Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the
Bank on the next following interest payment date, together with
the premiums specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any
amendment thereof under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the
amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan


﻿or investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to
the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding
to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of
the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of
an investment, pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the
Loan reflecting amounts to be repaid on account of such invest-
ment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in the Republic of Korea as will contribute to the economic
and social development of the country. The Project consists in
the financing of specific development projects through loans to
and investments in private enterprises in the Republic of Korea,
in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Act, the Decree, the By-laws and
the Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otharwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will
be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and
to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any
investment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Invest-
ment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound


﻿-7-
achnical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and
spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and (2)
such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly
with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as
the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise and the benefits to be
derived from the Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate
the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds
of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project,
the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the
Sub-loans and Investments and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account in respect of Sub-loans or Investments, or


﻿-8-
by such later date as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operations of the Investment Projects,
their costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from
them, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishments of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations in agreements under which funds have been lent
or otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor
or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the bene-
fits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later
than five months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿9
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes -hat, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banki:ig trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of
such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its


﻿- 10 -
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would b greater than
ten times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or
any subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement and any
Prior Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount of
the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Won debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by the Borrower to any
subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other
subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary
or of any subsidiary in the Borrower or any other subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including Won) used in its lending and
borrowing operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through


﻿- 11 -
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower and its subsidi-
aries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Borrower and its subsidiaries.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Act, the Decree
or the By-laws which would materially and adversely affect the
operations or the financial condition of the Borrower;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Statement of
Policy without the Bank's consent;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:


﻿- 12 -
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 shall occur;
and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of October 23, 1979 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Small and Medium Industry Bank
36-1, 2-Ka Ulchiro, Choong-Ku
Seoul
Republic of Korea
Cable address:                      Telex:
MEDINBANK                          K-27420
Seoul, Korea


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
By Is! Myeung-Ho Oh
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
December 1, 1982                               1,210,000
June 15, 1983                                   1,260,000
December 15, 1983                               1,310,000
June 15, 1984                                   1,360,000
December 15, 1984                               1,410,000
June 15, 1985                                   1,465,000
December 15, 1985                               1,525,000
June 15, 1986                                   1,585,000
December 15, 1986                               1,645,000
June 15, 1987                                   1,710,000
December 15, 1987                               1,785,000
June 15, 1988                                   1,855,000
December 15, 1988                               1,925,000
June 15, 1989                                   2,000,000
December 15, 1989                               2,085,000
June 15, 1990                                   2,165,000
December 15, 1990                               2,250,000
June 15, 1991                                   2,340,000
December 15, 1991                               2,430,000
June 15, 1992                                   2,525,000
December 15, 1992                               2,625,000
June 15, 1993                                   2,730,000
December 15, 1993                               2,835,000
June 15, 1994                                   2,950,000
December 15, 1994                               3,065,000
June 15, 1995                                   3,185,000
December 15, 1995                               3,310,000
June 15, 1996                                   3,460,000
60,000,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                            1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                   2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                            5.10%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                            6.95%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                            7.90%


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank
may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


