Report No. PID8469
Project Name                     Thailand-Public Sector Reform Loan (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Public Sector/Financial Management
Project ID                       THPE56522
Borrower                         Kingdom of Thailand
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Rama 6 Road
Bangkok 10400, Thailand
Tel. (66-2) 273-9021
Date this PID Prepared           November 1, 1999
Project Appraisal Date           June 1999
Board Date                       October 14, 1999
Background:
Thailand is gradually emerging from its deepest economic crisis in a
generation. Economic activity is picking up, the stock market is showing
signs of life again and foreign direct investment has returned to Thailand.
At the same time, the prospects for recovery are overshadowed by the legacy
of rising unemployment, significant corporate debt and strained public sector
finances. The Government has successfully restored investor confidence and
begun to rebuild the financial sector. Since the beginning of the crisis,
its efforts have focused on addressing corporate debt, restoring growth,
reviving investment and domestic demand, and shielding the poor.
The economic crisis highlighted the need for broad-based public sector
reforms in Thailand in several respects. First, the sudden end of Thailand's
boom has raised questions of the fundamental competence of the Government in
managing economic affairs and, more broadly, in its ability to deliver
services. The fragility of public sector governance is highlighted by
frequent complaints about corruption, which erodes the confidence of Thai
people in public administration. Unstable coalition governments and the
traditional lack of coordination among public agencies weaken the
Government's capacity for policy planning and enforcement. Citizens are
concerned about the access, timeliness and quality of government services and
their continually rising costs. Public pressure is mounting for better
management of the Government's--and thus taxpayers'--financial resources.
Second, this reform agenda received renewed impetus with the passage of
the new Constitution in 1997. The Constitution provides for increased
citizen participation, enhanced transparency and decentralization--tools that
enhance voice and improve public sector governance. Third, Thailand's public
finances have come under serious pressure as a result of large deficits and
mounting public-sector debt. After a decade of surpluses, the combination of
recession-induced lower revenues, rising expenditures in response to the
social needs of the crisis, and the public costs of restructuring the
financial system have created huge deficits. Public debt as a share of GDP
has more than doubled.
The Government has responded to these pressures by launching an
ambitious program to reform the public sector. Its core components include a
more performance-oriented budget system, a flexible and effective civil



service, and greater transparency. The reform efforts involve not only the
Government's central agencies, but also line ministries such as education and
health which have embarked upon substantial reforms to deliver better
services in their sectors. Taking advantage of its presence in the field,
the World Bank has been strongly supporting these efforts through intensive
policy dialogue, technical assistance and knowledge sharing. Through the
loan, the Bank will support a coherent medium-term framework for reforming
public sector institutions around Thailand's objectives of:
- Better management of financial and human resources;
- Improved service delivery in all aspects of government, from health and
education to commerce; and
- Greater accountability and transparency to help restore confidence in
Government.
Project Objectives:
The loan supports a comprehensive program of institutional reforms in
five areas: (i) expenditure management, (ii) human resource management, (iii)
revenue management, (iv) decentralization, and (v) cross-government
accountability. Only by ensuring greater efficiency and delivering results
more effectively can Thailand convert its incipient recovery into the rapid
and sustained growth it has known in the past. Better public services, from
education to infrastructure, are keys to medium-term competitiveness and
sustained productivity increases of workers. Better expenditure management
is essential to raise the productivity of public investment and other
expenditures. Improving transparency will help citizens hold their leaders
and public servants more accountable for the quality of services their taxes
are buying.
NOTE: This document contains tables that cannot be converted into text files.
However, if you have MS Word or Word Viewer on your computer, you should be
able to download the complete original version by going to:
http://www.worldbank.org/pics/pid/th56522.doc
Project Benefits
To contribute to Thailand's incipient economic recovery and an eventual
return to sustainable high growth, the public sector must improve its
efficiency and become more effective in delivering results. Better public
services are central to medium-term competitiveness and sustained
productivity increases of workers; better expenditure management is necessary
to raise the productivity of public investment; and improving transparency
can help citizens hold their leaders and public servants more accountable for
the quality of services their taxes are buying.
Thailand's Program establishes a framework for Thailand's difficult path
toward restructuring government operations. Over the short term, the
consultations and coordination embedded in the formulation of the details of
Thailand's Program provide an effective platform to harness broad-based
support for public sector reform within civil society and the Government
itself. Over the long term, the implementation of Thailand's Program will
lead to the improvement of public sector governance to enhance the
efficiency, effectiveness, equity and transparency of public resource
management and service delivery.
Project Financing
-2-



A single tranche loan of $400 million is proposed to be made available
upon loan effectiveness. The anticipated closing date of the loan would be
January 31, 2000. The proposed loan (Public Sector Reform Loan or PSRL) of
US$400 million is a programmatic structural adjustment loan (PSAL) that would
support Thailand's Public Sector Reform Program (the Program). It is
envisaged that over the three-year period of Thailand's Program, there could
be up to three single-tranche PSALs to support its implementation.
Project Implementation
The Public Sector Reform Committee supported by the Office of the Civil
Service Commission will be responsible for monitoring the implementation of
the program with the help of the Letter of Development Policy, through
regular reviews, as well as in the context of the preparation and supervision
of other projects. The Public Sector Reform Committee will prepare a final
report on the progress of the program within six months after the closing
date of the loan, and submit this report to the Bank.
Environmental Aspects
In accordance with Bank guidelines, the proposed operation has been
placed in Category "C" and will not require an environmental assessment.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel. (202) 458-5454
Fax (202) 522-1500
Dana Weist
Task Manager
202-458-2210
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending September 15, 2000.
- 3 -



