DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1401-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(SOUTHERN REGION)
May 14, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit   =    Sudanese Pound (LSd)
uS $ 1   =    LSd 0.348
LSd  I        US $ 2.872
Piasters (Pt) 100    =    LSd 1
LS 1 million    =    US $ 2.872 million
Fiscal Year (GovTernment) July 1 - Jurne 30



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPIEENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN FQR
AN AGRICULTURAL REH4BILITATION PROJECT (SOUTHERN REGION)
10        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan for the equivalent
of $104`kmillion on standard IDA terms to help finance a project to rehabilitate
agricultural production in the Southern Region.
PART I - THE ECCNOMY
2.        An economic mission from the Bank visited the Sudan in Nover,ber/
December 1971 and its report entitled "The Economic Development and Prospects
of the Sudan" (Report No. AE-27, in four volumes, dated June 9, 1972) was
distributed on June 30, 1972 (R72-179). This was the first full economic
mission to the Sudar. after a lapse of.several years but, owing to continued
political unrest in the southern part of the country at that time, the
iissionvs coverage was limited to northern Sudan. In March 1972, the Govern-
ment reached an agreement (The Addis Ababa Accord) with the southern dissident
elements, as a result of which peace returned to the South and a Southern
Regional Government was established in Juba with a large measure of autonomy.
At this time, the Bank was requested to assist in the reconstruction and develop-
ment of the Southern Region, which had suffered much physical destruction
during the prolonged strife. A special economic mission visited the Region
in November/December 1972, and its report on development problems and prospects
in the Region was distributed on June 25, 1973 (R73-159) (Report No. 119a-SU,
dated June 1, 1973). Country data are attached as Arnex I.
3.        The Sudan, with an area of one million square miles, is the largest
country in Africa. Much of the land is unoccupied. According to the 1955/56
census, the population totalled 1O.h million and with a rate of growth of
2.8 percent per year, the population at present would be about 17 million.
Per capita GNP is estimated at US$120 and the Sudan is included in the UN list
of Twenty-Five Least Developed Countries.
4.        The White Nile and the Blue Nile have endowed parts of the country
with an abundance of water which has enabled it to develop the biggest irri-
gation system in tropical Africa. Yet even though the Sudan has increased its
use of the Nile water to 11.7 milliard m3, it still haFs riot reached its 18.5
milliard m.3 specified in the Nile W.-ters Agreement with Egypt. Rainft;l1` vRrie c
from     20 mm. in the arid northernmost parts of the country to 1500 mm. h
the South.  The Sudan thus has a considertble su,;ply of unutilized water iti(i
can be used for irrigated crop production in arid areas. In addition, the
Sudan has considerable potential for pastoral farming. In contrast to nany
developing countries, there is no population pressure on presently developed
land and, indeed, in some par,ts of the Sudan, a shortage of labor has apparently
limited the expansion of agricultural production.   As the culti'vated area



- 2 -
amounts to no more than 10 percent of the potentially cultivable lr.nd,
land will not be a limiting factor in tne exparLsion o' agricultural and
pastoral activlties for a lorg time to come.
5.        The Sudanese economy is heavily dependent on cotton.   It is an important
producer of long and extra-long staple cotton, and also of gum, sesame and
groundnuts.  Its considerable grazirng   resources have hardly been tapped.
The manCfacturing sector is relatively small and, apart from the processing
of some agricultural commodities, it is limited to the production of consumer
goods and some building materials. There is some potential for mining --
chrome, iron ore and copper.   There have been some exports of chrome ore and
the feasibility of developing the iron and copper deposits needs to be tho-
roughly investigated. The inadequacy of transport could prove to be the most
serious bottleneck not only in the development of the mining sector but also
in economic development in general.
6.        Transport in the Sudan still depends primarily upon the ra    ways. ine
Sudan Railways have a total route of about 4,75C km, all of which is an mn-
ballasted single-track railway.   The railway was originally built for admi-
nistrative purposes and fcr opening the country, but has performed a very
valuable economic function by carrying the' country's steadily rising imports
and exports.  However, under the pressure of growing traffic and the inadequate
utilization of the present stock of locomotives and rolling stock, the
railway's capacity is becoming severely strained. Recently efforts have
been made to improve the railways' operating efficiency. The road system is
virtually non-existent, there being only 300 km. of bitumenized roads
outside municipal limits. The fact that some traffic does move by road reflects
not so much the sui-tability of roads but the considerable difficulty of getting
wagon space on the railway. Nile River transport could play a more impcrtant
role than at present and so could domestic air transport because of the
distances within the Sudan. This would, however, require significant new
investment.
7.        Compared with most other countries in Africa, the Sudan as a
whole is better provided with high-level manpower. This is attributable
in part to the fact that the educational system has evolved over a
longer period.    One of the features of the system is that although the number
of children in elementary and secondary schools is still small in relation to
thelr totaL age group, a high proportion progress to universities and other
institutions of higher learning and enrollment in them has increased rapidly.
There has indeed been a growing problem in absorbing some of the output of the
educational system, particularly university graduates with general arts degrees.
Ln the past, the Government stood ready, as a matter of policy, to hire all
university graduates needing jobs, but this clearly entails considerable waste.
There is an urgent need to proceed with the proper planning of the educational
system so as to make it more responsive to the requirements of economic develop-
ment.
8.        The public sector has long been important in the Sudanese economy.    It
embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the railways and virtualLy all power
and water supply. After the nationalization measures of 1970/71, a significant
proportion of industry, commerce and finance was also transferred to the public
sector. Although some industrial enterprises have been returned to the private
sector, about 50 percent of the GDP is still generated within this sector.



-3-
9.        During the period 1965-72, the Sudanese economy was characterized
by low growth, bordering on stagnation. It suffered from a declining level
of investment -- private and public -- a marked decline in external assistance,
excessive monetary expansion resulting in complete depletion of its net foreign
assets and in inflationary price increases.  The main reason for this poor
performance -- despite relatively favorable conditions -- was the preoccupation
of the Government with acute political problems, includcng the problem of
1lissiden-e An the South which not only divided the c0un42u7 but represented a
serious drain on resources.
10.       The 197i Bank economic mission concluded that the country's economic
stagnation could be overcome if the Government were to increase public savings
so as to make possible the financing of investment magnitudes comparable at
least to the levels achieved in the early '960s. This could be achieved by
curtailing the growth of recurrent expenditures which have been increasing
faster than revenues. The IMF has had a series of stand-by arrangements with
the Sudan, the latest of which, covering the period up to July 1974, provides
24 million SDRs.  In both the IMF's consultations and the Bank mission's dis-
cussiolns with the Government, specific recommendations have be .n maide rcgar -
ing budgetary and fiscal measures needed to improve the financial L-it.uation.
11.       A main problem of the Sudanese economy is the low level of invest-
ment, which is causing the present stagnation, and hence, the most important
task, is to step up the volume of investment and to ensure it- ;incriciirg :in a
manner which will avoid a serious debt burden. It is estimated. that an annual
investment of some US$330 million would be required to raise the GNP growth
rate to 4 percent by 1973. which would be a very modest target especially coII-
sidering the population growth rate of 2.8 percent. If half of this is financed
bv rrivate scuirces, as is the Government's hope and expectation, public sector
investment would have to increase to US$165 million per annuTm from its. present
level of US$86 million.  This would be a sharp increase in pub:ib   -cet,or deve-
'cpment expenditure but it is compatible with the trend in the early 1960s.
12.       Assuming the public sector can increase its volume of annual develop-
ment expenditure, the problem is to mob-,ilize domestic and external resources
to finance the higher level.  At present, public savines are not adequate to
fin-nce even half of the projected level of development expenditure and the
potential for a sharp improvement in the near fut-ure is slim.  Consequently,
the level of public sector investment in the Sudan over the next few years
will be to a great extent a function of the inflow of external assistance
providing as much financing as possible of total project costs.



13.       To step up the level of investment aid to mobilize internal and
external resources will require an adequate planning mechanism and improved
proce,dures. The Bank is executing a project financed. by the UND
to strengthen the central planning organization.   The Bank has also sent
a mission to review the statistical system of the Sudan and is preparing a
plan to fill the gaps in it.   Tnese steps should result in imurovements ln
the planning and evaluation functions.
14.      The large public sector presents severe adiTdnistrative problems and
it is unlikely that it can quickly absorb significant increase in investments and
productivity. Therefore, the role of the private sector in maintaining growth is
crucial. Although the public sector plays a major role, historically the aitittide
towards private investment has at most times beern favorable. The decline in pri-.ate
activity since 1965 was mainly due to the unstable political environment and
the feeling of uneasiness following the nationalization and confiscatiorrn ea-
sures of 1970 and 1971. The Government is now taling steps to settle
the compensation claims, has returned some confiscated property and has enacted
legislation providing incentives and guarantees for private enterprises --
foreign and local.
1 ).      At the end of 1972, trhe Sudan's total ex-sernal ou'oiiic det-t
US$382.2 millicn ecuivalent, incl'udJIn,- undisbursed commitments of UT$SS,;
million.  The breakdown of the total. debt outsta-nding by source shows thlat
the Bank Group, bilateral sources and private banks a.re the three -riLcip:l
creditors with shares of 30, 50 and 12 percent, respectively. Debt. service
rasiLents on long-term debt-s anounted in 1972 to 12.3 nercent (IBHO 2.6 percent)
of the value of exoorts of goods and non-factor .services. Wh-ile the Sudan
has a good record in meetirng its repayment ob-ligations, such obli3gations over
the newt few years wil1 absorb an increasiing portion of its foreign exchange.
'me Sudan's capacLty to ser-ice xddiitional Loans on conventional terms over
the ne-xt Pew Years is li-ited, by its budgetary and foreign exchange position
:nac,r~ -e likiely to remain stradineFd for some tine. The Certral Government
r>-rent surmlus ,ihich averaged ab)out I/s B milli-on a year in the period
SY"-7i 'has turned into increa^,.sing deficits.  Sudan's export earnings, being
heavily dependent on cotton productlion, are subject to fluctuation on account
of weather, pests atnd international prices.  The net foreign reserves of the
coaint,ry hiave been dlepleted since 1966, and at present they stand a- a negative
'iiure of UiS$1o06 million.  Imports, particularly of capital goods, shouLd
expand in proportion to the projected increase in investment, private and
pub l.i c .
16.       InWhile a rapid increase in private and public capital inflows is
essential, it is equally important that the terms of public capital inflow
should be as soft as possible.  T.he Sudan recent-ly contracted a Eurodollar
Loan of $200 million guaranteed by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency, and re-
payable over 7 years after 3 years of grace at a "floating" interest rate
3/h of 1 percent above the London interbank rate. The purposes to which this
loan will be put remain undeternined, and the loan will impose a sharp increase
in debt service payments alter 1977.  This furthler underscores the need for
Sudan to give highest priority to the productive investments and export
promotion policies uhich will enable it to substantially expand foreign
exchange earnings.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
17.       Since the Sudan's Independence in 1956, the Bank Group has helped
finance various development projects with commitments totalling $236.5 million
and has been the country's single largest source of foreign aid. A major portion
of our past lending was to help finance irrigation and railway projects; in
addition we also helped with one power project and an education project. The
Bank/IDA share of debt service is 20.9%  (1972). Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and I X investments a3 of April 30, 1974
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
1a.      Progress on Bank Giroup operations in the Sudan varies, but i!: on the
whole satisfactory, given the problems facing the implem6nting units.
Difficulties in obtaining materials, high bids which often require re-tendering
and weaknesses in management, continue to slow down implementation. However,
the placing of supervision responsibility in our Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
for agriculture and transportation projects should help provide
effective and timely technical assistance at critical stages of proJect
implementation.
19.       No loans or credits were made to the Sudari between September 1968 and
June 1972, largely because of the Government's fnilure to take measures necessary
to overcome its economic difficulties. However, over the past two years the
situation has improved. The Government has now resolved the conflict in the
South and has undertaken to accelerate the development of the backward Southern
Region. The financial measures taken under the continuing stand-by arrangements
with the IMF are further evidence of the Government's determination to find
solutions to the Sudan's pressing economic problems. While overall performance
is still weak, these initial steps and the urgent needs of the South are strong
justification for more active Bank Group assistance to the Sudan.
20.       As the Sudan has considerable agricultural potential which could be
tapped, the Bank Group will continue to emphasize assistance to the agricultural
sector. Within agriculture, we have recently made a credit for a major irriga-
tion project and, in addition to the proposed project, we are assisting the
Government in preparing projects in livestock and a further phase of mechanized
farming. To help spread educational opportunities to a variety of people, in-
cluding those engaged in agriculture, we have recently appraised a second
education project. Lack of transport facilities continues to hamper movement
of goods within the country and to the outside world. The recently approved
Third Railway Project is designed to improve rail transport and certain related
transport facilities.  In addition, a second highway project is under prepara-
tion, and included in the  Rehabilitation Program     is about 350 miles of ag-
ricultural feeder roads in the Southern Region. With the recent credit to the
Industrial Bank of Sudan, the Bank Group will help to reestablish pri-
vate investment in the industrial sector. And to meet the growing industrial
demands, we expect to negotiate a credit for a second power project shortly.
21.       The Bank Group is actively seeking cooperation from bilateral sources
to supplement scarce IDA resources. In 1973 the Consultative GrouD for Sudan.
which had last met in 196L, was reconvened. Most of thrs oric ien:  pemb9T co,mtnie;
cs well as some new countries participated in ths meeting and expressed interest
in helping the Sudan. It is hoped that this will lead to increased external
assistance.



-6-
PART IIT -. THE SCUTHERN KEGION
Historical Background
22.       Since the beginning of the 19th century, this ohysically isolated
Region has suffered from oppressors. In the early days military expeditions from
the North and the depredations of slave traders and ivory hunters depressed the
Region and its econromy. Only a rudimentary administrative machinery existed.   Aw
the turn of the century, Britain established its colonial rule in the Sudan, but
pursued separate policies for the North and the SOUthl. In the more developed
Northern Sadan, Arab social and cultural influences were strong; in thle less
developed South, the colonial regime attempted to eliminate all northern Arab
inifluence and promote Western culture.  liofthern government officials and
traders were replaced by non-Moslems who were unable to communicate and pene-
trate the interior as well as their Arab predecessors. English was encouraged
in the schools rather than pidgin Arabic already in use. The educat-onal
system, which was in the hands of Christian missionaries, was largely academic
rather than functionally oriented.  The majority of the southerners remained
uneducated. These shifting policies had a profound effect on the South and
were tartly  responsible for stifling development over many decades.
23.       In 1956, Sudan achieved independence and again the policy    changed.
Successive governments pursued policies which were strongly r'esisted
tn the South. Among -these were the forcible spread of Arabization and
the Islard.c faith, a curb on the activities of Christian missionaries, and the
neglect of secondary education. This resulted in widespread unrest, which was
suppressed by militar,- fOrce; of the North. Many people took refuge in
"the bash' and neighboring countries. While the South was never highly devel-
oped, the period of confronta-tion halted what little development momentum
there was and the major part of organized agricultural activity came to a
st.ac.StL L .
The Present
24.       The Addis Ababa Agreement of March 27, 1972 brought an end to the
hostilities between the South and the North.   ty this Agreement and a series
of subsequent Presidential Orders and Decrees, a largely autonomous regional
governrrnent was set up for the Southern Region, with headquarters at Juba.
The Sor-thern Regional Government is composed of the High Executive Council,
R.gional Ministries,  Departments  and   Councils.  The President of the High
Executive Council is also Vice   President of the Sudan.  The Council
exercises legislative and executive authority and also supervises the judi-
ciary in the Region. Thus, the Region has a remarkable degree of autonomy, havinp
responsibility for all major functions except defense, foreign relations and
the right to borrow externally, which remain the responsibilities of the
Central Government.



- 7 -
25.       The Southern Region, which comprises the three provinces of Bahr El
Ghazal, Equatoria and Upper Nile, covers a total area of 250,00o sq. miles and
has an estimated population of three million, or about one-sixth of the
total population of the Sudan. This Region, with its vast swamps,
lush savannah vegetation and occasional densely forested mountains, provides
a striking visual contrast to the dry, sandy, brown plains so typical of the
rest of the Sudan. The climate in the South is also cooler and rainfall more
plentiful. The Region has agricultural potential, but development, as men-
tioned above, is lagging. Communications both with the North and within the
Region itself are poor. Apart from improvements to rail, river and road
transport, a feeder road system is required if the agricultural potential of
the Region is to be tapped.  Because of noor transport facilities and rudimentary
administrative infrastructure, agricultural development will, for the time be-
ing, have to concentrate on meeting local demand.
26.       The economy of the Southern Region is predominantly agrarian, and
there are few employment opportunities outside of agriculture. Most production
is subsistence-oriented.  About two-thirds of the rural population own some
cattle or smaller livestock. Malnutrition is a serious problem and
infant mortality ranges between 130-160 per thousand children born.   The
farmers generally live on their holdings, close to the roads. Groupings into
clearly defined villages are rare. There is no shortage of land although the
more fertile areas have a concentration of population. Nearly all land is held
by customary tenure based on past use.
Agricultural Production
27.       The civil strife had a severe effect on all crop production in the
Southern Region. Many of the farmers who fled the area during this period have
now returned to their homes, and production -- particularly of food crops -- is
increasing. But the acreage under production is still below that of 1960, and
yields are low. Shifting cultivation is almost universal; the soil is pre-
pared by hand tools and very few farmers use improved seed, fertilizers or
pesticides.  This low level of productivity, coupled with limited land use,
has resulted in such a low level of production that the Southern Region has
to rely on imports adld supplies from the Forth.
28.       There are no reliable figures as to the total livestock population
in the Southern Region, but current estimates indicate about 3 million cattle,
and about the same number of sheep and goats. No organized marketing system
exists and most of the stock are handled by private traders. Facilities along
stockroutes are inadequate, producers' prices are low and there are often wide
margins between purchase and resale prices, as well as large seasonal and geo-
graphical variations.  Data on livestock concentration,     productivity
and movement patterns are poor, and so is information on the number   of
pastoralists and their socio-economic background and attitudes.
29.       The majority (possibly 80%) of the livestock in the Southern Region
belongto pastoralists who have retained strong traditional attitudes toward
the management of their herds and flocks. Thus livestock numbers are con-
sidered more important than benefits from sales. Animal husbandry practices
are traditional rather than scientific, and modern disease control techniques



have only recently been accepted.   Although there is now fairly widespread appre-
ciation of disease control methods and of the value of veterinary services, the
lack of trained staff, transport, drugs, and diagnostic facilities seriously
hinder progress. Livestock diseases continue to cause serious losses and
endemic diseases are known to have decimated whole herds from time to time.
30.       Most of the Sudan's   natural and planted forests are located in
t-he Southern Region. The plantations were mainly established between 1940 and
1960. During the disturbances, they received little care other than fire
protection, and they are now heavily overstocked and require thinning and
pruning.  By 1971 timber processed by sawmills had dwrindled to 15 percent of pro-
duction levels in the early sixties. Low productivity and the lack of
specialized staff arecausing the sawmilling industry to run at a loss. The saw-
mills urgently require new machinery, spare parts, transport and maintenance
equipment.
Public Services
31.       Only   rudimentarv services o tlle agricultural sector have
survived the disturbances.   The Regional Government is rebuilding them, but
it will certairly take time to creaTe or revive the various insitLutains
required and, in particular, to staff them properly. The agricultural training
institute at Yambio, which has been closed down for several years, is only now
reopening.  The research station, also at Yambio,urgently needs to be brought
back into efficient operation.
32.       The newly created Regional Ministry of AgricuLture has departments
for agriculture, forestry, animal production, fisheries, coffee and tea devel-
opment and irrigation.   It is stuaffed by a small but dedicated staff.  Total
Regional agricultural staff amount to 14 university graduates and 46 with lower
level training, while the veterinary services comprise a small number of
qualified veterinarians, 20 veterinary assistants and 105 stockmen. Because of
-the dearth of both lower level technical and executive staff, the farmers have
received virtually no agricultural services or assistance.
33.       The Agricultural baank, with its headquarters in Khartoum, is responsible
for agricultural credit, but has no office or staff in the Southern Region. The
1Ministry of Agriculture provides negligible amounts of farming inputs to farmers
and no organization exists at present to ensure their efficient use. The only
organized marketing channel is the Equatoria Agricultural Production Corporation
(EAPC) whose activities are limited to the purchase of seed cotton. Otherwise,
the only outlet for marketable surpluses is that provided by local traders.
Public Finance
34.       The Addis Ababa Accord specified the sources of revenue for the Southern
Region. The first and most important is a direct annual transfer from the Central
Government to cover the expenditures of the established government services in the



-9-
7ge r on.  secon'd source of revenue Jfrom the Central Government is the re-
r.u-enen` oèf )5rect and indirect taxes originating in the Southern Sudan.
Th'i So_7thern Y'e4i-nal Government may also imoose it-i oirrn taxes, and may obtain
P:ct^r:-r  ass`stance in the form o4 grants, without having an equivalent reduction
-  r~reeC from the Central Government. External credits or loans, however,
'2Vo to     >+ol  ine  by tie C(ntral Government.  The recurrent budget of the
:ol'-rn heFional CGovernment remr-Yerev  - ,e absolute minimum provision for
se=     es.in the Southern ie-Ion.  Prospects for increasing revenues over the
next felf years are not very gooc. The tax base in the Region is still very
fir  C'entral Government is responsible for economic and social devel-
opllCft. ;`nseglently, the Centra. l 'nv,'nid!CIt 6e,-Yent budget covers devel-
opment e Aperditiires in the whole of the Sudan, including the South.  However,
the Southern Regional Government is empowered to prepare a supplemental special
development budget for the Region, based on the anticipated surplus on the
recurrent budget or external assistance. To the extent that the Southern
Regional Government can submit well prepared projects in the South for inclusion
in the Central Government's annual plan, the share of the Sbuthern Region in
the annual plan could increase subject, of course, to the financial constraint
of the Central Government. As the Central Government development expenditures
increase and as more southern projects are identified and prepared, the Southern
Region will receive a largershare of Central Government development expendi-
tures.  On the other hand, in the absence of regional public savings and given the
limited scope for levying special development taxes, the regional development
budget will remain quite small for the next few years.
Development Strategy
36.       The principal efforts of the Southern Regional and the Central
Governments have so far been directed at food and health relief measures. While
these are important first steps in rehabilitating the Southern Region, the
authorities, both in Juba and Khartoum, are now focussing on a longer term
strategy, which aims at developing the potential of the Southern Region in
concert with the economy of the Sudan as a whole. The primary objective is
to raise the living standard of the rural population in the Region and make
the Region self-sufficient in food crops. By intensifying food crop production
and making it more efficient, land and labor will be freed for cash crop pro-
duction which gradually will provide a sound basis for the development of the
economy.  In addition, their strategy aims at gradually increasing the offtake
of the livestock, which is the basis for many people's livelihood in the Region,
and rehabilitating the forestry industry, which would supply the North and
reduce import requirements. In order to improve communications within the
Region to tap the agricultural potential and to facilitate closer economic
-cooperation with the North, the strategy aims at expanding the transport and
(7~iwL[2i;;lio:is network.  And in order to be less dependent upon rnanpower ano
2 :.pntt   r e  orn lbrcad cr elsewhere in Sudan, the Southern Regional Government
r ,Ir e:>nd;n-the ed'icational facilities and intensify training.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
. c -  ,_1
37.       TOhen the civil strife ended in Southern Sudan in 1972, the Government
of ,the ,udan requestee3 Bank Group assistance to rehabilitate the Southern
16egion.  ! special mission visitedi tie "uut4ern Region of the Sudan in 1972
to t.se s the longer term development needs and focused in particular on the
agriculture, transport and education sectors. Based or. the recommendations of
this r'ep-rt, the Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RIEA), in close cooperation
with Tæec-i ral and Central Government staff, prepared a broad-based agricultural
Rehabilitation Program. The report entitled "Appraisal of Southern Region
'-rictf'tural Rehabilitation Development Project" (No. 368a-SU dated May 3, 1974)
being  ir'1C     1. The Executive Directors separately.  Apart from serving
. a b-ok-round document for this Project it is also designed to provide
recess Lz inlormation for bilateral agencies associated witlh the Rehablllta-
tion Prog-pm. During the preparation of this Rehabilitation Program, the
Bank staff kept in close contact with potential bilateral agencies interested
-n assisting the rehabilitation efforts of the Southern Region.
The Prolect
2 K       The proposed Project forms an important part of the Rehabilitation
Program which seeks to re-establish food and. cash crop production, assist
livestock development and reconstruct the forestry sector in the war-torn
?uthern RegiorL.  The Project specifically aims at intensifying food production
by (i) providing improved seeds for farmers, (ii) expanding extension services,
(iii) establishing a center for nutrition research, and (iv) improving animal
ealth a~nd livestock produaction through a program of vaccination, marketing
esc rcl..  The Project will also rehabilitate the cotton and coffee
.'ustr-. snd establish the nucleus of a small farmer dairy industry.  Train-
inri, research .nd credit would be included. The Project also provides for a
I oje-ct Devt-lo-ment Unit in the Southern Regional Ministry of Agriculture to
rmplerert the Project and coordinate other rehabilitation efforts.  Annex III
eontain.s . Credit and Project Summary.
Food (Crops
A crop trial center at Yei would be set up to produce seed for higher
yieldinF. food crops. Improved seed would then be sold to farmers.  In addi ion,
the center uould also have a nutrition and food crop extension unit to advise
a-mers throughout thie Region about new varieties, their nutritional value and
h(, to imrove eropoing practices.   Seven sub-centers will be established to
r:arr- olL. locpJ testing and extension work. Initially seed will be imported
from nther countries, mainly East Africa, tested and then suitable varieties
miultiplied for sale to farmers. in view of the small amounts required by each
farmer, the seed will be sold for cash at a price to be determined annually
by the Goveniment.



C. >nCrops
IO.       The cotton comonent would commorise a spraying program in areas suit-
:: f!: crUtton growing.  'prayers and insecticides for disease control will
be provided together with extension assistance.   Over the next four years the
n1ur`lfr of farmers participating is expected to rise to 10,000 or about one-
third of those that formerly grew cotton in the Region. They would produce
sWr_:-icient CotteA, tO uLtilize tle existing processing facilities in the
Re71-on.
,I.       About 3200 farmers are expected to engage in coffee production on
sourp 3200 acres of non-irrigated and irrigated land in several parts of Equatoria.
They will be nrcivided with a package of medium term credit (8 years at 7Ω
per cent intere?;-t) for the purchase of planting materials and necessary equip-
ment.  The coffee scheme will be managed from the Yei center wbich will inclu(ie
maintenance facilities for farmers' equipment. Hulling and cleaning plants
would also be provided.
|iv> stocl<
42.       The animal disease  control facilities would be the first stage of a
progr.m aimed at controlling throughout the Region two of the major cattle
diseases, Rinderpest and Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia. A laboratory
for the production of the short-lived Bovine Pleuropneumonia vaccine would be
set up in Juba along with diagnostic facilities at the three main centers of
Juba, Wau and Malakal.  From these centers, a major campaign would be carried
out under which about 70 percent of the Region's cattle is expected to be
vaccinated. Also included is training of veterinary department employees.
Ld',.     9.AF an initial step to develop the Region's dairying potential, the
project provides for about 60 small irrigated pasture lots,   each of about 10
acres for dairy farmers who presently graze their cattle in the vicinity of
towns. Medium term (8 years at 7Ω_ percent interest) credit will be available
for farmers to finance on-farm investments.
1)1.      In the field of livestock development,   the project provides for a
livestock marketing unit which will construct several holding grounds and
improve stockroutes. The unit will also obtain and analyze information pre-
sently lacking on cattle production and movement. A livestock improvement center
will be located at an existing, partly developed government-owned ranch near
Wau, already carrying some stock and for which further cattle will be purchased
for breeding and fattening. Project staff will collect and analyze data on such
matters as grazing patterns, mortality and fertility, pasture management,
stocking rates and costs of development and production. Funds for studying
the socio-economic background and attitudes of pastoralists and their reactions
to the change   from a subsistence to a cash economy would also be included.



- 12 -
Cost qstimatee andF   n
The totpl cost of the Project is estimated at US$12.6 million
corntingencies calculated at 32 percent. The foreign exchange com-
-onpnt is estimated at TJS$6.6 million. The proposed IDA credit of $10.7 million,
~.rllicj would he on standard terms to the Democratic ReDublic of the Sudan, would
o-r-. foi-eiin exc.himge costs and a large oortion of local costs. The Southern
I _. o.l `overnmerit wo-ald meet the local contribution of $1.9 million out of
its develonment budget.  in addition, the Government has agreed to carry out
the rest oJ' the Rehabilitation Program, i.e., the forestry components, part
orf the animal disease and crop production and road construction component,
fr-r w'.h nt is seekirn assistance from thte United Kingdom and the Federal
;-4unlic nf Germany.
Organi7ation and Management
46.       In order that project activities are clearly identified, organized
and eI'èectively managed, a Project Development Unit (PDU) will be established
in the Southern Regional Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation, Forestry and
Anima-,l Production. The PDU will directly control and manage all project
comnonents other than the animal health which will be implemented through the
existing Veterninary Department.; The FDU will be directed by an Executive
'omrayittee,responsible to the Minister of Agriculture, consisting of the Director
-. ;ri.culture (Chairman), the Project Director and other senior officials of
-elevant ministries. The Project Director will be responsible to the Committee
fnr proiect -.1moilementation.
'7.      There is a. deerth of senior staff in the S'outhern Regional
-Zover-narcnt. and there are political and practical difficulties in obtaining
`ed staff l.romT other areas in the Sudan. Hence the successf.ul imple-
inen->-tion of the project wrill depend heavily on international recruitnent of
l  on--.or:eI.  The services of 18 such experts (about 70 man years) are to
be financerd under the Credit. The rovevr-mnent has already initiated recruit-
Inut rroceiThèct: -rnd is receiving Bank assistance in selecting the Project
i;7.re.v_ .   .c-.l 0Controller and Crop Production Manager. The Government
ne. t.o obtain certain additional expertise required for the Project
:' h---ateral. or other multilateral agencies.  In view of the importance of
- 'f   it. was agreed that disbursements for each component are subject to
n e Association's being sat-isfied that adequate staff have been appointed for
eomnorilent    (Schedule 1, naragraph L (b), of the Development Credit Agree-
,;ent). Efforts have 'teen made to design the Project so that available locally
recruited :-+taff will, with adequate inducement and proper training, be able
to meet the Project requirements within a few years.  To this end, the PDU
wilil p-oori.se for on-the-job training, and some fellowships have also been
included in the Project for further academic training.
procurement and Disbursement
W9.       The only procurement item which is suitable for international bidding con-
sastl & vehicles ($500,000). Other imported requirements, such as irrigation and
coffee processing equipment, represernt a wide range of ma.ll items to be procured



- 13 -
over a four-year period, for which international comnetition is impractical.
Where possible, orders would be grouped in packages exceeding $30,000
in value and competitive bids sought in Sudan or East Africa. The individually
smiall and scattered civil works wouldlt also be subject to 3ompetitive  idin
].ocr&l. with advertising in adjacent countries.
45.        Disbursements would he mnade against (i ) 100 percent of forei--.
exchange on vehicles, technical assistance and ot-.her imported goods, anr (ii)
85 percent of the total cost of the cotton, coffee, smallholder dairy, livestock
marketing and imnrovement and a.nimal disease control components. Retroactive
financing of up to $160,000 is proposed to cover the cost of preliminary
expenditure including buildings and vehicles incurred after August 1973 and the
salary of an Agriculture Development Service staff member seconded to the
Southern Regionnal Government since August 1?73-
Accounts and Audit
50.       The PDU will keep separate account of all Project costs div-ided into
separate compcnents. Staff lijnitUt:J.onS in the Au.(litor General1s Department
have so far prevented its auditing the accounts of the Southern Regional
Government.  However, arrangements satisfactory to the Association have been
made for thle audit of PDU's accounrits.
Marketing and Prices
51.       About 90 percent of the food crops grown under the Project will be
consumed by the farmers and the remainder sold locally at prices currently
being paid in the Southern Region which are below the cost of imported grain.
Cotton will be sold locally to Equatoria Agricultural Production Corporation
at a price not below 3.5 pt. per lb. of seed cotton . Coffee prices at LoI 14
per lb. are based on ruling prices and the incremental value of livestock has
been assessed on the increased value of the cattle resulting from lower death
rates.  No diff.iculties are foreseen for marketing any of the commodities
produced by the Project as there is a large unsatisfied demand in the Southern
Region, as well as in the Sudan generally.
Benefits and Justification
52.       The Project would make an important contribution toward the
rehabilitation of agriculture in the Southern Region. A major benefit will be a
higher standard of nutrition for about 50,000 farm families through the pro-
duction of food crops valued annually at about $1 million. A further 13,000
farm families will benefit from growing cash crops worth annually about $1.36
million by the eighth year. About half the population in the Region are
expected to receive small but significant benefits from the animal health
component. Other benefits would include the introduction of improved farming
techniques to a large number of farmers and the project will be an important
factor in the resettlement of many farmers who have returned to their home
areas from neighboring countries and other parts of the Region. By increasing



- 1b -
local food production, the Project will help relieve the pressure on the pre-
sently overburdened internal transport facilities and by expanding the small
Ministry of Agriculture it will also provide a foundation for the future
development of agriculture in the Region.
53.      The overall economic rate of return on the Project is estimated at 18
percent. A sensitivity analysis on the base economic rate of return shows
that either a 10 percent increase in cost or a 10 percent reduction of
benefits would reduce the rate of return to about 1L percent.
5I.      It is recognized that the proposed Project involves rather high
risks. After ten years of civil strife, the whole fabric of Government hai
been reduced to a minimal level.   Attempts to re-establish agriculture and
commercial activities are expected to be seriously hampered by the acute
shortage of trained manpower and experienced management. Both internal com-
munications and supply shortages will present difficulties in the implemen-
tation of any development scheme and the uncertainties usually involved in
the recruitment of key personnel from overseas have to be faced. iHowever,
these high risks are considered acceptable in the light of the critical need
to re-establish agriculture in the Southern Region.   Petroleum products for
transportation and the. cotton ginning activities are essential for the
effective operation of the Project. Specific assurance has been obtained
from the Sudanese authorities that they would ensure that the fuel require-
ments of the Project are adequately met. The Project is not expected to
have any adverse environmental effects. The area iltilized for cropping is
comparatively small; most of this land is already cleared and the use of
insecticides will be limited.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHCRITY
55.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, the Feport o:' tle Comnittee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
and the text of a resolution approving the proposed credit are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
56.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECO10ENDATION
57. I recommend that the Executive Directors approve tne proposed credit.
Robert S. McNan-'ra
Pre-,ident
Washington, D.C.
May 1L, 1974



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
COUNTRy DA!A - T93 SUDAN
AREA        2              POPULATION            ,                                      DENSITY
2.5 million km                17.0 million (mid-1973)                                       6A   pr k2
Rate of Growth: 2.8    (from1960 to 1972)                    18.9 per k3o of arable land
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS 1297 H.ALTH 1970
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)               l9                         Population per physician                1L4,599
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                17                        Population per hospital bed              1,235
Infant Mortality (per 1,OO live births)   94
INCOM? DISTRIBUTION 1.910                                             DISTRIBUTION OP LAND OWNERSHIP
Y. of national in.ome, highist quintile    ..                          . owned by top 10X of o.mers
lowest  quintile    .,                        % owned by smallest 10% of owners
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER 1970                                            ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY 1270
7, of population   urban                    ..                        7 of population - urban2                     1Q.0
rural                                                               - rural )
NUTRITION 1964-&6                                                     EDUCATION
Calorie intake as 7 of requirements         85                        Adult literacy rate 2          1970:         19
Per capita protein intake (gm. per day)     59                        Primary school enrollment Z    1969:         14
2!
GNP PER CAPITA in 1971     US $1ZO
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY 1971                                     ANNUAL RAWE OF GROWTH (7. constant prices)
US $ Mln.        S                       1960-65            1965-70             1971
GNP at Market Prices         1,817          100.0                        ..
Gross Domcstic Investment      2            1142
Gross National Saving          25           11i8.
Corrent Account Balance        -43           *2.4
Exports of Goods, NFS          354           19.5
i.,.ports of Goods. NFS        388          21.1                         -.
OtYPUT, LABOP FORCE AD
PRo2UTIVTYIN' FY 127
Value Added                                                        $V A. Per Worker
iU$s- IrMLn.   ,Mln.                                                    us ___
Atrirul lure                 62h        140.9
Indunstry                   260          17.0
Ser'iscs                    643         142.1                     ..          ..
U n., iLoe I00  d                                                                                              100.0
uotal/Average        1,527          100.0                     .        100.0
C..IRNééNT FI,NANCE                        General GovernmeLt                            Central Gov&rnment
(_J-;__Mln.)         7 o-f GCPW               ( Li    Mln.)   %_ of GDPW
FY197).       FY1971     FY1970                 Fl1972      mn-9722  fYlI70-71
urrent liecelpts                      179.3         28.1        26.3                 163.8          .        2543
c.;rrent Expenditure                  U1.ZE 2LL                2972                  17.1 h-                 2I_S
Current Surplus                        -0.1         -0.0        -0.9                  -7.6          ..        o.6
(ui.vitl Zxpenditurs      ,            17.2          2.7         3-3                  21.3          *         2.9
::wtcr'.nl Assistance (net)'A           0.5          0.1         1.0                   64           ..        0.5
1/ milZc P.r Capita cNP estImate is at 1971 market prices, calculated by the same conversion
t(echnique as the 1973 World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are
ut tCe average eschange rtte prevailing during the perisd covered.
2i Nearly all land is owned by the government.
j/ At factor cost
At market prices.
Defined as long term nst official capital inflow on a balanes of payments basis.



ANNEX 1
page 2 of 2 pages
COUNTRY DATA _ TO aIWhEL
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICr:S                     1965        1-7i0      nilfn       f1972       Fll97
(Million  1    utstanding end period)
loney and Quasi 'oney                       72.2         127.3      132.8       140.8       182.('
bank Credi t to Pnblic Sector(not)          21.?         ?9.7        9%.2       127.3       i.So
Bank Credit to Private Sector               48.3         68.2        85.8        8"7        107.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
:fancy and Quasi 'lorey as ∞. of GDPé/                   21.1        20.8         ...
Ccncral Price Inex (1963 = 100)              ..           ..         ..
Nnnral percentage changes in:
Gcncral Price Index                           ..           ..         ..
Bfank credit to Public Sector                ..            .9        19.-        33-7        17j
Bank credit to Private Sector              -16.5         -2.1        25.8        -1.3        27-4
BALANvCE OF PAYKENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGEC 970-1972k)
1970     1971      1972                                               US $ Mln     .
(llillicw s tS $)
v..ozrtS of Goods, NFS        324.2    355.2    373.2                          Sattoc                 197.8    61.5
12 plY is of Coods, NFS      351.5     381.7    409.6                         Oum Arabic               23.1     7.1
i .ource Gap (deficit = -)   -TlM      -26.5    -3b.4                         Gwrundmuts               22.8     7.1
sesame                   21.5     6.7
Investment Income (not)       -1h.9    -13.2    -22.5               All other comnmodities               h    -17h
Workers' Remittanecs             .        .         .                     Total                        321.8   100.0
C)tiicr :Lictcr PaymT,nts (mlet)
MNet Trnsfers                  -2.6     -2.}3     0.5              EXTERNAiL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, £972
Balance oni Current ArcoLunt  -lrit    -¢O      -39E
US .S Mln
Pirect Foreign Investment       -       -1.1      0.3
Net ,'i. Borrowing                                                   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            382.1
Disbursements              (24.4)   (23.3)   (54.8)               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization              (-23.)   (--JLJ)  ( -..1k )             Total outstanding & Disbutsec.
Subtotal                     0.8    -1I4.0    14.6
Capital Grants                  2.9      -        7.7              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1972
. r Cnpttal (net)              2.1'    17.S     -2.1'
Other ielns n.Ce. i           -1.5     -2.1 -    _7
inenroase in Reserves (F-)      % /            -27.2S/               Public Debt. mncl. guaranceed           12.3
Non-GuaranteeJ. Private Dabt 
:'oass Rt-serves (en,d yecr)  26.5     30.4      39.9                Total out3tazdiag & Di,b arsd..
:- t , .-crves  (enld year)  -52.5    -97.2   -128.1
;   Y 2.NC!:A4NG                                            IBFRD/IDA LENDING, C March 1 97YhX    Ilion us 5):
* O  'h   -Mar"h 1972                                                                               rBRD        IDA
' $ 100                                                                                         1311313      ID
1-0O = U'S v2.872                                        Outstanding & Disbursed              85.8        16
Undisbursed                           -          .b
Outstanding incl. Urdisbursed        85.8       111 .0
Since e'arch 1972 Lffective Rate of Exchange La 1.00 - U.S. $2.50 for all traneactiors except
for the proceeds from cotton and gum exports which are converted at tk* jfficial
exchange rate.
i. GDP at market prices.
-      exports other than coaton and gum arabic after Karch 1972 converted at LA 1.00 * U.S. $2.50.
Approximately 21.9% of groundnuts export and 29.h% of iesaam and other coasoditiea export for
1972 occurred Li tts lat quarter.
R Ratio of Debt Serrioe to Exporta of Goode and Nam-Factor Servicea.
a/ Includes allocation of SDR'a 9.6 million.
IX'  t         "   "    7.7 million.
U        "r      "      "        7.6 million (at 1 "IDR - U.S. $0.921).
not ava lable                                                         October 10, 1973
. not app] icable                                                     iLasternl Africa , Program      I



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN (as of April 30, 1974)
Amount    (US $ million)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower                     Purpose     Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Six Loans and one Credit fully disbursed:                            12.37
Credit 122   1968   Sudan                      Education               8. g      7.2
Credit 311   1972   Sudan                      Mechanized
Farming II             11.2      10.9
Credit 331   1972   Sudan                      Highway                 7-(       6.6
Credit 364   1973    Sudan                     Rahad Irrigation       42.o      h1.6
Credit 447   1973    Sudan                     Industrial Bank
of Sudan                4.0       -
Credit 457   1974   Sudan                      Railways III           24.0 
Total -                                                127.2    109.1      66.3
Of which has been repaid                              ,      0.1435_7_
Total now ourstanding                                   200.2
Amount sold:                              5.7
Of which has been repaid             5              -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                          200_2
Total Undisbursed                                        -      66,-?      66.3
a/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1974)
Type of        (Amount in IIS $ million)
Year         Obligor                           Business       Loan    Equity   Total
1964         Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.   Textiles
and
1972         Total gross commitments                          1.87    0.3'     2.21
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            1.61    0.07      1.68
Total commitments now held by IFC               0.26     0.27     o.53
Total Undisbursed                                  0    0            0
- ~  ~ ~ ~  ~~~ ~~~~~~ - -   I'



Annex [LI
Page 2 of 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
The Bank and IDA have so far made six loans and seven crodits to
the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or expected to colmmence
for the following projects.
Credit No.122 Education Project; US$8 5 Million Credit of June 24, 1968;
Closing bate: December 31, 1976
Major elements of the project are about 36 months behind schedule.
Delays have been caused by belated appointment of consultant architects,
difficulties in establishing project -Lmplementation procedures, weaknesses
in management, excessively high quotations received for construction items
necessitating re-tendering of certain project institutions, difficulties in
obtaining deliveries of materials, an(d late arrival of technical a3sistance
personnel. Although these problems were to a large extent beyond the control
of the Project Unit their capacity to deal with problems has impro.ed, and
work is nowr proceeding satisfactorily.  Slight cost overruns will be met by
the Gover-nment. Frtension of the CloEing Date is likely . The nroject will
continue to be monitored closely.
Credit Nc.311 Mechanized Farming Project: US$11.25 Million Credit of
June 12, 1972; Closing Date: Decemer 31,- 197c
The first mechanized farming project (Loan 556-SU) to establish
about 140 farms of 1000 feddans each (1 feddan = 1.038 acres) was completed
in July 1971, one year ahead of schedi-le and with substantial savings.
Encouraged by this success the area of the original project was extended
by 75,00C feddans and a second mechanivzed farming project covering a further
420,000 feddans was approved for whici Credit 311-SU was signed on June 12,
1972. The Credit became effective on April 24, 1973, and implement;ation is.
going well after some initial delays.
Credit Nc.331 Highway Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of September 29, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The project comprises assistance to the Department of Roads (DOR)
in improving its organization, in preparing a highway betterment and
maintenance program and purchases of related equipment spares and materials.
Also included are feasibility studies of about 500 km of roads folowed by
detailed engineering of about 350 km -nd technical assistance to tle Ministry
1/        These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular
to report C any prOblems which are being encountered, and the
action being taken to remedrT them. They should be read in this
sense, and with the understanding that they do not purpcrt to
present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



Annex II
Page 3 of 3
of Transpo:'t in transport planning and t.raining of DOR staff. The Credit was
signed on 'eptember 29, 1972 and became effective on February 6, 1903.   The
Consultants' draft report on a road maintenance program has been received and
is under review.
Credit No.364 Rahad Irrigation Project; US$42 Million Credit of March 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
1'he project is expected to irrigate an area of about 300,000 acres
which are ntew sparsely populated semi-desert on the East Bank of the Rahad
River. It would use water pumped from the Blue Nile and would include the
construction of irrigation supply, distribution and drainage works, the
provision of agricultural processing eq.iipment, storage facilities, and the
settlement of about 14,000 tenant fmili.es (about 70,000 people) with all the
necessary infrastructure and supporting services. The Kuwait Fund and USAID
are participating in the financing of this project by providing a loan of
US$11 million each. The Credit became effective on August 29, 1973.
Consultants have commenced work and there has been some progress in
preliminarxy earth-moving, design work a.ad procurement of equipment.  Some
nroblems iTI execution have been encount red and cost overruns are likely.
These are currently being reviewed by tie Bank.
Credit No.l47-SU: Industrial Bank of Sudan (IBS) Project; US$4 Million Credit
of December 14, 1973; Closing DaTe: DecE,mber 31, 1977
The project will help the Industrial Bank of Sudan which is an
existing development finance company to function more effectively in financing
industrial development in the private arnd public sectors in the Sudan. The
credit is expected to meet IBS's requirements of foreign exchange for the two
Year period through 1975. The credit bteccme effective on March 15, 1974, and
the Association has already approved suh-pro.jects exceeding US$1.0 million.
Credit No.157-SU: Third Railways Project; US$24 Million Credit of January 31,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project will help improve the railways' operational standards
and provide the capacity needed to meet expanding demand on the trunk routes.
It also recognizes the need to develop complementary transport modes by
including components to assist river transport and civil aviation. The credit
is not yet effective.






ANNEX III
Page 1
S JDAN
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                             The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Amount:                               US$10.7 million equivalent
Terms:                                Standard IDA terms
Project Description:                 The Project, which forms part of a larger
rehabilitation Program, aims at intensi-
fying food production by (i) providing
improved seeds for farmers, (ii) expanding
extension services,(Iii) establishing a
center for nutrition research, and
(iv) improving animal health and live-
s-tock production through a program of
vaccination, marketing and research.
The Project also aims at rehabilitating
the cotton and coffee industry, and es-
tablishing the nucleus of a small farmer
dairy industry. Research, credit and
technical assistance including staff for
a Project Development Unit in the
Ministry of Agriculture to implement
the Project would also be included.
Cost of Project:                                    (US '000)
Project Cost                    Financed
Local          Foreign
Costs           Costs      Total        IDA Government
Food Crops                    1580            1865       3,445      2,930      515
Cotton                         260             300         560        475        85
Coffee                         568             777       1.345      1,145       200
Animal Disease Control        111-1           21-59      3,270      2,775      >J-!
Smallholder Dairy              275             190         465        395        79
Livestotk M.arketing           180             125         305        260
Program
Livestock Improvement          100             190         290        245        45
Center
Proeect HeadquartPrs          1265            1635       2,900      2,475      425
Total                5339            724-1     12,580     10,730    1260
(242%)                    (100%)       (85%)     (15%)



Annex III
Page 2
Estimated Disbursements:
Fiscal Year
(US '000)
97/7h    1975/74   1976/71  1977Z78   1L978X79
850     3L00      3900     2200       350
Procu.ement
i.rrans7rment:                     The only suitable item for international
bidding will be vehicles (US$500,o0o)
which would be procvred in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines. Other imported
requirements (e.g. irrigation, coffee
processing equipment) represent a wide
range of goods each small in number and not
suitable for international bidding. The
individually small and scattered civril works
requirements (US$2.2 million) would be
subject, to local competitive bidding with
advertising in adjacent countries.
i>tce ;i L'.etu.rn:                18 percent.
.-r<-= kil Renort,:              Renort 'lo. 368a-SU dated May 3, 1974.
A map of the proposed physical project
facilities is attached (IBRD 10775).



|   2i4-                       SOUTHERN     SUDAN                                           32'
1-l21@                              AGRICULTURAL      REHABILITATION     PROJECT                           '      J        /
PROJECT AREAS, RAINFALL AND        ECOLOGICAL      ZONES       oo   S   R
'.                                                                   -MMain roads       oooooooooo S10 Route  i-nd. S R
C Cotton                          Flood region             Other roads      800   Rainfall in millimeters
CHOD.~            C/                                          (S,ot1-~d Food                                       I/
CF  Coffee                         Ironstone plateau C,oepl  d  --i  Railways
F Forestry                        Central hills (Food C,op.)  -   Rivers
D Doiry                           Green belt (Food Crops)  ---Provincial boundaries        ),
\;\   1. Livestock and Animal Health  m Southeastern plains  -.-International boundaries
T  Crop Trial Center  ..-
.  T Crop Triol Cente==   _   ~~~~~Mountain slopes and hills F.oOd   t                        >    _j 
CENTRA!AL                                                                       
~~~T~~                          r



