Report No. 36&a-SU                                                             FILE  COP
Sudan: Appraisal of the                                                                                   y
Souithern Region Agricultural Rehabiditati;-bj
Development Project
Mtay 3, 1974
General Agriculture Division
Eastern Africa Region
NoD for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be, published,
quoted or c-ited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibilvty
for the accuracv or compieteness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1              =           LS 0.348
Sudan Pound LS                 US$ 2.872
Piasters (Pt) 100              LS 1
LS 1 million                   US$ 2.872 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre                     =           .96 feddans
0.45 kilogran (kg)                     1 Pound (lb)
1 metric ton               =           2,20h.6 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
ADS                 =     Agricultural Development Services
EAPC               =      Equatoria Agricultural Production
Corporation
Ministry of
Agriculture              Southern Regional MiniFtry of
Agriculture, Irrigation, Forestry and
Animal Production
PDU                =      Project Development Unit
FI;Z.hL YEAR
Government - July 1 - June 30



SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SIJMNARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ......       ...................   i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION        ...........................              1
II.   BACKGROUND  ..........      ............................     2
A.   General  ................................... .         2
B.   Agriculture Sector       . .       .                   2
C. Communications....                                       5
D. Public Services....                                      6
III.  THE PROJECT..........    7
A. General Description....                                  7
B. Detailed Features....                                    7
C.   Project Cost Estimates ................... ..        11
D. Project Financing              ....12
E.   Procurement ....................  .     ............  13
F.   Disbursements .     . ................ ..............  13
C.   Accounts and Audit ......      ....................   14
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...............    .... .      14
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL BENEFITS                16
VI.  'ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION         ...17
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS..   19
riis appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
Sudan in September/October 1973. The mission was composed of Messrs. D.B.
Argyle, G.k. ihenderson, K. Niemann (IDA) and L. Cockcroft and S. Thies
(Consultants).






SChEDULES
1.   Food Crops
2.   Cotton
3.   Coffee
4.   Animal Disease Control
5.   Smallholder Dairy
b.   Livestock Marketing
7.   Livestock Improvement
8.   ileadquarters
TABLES
1.   Project Cost
2.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
3.   Project Staff Requirements
4.   Combined Government Cash Flow
5.   Economic Analysis
AN'NEX
Economic Rates of Return
=AP
Southern Sudan Agricultural Rehabilitation Project - IBRD 10775






SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION
ArRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUMMEARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        After ten years of civil strife, the economv of the Southern Region
of the Sudan has been severely impaired and its Government services reduced
to a skeletal level. Traditionally dependent on subsistence agriculture, the
Region is now producing inadequate food crops for its needs, such cash crop
and other production activities as existed in 1960 have largely disappeared
and cattle numbers substantially reduced.  With many farmers recently return-
ed and some still returning to their home areas, the Governments of the Sudan
and of the Southern Region have given high priority to the rehabilitation of
the apriculture sector and have sought external assistance for a program
essentially aimed at helping the re-establishment of small farmers and pas-
toralists and in restoring the Region's self-sufficiency in basic food require-
ments and reconstruction of forestry. IDA assistance has been requested for
a project comprising the major parts of the program and bilateral aid agencies
are considering assistance for the remaining parts of the program.
ii.       The Project, which is designed to accommodate a cross-section of
farmers and a range of activities, would over four years assist the essential
rehabilitation of agriculture and livestock activities and lay the foundations
for a longer-term development program. Significantly it aims to increase
food production by the multiplication and sale of improved seeds, supported
bv extension services and nutritional advice and to improve animal health and
livestock production through a program of vaccination, marketing and research.
It would also re-establish the growing of coffee and cotton (to supply exist-
ing processing facilities) and set up a nucleus small farmer dairy industrv.
iii,      Apart from the animal disease control components which would be
executed by existing departments of the Regional Government, the Project would
be implemented by a Project Development Unit (PDU) to be established in the
Ministrv of Agriculture. In addition to extension and research assistance
to farmers it would operate credit funds and have special responsibilities for
procurement, evaluation, the collection of research data and for training.
iv.       Total Project cost (including 10% physical and about 12% per anntm
price contingencies) is estimated at LS 4.4 million (US$12.6 million) includ-
ing 11S$6.6 million of foreign costs. The Association would provide US$10.7
million (85%) and the Government of the Sudan US$1.9 million (15%) of each
Project component. Farmers, who are re-establishing their homes, would not
be expected to contribute cash to loan investments (total US$1 million).
i



- ii -
v.        Because of the Region's serious shortage of skilled manpower, the
Project would include the costs of 18 internationally recruited staff. It
is expected that three key personnel would be recruited through the Bank's
Nairobi-based Agricultural Development Service and the remainder procured
mainly through international or bilateral agencies. Discussions on their
recruitment have been initiated.
vi.       only vehicles to the value of USSS0.5 million would be suitable for
international competitive bidding. Other imported items representing small
numbers of a wide range of goods and small civil works contracts would be
subject to bidding either locally or elsewhere in East Africa where feasible.
vii.      The estimated economic rates of return vary from 10% to 27% for the
individual Project components whil'e the overall economic rate of return is
estimated at 187. At full development, the Project would increase production
Iby TJSS3.1 million annually. An estimated 65,000 small farmers would benefit
wvith increased crop production with annual incremental incomes ranging from
ITS2?O to ITsS240 per farmer, while about half the population of 1.5 million
wyould receive small but significant benefits from improved animal health.
In addition, the Project would provide employment for about a further 800 in
the Ministry of Agriculture. It would effectively change that Ministry from
its nresent nominal role in Agriculture to being the major focus for future
development.
viii.     During negotiations appropriate assurances were obtained and the
Project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$10.7 million.



SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The economy of the Southern Region of the Sudan has tradition-
ally been agrarian with most of its production subsistence oriented.
At Independence in 1956 over 90% of the inhabitants of the Region were
farmers. There was little industry and few trained local managers and admin-
istrators. There had been limited further development from this small base
when the civil disturbances between 1963 and 1972 caused the virtual cessation
of economic activity and the widespread displacement of the rural population.
This sharply reduced the level of agricultural activities throughout the
Region and has resulted in a severe cutback in Government Services. Follow-
iTIg the return to peaceful conditions in 1972 primary emphasis is now being
placed on the rehabilitation of the existing agrarian structure and the
development of smallholder farming, as this offers the most immediate pros-
pect for directly raising the standard of living of a broad spectrum of the
rural population within the Region. The Government of Sudan obtained the
Association's assistance in the preparation of a program to aid in the reha-
bilitation of agriculture, livestock and forestry in the Southern Region.
1.02      The Project which comprises the major part of the overall program
except forestry development has been designed as seven quasi-independent
components, partly so as to stimulate development in a range of activities
and bring benefits to a cross section of rural population and in part to
spread the abnormally high risks attendant on the Region's present depressed
condition. Both during and since field appraisal, close cooperation has
been established with the aid agencies of the Federal Republic of Germany and
the United Kingdom and both agencies are now considering assistance for those
parts of the overall program which are not included in the Project, mainly
forestry, parts of the animal disease control and an access road unit.
1.03      Sudan's agricultural sector has been assisted by five IDA credits
and Bank loans totalling US$95 million. These comprise assistance for the
Managil extension to the Gezira irrigation scheme (1960) the Rosieres dam
(1966) the first mechanized farming scheme (196R) and its second phase (1972)
and the Rahad irriRation scheme (1973). Apart from initial delays in getting
some projects established their overall implementation has generally been
satisfactory.
1.04      The Project  was prepared with the help of the Bank's Regional
mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA) in close cooperation with Regional and
Central Government staff. The report is based on the findings of an IDA
appraisal mission which vislted Sudan in September/October, 1973 composed of



-2-
D.B. Argyle, G.R. Henderson, L. Ljungman, K. Niemann (IDA) and L. Cockcroft
and S. Thies (Consultants). Because of the lack of planning capability in
the Region and to assist management in the implementation of the Project,
detailed work programs for each Project component have been prepared by the
anpraisal mission. These are summarized in schedules to this report and a
volume of detailed annexes is available within the Bank on request.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Sudan, with an area of one million square miles, is the largest
country in Africa. It has an estimated population of 17 million, mainly
denenden;: upon agriculture. While most of the country has a low rainfall,
the White and Blue Niles have endowed parts of the country with an abundance
of water. This has enabled the Sudan to develoD over the past fifty years
an extensive irrigation svstem used largely for the production of cotton which
comprises the bulk of Sudan's exDorts. The Sudan's agricultural resources
include a large livestock herd: Government is currently formulating a live-
stock programme to help imnrove the present low offtake. Past agricultural
development has been concentrated in the central and northern parts of the
cotuntry with very little investment in the Southern Region.
2.02      The Southern Region comprises the three provinces of the Equatoria,
Bahr el Ghazal and Upper Nile, an area of about 250,000 miles2 or about
one-quarter of the country's total area. Following the Addis Ababa accord of
1972, the Region now has a substantial amount of autonomy in most internal
affairs and is currently receiving about ES 7 million grants in aid annual-
lv from the Central Government to support budgetary and development expendi-
tures. The population was estimated at over 3 million in 1973, including
abouit 200,000 refugees who had recentlv returned from adjoining countries.
No recent income or employment statistics are available for the Southern
Region, but average per capita income is known to be well below the country's
average of about USS120.
B.  Te Ariculture Sector
2.03      The economy of the Southern Region is predominently agrarian, and
there are few employment opportunities outside of agriculture. Most produc-
tion is subsistence oriented: about two-thirds of the rural production own
some cattle in addition to their crop land. The farmers generally live on
their holdinps, mainly close to the roads and groupings into clearly defined
villaRes are rare. There is no shortage of land although the more fertile
areas have a concentration of population.  Nearly all land is held by
ctustomarv tenure based on past use.



-3-
2.04      The Southern Region forms an irregularly shaped basin with elevat-
ed land at the perimeter from which drainag>e lines descend towards the one
outlet to the north, the White Nile which bisects the region from south to
north (see Map).  The Region is divided into three major ecological zones
with varving climate, soils and agricultural potential. In the Central
Rainlands Zone (rainfall less than 800mm over 4-5 months), which covers the
northern part of Upper Nile Province, crop production is limited to quick
maturing grains and oilseeds, with livestock production confined mostly to
nomadic pastoralists. The Flood Plains Zone (800-1,000mm rainfall over about
six months) comprises about half of the Southern Region but much of this zone
is permanent or semi-permanent swamp. While the higher lying land can be
cultivated, lower areas provide excellent grazing in the dry season when the
swamps recede and this together with the relative absence of tsetse fly
infestation makes this zone the most important livestock producing area of
the Region. The Equatorial Zone (900-1,600mm over 6-9 months) has the most
favorable agricultural potential in the Region; a wide variety of crops can
be grown including maize, sorghum, groundnuts, sesame, cotton, coffee, tea,
oil palm and vegetables but due to heavy tsetse infestation, livestock
production is relatively unimportant.
Crop Production
2.05      The civil strife had a severe effect on all crop production in the
Southern Reeion. Many farmers have now returned to their homes, and produc-
tion particularly of food crops is increasing. There are no reliable statis-
tics but based on estimates of about 500,000 farm families growing two to
three acres per family, the area under production is estimated at about 1.3
million acres with approximately 900,000 acres of sorghum, 90,000 of maize,
80,000 of millet, 165,000 of groundnuts and 100,000 acres of sesame.
2.06      While crop production in both Upper Nile and Bahr el Ghazal pro-
vinces was relatively unaffected by the civil strife, Equatoria Province
suffered a disastrous reduction in crop area, and is still considerably
below that of 1960. Crop yields are extremely low, reflecting the lack of
modern aericultural techniques. Shifting cultivation is almost universal,
the soil prepared almost exclusively by handtools, and no use is made of
improved seed, fertilizers or pesticides. In addition, there have been
virtuallv no Government agricultural services to farmers for over ten years,
and tectilnia. and executive staff have also been extremely limited.
2.07      The small area of non-food crops which had been developed by 1960
in the Southern Region practically disappeared in recent years. The cotton
production in the Zande area where about 30,000 growers in 1953 produced
9 million lb of cotton was down to about 70,000 lb from 300 growers in 1972.
About 4,000 acres of coffee grown on plantations and by about 1,000 small-
holders were seriously neglected and largely destroyed by fire. Nurseries
have been re-established, however, and are now producing planting materials
to be used in the rehabilitation of the coffee areas. Tobacco was grown by
about 2,000 farmers in 1960 but production ceased in 1965.  A large rice



- 4 -
scheme of  smallholders at Aweil is now onerating at a low level but is to
be increased to its original level with the help of an approved UNDP Pro-
gram. In general, the present state of crop production reflects not only the
disruptions incurred during the disturbances, but also the continuing extreme
shortage of managerial ability and the lack of technical expertise at all
levels (para 2.15).
2.08R     The Southern Regional Government's primary objective is to raise
the standard of living of the rural population by imoroving the supnlv of
subsistence food and increasing smallholder cash incomes and initially to
make the region self-sufficient in food. As almost all food consumption
needs can be locally produced, the opportunity should be fully exploited
but anv program must take into account existing constraints and the shortage
of extension staff. Since the small farmer's family labor during the planting
season is now almost fully absorbed in subsistence production, the cultivation
of food crons needs to be made more efficient in order to free part of the
lahor resources for production of cash crops. Development programs should
concentrate on the most productive inputs to achieve rapid production in-
creases from the maximum number of farmers.
Liv-estock
2.09      There are no reliable figures as to the total livestock population
in the Southern Region, but current estimates indicate about 3 million
cattle, and about the same number of sheep and goats. Most livestock belong
to pastoralists who have strong traditional attitudes toward herd management
and who place great social importance on cattle ownership. Trypanosomiases,
Rinderpest, Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP), Anthrax, and Foot and
Mouth Disease continue to cause ierious losses due to lack of veterinary
facilities. The calf weaning races may be as low as 30 percent, and the
adult mortalitv around 10 percent, while total offtake from the herds is very
low, current estimates ranging from 2 to 3 percent. Most of the saleable
offtake is marketed in the towns and villages, although some are exported to
the north. There is no organized marketing system and most of the stock are
handled by private traders. Due to the great distances involved and the
lack of facilities along stockroutes, there are often wide margins between
purchase and resale prices, as well as large seasonal and locational
variations.
2.10      Government livestock operations have been confined to a few pilot
enterprises including seven small dairy farms which have been set up to
supnly milk to the major towns, the farms are too small, have in general been
badly managed and vields are low.  Any long term strategy for a Government
livestock program must first depend on basic livestock surveys; these should
cover the number and concentration of livestock, herd composition, produc-
tivitv and movement patterns as well as some basic data on the number of
pastoralists, and their socio-economic background and attitudes. When more
information is available specific plans can be drawn up for increasing
productivitv in the nastoral areas through range improvement pasture control,



water development, and possibly through a long term ranching scheme. Immedi-
ate priority is being given, however, to increasing offtake from the range
areas by improving disease control services and marketing. These efforts
will in the lone run form an integral part of any long-term development
program.
ForesLt
2.11      Most of the Sudan's forest and plantation resources are located in
the Southern Region, but no overall inventory of the natural forest has been
undertaken. The plantations were mainly established between 1940 and 1960,
and there are now about 40,000 acres of hardwoods and 1,300 acres of soft-
woods. During the disturbances, the plantations received little care other
than some fire protection, and they are now heavily overstocked and require
thinning and pruning. In 1963, 16,600 m3 of natural and planted timber were
processed by sawmills, but this total had dwindled to 2,500 m3 by 1971.
The sawmilling industry is running at a loss caused by low productivity, the
lack of specialized staff and an effective costing system, and urgently re-
quires replacement machinery, transDort and maintenance equipment. Imports
of lumber currently US$6 million are mainly for softwoods.
C. Communications
2.12      The most serious constraint to agricultural development in the
Region is the inadequate transport system which mainly comprises the river
services, the railway and roads.  Due to the size and isolation of the
region, all three are essential as domestic produce as well as imported
(notably fuel) and exported goods must travel considerable distances to
local markets.
2.13      The river service which provides the main link with the north
carries less than 100,000 tons annually. It faces three main problems:
(i) the navigational problem posed by water plants; (ii) the problem of inade-
quate maintenance of the fleet and insufficient barge fleet capaclty and
docking facilities: and (iii) the pronounced imbalance of freight almost all
moving southward. A recentlv completed Rumanian study focussed on the
navitational problem and the recent IDA Credit to the Railways provides for
equipment and technical assistance to the river service to improve its fleet
operations. The railway to Wau provides another link with the north. It
carries at present about 200,000 tons annually. Because of the low traffic
voltme, the frequency of service is low.  Air services within the Southern
Region and with Khartoum are being provided by DC 3's and other small planes
but landing facilities are poor. The recent IDA Credit for the Railways
includes the engineering and economic analysis of airport development in the
south at Wau, Juba, and Malakal.



- 6 -
?.14      A road connects Kenva and Uganda with Juba and the southern part
of the Region, and because of difficult communications to the north this has
recently been an important means of supoly. The road to Uganda is in poor
conditiorl and is being considered for upgrading. The internal road system
varies greatly between the three orovinces ranging from a fair skeleton
system in Equatoria to poorer conditions in Bahr el Ghazal (where more main-
tenance is necessary due to variable soil conditions) and in IJpper Nile where
most of the few roads are subject to serious flooding. The present road
Svstem is barely adequate. Many areas, will require access roads and tracks
if further development is to he carried out. The Bank's ongoing highway
project nrovides for feasibility studies of 500 km of high priority roads in
the Suidan. A number of them will no doubt be located in the south.
'D. Public Services
2.15      The Southern Regional Ministry of Agriculture,Irrigation, Forestry
and Animal Production (ministry of Agriculture) has departments for agricul-
ture, forestry, animal production, fisheries, coffee and tea development, and
irrigation. Total regional agricultural staff is small; there are 14 univer-
sity graduates and 46 persons with lower level training, while the veterinary
services comprise nine qualified veterinarians, 20 veterinary assistants and
105 stockmen. Extension activities are at a very low level particularly as
the extension staff are hindered by shortage of transport facilities. The
Equatoria Agricultural Production Corporation (EAPC), a subsidiary of a
Central Government statutary authority, is responsible for the Zande Scheme. 1/
It has 1 graduate, 3 diplomats and 150 lower level extension officers respon-
sible for cotton extension activities in the area. Apart from EAPC which
purchases farmers' seed cotton there are no public marketing agencies in the
region and all other production surplus to subsistence is bought by traders.
There is no agricultural credit institution specifically serving the
Southern Region or other banks provkding credit to small farmers.  The Agri-
cultural Bank (with headquarters in Khartoum) is responsible for agricultural
credit throughout the country, but has no office or staff in the Region.
2.1       The agricultural research station and the training institute at
Yambio which have been closed since 1964 previously provided a two-year
program for agricultural instructors. Some veterinary stockmen were also
trained at Malakal, but this operation has also been closed down. A limited
amount of agricultural and veterinary training is now available to students
from the Southern Region at various institutions in the north. An institute
for training of diplomats is expected to open in 1974 or 1975 with the
assistance of INDP or USAID.
1/   A Government-supported program which is designed to promote smallholder
cotton growing and subsequent processing in western Equatoria.



-7-
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project forms the major part of the Region's agricultural
program which is aimed at development of food crops, re-establishment of cash
crops, improvement of animal production,forestry development and agricultural
access roads construction.  The Proje et involves assistance to the first 3
subsections. The Government, which hits agreed to carry out the program, is
holding discussions with bilateral aid agencies and anticipates receiving
assistance for the balance of the program which includes forestry development,
provision of veterinarians and related costs and improvement of farm access
tracks.
3.02      Specifically the Project would over four years provide farm inputs,
infrastructure and substantial extension and technical services and would
include a number of quasi-independent components for development of food
crops, smallholder cotton and coffee growing, animal disease control, small-
holder dairy development and livestock marketing and research. It would help
develop a framework for a future development F"rogram to sustain long term
growth of the agriculture sector. The Project would be administered through
the regional Ministry of Agriculture.
B. Detailed Project Features
3.03      The principal features of each of the Project components are
detailed in Schedules 1-8 and are summarized below.
Food Crops
3.04      The main crop trial center on 2,400 acres at Yei, to be developed
on land already owned by Government, would produce seed of higher yielding
food grains and pulses for sale to farmers through a marketing section also
to be based there. This seed would replace the low yield varieties presently
being grown by farmers. The center would also provide for a nutrition and
food crop extension unit which would give advice to farmers throughout the
Region based partly on the agrOnomic qualities of the new varieties but also
placing emphasis on information obtained from detailed studies to be made on
the nutritional requirements of farmers, their cropping practices and other
farm needs at various seasons. Seven subcenters would be established in
various districts to carry out local testing and as centers from which
extension staff would work.
3.05      Seed would initially be imported from other countries, mainly in
East Africa, tested and suitable varieties multiplied for sale to farmers.
The marketing section would sell some of the seed directly from the trial



8 -
centers using a number of trucks but in order to facilitate distribution,
the Project would sell about half the seed through local storekeepers working
on a commission of about 20x. In view of the small amounts required by each
farmer, the seed would be sold for cash at a price to be annually determined
by Government, and which is expected to be slightly above the cost cf grain
sold for consumption. It is not proposed that farmers would use fertilizers
as the high delivered cost together with farmer inexperience would in present
conditions make its use unprofitable.
3.06      Estimated cost including contingencies would be US$3.4 million
including the required six internationally recruited staff. At full produc-
tion (year 4) direct incremental production by an estinated 50,000 farmers
obtaining seed would yield some 4,800 tons of sorghum, 2,500 tons of maize,
and 2,300 tons of other food crops. In addition many other farmers would
obtain seed from Project participants and thus most farmers would eventually
have ready access to these benefits.
Cotton
3.07      The cotton component would comprise a spraying program in Equatoria
Province and would in particular concentrate on the Zande area where cotton
is the main cash crop to provide cotton for the existing Nzara cotton ginning,
spinning and weaving facilities (para 2.15). It would provide on annual credit
ultra low volume sprayers and insecticides for disease control together with
extension assistance. Over four years the number of farmers participating
would increase to 10,000 growing about 7,500 aLcres. With the estimated increase
in yield from 330 lb to 750 lb per acre an additional 3 million lb of cotton
valued at about US$300,000, would be produced annually; this increase is
within the capacity of the existing ginnery. EAPC (para 2.15) would assist
with up to 150 lower level staff already employed and would purchase the
cotton from the farmers.
3.08      Estimated cost would be US$560,000 for the on-farm investments and
for four Sudanese graduate and diploma staff who would direct the work of
existing EAPC field demonstrators.
Coffee
3.09      A total of about 1,500 acres of non-irrigated and 1,650 acres of
irrigated coffee would be established over a four-year period in several
parts of Equatoria. The Project would provide farmers a package of medium
term credit (8-year) for the purchase of planting materials and drying trays
and where required, irrigation equipment and some development costs. Farmers,
who would each have about one acre of coffee, would already be resident in
the area. For irrigated coffee, farmers' individual plots would be set up
in blocks of about 30 acres in order to facilitate irrigation from rivers
using small moveable pumps and pipes and which would only be required for a
few weeks each year. The irrigation practices would follow those used by
-large estates and groups of smallholders prior to the civil disturbances.
The development would be managed from the Yei center which would include
maintenance facilities for farmers' pumps. Hulling and cleaning plants would
also be provided.



- 9 -
3.10      The estimated cost would be US$1.35 million for on-farm investments
and technical staff including an internationally recruited manager. Yields of
coffee at full production in year 6 would range from 600 to 800 lb per acre
wqith a total value at full development of US$900,000 annually. About 3,200
farmers would participate.
Animal Disease Control
3.11      This would be the first stage of a program aimed at controlling
throughout the Region two of its major cattle diseases - Rinderpest and
Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP). The Project would provide for
laboratory and diagnostic facilities at the three main centers of Juba, Wau
and Malakal, assistance to a major vaccination campaign and training of veter-
inary department employees. About 70% of the Region's cattle are expected to be
vaccinated annually and would result in reduced losses of about 29,000 head
per year. There is ample grazing in the region for additional cattle and
offtake from the incremental herd, encouraged by livestock marketing unit
(para 3.13), would increase accordingly. Project cost is estimated at US$3.3
million. The Ministry of Agriculture's Veterinary Department is also expected
to be strengthened by internationally recruited veterinary specialists, not
financed under the Project.
Dairy
3.12      The dairy component would develop about 60 small irrigated pasture
farms each of about 10 acres for dairy farmers who presently graze their cattle
in the vicinity of towns. These small farms would provide supplementary high
quality grazing to improve production of their milking cows. Farms would be
provided with contour earth works and pumps (shared by 15 farmers) fencing
and simple buildings through medium-term (8-year) credit facilities. Esti-
mated cost would be US$465,000 and annual incremental milk production at full
production would be 65,000 gallons worth US$70,000 per annum.
Livestock Marketing and Survey
3.13      A livestock marketing unit would construct holding grounds at Wau,
Malakal and Juba and improve the Rumbek-Juba stock route.   The unit would,
using a revolving trading fund of US$65,000, purchase cattle (at a price
periodically determined by the Project Executive Committee (para 4.03)) for
fattening and resale in order to establish a floor price and to encourage
increased offtake in the Region. In view of the limited information on cattle
production and movements, the unit would also obtain such information to be
analyzed by a livestock economist to be based at the headquarters. Total cost
would be US$305,000.
Livestock Lmprovement Center
3.14      A center would be located at an existing, partly developed, Govern-
ment owiied ranch of about 25,000 acres near Wau. This already carries some
stock and furthier cattle would be purchased to provide sufficient cattle for
Project staff to collect and analyze data on grazing patterns, mortality,



- 10 -
fertilit'T nasture management, stozking rates and development and production
costs. There are at present abou: 180 families living on the ranch; Govern-
ment has assured the Association that it would satisfactorily resettle these
families on nearby areas and the disbursement of funds for this component
would be contingent on this having been carried out. Total cost of the center
over four vears would be US$290,000; thereafter the center would be maintained
With local staff and income from sales would offset most of the operating
costs. An internationally recruited ranch manager would be employed during
the Project period.
Management
3.15      A Project Development IJnit (para. 4.01) within the Ministry of
Agriculture would be resDonsible for the overall management of the various
comDonents except for the Animal Disease Control which would come directly
under the Veterinary Department. The estimated cost of US$2.9 million includes
a total of 6 internationally recruited staff. In addition to its management
functions, PDIT would also undertake monitoring and evaluation, direct training
activities (nara. 3.16) and collate research information.  PDU is expected to
receive assistance from a road unit for which technical assistance and capital
expenditures are expected to be financed by the United Kingdom. Government
would provide local eosts.
Training
3.16      In view of the dearth of trained extension staff in the Region con-
siderable emphasis would be placed on in-service training. The Project
Director would have the specific responsibility for ensuring the implementation
of local training activities to be carried out at the training school provided
under the Project at Yei for the crop components and at Malakal for animal
health.  These would provide all lower Project staff with short intensive
courses of two to four months duration. Provision has also been made for the
equivalent of 12 man years of training elsewhere in Africa for graduate and
diploma staff, particular emphasis being given to farm management techniques.
Total cost would he US$500,000 and this would complement bilateral schemes
now under consideration. In view of the great shortage of graduate staff in
the region, the difficulties surrounding such recruitment from the north and
and the limited number of agricultural students from the Region, it is unlikely
that all internationally recruited staff could be replaced by local personnel
by Project completion. In view of the uncertain supply and demand situation
for skilled and managerial staff and the difficulty of precisely determining
a long-term training programme at this stage the Southern Regional Government
and the Association would, at the end of 1975, review the Project's long-term
staffing requirements and plan any further training and understudy requirements
as would he deemed necessary at the time.
Environmental Aspects
3.17      The area of cultivated crops is less than 1% of the total area of
the Region and the Project would result in only a very small increase to this



- 11 -
crop area. The food crop component Vould have no environmental effects, the
cotton area of 7,500 acres is scattered and insecticide use should not create
difficulties.
C. Project Cost Estimates
3.18      Total Project cost is estimated at LS 4.4 million or US$12.6 million
with a foreign exchange component of about US$6.6 million (53%). Estimated
costs are summarized below:
-------LS'000 --$'--    -------US$1000              %
Local  Foreign  TotUl  Local  Foreign  Total   Foreign
Project
Food Crops                 380    440      820   1,090   1,275   2,365       53
Cotton                      60     70       130     170     195      365     53
Coffee                     130    180      310      380     515      895     58
Animal Disease control    400    350        750   1,150   1,000   2,150      47
Smallholder Dairy           65     45       110     190     130      320     41
Livestock Marketing
& Survey                  45     30       75      120      90      210     41
Livestock Improvement
Center                    25     45       70       70     130      200     65
Headquarters               295    395       690     850   1,130   1,980      57
Subtotal               1,400  1,555    2,955   4,020   4,465   8,485       53
Physical Contingencies
10%                      140    155      295      405     445     850      53
Price Contingencies
12% p.a.                535    595    1,130   1,540   1,705   3,245        53
TOTAL                  2,075  2,305    4,380   5,965   6,615  12,580       53
Cost estimates are based on prices prevailing at the time of appraisal.  A
physical contingency of 10% and cumulative price contingencies based on 14%
per annum for 1974 and 1975 and 10% per annum thereafter (equivalent to an
average of about 12% per annum) from the time of appraisal have been allowed
on all items. Table 1 provides additional details including a breakdown by
item.



- 12 -
D. Project Financing
1.19      netailed costs of the Project and Project financing are shown
he lO7:
(IJS$ '000)
-------------Project Cost              -----Financed by------
Without
Contingencies Contingencies  Total    IDA    Government
Food Crops                 2,365           1,080       3,445    2,930       515
Cotton                       365             195         560      475        85
Coffee                       895             450       1,345    1,145       200
Animal Disease Control    2,105            1,120       3,270    2,775       495
Smallholder Dairy            320             145         465      395        70
Livestock Marketing
& Survey                   210              95         305      260        45
Livestock Improvement
Center                     200              90         290      245        45
Headquarters               1,980             920       2,900    2,475       425
Total           8.485           4,095      12,580   10,700    1,880
(68%)          (32%)      (100x)    (85%)    (15%)
3.20      The Droposed IDA Credit of US$10.7 million would be on normal terms
to the novernment of the Sudan. The Government would contribute US$1.9 million
(fjSO.65 million) (or 15% against each component). Farmers benefitting from
icans totalling about US$1.0 million for on-farm investments for the cotton,
1r~ffee and dairy farm components would not be required to make a cash contri-
bh.ttion in view of their poverty and expenses being incurred in re-establishing
.armns.
3,21      The Project Development Unit would make payments for Project local
c!xtoenditure directly from a separate Project account to be established in a
commercial bank for this purpose. Funds would be required before any IDA
reimbursement were received and, in view of the Southern Regional Government's
lack of liquid funds, the Central Government would by July 1, 1974 make avail-
able to the Project account LS250,000 (US$700,000).  The Central Government
also gave an assurance that at all times it would maintain adequate funds in the
account to meet all Project requirements. Payments would be made by the Finan-
cial Controller for expenditures certified by the Project Director for all
Project components except the animal disease control where expenditures would
be certified by the Assistant Director of Animal Production.
3.22      In addition to the Project Account, PDU would establish a farmer's
revolving credit account into which loan repayments made by farmers under
the cotton, coffee and smallholder dairy components would be placed (total



- 13 -
credit advancad would be about US$1.0 million). Small surpluses generated
would be used to provide additional credit to project participants. PDU would
also establish a livestock trading fund into which proceeds of livestock sales
under the livestock marketing and livestock improvement center would be made
pending further livestock purchases. On Project completion loan repayments
and the livestock trading fund would be available for further agricultural
credit onerations within the Region. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
on the above lending conditions and terms, which are further detailed in
Schedules 1-S.
E. Procurement
3.23      The onlv item suitable for international bidding would be vehicles
(USS500,000) which would be procured in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
Other imported requirements (e.g. irrigation, coffee processing equipment)
represent a wide range of goods each small in number and which could readily
be obtained from Kenya where a good selection exists: where feasible orders
exceeding US$30,000 equivalent in value would be grouped and competitive bids
sought. Goods and services other than vehicles, costing less than US$30,000
equivalent and transport of goods would be procured bv negotiated purchase
after obtaining quotations from suppliers in Sudan and adjacent countries.
F. Disbursements
3.24      The Credit would be disbursed against:
a)   100% of foreign exchange (which would include amongst others
vehicles, equipment and ADS staff); and
b)   85% of all other Project cost.
Disbursements against a) would be fully documented. In the case of b), dis-
bursements would be made against appropriate certificates of expenditure,
approved by the Project Director and certified by the Ministry of Agriculture.
For disbursements under the Animal Disease Control component the claims are
to be approved bv the Assistant Director of Animal Production instead of the
Project Director.  The documentation to support disbursements against b)
would be retained by PDU and the Veterinary Department respectively, and would
be available for inspection by IDA staff during the course of a supervision
mission. Retroactive financing of up to $160,000 equivalent would be provided
for expenditures incurred after August 1, 1973 and would include the salary
of the ADS staff member seconded to the Regional Government, and preliminary
expenditures on buildings, vehicles, equipment and training, in order to
speed up project implementation and utilize the forthcoming season. No
disbursements shall be made against anv of the various project components
tnless the necessary management positions are filled. No disbursements
shall be made against expenditures for the Livestock Improvement Center



- 14 -
unless the Association is satisfied with suitable arrangements for the
resettlement of the approximately 180 families now living within the
boundaries of the Center (para 3.14). An estimate of disbursements is given
in Table 2.
G. Accounts and Audit
3.25      The Project Development Unit would keep separate accounts of all
Project costs clearly identifying the various components. Separate accounts
would be kept for the revolving funds for farmers' credit and for the livestock
trading account. The accounts would be audited annually by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA within six months of the close
of the Government's fiscal year.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      In order that Project activities be clearly identified and organized
and management focussed on agreed objectives, a Project Development Unit (PDU)
would be established in the Ministry of Agriculture. This would also facilitate
the proper management and control of accounts and procurement, and analysis of
Project benefits. Because of its very small size and limited senior staff as
well as the difficulties discussed in para 4.04, the Ministry of Agriculture
presently lacks the capability of carrying out the Project within its existiik
structure. However, it is envisaged that at the end of the Project
period,PDU staff could be reallocated into the Ministry of Agriculture's vari6tu
depattments thus creating a imuch more effective extension service.
4.02      The PDU would directly cdntrol and manage all Project components
other than animal disease control which would be implemented through the
existing Veterinary Departme-tnt because the Project would essentially provide
an exTpansion of a-1 -n--go:Lng program. However, PDU would provide procurement
and accounting assistance and, release funds from the centralized Project
account. Subject to further discussion with prospective bilateral donors
PDU might also provide similar procurement and accounting facilities for
their financing.
4.03      The PDU would be directed by an Executive Committee responsible to
the Ministry of Agriculture; its members would include the Director of the
Mlinistry of Agriculture (Chairman), Directors of the Ministry of Finance and tconomic
Planning and of the Ministry of Cooperation and Rural Development, Assistint
Director, Animal Production, and the Project Director. The Project Director
would be responsible to the Committee for Project implementation other than
the animal disease control component which would be implemented by the head
of the Veterinary Department.  The establishment of the Executive Committee
and the appointment of the Project Director acceptable to the Association
would be conditions of credit effectiveness.
4.04      At present many of the civil service regulations of the Southern
Region are cumbersome and restrictive and would not permit the effective



- 15 -
implementation of a development (rather than a service) program as envisaged
under the project. In particular, procurement of goods and hiring of staff
are time consuming, some salary levels are inadequate to attract suitable staff
and the release of Government funds is slow. The Government has agreed to use
special guidelines in employing staff, where necessary pay special allowances
and to permit PDU to pay salaries out of the Project account. It was also
agreed at negotiations -that the PDU would be empowered to procure goods and
services in accordance with the p;ocurement arrangements outlined in para 3.23
and that PDU would draw funds diretctly from the Project account.
Staffing
4.05      Because of the dearth of senior staff within the Government and
generally in the Southern Region and the difficulties of obtaining qualified
staff from the north, the Project is inescapably dependent on the international
recruitment of key personnel and allowance has therefore been made for 18
internationally recruited staff. In addition it is expected that the Federal
Republic of Germany would provide and finance veterinary specialists assisting
with the animal disease control component and the United Kingdom would provide
assistance for farm road construction. Project staff would include the Project
Director, the Financial Controller and the Crop Production Manager expected
to be recruited through the Bank's Nairobi based Agricultural Development
Service. 1/ Other Project staff include the six food crop specialists, staff
for animal health, livestock development, livestock improvement and coffee
and two evaluation and marketing economists. It is expected that these staff
will generally be recruited through bilateral and other agencies. In view
of the importance of key staff, initial disbursements against each IDA
financed component would be subject to the Association being satisfied that
adequate staff have been appointed (para 3.24).
4.06      The number of diplomates available at present and expected to become
available (from southern students in the North) during the disbursement period
should provide sufficient diplomates for the Project. The position with
graduates is difficult to forecast as only a few southern graduates are
expected from Khartoum University during most of the disbursement period.
By 1977 and thereafter numbers are expected to increase considerable as the
southern post civil war students commence to graduate. A small number of
southern graduates are working abroad and in the north and some of these may
return over the next year. However, there would certainly be a shortage of
experienced senior local staff during Project implementation and it will
remain difficult for some time to replace internationally recruited staff.
Training under the Project (para. 3.16) would be aimed at replacing the
maximum number of internationally recruited staff at the end of Project im-
plementation.
1/   Since August 1973 ADS has seconded to the Southern Regional Government
a crop production specialist who has assisted in pre-Project development.



- 16 -
4.07      The ready availability of petroleum products for transportation
needs and fuel oil for the cotton ginning activities would be essential to
the effective operation of the Project. At present, the southern part of
the Region obtains part of its petroleum requirements from Kenya and while
this should continue, some products would need to come from the north, either
0V train to Wau or steamer to Malakal. Because of the shortages (prior to the
energy crisis) caused by internal transportation difficulties, the Central and
Regional Governments have agreed to use their best endeavours to ensure that the
fuel requirements of the Project will be adequately provided.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL BENEFITS
Yields and Production
5.01      The following estimates of Project incremental production per annum
at full development 1/ are based on information available from similar areas
in Uganda and elsewhere in the case of food crops and past experience in
Southern Sudan and nearby areas in adjacent countries for other components.
Price assumptions are discussed in para 5.02.
Incremental Total
Numoer of     Pre Project  Yield         Incremental  Total
Units         Yield         per Unit    Production   Value (IS)
Food Crops
Sorghum        53,000 acres    600 lb        200 lb       4,800 tons   159,000
Mfaize         27,000 acres    600 lb        200 lb       2,500 tons    94,500
Eleusine        11,000 acres    400 lb       100 lb         500 tons    19,250
(finger millet)
Sesame          5,000 acres    400 lb        100 lb         230 tons    13,750
Croundnuts      4,900 acres    400 lb        200 lb         450 tons    24,500
Soya            4,000 acres   Not grown    600 lb         1,100 tons    48,000
Cotton          7,500 acres    320 lb        750 lb   3.2 million lb  109,200
Coffee          3,150 acres                6-800 lb   2.2 million lb  310,800
Livestock
Cattle         not applicable                            29,000 head   290,000
Milk               720 acres     50 gal       90 gal    65,000 gal       24,200
MS 1,094,000
Equivalent to   US$ 3,140,000
1/   in the 4th year for all components except for coffee when year 8.



- 17 -
Marketing and Prices
5.02      It is estimated that some 90% of the food crops grown under the
Project would be consumed by the farmers with the remainder sold locally at
prices currently being paid in the Southern Region; these prices are at present
below the cost of imported grain. Cotton would be sold to EAPC at a price not
below 3.5 pt per lb of seed cotton and an assurance was obtained from the Gov-
ernment of the Sudan that EAPC would not reduce its price below this without
the Association's agreement. Coffee prices at hS.14/lb are based on ruling
Northern Sudan prices for equivalent imported coffee. Milk prices are based
on current town prices and the incremental value of livestock has been assessed
on the increased value of the cattle resulting from lower death rates. No dif-
ficulties are foreseen for the marketing of any commodity produced by the Proj-
ect there being large unsatisfied demand locally and within the Sudan generally.
There is adequate transport to the north for export of coffee and other goods.
Financial Benefits
5.03      The Project would provide the following financial annual benefits
to farmers and other beneficiaries:
Average             Beneficiaries
Benefits            Financial Rate
Component       Beneficiaries        Per Beneficiary    of Return (%)
Food Crops          50,000                $20                +100
Cotton              10,000                $20                  90
Coffee               3,150               $240                +100
Dairy                   60               $500                  45
Animal Ilealth     300,000                 $3           not applicable
5.04      On the assumption that the terms of bilateral assistance were
comparable to those proposed for the IDA credit, combined cash flow of the
Government of the Sudan and of the Southern Region would over 20 years show
a deficit of LS 3.1 million (US$8.9 million). This low recovery level is
due to the nature of Project activities providing a continuing service to
agriculture and to the poverty of farmers in the Region: costs recoveries
would be limited to credit operations. Relatively small tax benefits (LS1.7
million (US$4.9 million)) would accrue to the Government.
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The Project would be a major step in the rehabilitation of agri-
culture in the Southern Region and in stimulating the development of cash
cropping. The major benefits would be a higher standard of nutrition for
about 50,000 farm families through the production of food crop valued an-
nually at hS 360,000 (US$ 1.0 million). A further 13,000 farm families would



- 18 -
benefit from growing cash crops worth LS 470,000 million (US$1.36 nillion)
by the eighth year. About half the population or 1.5 million people are expected
to receive small but significant benefits as a result of the animal health
component which would increase cattle numbers in value equivalent to
IS 290,000 (US$830,000) each year.
6.02      Other benefits would be the introduction of improved farming
techniques to a large number of farmers. The Project would also be an
important factor in the resettlement of many farmers who have returned to
their home areas from other countries or other parts of the Region. Because
of increased food production, the Project would help relieve the pressure on
inward transport facilities which are at present overburdened (para 2.13);
it would also greatly expand the present very small Ministry of Agriculture
and provide a foundation for the future development of agriculture in the
Region.
6.03      Based on a zero shadow pricing of labor and with the adoption a
shadow exchange rate of 125% (to more accurately reflect the current value
of the Sudanese Pound) the Project's overall economic rate of return would be
18%. Without the foreign exchange shadow rating the rate of return would
be reduced to 12%. A sensitivity analysis on the base economic rate of
return shows that either a 10% increase in costs or a 10% reduction of
benefits would reduce the rate of return to about 14%. The economic rate
of return on each component has been separately calculated after alloca-
tion of headquarters costs. This shows that the rate of return for food
crops would be 16%, for coffee 27%, for cotton 23%, for dairy 10%, for
livestock marketing 21%, and for animal disease control 16%.
6.04      The Project presents exceptional rxsks.  Following ten years of
civil strife the whole fabric of Government in the Southern Region has been
reduced to a skeletal level and any attempt to re-establish agricultural and
commercial activities will be seriously hampered by the acute shortage of
trained manpower and management and the absence of effective institutions and
Government services. Additionally, poor internal communications and supply
shortages will present difficulties in the implementation of any develop-
ment scheme and although reasonably assured, some uncertainties remain in
the necessary overseas recruitment of key personnel. The Project has been
deliberately designed to comprise a number of semi-independent components
in order that risks as well as benefits can be widely spread. It must be
expected that the Project would require further structural changes in the
light of experience during implementation. Thus the high risks are considered
acceptable in tihe light of the critical need to re-establish agriculture in
the Region and the expectation that given flexible implementation the Project
can give a substantial impetus to this objective.



- 19 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations assurances were received from the Government
of the Sudan and to the extent necessary jointly with the Southern Regional
Government that:
(a)  IDA and Central Government funds would be made available
to the Southern Region in accordance with arrangements
detailed in para 3.21 and would be utilized and as appro-
priate recovered by the Southern Regional Government on terms
detailed in para 3.22 and in Schedules 1-8:
(b)  the Project Development Unit would maintain accounts which,
would be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Association, such accounts to be submitted to IDA within six
months of the close of the Government's fiscal year (para 3.25);
(c)  the Project Development Unit would be empowered to procure
goods and services (as detailed in para 3.23) employ staff
and where necessary pay allowances and draw funds from the
Project account (para 4.04);
(d)  it would use its best endeavors to ensure that the fuel
requirements of the Project were adequately provided
(para 4.07);
(e)  EAPC would purchase seed cotton from growers at a price
not below 3.5 pt per lb (para .02).
7.02      Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a)  The establishment of the Executive Committee of the Project
Development Unit (para 4.03);
(b)  The appointment of a Project Director acceptable to the
Association (para 4.03).
7.03      It was agreed at negotiations that initial disbursements against each
Project component would depend on the Association first being satisfied as to
the adequacy of established management for that component (para 3.24). It was
also agreed that disbursements against the Livestock Improvement Center would
depend on the Association being satisfied that suitable arrangements had been
made for the resettlement of approximately 180 families now living within the
boundaries of the Center (para 3.24).
7.04      The Project wouldprovide a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of
US$10.7 million.






SCHEDULE 1
Page 1
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Foodcrop Development
Objective
1.        Increased production of foodcrops in order to meet the immediate
needs of both the rural and urban population through the development of a
variety of crops in the main ecological zones of the Region.
Metliod
2.        The establishment of eight crop trial stations including the main
experimental center at Yei, and a Project Headquarters with provision for
offices, housing, a seed production farm, and processing and storage facili-
tiPs.  A seed marketing unit would be set up to ensure widespread distribution
of improved seed, as would an extension, nutrition and communications center
to develon and oversee farmer services.
Investments
3.        Buildings, machinery, vehicles, seed cleaning equipment, staff
salaries and operating expenses.
Staff
4.        A Senior Crop Development Officer and six other internationally
recruited professional staff, 4 graduates, 10 diplomates, 43 field staff plus
support personnel.
Costs
5.        Costs over 4 years would be IS 1,200,000 (US$3,445,000), of which
ES r'50,000 (US$1,850,000) would represent foreign exchange.
Production
6.        By year 4, the total annual incremental production from the use
of iinmroved seed on about 100,000 acres would be about 10,000 tons of grain
valued at I-S 360,000. The expected increase in yields for each grain is as
estimated below:



SCEEDULE 1
Page 2
------------------lb/acre------------
Present Unimproved                        Inproved
Seed                                 Seed
faize                       600                                    800
Eleusine                    400                                    500
Sorghun                     600                                    800
Groundnuts                  400                                    6*
Soya-Beans                 not grown                               600
Sesame                      400                                    500
Benefits
7.        The iUcreased yields would directly benefit some 50,000 farm
families. Other important benefits would be derived as a result of research
carried out at the ex-perimental center, the training of extension staff, and
the nutrition and farming systeu surveys.



SCHEDULE I
Page 3
Foodcrop Development
Production
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5-20
Seed -old to farmers (Tons)    -          160        295         342        -
Acrez planted ('000)             -         17         58         105       105
Value (LS'OOO)                   -         65        202         359       359
Costs                            %
Foreign
(CS1000)      (US$1000)       Exchange
Capital Co Fts
'3ui uil ngr                             150            425             24
Equipment                                 50            145             80
VehicleF                                  25             70             90
Farm machinery                            20             55             80
Opereting CoLLts
S:alaries                                445          1,280             49
oupplies, fertilizers, farm needs         95            275             70
Vehicle running                           40            115             80
Air tra-vel                               10             30             91
Tractor running                           10             30             80
vter, electricity, maintenance            20             55             67
Less seed sales                          (40)          (115)
Subtotal          820         2,355              54
PhyFical conLingencies - 10%              80            235             54
Price contingencies - 12% per annum    300              855             54
Total           1,200         3,445              54






SCHEDULE 2
Page 1
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cotton Development
Objective
1.        To raise the yields of smallholder cotton farmers through provision
of credit and improved extension services to supply the existing Nzara gin-
ning anfd weaving complex.
"ethod
2.        Txtension of credit to 10,000 farmers each cultivating 0.75 acres
for the purchase of ultra-low-volume sprayers and insecticides; provision of
extension services and staff training.
Inves tments
3.        Buildings, equipment, vehicles, ultra-low-volume sprayers, insecti-
cides, staff salaries and operating costs.
Credit
4.        Loans for sprayers (one per 25 farmers) and insecticides would be
consolidated in nnnual loans to each farmer of ES 5.80 (including interest
at 1% per month for eiFht months) recoverable seasonally from cotton sales.
Staff
5.        A Chief Cotton Officer (locally recruited), 4 diplomate District
Cotton Officers, 10 Junior Agriculturalists and 140 field demonstrators
(provided by the Equartoria Agricultural Production Corporation), an accountant
and 5 clerks.
Costs
6.        Costs over 4 years would be LS 195,000 (US$560,000), of which ES
105,900 (US$300,000) would represent foreign exchange.
Production
7.        Increasing to year four, when incremental cotton production would
be 3.2 million lb of seed cotton valued at LS 109,000 (US$300,000). Average
yields would increase from 330 lb/acre to 750 lb/acre of seed cotton.



SCHEDULE 2
Page 2
Benefits
8.        An annual incremental cash income of LS 10.50 (US$30) for 10,000
farmers; seed cotton production assisting the commercial re-establishment of the
cotton textile operations at the Nzara complex, and providing the continued
employment of 400 textile workers.



SCHEDULE 2
Page 3
Cotton Development
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4 & thereafter
Number of farmers                    100    2,000    5,000              10,000
Acres of improvred cotton              75    1,500    3,750              7,500
Total Production (million lb
Eeed cotton)       .o6         1      2.8                5.6
Incremental value (LS'000)             1        19        47                94
Costs                                %
Foreign
('hSt000)      (US$OOO)        Exchange
C'oital Costs
Build ings                                     10              30             30
L4udipment                                     10              30             56
Vehiclec                                       10              30              90
Loans to farmers (u.l.v. sprays and
insecticides)             50             140             99
2pertiting CostE
S3aThries z0                                                 110             -
Building, maintenance & vehicle
running                10               30             80
Subtotal        130             370             53
-hysical contingencies - 10%                   15              40              53
Price contingencies - 12% per annum            50             150             53
Total            195             560             53






SCIEDULE 3
Page 1
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATIC9 PROJECT
Coffee Development
Objective
1.        Reestablishment of Robusta coffee production in Equatoria Province
through the settlement of 3,150 smallholder producers on one-acre plots with
supplemental irrigation where necessary.
Mlethod
2.        Provision of seedling nurseries, irrigation facilities, processing
plqnts, storage facilities and farmer credit. 1,650 farmers would be settled
in blocks of 30 farmers and would be extended communal credit for irrigation
equipment. 1,500 farmers in areas with adequate rainfall would cultivate
individual plots.
Investments
3.        Housing, vehicles, irrigation equipment, coffee hulling equipment,
coffee trays, staff salaries and operating expenses.
Credit
4.        Each farmer with irrigated coffee would receive a medium-term loan of
about LS 91 at 7-1/2% per annum repayable over 8 years (with a 3-year moratorium
on principal) to cover the costs of irrigation equipment, seedlings and drying
trays, as well as the operating costs of irrigation equipment. Farmers with
non-irrigated coffee would receive loans of about kl 30.
Staff
5.        A Coffee Development Officer (internationally recruited), an account-
ant, 4 diplomate Assistant Coffee Officers, 8 field extension agents and
supporting staff.
Costs
6.        Costs over 4 years would be ES 470,000 (US$1,345,000), of which
Ms 270,000 (US$785,000) would represent foreign exchange.



SCHEDULE 3
Page 2
Production
7.        At maturity in year 8, the annual incremental production would be
about 2.2 million lb of clean coffee with an estimated value of 6S 310,800.
Average yields would be about 800 13/acre for irrigated farms and 600 lb/acre
for non-irrigated farms.
Benefits
S.        As all coffee consumed in the Sudan is presently imported, the
Pro,ject would result in annual foreign exchange savings of LS 310,800. The
Project would provide an annual net cash income of about IS 85 to participa-
ting farmers.



SCHEDULE 3
Page 3
Coffee Development
Program
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3   Year 4 & thereafter
Number of coffec grow>ers
(1 acre plotE)          450     1,200       2,100           3,150
lotal sales (LS';OOO)               -         -            12 (rising to 310 in Year &)
Co sts                  ,
Foreign
(,S'000)    (US$1000)    Exchange
oans to FarmerE
Capital - irrigation, equipment,
reedlings, trays                120           350          84
Operating - irrigation costs                55           160         37
aost of Development
deapital Co.Ets
Buildings                                   35          100          24
Equipment                                    5            15         60
Vehicles                                     5            15         90
2ef-Lrat.ngCosts
Salaries, vehicle running                   95           275         46
Subtotal      310           895          58
Physical contingencieE - 10%                30            90         58
fI-rice contMngencieF - 12% per annum      130           360         58
Total         470         1,3L5          5






SCHEDULE 4
Page 1
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Animal Disease Control
Objective
1.        Establishment of a disease control program by means of a three-year
campaign aimed at vaccinating 70% of the Region's about 2.5 million cattle
against Rinderpest and Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia.
Metlhod
2.        Construction of a central vaccine laboratory at Juba and 2 provincial
laboratories at Wau and Malakal which would also provide diagnostic services
and serve as bases for mobile disease survey units; establishment of 14_vacci-
nation teams, a veterinarian at each provincial laboratory; and operation of
a stockman training school at Malakal.
Investments
3.        Buildings, laboratory equipment and supplies, vehicles, staff
salaries and operating expenses.
Staff
4.        A Senior Veterinarian (from the Government Veterinary Service), three
internationally recruited and seven locally recruited veterinarians, 25 veter-
inary assistants, 15 stockmen and supporting staff. Additional internationally
recruited staff are expected to be provided under bilateral aid.
Costs
5.        Costs over 4 years would be LS 1,140,000 (US$3,270,000), of which
I-S 76o,000 (US$2,160,000) would represent foreign exchange.
Trod1tiction
6.        An increase in herd size by 29,000 head (or 1%) per annum; the
increase in value is assessed each year at LS 10 per animal from year 2.
Benefits
7.        Increased herd size, reduction of animal disease and mortality,
improved husbandry practices, upgrading of the extension staff, and data for
the preparation of a more extensive disease control program.



SCHEDULE 4
Page 2
Animal Disease Control Progran
Performance
Cattle numbers                       2 - 3 million
NTumber of cattle owners             unknown
Vaccine administered                 14 million doses
Stockmen trained (4 years)           160
Costs
Foreign
(?S'000)   (US$'000)   Exchange
Capital CoEts
LaboratorieF, vaccine
production & survey                 80         230         40
V1rccination campaign                35         100         84
Stockmen training school             20          60         37
Operating Corts
Laboratories, vaccine
production & survey                455       1,300         79
Vaccination campaign                150         430         45
Stockmen training school             10          30          9
Subtotal     750        2,150        66
FhyEilcal contingencies - 10%        75          215        66
Price contingencies - 12% per
annum      315          905        66
Total      1,140        3,270        66



SCHEDULE 5
Page 1
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Smallholder Dairy Development
Objective
1.        An increase in the supply of milk for the towns of Juba, Wau and
Malakal through the establishment of 60 10-acre dairy farms with a total of
7,200 head of dairy cattle.
Method
2.        600 acres of irrigated and improved pasture would be dev*.loped in
blocks of 150 acres near the Nile River. Fifteen smallholder dairy farmers
would be establislhed on individual 10-acre farms in each of four Project
years. They would select 12 of their own cows in milk for grazing on the
farms and would sell the unprocessed milk privately in the nearby town markets
using simple plastic packets.
Investments
3.        Irrigation machinery, fencing, simple dairy equipment, vehicles,
buildings, staff housing and salaries, and initial operating expenses.
Credit
4.        Costs of irrigation machinery, a simple dairy building, dairy equip-
ment, fertilizer and land development would be met by a consolidated loan of
ES 444 at 7-1/2% interest per annum repayable over eight years. Loans would
be repaid from milk revenues.
Staff
5.        An internationally recruited Manager (half of whose time would be
-rilocated to other Project livestock components), three assistant mana-
gers and supporting staff.
Costs
6.        Costs over four years would be ES 160,000 (US$465,000), of which
LS 65,000 (US$185,000) would represent foreign exchange.
Production
7.        By year 4 total annual production would be 97,000 gallons of milk
valued atbs 32,000.



SCHEWLE 5
ra8e 2
Benefits
8.        The ProjeSt would help the initial developmedt of a ptifte daitty
farming industry and would significently expand the supl*y otf mlk to the
towns of Juba, Wau and Malakal. The average bash income of patticipatiib
dairy farmers would increase from LS 130 to 6S 300 in year 9 gdt*r debt
repayment.



SCHEDULE 5
Page 3
Dairy Smallholder Development
Program
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4
Number of farmers                    15       30        45       60
Acres of irrigated pasture          150      300       450      600
Milking cows                        180      360       540      720
Costs                                %
Foreign
(M I 000)    (U 02   Exc_hange
Capital
Buildings, equipment,
&  machinery                  45           130          35
Operating Costs
SalariaE, plant operation,
vehicle running                  65           185          46
110          315          41
"hysical contingencies - 10%        10            30          41
Price contingencies - 12% per
annum       40           120          41
Total        160           465          41






SCHEDULE 6
Page 1
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Livestock Marketing
PbXective
1.        To increase the offtake from the regional herd by establishing
mobile marketing teams who would act as a residual buyer of livestock at
local markets, and to utilize the data and marketing experience gained in the
development of a full-scale livestock marketing program.
Method
2.        Two marketing teams would purchase up to a total of 3,000 head per
annum at an average price of LS 14 per head; these would be transported for
eventual sale mainly in Juba. Provision would be made for construction of
holding grounds at the provincial capitals of Wau and Malakal (3,000 acres
each) and at Juba (6,000 acres), and 3 boreholes would be established along
th-e Rumbek-Juba stockroute.
Investment
3.        Buildings, vehicles, equipment, scales, boreholes, fencing, opera-
ting costs and staff salaries.
Staff
I-.       Two marketing teams (4 staff each), 3 stockroute and 9 holding
ground attendants.
Costs
5.        Costs over 4 years would be LS 1061000 (US$305,000) of which LS
44,000 (US$128,000) would represent foreign exchange.
Pro(1tct ion
6.        From year 4, incremental cattle sales would total 3,000 head per
annum, or 4.67 of total livestock marketed within the Region. Offtake from
tlho regional herd would Increase by 0.1%.
Benefits
7.        Provision of a market outlet for cattle which would otherwise be
unsold, increased cash incomes of nomadic cattle owners, expanded supplies
of rneat in the provincial capitals, and the collection of data for the develop-
ment of an expanded marketing program.



SCHEDULE 6
Page 2
Livestock Marketing and Survey
Production
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4
Head of cattle bought        1,000      2,000     3,000      3,000
Costs                          %
Foreign
(?St00O)    (US$'000)   Eachange
Caoital Costs
Buildings                       15            h5          h4
Equipment                       20            55           80
Vehicles                        15            40           90
0p rating CoEts
Salaries                         5            15           -
Vehicle running etc.             5            15           55
Funds for Cattle Purchase           15           40
Subtotal     75           210           41
PhysLcal contingencies - 10%   10             30           41
Price contingencies - 12% per
annum   21            65           41
Total       106           305           41



SCHEDULE 7
Page 1
SUDAN
SOUTMIERI REGION
AGRICULTURAL REIABILITATION PROJECT
Livestock Improvement Center
Objective
1.        Establishment of a livestock improvement center in order to evaluate
the production potential of indigenouF cattle and to study the management tech-
ninues necessary for the development of an integrated ranching industry.
Method
2.        Develonment of the 25,500 acre Marial Bai cattle ranch by providing
the infrastructure necessary to carry out cattle breeding and fattening ope-
rations. Detailed data on livestock production, pasture improvement and
cattle management techniques would be collected and compared with performance
data from local nomadic herds.
Investments
3.        Buildings, equipment, fencing, firebreaks, cattle crushes, breeding
and fattening stock, staff salaries and operating costs.
Staff
4.        A Ranch Manager (internationally recruited), a graduate Assistant
Manager and supporting staff.
Coosts
5.        Costs over four years would be LS 100,000 (US$290,000), of which
+S 65,000 (US$190,000) would represent foreign exchange.
Production
6.        Annual sales of livestock from the ranch would increase from 61 head
in year 2 to 228 head in year 4. Total value of these sales over the four
year period would be IS 16,000 (US$45,000) which would be used to offset the
overall costs of the ranch.
Benefits
7.        The collection of data which would serve as the basis for the de-
velonment of production and management techniques necessary to establish a
modern ranching industry within the Region.



SCHED-tLE 7
Page 2
Livestock Improvement Center
Production
Development    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4
Total LiveEtock               20()          400      580        690        600
F'encing perimeter            some        15 miles    15 miles  -           -
internal                 -           12 miles    12 miles  -
Costs                       %
Foreign
RS'Z000)      (uS$'o00)       ExchaEge
Capital. Inve-tments                15              40             26
(perating COEts                     70             200             62
Subtotal      85             240
le. eeru  15    40
Subtotal      70             200            65
AhivicaI contingencies - lOjo  10                30             65
Price contingencies - 12% per
annum    20              60             65
Total       100             290             65



SCHEDWLE 8
Page -
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Headquarters and Road-Building Unit
A. Headquarters Services
Objective
1.        Supervision and administrative services in the form of financial
control; credit and farm input supply; marketing, crop and livestock surveys;
staff training; and Project evaluation. Coordination of all Project activities
by the Project Manager through various operational units.
Method
2.        Establishment of a headquarters office in Juba, a workshop at Yei,
and appointment of a Procurement Officer stationed in Nairobi. A building
unit would set up a coordinated building program for all Project segments.
A road building unit, expected to be financed by the United Kingdom would
assist the headquarter in construction of roads in project areas.
Investments
3.        Buildings, offices, stores, vehicles, staff salaries and operating
costs.
Staff
4.        A Project Manager, Financial Controller, Crop and Livestock Devel-
opment Manager, and 2 Marketing and Evaluation Economists (all internationally
recruited). One half of the time of the Smallholder Dairy Livestock Manager
would be allocated to headquarters to assist in the supervision of other
livestock programs. Supporting staff would include accountants, an input
purchasing officer, storemen, mechanics and office staff.
Costs
5.        Costs over four years would be bS 1,010,000 (US$2,900,000), of
which LS 575,000 (US$1,650,000) would represent foreign exchange.



SCHEDUILE 8
Page 2
Head quarters
Costs                             ;
Foreign
(EStOOO)       (US$ 'o0)        Exchange
lieadcg^artcr s
E. tjLal Cot,F
Building                      100             290              40
Venicle.                        30              85              90
!quipnent                       10             30               66
CO)erating, CoEts
bm)atriate salaries           200             565               85
Loca.l salarieF                135             390
Other cosFtE                   215             620              60
Subtotal      690           1,980               55
iliv<'ica'i contingencies - 1Q0   6              190              57
'rice contingenciec - 12% per
annun     25j'            730               57
Total       1,010            2,900              57
_ ~



SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION1
THE MINISTER
Ministry of Agriculture
i            ~~~~SXCEUTIYE COOMITTEE
Director - Agriculture, Deputy Director (Animal
Production) Project Director, Director of Finance,
Director CooperativeF and Rural Development
H.Q.Worsho                                                          I
.          ~~~PROJECT DEVELOPMENT UNIT                ..VETERI iif_
PROJECT DIRECTOR                                                ET S
| Ctto jCrop Developmen             CENTRAL SERl ICES H.Q.  Stock   -|Animal Devel- lLiv    ok    Anma  Hel
Manageri   Yei                    JUBA oarketing  LOment .age t Livest                        P
Food Crops                 AccountingCredit Pro- ._r            Smll]a7e-    Center Wau 7
I              ~~~~curement, Store Admin-             Dairy           __.                I 
~~~~~~~~i itration, Suipplies,                                                            - Stockman
|   TrialStation |           Plannina Offi-cer                                                  Training
|Seed Productioni
i                           Evaluation
Evaluation &
Training        .Market Development
Road Unit       |                            
b ..Wrkshop                                  
Bilateral kid or partially so.
4n:r3l 17, 'S7 97






SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION
AGRICU10ULTLEMMMtTATION PROSECT
(LS '0U00)
Animal                                     Live-tock                                                                                                                    Total
Food                           Disease      Dmallholdcr    Livesto-k    Improvement         Headqua-te-e    SOb-          Physical           Price                        us$ 'DOD         Foreign      Foreign
Items/Cor ...... poner.ts  C    r      o      p     Cottn Loffe-    -otrol    Dairy                     acreting    Center             and Poad  nrit    Total       Contingencies      Contingencies    Total    Equivalent=    Enchange   EXchange (us$'oo)
Buildings                                    150PDD '~^                        65          20               15           1                  100              395          40                   150           585        1,680             40              685
Dqnip-ent                                     70       1           .          45            5               20           -                    10             280           25                  105           410         1,180            95            1,000
Vehicles                                      55                                                            1.                                30              90           10                   35           133           390            go05
EDpatrinte Selaries                          "i         - t4                 145           PD                -           35                  20O             645           63                  250            960        2,735            85           2,350
Local Salacies                                3        4           4         22,           3D                            -                   139             710           70                  270         1,050         3,0125             - 
Vaocines, Fuel, Paces, ot       --e-rnlic e    o                    0 ?        o70         30                5            5                  215             805           80                  310         1,195         3,430            65            2,230
Live=to-k Furincees                           -         -          _            -                           1            1                                    30            5                   10            45          130                             -
S0b-total                             'iD)     13)         D10        750          l10               75           7U                  690            2,955         295                1,130          4,380       12,580             53           6,615
Physical  o      encies (1D                            15           J         75           10               1D           10                   63              295
Price Contingencies (120  -er an. '          30"0      50         13         315           4D               20           2C                  255           1,130
Total                          1,P00      Dot         470      1,140          160              IF5          100                1,010           4,380
i'S$ '000 Vquiv-lent                3,645       n        1 34)      3,7 20                                         9                2900            12,580
May L, 19%L,



TABLE 2
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Di.Ebursement Schedule
IDA FiEcal Year and                                   US$'COO
Quarter                              Disbursement                 Balance
1974/75
September 30 /                             -                        10,700
December  31                              150                       10,550
March     31                              300                       10,250
June      30                              400                        9,850
1975/76
September 30                              600                        9,250
December  31                              800                        8,450
March     31                            1,000                         7,450
June      30                            1,000                        6,450
1976/77
September 30                            1,000                       5,150
December  31                            1,000                       4,450
March     31                            L,OOO                        3,450
June      30                              900                       2, 550
1977/78
September 30                              700                        1,850
December  31                              60C                        1,250
March     31                              500                          750
June      30-/                            400                          350
1978/79
September 30                              200                          150
December  31                              150
Jtbne q03J
1/ Expected date of effectiveness
2/ Expected date of Project completion
3/ CloEing Date
April 17, 1974



TABLE 3
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT INTERNATIONALLY RECRUITED STAFF REQUIREMENTS
Man/Years
Project Program            Description                          Required
1. Headquarters
General               1 Project Director                               4
1 Financial Controller                           4
1 Crop Development Manager                       4
1 Livestock Development Manager                  4
2 Evaluation & Marketing
Economists                                  8
 Smallholder Livestock Specialist (see
Smallholder Dairy Development)             2
2. Foodcrop Development
(Manager shown in HQ)3 Research Station Yei                           12
1 Seeds Marketing                                3
2 Extension Training & Nutrition                 8
3. Cotton Development                                                      _
4.  Coffee Development   1 Coffee Extension Officer                        4
5.  Disease Control
Program           3 Veterinarians                                  12
6.  Smallholder Dairy     Smallholder Dairy Development
Program                 Manager (other half of Small-
holder Livestock Specialist)                2
7. Livestock Marketing
Program                                                             -
8. Livestock Improvement
Center            1 Livestock Center Manager                        4
GRAND TOTAL          18                                               71
1/ Apart from Project Director, Financial Controller and Crop Development
Manager (proposed for recruitment through ADS) the sources of other
staff procurment has not yet been determined.
April 16, 1974



SUDAN
SOlTHERN REGION
AGRICULTURAL REHILITATION PROJECT
Combined Government Cash Flow (LS'000)
Years             1           2           3           4            5             6              7             8             9            10            11             12             13-16          17-18         19-20
INFLOW
Funds from IDA and expected bilateral
aselstance                   1,330       1,100       1,020         970
Sale of Improved Seed                                         9          15          17           25            30            35             35            35            35            35             35              35             35
Sale of Cattle                                                                                    80            90            90             90            90            90            90             90              90             90             90
Tames on Incremental Production                              18          50          60          80             90           105            135           145           150           155            160             175            180           190
Repayment, Farmers Revolving Credit                         ____375
Subtotal                         L,330       1,12 7       L,Uh5       1,0147        185            214)          230           260            270          275            65,            285             300           305            330
OUTFLOW
Foodorop                                        455         270         225          250         230           220           180            180           180           150            150           150             130            ISO             -
Cotton                                           40          45          45           65          15            15             15            12            12            12
Coffee                                          115         100          130         125           a             8              8             8              8            8              8              6              6              6              6
Animal Disease Control                          415         470          415         350         311           2             220            220           220           210            130            170            160            i60            i6o
Smallholder Dairy                                50          35           30          45          10             8              8             8             6             6              6             4               4              4              4
Livestock Marketing                              35          30          25           15         70             70            70             70            70            70             70            70              70             70             70
Livestock Improvement Center                      -          70           30           -          15            15             15            15            15            15             -             -               -              -              -
Headquarters and Road Unit                      465         270          290         300
Service Charge & Repayments                       7          19           28          37         42             42            42             42            42            42             56             56             56             36             56
Subtotal                             1,5Y2       i ,309       i,23b       1,lb7        701            60             55b          555            5S3          513            471            15b            436            [46            29e
Surplus (Deficit)                                  (2)12)      (12)       (!53)       (140)      (516)           (43B)         (328)         (295)          (283)         (278)          185           (171)           (136)         (141)            16
Cumulative Deficit                                (242)        (42W)       (567)       (717)    (1,233)         (1,66i)       (I,99)        (2,294)        (2,577)      (2,815)        (2,630)       (2,801)         (2,937)        (3,078)        (3,062)
1/   Iclodes Government's 1,7 contribution to Project Cost,
April 1Y, 1974



RUAS
SDUlTRER RfEGION
AGRICULTURAL kERALLITdT109I PROJECT
E-coeRiC An-ly.tt
('308  efnt 4)
_         2        3        4         5        6         7        B         9        10       11       22        12       14       15        16        12       18        19       20
F ood CroPs
EcongLic B-ntits                          a        78       240      426      428      426       426      426       426      426       426      426      426       426      426       426      426      426       349       194
f-oe  te1i Costs                        643       364       302      310      196       169      199      199       199      158       153      138 15     8       158      158       156      138       158        C         0
Net Benfeits                       (643)      (286)     (62)    116        227      227       227      227      227       268      266       268      268      263       268      266       268      268       349      194
EeooMti  Rts  f ERetrn: 16h
-  107. Icresess it Poejert Costs-  14%1;  10%2  Ieret in P-ojort Benefits   13%.
-  Wittoet ShEdlr Pricing of 3,o4nr end EoreifEnG Eclteg           140.
Ecolrsof  Lonefit                                    o       16       63      150       260      344      389       389      389       389      389      389       388      389       389      389       389      38        396
Eeonfig  Rets                           187       L30       148      134       71        t6       66        66       66      100       102      100      100        67       67        67       62        67        62       67
Net Benefits                       (187)      (182)    6132)      (713      79      194       272      323      323       289       289      289      289      322       322      322       322       322      322       322
E-oDonlc ROto of e-tn-n: 27%
-  107. ote-see is P-o)srt Costs:  25%;  10h  Derrese Re Project NenRfite   2521.
-  Wfitbho-  Ihod-e  Plrticg of Tlhor sod   -rsiVn Forhego    242.
CoRttEo
Eooo-sir les.fits                         1         23       59      117      117       117      117       117      117      117       117      117       117      117      117       117       117      117      117       117
Eroesek Costs                            71        53        66       97       79        79       79        79       79        79       79       79       72        29        29       79                 269 79    78       79
Net Benefits                        (70)       (30)       (7)      20      32        38        38       38        38       38        36       39       36        35       38        38       38        38       38        38
EonetogfoRete oR Retor: 2321
1021oreost te P-ojart Cests:   16%;  107. D-cree in 7F-1-0L 3e-sfies:   15h.
-  Iithoet Shaede  Ptitgni oE Lobes erd Foreign EIthege:  13%.
RssaElRhode8   Datr2
EconfeResisir Reosfitl11 t1                                  32       43        43       43       43        43       43        48       43       43        43       43       43        43        43       43        43       43
ess9tseir Costs                          84         55 0   t          59        27       28       32 20              20 29              20        23       2D       23        27       20        20       20        20       20
Net R-rs3Ro                          (73)      (29)    (18)       (12)      16        23       23        23       23       18        23       23       2)        23       16        33       13        23       2          3 21
Er-stie FRte  ef Rrer: 107.
-  107. toertose it Poestf Cest:  72;  10% Isetosst it Ptojtc t eR-fIts   7h.
-  9RithoE  Shf- ereteog ol Ltbor anR Y-ti     Erhese:  8%.
Li-eRtotR sLe-kerine
Ecoseenie Reoefits                        0         22       54       95        95       95       95        95       95        95       95        92       95       95        15       95        95       95        95        95
Ceo_sntei Costs                          20         93       68       76       65        65       65        65       65        65       65       65        65       65        63       65        65      68         65       65
Ntt Benefits                         (20)      (71)      (14)      19       30        30       30        31       30        30       30       30        30       30        30       30        30       30        30       30
EeessRtie Rote of Met-rn 211
-  10% T-erease fn P-eec-t Costs   147;  107. D-Eresse ft Froject Resefft:  132
-  Withoet Shofs  PFtieing of Isbor std P-reRgn EehEtgs:  10%.
Deosi  Issase Genteel
Et--eDlt Reesfit                          I        297      311      321       330      341       350      360      371       302      393       405      418      430       443      456       473      409       489       953
Eto3gFic CR. t                          383       393       318      248       332      231       243      243      243       332      281       243      243      243       332      281       243       243      243       243
Net R-efitt                       (383)       (96)       (7)      73        (2)     110      107       117      128        50      1l2      162       175      187       111      175       282      240       248       228
Ilotoelec Eat=  of REt-st  16%
-  10%  Isseresor it Projert Ceete.  1121;12 ILs/7 erroet Rn ?tojnrt bepef{tts:  10%
-       0fth0oR  Sh.don Peiping of Labor eAd Forfgs.n fEh-eg-   112.
Itossesnit letetILs           ~~~14     449      119   1.072   1,1161   1,282    1,375   1,430   1,441    1,43.2    1,463    1,42 5    1,488    1,500    1,5213    1,526    1,244    1.553   2,482   23~51
EcoengDic  oett                      1.444     1,244       984       948       272 6L4           612       622 1,37           261      203      665       647      632       728      772       632      632       474      '42
RetlRo  OEits                    (1426)       (799)   (265)       124      388      6Z2       702       758      769      691       760      810       823      868      789       754       936      921   1,00g         R77
Btf3icsle Rote  ef Fetnro  182
-  10% Tocrteats  to Peejort Go.e,   167,;  10%De retnese Rn Projct Ben-fit-    t42.
-  Rihestl RShedon Pfriting ef LEbor xnd F-reign Exhoang-   1Z2.,
11 Inrcldss croneeRt benefite  OROOutiRER to 7g5 2,805;  4.000    2,000 eod 7,200, end etoeotfr rOst9 ss,Ot:tiog  so 
LS 52,000;  161,000;  32,000  cd 28,200, rospert-vel, for years I to 4 for 1Eoert2k reorsrv
April 17, 1974






ANNEX
Page 1
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
The economic rate of return for the Project has been calculated as
follows:
(a) Separate economic rates of return have been estimated for the
foodcrops, coffee, cotton, dairy, livestock marketing, and
animal disease control components of the Project and the
Project as a whole.
(b) A separate economic analysis has not been performed for the
livestock research center as the economic benefits from these
investments are partly reflected in other components of the
Project and, in part, accrue to the livestock sector as a
whole and, as such, fall outside the Project. All directly
identifiable costs and benefits of these components have,
however, been included in the analysis of the Project as a
whole.
(c) In the analysis of individual Project components, the
economic cost of Project headquarters has been allocated
to the fooderops, coffee, cotton, dairy, livestock marketing
and livestock research components on the basis of the
components' share in their combined investment cost. No
headquarters cost has been attributed to animal disease
control since the cost of management has been provided for
in the respective cost estimated for this component.
(d) The milk equivalent import parity price of 40 pt per gallon
has been used in calculating the economic benefits of the
dairy component. This price is 21 percent above the price
of 33 pt per gallon used in the financial analysis.



ANNEX
Page 2
(e) As there are few employment opportunities in rural or urban
areas, farmers' family labor has been assumed to have no
alternative employment opportunities and has been shadow priced
at zero. Unskilled labor has been shadow priced at 20 percent
of current market wage rates reflecting the low employability
of such labor outside the Project. Skilled labor in all com-
ponents is priced at market wage rates.
(f) In the calculation of economic costs all price contingency
allowances have been eliminated. Allowances for physical
contingencies are included, however.
(g) To more accurately reflect present currency parities, foreign
exchange has been shadow priced at 125 percent of expenditure
on capital and current Project inputs and of savings on
inports or earnings of exports of products produced under
the Project. For the purpose of this analysis, actual
foreign exchange expenditures have been calculated for all
Project components and shadow priced at the above rate.
Foreign exchange savings on product imports or earnings
from exportable products have been assumed to amount to 75
nercent of estimated output for the foodcrops, livestock
marketing aid, animal disease control components, and to 100
percent for the remaining components.
(h)  'roject related taxes and subsidies would be insignificant
;ind lhave been disregarded in the analysis.
(i) Rates of return have also been calculated allowing for a
10 percent increase in economic cost, and a 10% decrease
in economic benefits, and also without shadow pricing of
foreifn exchange and labor.
The ndjusted cost and benefits streams and the economic rates of
return reflectinrg the above assumptions are shown in Table 5.



IBRD 10775
24-                                                28                                                 32-                                         NOVEMBER 1973
SOUTHERN SUDAN                                                   \                                            <1
'12j                                    AGRICULTURAL    REHABILITATION    PROJECT                                                   r                                        2
PROJECT AREAS, RAINFALL AND ECOLOGICAL ZONES
-  Main roads          .......... Stock Route
C_ Cotton                             Flood region               Other roads         -00   Rainfall in millimeters  j  \ I
CH                  Coffee                       //,Ironstone plaJteau Crv.)  |   |Railways                                  !t                                -- 
~~j         i ~~~~Forestry                  g   .Central hills iFood CroP.)   Rivers)                                                                     |\
\ ? Dairy i3i ~~~~~~~~~~~~Greern belt JF..d C-0           v     s --Provincial boundaries gy)Xz/  f
LilLivestock and Antmol Health       Southeastern plains  _-Internaztional boundaries-                                     \                  J5 
iCrop Trial Center                  i Mountain slopes and hills (Food )    \//t//
AS F R IA C N
p    R~~~~~~
REPUBLI C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
gor~ ~ f
V                                              



