CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 476 SU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 5, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 476 SU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 5, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1974, between THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Development Unit" or "PDU" means the Project Development
Unit established in the Southern Regional Government's Ministry of Agriculture,
Irrigation, Forestry and Animal Production pursuant to Section 3.03 of, and
Schedule 4 to, this Agreement;
(b)   "Southern Region" or "Southern Region of the Sudan" means the
Southern Provinces of the Sudan, as defined by Section 2(iii) of the Borrower's
Southern Provinces Regional Self Government Act, 1972, which constitutes a
self-governing region within the Democratic Republic of the Sudan;
(c)   "Southern Regional Government" means the regional government
established in the Borrower's Southern Region under Article 8 of the Borrower s
Constitution of 1973 and in accordance with the Borrower's Southern Provinces
Regional Self Government Act, 1972; and
(d)   "Rehabilitation  Program"  means   the  Borrower's  agricultural
rehabilitation program for the Southern Region as described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million seven hundred thousand
dollars ($10,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods, the carrying out of works or services (other than consultants'
services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 1
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing
August 1, 1984, and ending February 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on February 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Southern
Regional Government with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide
to the Southern Regional Government, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services, staff and 6ther resources (including adequate fuel) required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction to the Borrower's obligations
under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall provide the Southern
Regional Government (i) with an amount initially of not less than two hundred
fifty thousand Sudanese Pounds (fs250,000) to be made available by July 1, 1974
for the purposes of the Project and (ii) all such other sums as the Southern Regional
Government shall require to carry out the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be established in the Southern
Regional Government's Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation, Forestry and Animal
Production the Project Development Unit and the Executive Committee described
in Schedule 4 hereto.
(b)   The Borrower shall under arrangements satisfactory to the Association
cause a Project account to be established in the name of the Project Development
Unit to which shall be credited all sums which the Borrower is to provide the
Southern Regional Government under Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association an adequate number of qualified
and experienced staff to carry out the Project.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the operating
policies and procedures for the carrying out of the Project shall be as set forth
in the Annex to Schedule 2 hereto.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿6
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project and the Rehabilitation Program (including the cost of the
Project) and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and the Rehabilitation Program and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project and the Rehabilitation Program,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall ensure that, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the price paid for cotton grown in the Southern Region by the
Equatoria Agricultural Production Corporation shall be not less than 3.5 piastas
per pound of seed cotton.
Section 3.10. The Borrower: (i) shall carry out or cause to be carried out
the Rehabilitation Program with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, agricultural and financial practices; and (ii) shall
not make any material changes in the stated objectives of the Rehabilitation
Program without the Association's prior agreement.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause PDU to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of PDU.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause PDU to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of PDU and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause PDU to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. The Association may, upon the occurrence of certain events
specified in Sections 6.02 or 7.01 of the General Conditions and the continuance
thereof for the period, if any, specified for the purpose: (i) suspend in whole
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account
or (ii) declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately together with the charges thereon.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿8
(a)   the establishment of PDU's Executive Committee; and
(b)   the appointment of a Project Director acceptable to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date September 6, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Commissioner General for Development of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
National Planning Commission
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:
EIMAR
Khartoum, Sudan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representativeb thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /s / Abdel Aziz Al Nasri Hamza
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Michael L. Lejeune
Director, Country Programs Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Food crops devel-              2,010,000    )
opment                                      )
II.   Cash crop develop-                          )
ment including                              )
Credit to farmers                           )
for on-farm in-                             )
vestments:                                  )
(a)   Cotton                     310,000    )
(b)   Coffee                     760,000    )     100% of foreign
)     expenditures or
(c)   Dairy                      270,000    )     85% of local ex-
)    penditures
III.  Animal Disease                 1,81 5,000   )
Control                                     )
IV.   Livestock market-               180,000     )
ing and survey                              )
V.    Livestock improve-              170,000     )
ment center                                 )
VI.  Project head-                   1,685,000    )
quarters                                    )
VII. Unallocated                    3,500,000
TOTAL         10,700,000


﻿11
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories I, II and VI on account of
expenditures incurred after August 1, 1973 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $160,000;
(b)   expenditures relating to any Category until the Association notifies
the Borrower thai it is satisfied that adequate staff and management exist for the
Part of the Project to which the Category relates; and
(c)   expenditures relating to Category V until the Association notifies the
Borrower that it is satisfied that families now on the Wau Ranch have been resettled
outside the ranch.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet such estimated
shortfall proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,


﻿12
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms a part of the Borrower's program for the rehabilitation
of agriculture, livestock and forestry in the Southern Region of the Sudan. The
Rehabilitation Program involves the development of food crops, reestablishment
of cash crops, improvement of animal health, smaltholder dairy development,
livestock marketing, development of a livestock center, necessary agricultural feeder
roads and forestry development to provide the frame-work for long-term growth
of the agricultural sector in the Southern Region of the Sudan. The Project, which
includes about 60 man-years of specialist technical services, consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:      The establishment of (i) a main crop experimental station with offices,
housing, a seed production farm and processing and storage facilities
at Yei to produce improved seed for sale to farmers, (ii) district crop
trial stations to carry out local testing of seeds and serve as extension
work centers, (iii) a workshop, (iv) a seed marketing unit at Yei to
distribute improved seed to farmers, and (v) an extension, nutrition
and communications center to develop and provide services to farmers.
Part B:      The provision    to  about   10,000  smallholder farmers in suitable
cotton-growing areas of the Southern Region where adequate
seed-cotton purchasing arrangements and ginning facilities are available
of (i) credit for the purchase of sprayers and insecticides for disease
control and (ii) necessary extension services and staff training.
Part C:      The provision of seedling nurseries, necessary irrigation facilities,
processing plants, storage facilities, credit and extension services to
about 3,200 smallholder farmers in Equatoria Province for the
production of Robusta or other suitable coffee.
Part D:      Part of a program     to control Rinderpest and Contagious Bovine
Pleuropneumonia and other cattle diseases in the Southern Region
including (i) the construction at Juba of a central vaccine laboratory
and two provincial laboratories at Wau and Malakal which will provide
diagnostic services and serve as bases for mobile disease survey units,
(ii) the establishment of locally staffed vaccination teams and the
operation of a stockman training school at Malakal, and (iii) a four-year
campaign to vaccinate annually when fully operational about 70 per
cent of cattle in the Southern Region.


﻿14
Part E:     The establishment of about 60 ten-acre smallholder dairy farms for
use by about 700 head of local dairy cows.
Part F:     Development of a livestock marketing and survey program involving
the establishment of mobile marketing teams to act as residual buyers
of livestock at local markets.
Part G:    The establishment of a livestock improvement center at the Marial Bai
cattle ranch to evaluate the performance of local cattle and to study
the management techniques necessary for the development of an
integrated ranching industry.
Part H:     The establishment of headquarters to provide the staff and other inputs
needed to coordinate and carry out the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


﻿15
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Operating Policies and Procedures
Part 1
A.    Food Crop Development
(1)   Improved seed will be produced at a main center and sold by the marketing
section either directly from trucks or through local storekeepers who will receive
about 20% of the price as commission. The seed will be sold at a price to be
determined annually by the Borrower.
(2)   The main crop trial center at Yei will provide a center for a food crop
extension and nutrition unit which will give advice to farmers throughout the
Southern Region on the agronomic qualities of the new seed varieties and advise
the center of the suitability and palatability of different varieties.
B.    Cotton Development
(1)   Credit will be provided for inputs to enable farmers to spray their cotton.
(2)   Loans for sprayers and insecticides will be consolidated in annual loans to
each farmer recoverable in full from annual cotton sales.
C.    Coffee Development
(1)   About 3,200 farmers will receive credit for coffee development. Each farmer
will be eligible to receive a medium-term loan bearing interest of not less than
7-1/2% per annum and repayable over 8 years (with a 3-year grace period on
principal and interest) for the purchase of planting material, drying trays and, where
required, supplemental irrigation equipment and for operating costs of irrigation
equipment.
(2)   The Yei center will manage coffee development and provide maintenance
facilities for farmers' pumps, and hulling and cleaning plants.
D.    Animal Disease Control
The vaccination teams plus laboratory facilities in each province will
complement veterinarians and vehicles from other sources. The teams are expected
to vaccinate annually about 70 per cent of the Southern Region's cattle when


﻿16
fully operational. The Veterinary Department of the Southern Regional Government
will be entrusted with responsibility for carrying out this portion of Part D of
the Project.
E.    Smallholder Dairy Development
(1)   About 600 acres of irrigated pasture will be developed in blocks adjacent
to a river. Smallholder dairy farmers will be established on individual 10 acre farms.
They will select 12 of their own cows in milk for grazing on the farms. Three
12 acre demonstration units will be established within the development areas to
assist and train the cattle owners.
(2)   Costs of irrigation machinery, fencing, simple dairy building, dairy equipment
fertilizer and land development will be consolidated into a loan for each farmer.
Loans will be repayable over 8 years with interest at not less than 7-1/2% per
cent per annum.
F.    Livestock Marketing and Survey
(1)   A livestock marketing unit will construct holding grounds at Wau, Malakal
and Juba and improve the Rumbeck-Juba stock route.
(2)   A $65,000 equivalent revolving trading fund will be operated for the purchase
of cattle at a price to be periodically determined by the Executive Committee.
(3)   The livestock marketing unit will also obtain information on cattle production
and movements. The information will be analyzed by the livestock economist at
Project headquarters.
G.    Livestock Improvement Center
(1)   The center will be located at the Government-owned Marial Bai cattle ranch.
(2)   It will provide the infrastructure necessary to carry out cattle breeding and
fattening operations. The staff of the Center will collect and analyze data on grazing
patterns, mortality, fertility, pasture management, stocking rates and development
and production costs. Data collected will be compared with performance data from
local nomadic herds.
Part 2
A.    Repayments from farmers will be channelled into a revolving fund to provide
further credit to cotton, coffee and smallholder dairy farmers. A further $65,000


﻿17
will be utilized by PDU as a trading capital fund for cattle purchases under Part
F of the Project. Any surplus funds from repayments by farmers and the trading
capital fund will after the end of Project implementation be utilized by the
Borrower for other agricultural credit operations in the Southern Region.
B.    Payments from the Project account will be made by the Financial Controller
of PDU for all Parts of the Project except Part D after certification by the Project
Director. Payments for Part D will be made by the said Financial Controller after
certification by the Assistant Director of the Department of Animal Production
of the Southern Region.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A(4) hereof contracts for vehicles shall be let
under procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972,
as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.    (a)  Contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding restricted to firms in the Sudan and adjacent countries.
However with the agreement of the Association civil works may be carried out
by force account.
(b)   Goods other than vehicles costing the equivalent of $30,000 or more
and any such goods if capable of being grouped into packages exceeding the
equivalent of $30,000 as required by Part A.3 hereof, shall be procured on the
basis of local competitive bidding restricted to firms in the Sudan and its adjacent
countries.
(c)   Goods other than vehicles costing the equivalent of less than $30,000
shall be procured by negotiated purchase after solicitation of quotations from
suppliers in the Sudan and its adjacent countries.
3.    Tenders for contracts for civil works or for goods other than vehicles shall
be advertised in the Sudan and its adjacent countries. Where feasible such goods
will be grouped into packages exceeding $30,000 in accordance with sound technical
and procurement practices. Tenders for civil works contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $30,000 may be advertised in the Sudan only.
4.    The Borrower may procure five vehicles through regular commercial channels.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to contracts for vehicles other than vehicles referred to in Part
A(4) hereof:


﻿19
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association,shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2. With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Project Development Unit
A.    Functions
1.   PDU will be responsible for the implementation and overall management of
all Parts of the Project except Part D (animal disease control). It will also provide
extension and research assistance to farmers, operate the Project account mentioned
in Section -3.03(b) of this Agreement and be responsible for the procurement of
goods and services under the Project, evaluation and collection of research data.
PDU will be responsible for local training activities involving the training school
at Yei and for providing lower level Project staff with training. PDU will also arrange
for about 12 man-years training for graduate and diploma staff with particular
emphasis on farm management techniques.
2.    PDU will keep separate accounts of all Project costs which should show their
relation to the respective Parts of the Project.
3.    A road section will be attached to PDU to provide necessary feeder roads
required for the coffee, cotton, food crop and other operations under the Project.
4.    PDU will, within the existing civil service regulations, have power to employ
such staff as may be required to carry out its functions and pay such special
allowances as may be necessary to obtain competent staff.
B.    Executive Committee
1.   PDU's activities will be directed by an Executive Committee responsible to
the Minister of Agriculture, Irrigation, Forestry and Animal Production of the
Southern Regional Government. The Committee's members will include (a) the
following officials of the Southern Regional Government: the Director of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation, Forestry and Animal Production as chairman,
the Director of the Ministry of Finance and Planning, the Director of the Ministry
of Co-operation and Rural Development, or their representatives, and the Assistant
Director (Animal Production); (b) such other persons as the Executive Committee
may co-opt; and (c) the Project Director.
2.    The Project Director will be responsible to the Executive Committee for
the implementation of all Parts of the Project except Part D.


