Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Co?. /y P/- $k1-'
Report No. 4897-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDI I rI PROJECT (CHINA INVES9MENT BINK I1,
May 15, 1984
Projects Departmient
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diselosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Official Rate
1 Yuan (Y)  =  US$0.49
2.06 Yuan (Y)  =  US$1.00
(as of February, 1984)
Internal Settlement Rate
1 Yuan (Y)   =  US$0.36
2.8 Yuan (Y)   =  US$1.o0
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BOC       -   Bank of China
CCAFM     -   China Consultants of Accounting and Financial Management
CIB       -   China Investment Bank
CIECC     -   China International Engineering Consulting Corporation
CNTIC     -   China National Technical Import Corporation
DFC       -   Development Finance Company
EDI       -   Economic Development Institute
GDP       -   Gross Domestic Product
ICB       -   International Competitive Bidding
ICBC      -   Indtistrial and Commercial Bank of China
MOF       -   Ministry of Finance
PBC       -   People's Bank of China
PCBC      -   People's CQ_nstruction Bank of China
SDR       -   Special Drawing Right
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT II PROJECT (CEINA INVESTMENT BANK II)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ................ * .                               I .. ..... ... . a *  1
Characteristics and Accimpllshments                                   1
Weaknesses     ...............   I. .......... .                      1
Con-traints on Growth in the 1980s ..........................         2
Government Strategys........... *.... ..                              2
Recent Developments ....................  ,                          2
II.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR........    3
Role .....                          ........                          3
Tnstitutional Background... .          ...-. .-.. ... .- . ..- . . .-  3
Investment FinanceR  ......................             ......        3
Interest Rae-n.........*-*.-*..-.... ***.-@vv*..........5
Bank O0jectives and Role in Industrial and Financial
Secos       ector.s ..  .....*.~**a*~...,.. .                      5
III.    THE CHINA INVESTMENT BANK (CIB).................. .                     6
Establishment.... .. .0 ......               . ... ....               6
Performance under CIB I .... ...... ..... . ....... . ..... .         6
CIB II Objectives and Strategy        ...                             7
Management, Organization, Staffing and Traing             .g          7
Policies and Strategy. .       -.. ......... o .........     . -.    12
Procedures........ ..........          .......................       13
Opertins....i o....                                                  16
Resources and Financial Position.o..-i o .......17
Accounting System, Audit and Project Completion Report...            18
Prospects and Projections........ .........    .......               18
*       IV.    THE PROPOSED LOA N/CR E D I T                                           19
Amount and Maturity. .............................          . , f    19
Onlending Terms  .                        . . . . . . .    . a. .    20
Free Limit, Maximum Subloan Size and Debt/Equity Ratio.....          20
Procurement and Disbursement                  , ...... ....          21
Environmental Safeguards..e.g.,   ...                               22
Benefits and Risks                  ....... *o .......       *       22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal 'mission to China in
October 1983. Mission members were Stephen EttLnger (Mission Leader), Edgar
Su, and Alain Soulard.
I This document has a restricted distribution and tnay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM4ENDATIONS........... ..........,   23
ANNEXES
1.    Policy Statement of the China Investment Bank
2.    Development Strategy Statement for 1984-19B6 of the China Investment
Bank
3.    CIB Five-Year Financial and Operational Projections
4.    Sectoral Distribution of CIB I Subprojects
5.    Estimated Cumulative Disbursements of the Proposed Loan/Credit
6.    Selected Dccuments and Data Available in the Proj,et File
CHART
China Investment Bank Organization Chart
MAP
IBRD 17773R - China Industrial Credit II Project



CHINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CHINA INViESTMENT BANK II)
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower;             People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:          China Investmert Bank (CIB)
Amount:               $175.0 million equivalent, comprising $105.0 million
equivalent IBRD and SER 65.8 million ($70.0 million
equivalent) IDA_
Terms:                Loan:  20 years, including 5 years grace; standard
variable interest rate.
Credit: Standard
Relending Terms:      Loan and Credit:  20 years, including 5 years of grace;
fixed interest rate of 7.0% p.a., plus commitment fees
equal to those under the loan and credit; the Government
would bear the interest rate risk on the Bank loan and
the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and (a)
the currency pool for the Bank loan and (b) the SDR for
the IDA credit.  Subborrowers would bear the foreign
exchange risk between the US dollar and the Yuan.
Project
Description:        The project furthers the development of CIB, which pro-
vides investment loans for small- and medium-size indus-
trial projects needing foreign exchange. The objective
would be to help raise investment efficiency through
import of technology and the introduction of improved
project design and selection methodology. Subborrowers
would be some 60-80 state and collective enterprises
primarily in coastal provinces and municipalities. Based
on the experience under CIB I, the investments are
expected to have high financial and economic returns.
The main project risks relate to the capacity of CIB,
which is a young institution, to strengthen its appraisal
standards, especially in the technical, economic and
marketing areas, and to the need for continued government
commitment to CIB within the process of economic
reform. However, the project provides for recruitment of
additional technical and economic staff, plus training
and marketing consultancy for CIB. This will further
strengthen CIB's ability to identify and evaluate
projects. Furthermore, the Government's commitment to
economic reforms and to CIB remains firm.



- i~i -
Bank FY       1985       1986       1987       1988      1989
------- $ millions ---------------
Estimated
Disbursement:       Annual         3.0        37.0        70.0       35.,j    30.0
Cumulative   3.0         40.0       110.0      145.0    175.0
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 4897-CHA, dated May 15, 1984
i



CHINA
INDUSTRIAL CRED!, II PROJECT (CHINA INVESTMENT BANK II)
I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Characteristics and Accomplishments
1.01      China is ore of the world's ten leading industrial producers, and
has the largest full-time industrial employment (56 million). However,
manufacturirg output per capita is only about 25% of the average for middle
income countries and about 4% of that for industrialized market economies.
State enterprises comprise only 22% of China's 389,000 industrial enterprises,
the rest being urban or rural collectives, but account for 78% of output.
Manufactured exports were only 4.1% of gross industrial output in 1982, but
accounted for 55% of total merchandise exports. Textiles were 21% of total
exports, other light industrial products 14%, and heavy industrial goods
20%. Industrial exports grew by about 20% p.a. in real terms over 1977-81,
and by 10% in 1982 despite the world recession. A wide range of Chinese
manufactures are internationally competitive in terms of production cost, but
quality and variety often need more emphasis. Three accomplishments of
Chinese industry stand ,out. First, despite periodic disruptions, gross output
has grown at nearly 10% p.a. since 1957, due to a very high rate of fixed
investment in industry, averaging 10-15% of GDP. Second, the industrial base
was broadened to produce nearly a full range of machinery and industrial raw
materials. Third, China has mobilized unskilled labor, rural savings, and
low-grade raw materials to establish a large number of small-scale rural
factories, bringing extra income and basic goods (albeit often of low quality)
to rural areas, and contributing greatly to employment.
Weaknesses
1.02      Chinese industry also has numerous shortcomings.  (a) Inputs are
used very inefficiently, and total factor productivity has not changed since
the 1950s; incremental capital/output ratios have risen, overmanning is wide-
spread and energy use per unit of GDP is 2-1/2 times that of other developing
countries. (b) The structure of production is unbalanced: heavy industry,
with its high demands on scarce capital and energy, has received 80% of total
fixed industrial investment; foreign trade has been relatively neglected.
(c) Technology is outmoded in many sectors; while the use of older, labor-
intensive equipment is generally sensible given Chinese factor proportions, a
lot of Chinese equipment and processes produce substandard products or waste
energy and raw materials. (d) Decisions are badly coordinated: supply and
demand are often mismatched and investments made with insufficient attention
to choice of location, scale, or product mix.  Some of these weaknesses are
the result of past policy errors, neglect of medium term economic planning,
and two decades of international isolation. Others stem from deficiencies in
the economic system: insufficient incentives to conserve inputs or improve
output quality, distorted prices, restricted access to imports, and inadequate
contacts between producers and users and among different ministries and
regions.



-2-
Constraints on Growth in the 1980s
1.03      It is particularl) important now to correct these weaknesses because
the conditions which favoredl past industrial success have substantially
altered. Most importantly, domestic energy output is likely to expand at no
more than 2% p.a. during the remainder of the 1980s. Raw materials, transport
and high level manpower will also be constraints. In addition, in view of
past industrial over-investment and in order to free more resources for the
energy and transport sectors and for consumption, Government is trying to
reduce the resources allocated to industrial investment. But at the same
time, industrial exports will have to expand, in the face of difficult world
market conditions, to help offset reduced energy exports, and industry must
remain a principal source of new jobs. It is possible for industry to grow at
about 8% p.a., as called for in Government's long-term prospectus, provided
that China reduces its unit energy and materials consumption, emphasizes light
industry, and, in general, continues to reform its economic system so as to
make efficiency the main engine of growth.
Government Strategy
1.04      In 1979, Government introduced a policy of adjustment and reform.
The adjustment has increased the emphasis on: (a) light industry; (b) maru-
factured exports; (c) "modernization" of existing workshops, rather than
"capital construction" (which involves building new facilities); and
(d) energy conservation. The main thrust of reform has been to decentralize
decision-making and to rely more on incentives and markets to guide
decisions. The changes affecting industry include: (a) profit and foreign
exchange retention; (b) wider use of loans and other capital charges;
(c) increased use of bonuses; (d) encouragement of foreign partnerships, urban
collectives and very small private enterprises; and (e) limited price changes
and more flexible pricing and marketing arrangements. In the Sixth Five-Year
Plan (1981-85), about one-third of total industrial investment is to be for
modernization, two-thirds for capital construction. To help implement this
program, Government is expanding imports of technology, through joint
ventures, compensation trade (where the equipment supplier accepts Chinese
exports: as; payment), licensing agreements, and import of equipment, increas-
ingly with technical assistance and/or training attached.
Recent Developments
1.05      The adjustment program was initially fairly successful in control-
ling investment and shifting emphasis toward light industry, which also helped
reduce energy consumption. But actual capital construction in 1982 exceeded
the plan by 25%, using mainly extra-budgetary finance (para. 2.04), primarily
for industry and housing. This strained the supply of energy, building
materials and transport capacity, and drained resources from light industry
and from high priority energy and transport projects, while output of heavy
industry, in supplying the producer goods demanded, greatly exceeded the
plan. Industrial reform had raised the enthusiasm of enterprises for increas-
ing output and profits, but had not been accompanied by more extensive pricing
changes to give better allocation signals. Furthermore, there was no measur-
able improvement in industrial efficiency. In response, Government has
tightened control over investment finance and stopped many low-priority
projects.



-3-
II.  THE FINANCIAI. SECTOR
Ro1e
2.01       As in most centrally-planned economies, China's financial system is
relatively underdeveloped because most fixed Investment and even worklng
capital has been financed through the budget.  The financial system has served
m2inly to channel budgetary funds for approved purposes and to help control
state and collective enterprises. More recently, increased attention has been
paid to using the banks to mobilize savings, increase investment efficiency,
and provide a detailed review of project proposals independeit of the enter-
prises and their supervisory agencies.
Institutional Background
2.02      China's financial system has included five specialized state banks
grouped under two separate jurisdictions. The People's Bank of China (PBC)
has had ministry-level status as a multi-purpose central and commercial
bank. Under PBC have been the Bank of China (BOC), responsible for commercial
transactions and loans in foreign exchange, and the Agricultural Bank of
China, in charge of banking and financial administration in rural areas
nationwide. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) has supervised two institutions:
the People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC), which has the main financial
responsibility for appraising and disbursing for capital construction in the
productive and social sectors of the economy, through both grants and loans in
local currency, and the recently-established China Investment Bank (CIB),
which lends for investments requiring foreign exchange to modernize or expand
industrial enterprises.
2.03      In September 1983, the State Council reformed the financial system
by formally establishing PBC as the central bank, mandated to supervise the
banking operations of all other financial institutions. The practical impli-
cations of this -'ange are still being spelled out. PBC's commercial banking
activities (taking deposits and providing short-term working capital loans and
medium-term modernization loans) were spun off to form the Industrial and
Commercial Bank of China (ICBC). The extension of PBC's supervisory role over
the entire financial system is a further step towards separating MOF's fiscal
functions from the regular banking activities of the financial system, and
provides an institutional framework within which other financial sector
issues, such as interest rates and the roles of the various specialized banks,
can be dealt with. It is also expected to reinforce the ongoing effort to
increase the efficiency of investment by shifting from a grant system
administered by MOF to a more autonomous credit system. In addition, a
Financial Board of Governors representing MOF and the main banks was
established, to improve coordination in policy making and implementation.
Investment Finance
2.04      Fixed investment in China is financed from a variety of sources:
state budget grants (from central and local governments), extra-budgetary
funds of various government agencies, enterprises' retained profits and
depreciation allowances, domestic bank loans and foreign loans. The share
financed by state budget grants has fallen steadily, from an average of 85%
over 1962-66, to 31% in 1982. Until 1979, the offsetting increase was



- 4 -
virtually all from enterprises and government agencies; bank loans financed
less than 2% of fixed investment. Since then, the role of credit has expanded
dramatically: in 1982, domestic bank loans financed 16% of fixed investment
in the state-owned sector, and foreign loans a further 7%, as showi, in Table
2.1:
Table 2.1: FINANCING OF FIXED INVESTMENT IN 1982 (STATE SECTOR)
Capital
construction   Modernization         Total
…(Y billion) --------------
Source of Funds
State budget grants                        23.2            3.3             26.5
Enterprises and agencies                   19.3           19.0             38.3
Domestic bank loans                         7.3            6.4             13.7
Foreign loans                               5.7            0.3              6.0
Total                                    55.6           29.G             84.5
Of which:   Heavy industry                (21.4)         (14.3)           (35.6)
Light industry                (4.6)          (6.4)            (11.0)
Source:   1983 Almanac of China's Economy (p. II1-82) and 1983 China
Statistical Yearbook (p. 360).
Now PCBC passes on budget funds as loans to most enterprises that are
profitable; the state budget grants go mainly for infrastructure, plus certain
industries (e.g. coal mining), which have high priority but low profits. Most
of the investment in light industry (of which 40% is iTI textiles and 30% in
food processing) is loan financed. The domestic bank loans for capital
construction are mostly from PCBC, using both state budget funds and
enterprise and agency deposits; those for modernization are chiefly from ICBC
and BOC. Under the new banking system, most of PCBC's modernization lending
is to be transferred to ICBC.  All lending is supposed to be in line with the
annual national credit plan prepared by PBC and approved by the State Council;
however, investment lending for capital construction in 1982 was Y 7.3
billion, while only Y 3.5 billion was in the plan. Renewed efforts are now
being made to control this lending.
2.05      The shift from grants to loans gave enterprise managers some
incentive to economize on investment costs, as higher amortization reduced
profits, which have been one measure of enterprise performance. The
introduction of limited profit retention increased this incentive, and a
recent partial shift from profit remittance to an industrial income tax should
go further in this direction. However, given the existing distorLed price
structure, full reliance on credit would shift investment towards the more
financially profitable industries, which may not be those with the highest
economic returns. The success of the financial reforms will therefore remain
incomplete without comprehensive price reform.



- 5 -
2.06      Foreign Exchange Finance.  Enterprises whose investments include
foreign exchange costs often look for overseas partners, usually for compensa-
tion trade, especially if overseas marketing is expected to be critical and
difficult. Those enterprises which do not need or which fail to obtain such
partners, turri to BOC or GIB for foreign exchange investment loans. BOC
became very active in this area only in 1982; until then, it concentrated on
short-term finance. It has been using China's balance-of-payments surplus for
most of its investment lending for modernization projects, which exceeded
US$600 million in 1983, for 3,300 projects. If that source dries up, BOC may
make greater use of the foreign suppliers' and buyers' credits for which it is
the sole channel. BOC's loan criteria remain primarily commercial, with the
ability to generate foreign exchange to repay the loan given greatest
weight. In some provinces, CIB and BOC meet together with the core agencies
to divide up the investment program; in others, they actively compete for
business. The competition is based in part on special terms and exemptions
for one or the other bank from the Government; these anomalies have arisen due
to the hitherto uncoordinated decision-making in the financial sector.
However, they do not seriously affect the competitive position of CIB, nor do
they lead to significant misallocation of resources, and coordination is
expected to improve (para. 2.03).
Interest Rates
2.07      Lending rates to industry, while positive in real terms, are low by
international standards; however, there are other charges on capital which
reduce the subsidy to capital otherwise implicit in low interest rates. The
highest local currency rate is for working capital, 7.2% p.a., to discourage
excessive inventories. Fixed investments for modernization are deemed more
profitable than those for capital construction, and local currency loans for
the former by PCBC and ICBC therefore carry higher rates of 5.04% to 6.48%
p.a., compared to 2.4% to 3.6% p.a. for capital construction. Lending rates
on foreign currency loans are set partly by reference to international
rates. However, BOC's rate on US dollar loans for modernization was lowered
in 1983 from 10-11% p.a. to 7.5'%-8.5% p.a.. The Government also made an
exceptional allocation of $500 million at China's own foreign exchange for
selected projects in Shanghai and Tianjin to hasten modernization there; BOC
charges enterprises 2.52% p.a. for these funds to cover its costs. Deposit
rates for enterprises and agencies are 1.8% p.a. for demand deposits and 3.6%
to 5.04% p.a., for time deposits, depending on maturity.  As part of its
financial and other economic reforms, China needs to develop a more corLsistent
interest rate policy once the banking reorganization is completed.
Bank Objectives and Role in Industrial and Financial Sectors
2.08      The Bank's principal objective in industry and finance is to support
the program of adjustment and reform focussing on areas where prior experience
and expertise gives it a comparative advantage. The focus is on improving
policies and institutions, upgrading technology, conserving energy and
promotJng exports. So far, the Bank's only industrial lending operation has
been the first Industrial Credit Project (CIB I - Credit 1313/Loan 2226-CIA),
which was approved by the Executive Directors on December 21, 1982. That
project's focus on modernization of existing enterprises, with emphasis on
import of technology and exporL promotion, fits in well with the Government's
adjustment strategy. CIB also supports the reform objective of improving



-6-
project quality by introducing comprehensive project appraisal methodologi.es
including economic cost/benefit analysis. The implementation performance
under that project has been generally satisfactory (para. 3.02). The May 1983
industrial projects reconinaissance mission discussed with the Government
pos3sble projects ln machine tools, fertilizer, cement and electronics;
preparation work on the first two of these has started and is providing the
initial opportunity for the Bank to do extensive work on industrial subsectors
and to assist the Government in subsector planning. All four projects would
emphasize technological modernization, and the fertilizer and cement projects
would also focus on energy conservation. In addition, a collaborative
research project on enterprise management withi the Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences is producing factory-level data with a view to understanding how
enterprises make investment, production and marketing decisions. Finally, an
IDA credit (1462-CHA), equivalent to $50 million, was recently approved for a
Rural Credit Project that will finance a wide range of activities, including
agroprocessing, through the Agricultural Bank of China, in Guangxi Zhuang
Autonomous Region.
III. THE CHINA INVESTMENT BANK (CIB)
Establishment
3.01      The need for a financial intermediary for industrial lending
involving import of equipment and technology was identified by the Bank's
first economic mission to China in October-December 1980. With advice and
assistance from a number of Bank mi.ssions, the Gov-ruiuLent formally established
CIB in December 1981, when its Charter was approvel by the State Council, as
its fifth bank and first development finance compiny (DFC). CIB is officially
under the leadership of MOF, and, in practice, remains closely tied to its
parent agency, PCBC, for administrative services, access to enterprises and
other agencies, assignment of managers and staff, etc. An initial share
capital of Y400 million was paid in by the Government in early 1982, and the
Bank/Association provided CIB's first foreign exchange for lending with a loan
of $40.6 million (including a front-end fee of $0.6 million) and a credit of
SDR 28 million (equivalent to $30 million) under CIB I.
Performance under CIB I
3.02      CIB and Government did an excellent job by meeting the six
substantive conditions of effectiveness almost on schedule, and CIB I became
effective April 5, 1983.  Subloan approvals have been rapid - 77% of the sub-
loan component has been committed in the thirteen months since effectiveness,
to 32 subprojects (para. 3.29) -- but disbursement by CIB has been slow ($3.5
million) due primarily to factors related to Government procurement procedures
(para. 3.26), which CIB is trying to change.  The quality of subprojects has
generally been good (para. 3.21), but that of appraisal reports uneven, though
improving (para. 3.23).  The main weaknesses are in economic, marketing and
technical analysis. CIB has had only a limited impact on subproject design to
date, as due to its newness and staff shortages it has tended to become
involved relatively late in the project cycle. The $1.0 million earmarked for
preparation subloans (for potential borrowers to hire expatriate technical
consultants or make overseas factory visits in connection with preparation of



-7-
their subprojects) has not been utiltzed because foreigrn exchange
liberalization has made it possible for, the enterprises to obtain the rela-
tively small amounts needed from other sources, usu:all on softer terms
(grants ur local currency loans with permission to ;urchase the foreign
exchange at the official exchange rate). This amount will be reallocated to
the investment subloan component, as most overseas study tours, w'ich can only
take place after subloan approval (para. 3.26), would be financed as part of
the investment subloans. The $300,000 for technical assistance and overseas
training for CIB has also not been committed yet, except for a small amount
used for the April 1984 EDI course (para. 3.13), as CIB has seen no need so
far for expatriate engineering advice beyond that supplied by Bank missions,
and is emphasizing domestic rather than overseas training tor now, largely
because of the lack of knowledge of foreign languages among its staff. Funds
under this component of CIB I will remain available for use during the CIB II
commitment period and could be used to finance cerseas post-graduate train-
ing, particularly in economics (para. 3.09), and engineering consultancy for
some of the larger subprojects, to be determined on a case-by-case basis.
3.03      Overall, CIB's initial institutional development has been reasonably
good, given the general shortage of people with the relevant qualifications in
China, thc very low mobility of staff between institutions, and the difficul-
ties in establishing a new organization, but the pace of progress will need to
be maintained under CIB II and beyond if CIB is to be able to carry out its
growing responsibilities effectively.
CIB II Objectives and Strategy
3.04      CIB II would continue the Bank Group's institution-building work
with CIB. During the CIB II commitment period, CIB should begin to move
upstream more into project design, to improve the appraisal work especially of
its weaker branches, and to appraise larger and more complicated projects,
including those involving sectoral issues. Towards these objectives, the
focus would be on improving CIB's overall appraisal capaoility, especially in
technical, economic and marketing issues. This would be done through recruit-
ment of both senior and junior staff (paras. 3.07 - 3.09), use of outside
consultancy (paras. 3.08 and 3.10), eynanded training programs (paras. 3.13 -
3.14), and revision of CIB's Appraisal Manual (para. 3.22). The Bank, for its
part, would continue to pay particular attention to project implementation,
but with some decrease in intensity over time. This institutional strengthen-
ing is particularly important because CIB is in its initial period of rapid
expansion and because these early years are crucial for establishing CIB's
credibility with other agencies. At the same time, the development of a DFC
is a long-term process which will need to continue well beyond the CIB II
commitment period.
Management, Organization, Staffing and Training
3.05      Board of Directors and Managing Committee.  CIB's 32-member Board of
Directors, consisting of the Minister of Finance as Honorary Chairman, PCBC
President as Chairman, two PCBC Vice Presidents and one PCBC Advisor as Deputy
Chairmen, 7 Managing Directors and 20 Directors, meets once a year. The Board
reviews and decides on CIB's annual plan, major policies, financial and
operational performance, borrowings of $50 million equivalent or more,
appointment of the President and Vice Presidents, and any proposed charter



-8-
amendments. A Managing Committee consisting of the Board Chairman, Deputy
Chairmen and Managing Directors meets from time to time to deal with all other
major matters including loan approvals of Y 10 million or more, borrowings
below $50 million and appointment of senior officials below Vice President.
Loans below Y 10 million are approved by the President.
3.06      Management and Organization.  Mr. Zhou Hanrong, the First Vice
President of PCBC and a Deputy Chairman of CIB's Board, has been the President
of CIB from the beginning. As he spends the major part of his time in PCBC,
day-to-day management of CIB is largely in the hands of the two Vice Pre-i-
dents, Messrs. Geng Gengshan (also a PCBC Vice President) and Zhao Hong, both
of whom are also CIB Managing Directors. The Head Office has five departments
-- Project Lending; Finance and Accounting; Survey and Research (which has
mainly collected price and market data for subprojects); Coordination and
Planning; and the General and Administrative Office (see organization chart)
-- each headed by a Manager or Deputy Manager. In addition, CIB has seven
branches (para. 3.11). An internal auditor is directly responsible to the
Managing Committee. CIB's senior officials hold "Bank Affairs Meetings",
chaired by the President or a Vice President, weekly or more frequently, as
needed, inter alia to review all subprojects before they are submitted to the
President or Managing Committee for approval. The CIB management has exten-
sive experience, primarily within PCBC. Although some of the concepts
involved in DFC operations and economic appraisal of projects were new to
them, they have been willing to adopt them once clearance was given from
above.
3.07      Overall Staffing.  As of April, 1984, the Head Office had 33 staff
and the 7 branches a total of 84. Except for the ten engineers, virtually all
came from PCBC or are new graduates; inter-agency transfers are rare in the
Chinese system, so other agencies have been reluctant to release qualified
staff, despite some appeals from senior officials, and the staff themselves
have often utilized their right to refuse transfer, as career prospects and
fringe benefits at CIB appeared less attractive than in their existing posi-
tions. On the other hand, PCBC staff risk little by ioining CIB; some who had
conflicts in CIB were quickly re-absorbed into the parent agency. However,
the rapid growth of PCBC's own responsibilities has limited the number of
people it could make available to CIB. As CIB's operations have been expand-
ing rapidly, and CIB has maintained reasinably high employment standards,
staff recruitment has still not caught up with the workload. In particular,
the Project Lending Department, which now has 13 staff, needs strengthening to
give guidance on and to maintain quality control over the appraisal reports
submitted by CIB's branches. An understanding was reached with CIB on a
staffing plan, including inter alia economists, engineers and market analysts,
for about an additional ten staff per year in 1984 and 1985 for the Head
Office (primarily for the Project Lending Department), and an average of some
four per year for each of the branches, with the majority to be experienced
staff. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that CIB would implement
this staffing plan.
3.03      Engineering Support.  Before CIB I became effective, a Deputy
General Manager of the China International Engineering Consulting Cotporation



- 9 -
(CIECC)k/ was appointed CId's part-time Senior Engineering Advisor, and an
agreement was signed between CIB and CIECC for CIECC to provide engineering
consulting services on CIB's projects. However, the Senior Engineering
Advisor has been unable to spare sufficient time to review CIB's appraisals,
and CIECC's other support has been minimal. The short-term assistance needed
by CIB, for reviewing feasibility studies and providing the technical input to
appraisal reports, for generally rather small projects, turned out not to be
the sort of work CIECC was interested in or able to arrange on short iotice.
In view of the above, CIB has been utilizing engineers from a number of other
agencies, and has been recruiting experienced engineers as regular staff to do
the technical appraisal of subprojects; there are noTw five in the Head Office
one in each of three branches, and two in another branch. As part of thp
staffing plan, each currently existing branch is to have an engineer by
December 30, 1984, and each new branch within a year of its opening, and three
to five additional engineers are to be recruited for the Head Office by the
end of 1985. The most critical need now is for a qualified full-time senior
engineer to supervise the work of the other head office and branch engineers,
and to help arrange for outside technical assistance as needed. The employ-
ment of a senior engineer, with qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Bank/Association, would be a condition of loan/credit effectiveness. For
more specialized assistance, CIB will continue to tap not only CIECC, but a
wide range of design institutes, universities and other consulting firms for
independent reviews of the technical proposals from the enterprises and their
supervisory agencies. When necessary, CIB would employ short-term expatriate
engineers as well, for this purpose, financed under CIB I (para. 3.02),
although it has not done so yet.
3.09      Economists.  Due to the lack of well-trained economists in the
branches or Head Office, CIB's economic work has been rather mechan5"al.  In
accordance with CIB's Appraisal Manual (para. 3.22), economic rates )f return
and net present values have been calculated (for all projects exceeding a $1
million loan in foreign exchange), using, as shadow prices, border price or,
for a few non-traded inputs, economic production costs calculated earlier by
Bank staff. But there have been errors in using CIF and FOB prices and in
specifying which incremental output results from the investments, and little
attention has been given to calculation of shadow prices for other non-traded
goods (with one recent exception), to economic analysis of alternatives, or to
other economic issues such as China's or the particular province's comparative
advantage, or the trade-off between automation and employment. Although the
Manager of CIB's Survey and Research Department is also CIB's Senior Economic
Advisor, adequate quality control has not been exercised over economic aspects
of project appraisal. Furthermore, the economic rate of return is not one of
the initial set of performance measures used to screen projects before
applaisal (para. 3.21). As CIB is a pioneer in China in using economic
cost/benefit analysis, it is particularly important that it be adequately
staffed for this. Furthermore, economic analysis is vital for project design
and selection in China, where distorted prices make many economically unviable
projects financially profitable, leading to excessive and misdirected
/1   CIECC is an umbrella organization of 1' industry-specific engineering
consulting firms created using staff ma:'nly from design institutes in
various ministries.



- 10 -
investment (para. 1.05).  Therefore, as a condition of loan/credit effective-
ness, CiB would employ economics staff at its Head Office, with qualification
and experience satisfactory to the Bank/Association, to guide the branches in
their economic analysis, review economic aspects of appraisal reports, and
coordinate with other agencies on economic issues relevant to CIB's work. As
qualified economists are in short supply in China, if suitable people cannot
be transferred to CIB, long-term secondment or borrowing of experts at least
half time would be acceptable. In addition, as part of the staffing plan, CIB
will hire at least one economist with a post-graduate degree and one with an
undergraduate degree who would be sent abroad for post-graduate training. The
new economics staff would work in conjunction with CIB's present Senior
Economic Advisor.
3.10      Market Analysis.  Market analysis is the third critical area in
which CIB needs assistance, and is the one which CIB considers most diffi-
cult, The most serious problem CIB has faced in its appraisal work so far has
been obtaining information about the world market. CIB has signed a satisfac-
tory contract with the China Trade Consultants and Technical Service Corpora-
tion, under the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade, to provide
CIB with such information and analysis as is needed for review of its proposed
loans. In addition, as part of the staffing plan, CIB will hire at least one
trained market analyst for the Head Office, particularly to help it obtain and
analyze information on the domestic market.
3.11      Branch Network.  Branches were established in Shanghai and Tianjin
Municipalities and Jiangsu Province in 1982, in Hebei Province in February
1983, and in Fujian, lubei and Liaoning Provinces in June-September 1983;
together, these account for 24% of China's population and 38% of its indus-
trial output. Provinces were selected based on their industrial capacity,
export potential, need for foreign exchange, and interest in CIB operations.
Hubei is the first interior province, and reflects the fact that, in the face
of competition, need for foreign exchange is becoming as important as export
potential in CIB's criteria.  The pace at which branches were opened was much
faster than originally planned, because CIB, facing keen competition from BOC
and other sources of foreign exchange in Shanghai and to a lesser extent
Tianjin, needed to broaden its branch network rapidly in order to develop a
reasonable level of operations.  Furthermore, provincial governments and PCBC
branches have been eager to have CIB set up operations in their provinces, and
the PCBC branches have willingly provided the management and core staff for
the new CIB branches. However, such a high rate of expansion placed great
strain on CIB's Head Office, and CIB has indicated that henceforth only about
one branch per year will be established.
3.12      Branch Staffing and use of PCBC Subbranch Stafi.-/  As it takes time
for the new branches to recruit their own staff (the average size is 12
staff/branch now, but the goal by 1986 is 20 staff/branch), they initially
have to rely heavily on the staff of PCBC's subbranches where CIB's projects
are located. The CIB branches which cover a province instead of only one
municipality such as Shanghai and Tianjin, will continue to need such support,
/2   PC8C usually has a branch in each provincial capital with an average cf
some 90 subbranches under it.



- 11 -
as it is uneconomic for CIB to set up subbranches (although in some cases one
CIB branch staff is located in a PCBC subbranch). Furthermore, CIB needs to
rely on PCBC staff with specialized expertise, such as in civil engineering or
particular industries, or knowledge of the enterprises concerned. However,
the number of PCBC staff familiar with CIB's project appraisal methodology is
very limited; therefore, CIB needs not only to speed up its own staff recruit-
ment and training, but also to give adequate ,raining to PCBC's subbranch
staff who are involved in appraising and supervising CIB's subprojects. Some
short-term rotation between Head Office and branch staff, and even between the
various branches, would also give the staff a better understanding of the
problems facing the other units, and would help spread knowledge and
experience within CIB.
3.13      Training.  As most of the staff selected for CIB were not previously
familiar with development banking, training has been a major and critical
activity for CIB. The Bank arranged UNDP-financed study tours to DFCs in
Pakistan and the Philippines in 1982; each study tour consisted of four people
for about two months. The Bank's Economic Developmernt Institute (EDI) gave a
5-week development banking course, primarily for CIB and PCBC staff, in
Shanghai in April/May 1982 to 40 participants, and a similar UNDP-financed
course in Beijing one year later. These development banking courses concen-
trated on financial and economic analysis of projects, and have proved very
useful to CIB. A third course, in March/April 1984 (or-anized by EDI but
financed under CIB I), included more marketing and technical analysis; a
fourth, to be financed by UNDP, is scheduled for 1985. CIB has also sent
staff to short-term banking seminars overseas and to long-term domestic
training in finance and English.  No staff have been sent for long-term
overseas training, as virtually no one at CIB has both the professional and
language qualifications; however, CIB intends to do so, once it has qualified
staff who can be spared -- economics courses should be highest priority (para.
3.09), as equivalent training is not available in China.
3.14      CIB has conducted in-house seminars on project appraisal, accounting
and statistics, and foreign exchange transactions. Most branches have also
given their own general courses for CIB and PCBC staff, but more such in-house
training is needed, especially for the newer branches, to supplement the EDI
courses which have room for only a few key staff from each branch, and it is
essential to raise the course quality above what the branches can do them-
selves. CIB has therefore selected four people (one each from the Head
Office, Shanghai Branch, Central Institute of Finance and Banking and the
Shanghai Institute of Finance and Economics) as a part-time team of trainers
to help carry out a program of courses acceptable to the Bank/Association,
covering general courses in the various branches, as well as more narrowly
focussed courses to selected staff from all units. The Deputy Manager of
CIB's General and Administrative Office has been designated as CIB's training
officer to coordinate, help organize and monitor these courses, and find
places for CIB staff in outside courses. An understanding was reached on
CIB's training program for 1984 and 1985, which includes six to seven in-house
seminars per year on project appraisal, supervision, and accounting. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that CIB would carry out this plan.



- 12 -
Policies and Strategy
3.15      General PolLcies and Emphasis.  CIB's major operational and finan-
cial policies, within the framework of its Charter and the national economic
plans, are outlined in its Policy Statement (Annex 1), and specific areas of
emphasis for the next two years are in its Development Strategy Stateent,
(Anne, 2).  Minor amendment;; to the original Statements approved by CItWs
Board in November 1982 were agreed between Bank and CIB staff, and were
approved by CIB's Managing Committee in Kly 1984.  At negotiations an assur-
ance was obtained that CIB would exchange views with the Bank/Association on
any proposed changes in its Policy Statemnnt, Development Strategy Statement,
Charter, Supplemental Regulations or Lending Procedures. CIB will continue to
focus mainly on relatively small- and medium-sized modernization projects of
existing state or collective enterprises, but will also lend for expansion
projects (some of which are classified as capital construction). The ceiling
for foreign exchange lending for any one subproject has therefore been raised
from $8 million to $15 million (para. 4.04). CIB can help cofinance larger
projects. Emphasis is being expanded from only dir ct export projects, which
were the only ones initially readily able to repay loans in foreign exchange,
to include indirect export and import-substitutios,projects as well, now that
China has liberalized access to foreign exchange.-   Sectoral emphasis remains
on textiles and other light industries, but CIB has been expanding its scope
to include chemicals, machinery, electronics, building materials, metallurgy,
etc., in accordance with demand for loans.
3.16      CIB now lends local currency only in conjunction with foreign
exchange, and only for fixed investment; its borrowers obtain the necessary
complementary working capital loans from ICBC. In addition to lending, CIB is
also permitted to take equity participations, provide guarantees, participate
in loan syndications, and develop consultancy services to its borrowers, par-
ticularly in project preparation and finance; however, CIB has no immediate
plans in these directions.
3.17      Interest Rates.  CIB's 8% p.a. lending rate in foreign exchange is
based on its cost of funds, Government's interest rate policies and the rates
charged by BOC on similar loans. (Under CIB I, Government onlent the proceeds
of the Bank loan and IDA credit to CIB at a fixed interest rate of 6.9% p.a.,
plus the Bank and IDA commitment fees; including the front-end and commitment
fees, the total cost of these funds to CIB ainounted to 7.4% p.a., thus giving
CIB a net spread of 0.6% p.a.) This 8% p.a. rate strikes a balance between
the need to be competitive with BOC, which lends for similar projects mostly
at 7.5-8.5% p.a. (para. 2.07), and the importance of being in a position
within 1-2 years to borrow from commercial sources (para. 3.36). As world
interest and inflation rates have fallen over the past 18 months, CIB's rate
is now less out of line with international rates, and would be at least
marginally positive in real terms over the life of CIB's loans, given
/3   CIB requires its borrowers to repay foreign currency loans in foreign
exchange. For enterprises which will not directly generate foreign
exchange, the loan repayments in foreign exchange have to be guaranteed
by the supervising agencies or local authorities which have retained
foreign exchange at their disposal.



- 13 -
projected world inflation rates. Furthermore, given the divergence between
economic and financial prices in China, it is more efficient for economlc
cost/benefit analysis rather than interest rates to be the main detel:minant of
loan allocations by CIB. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (a)
CIB would onlend the blended loan/credit at not less than 8& p.a.; (b) CIB
would inform the Bank/Association, in time for an exchange of views, in
advance of any proposed change in its interest rates; (c' Government would
take the impact on CIB's operations into account in determining the foreign
exchange lending rates of other Chinese banks; (d) CIB would inform the
Bank/Association promptly after changes in the foreign exchange lending rates
of other Chinese banks; and (e) from time to time at the request of any party,
Government and CIB would e.change views with the Bank/Association on the
impact of such changes in other rates on CIB's operations, and on CIB's
lending rates in the light of CIB's cost of funds and profitability, and of
interest and inflation rates in China and internationally.
3.18      CIB's local currency lending rate has been 3.6% p.a., the national
rate for most capital construction loans; however, this is lower than the
5.04% p.a., charged by PCBC or the 5.04 - 6.48% p.a. charged vy ICBC on
modernization loans (para. 2.07).  CIB chose its lower rate, with MOF
approval, to help compete against BOC, which processes loans faster because it
does less appraisal, and which generally charges a slightly lower foreign
exchaage interest rate. Furthermore, as CIB has so far obtained all its local
currency resources from Government as paid-in capital, it receives the full
3.6% p.a. spread, which is more than adequate, on its local currency lending,
and 3.6% p.a. is a positive real rate given China's average inflation rate of
2% p.a. in 1981-1983.
Procedures
3.19      Project Cycle.  Project i.deas get deveLoped, and brought to CIB, in
a variety of ways. Some ideas originate at the enterprise level, others up
the chain of comnand at the supervising corporation, city or provincial tech-
nical bureau responsible, or even the technical ministry.  (In a number of
cases, for example, a ministry decided that it wanted to introduce a new
product line into China, and then selected the most suitable enterprises to
produce it.) In some provinces, it is then up to the enterprises to shop
around for finance; in others, the core agencies (the Planning, Economic and
Import-Export Commissions, and the Finance Bureau) take the lead in allocating
and arranging the finance. There is likewise considerable variation, both by
province and by individual project, in the stage of development at which
projects are first brought to CIB; this can range from only a rough project
concept for which an indication of likely finance is sought before proceeding
with design and feasibility studies, to a fully designed project with the
specific equipment already selected. At this point, CIB is quite willing to
be offered the latter to finance, as this economizes on its hard-pressed
staff; however, over time, CIB should try more often to get involved further
upstream where it can contribute to project design. To do so effectively
requires that CIB build up its staff and earn credibility with the provincial
core agencies and technical buraaus.
3.20       In all cases, however, there are certain formal Government proce-
dures that must be followed; CIB's own comprehensive Lending Procedures, which
were approved by the Ministry of Finance and were issued on April 2, 1983,



- 14 -
incorporate these requirements. First, an enterprise must prepare a project
proposal, and have it approved by its supervising bureau and the city or pro-
vincial planning commission. If the investment cost exceeds Y 10 million, the
State Planning Commission must approve as well, and if it exceeds Y 100
million it must then go to the State Couni.l. The enterprise can then apply
for finance by sending a copy to the CIB branch to review.  If the project
proposal is acceptable, the branch forwarce it, plus its owrn brief report, to
CIB's Head Office.  If the branch's submission is approved by the Head Office
(there is as yet no delegation to any branches), the project enters the pipe-
line of eligible projects. The enterprise then prepares a feasibility staAy,
usualy with the help of a design institute, and sometimes with CIB's help in
financial analysis, for submission to the relevant authorizing agencies and
the CIB branch. The CIB branch then begins appraising the project, and when
the authorizing agencies hav-i approved the feasibility study (often after
consulting CIB) and issued a "Project Design Authorization," the CIB branch
can complete its appraisal and submit its appraisal report to the Head Office
for final approval. Only then can the foreign equipment suppliers be selected
and the detailed cost determined, prior to subloan signing.
3.21      Project Selection.  The most critical decision point for CIB is
whether to admit a project into its pipeline; while modification of projects
is still possible at the appraisal stage, outright rejection is politically
difficult then. Project Lending Department and other CIB Head Office managers
have visited virtually all of the projects brought to the branches, and have
been quite conscientious in screening out the ones that appeared unsuitable --
some 20-30% of the applications, usually due to poor market prospects, but
also sometimes based on financial prospects or enterprise management. In
addition, other enterprises have been told that their projects could enter the
pipeline only after more preparation work was done. As a result, on the basis
of extensive factory visits, Bank missions have concluded that most projects
selected by CIB have been good ones.
3.22      Project Appraisal.  With the help of other Chinese experts and the
Bank, CIB prepared an Industrial Projects Appraisal Manual which has been used
by its branches since it was distributed in March 1983. This is the first
such manual in China, and it has enioyed very good reception from various
Government agencies. With help from the Bank, the Agricultural Bank of China
is developing a similar manual for its agricultural and processing opera-
tions.  PCBC has distributed CIB's Appraisal Manual widely to its staff as
reference material, but has not yet adopted the economic cost/benefit analy-
sis. In general, CIB's Appraisal Manual is comprehensive, and with good
understanding of it satisfactory appraisal reports can be prepared. However,
based on CIB's experience to date, the Appraisal Manual can be improved, par-
ticularly to make it more easily applied. The Bank has already provided
suggestions for improving the Appraisal Manual, almost all of which have been
accepted by CIB, as have CIB's branches (at a conference in January 1984)
based on their experiences. CIB hopes to have a draft revision ready by
June/July 1984 for discussion with the Bank/Association. At negotiations, an
assurance was obtained that the Appraisal Manual and the instructions for its



- 15 -
use would be revised, satisfactory to the Bank/Assoct4tion, and the revision
issued for use by all branches by December 31, 1984.-
3.23      CIB's staff have been trying to apply the Appraisal Manual conscien-
tiously in their appraisal work. The quality of reports from the more experi-
enced branches has been improving; for example, some explanations are now
given of design alternatives that were rejected and of the reasons for marked
year-to-year changes in enterprise performance. But the quality of appraisal
reports has been quite uneven; the greatest problems have been in reports pre-
pared by the newer CIB branches and by PCBC subbranches (para. 3.12).
Although the Head Office has sent about half of the reports it received back
to the branches for revision, it has still not been able to impose consistent
quality controls, due to shortages of staff (para. 3.07) and pressure of
time. Nevertheless, on average CIB's appraisal work is improving and some
appraisal reports are as good as those of much more experienced DFCs. With
the staff strengthening proposed under the project, revision of the Appraisal
Manual, and continued close Bank supervision, further significant improvements
are expected, although this will be a long-term process.
3.24      Procurement and Disbursement.  CIB prepares an annual program around
October for the following year, covering projected quarterly disbursements and
the construction materials and other inputs needed. This annual program is
submitted to the State Planning Commission for incorporation into China's
overall annual materials plan. During the year, CIB can submit revisions as
necessary. Local procurement of equipment and material is done, according to
Government regulations, either through material supply agencies or directly by
the enterprises. Civil works for the projects are carried out by domestic
construction enterprises or, if they have the capability, by the borrowing
enterprises themselves. For imported equipment and technology contracts below
$3 million, at least three price quotations are elicited from qualified
suppliers. To date, there has been one contract above $3 million, for which
international competitive bidding (ICB) is normally to be used (para. 4.06),
but the Bank/Association granted an exception to ICB due to the specific needs
of the subproject.  The China National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC),
under the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade, negotiates and
handles all procurement from abroad under CIB I, as well as other
Bank/Association-financed projects.
3.25      CIB disburses upon delivery of local equipment, or in accordance
with contracts for civil works. For imported equipment and technology, CIB
has so far been disbursing from its foreign exchange revolving fund (para.
3.31), and subsequently submitting detailed invoices and other necessary
documentation in accordance with Bank Group reimbursement procedures (para.
4.07). Disbursement of large amounts might, however, be made through letters
of credit to be opened with BOC and its correspondent banks overseas.
3.26      The time lag between CIB's approval of a subloan and the subloan
signing and subsequent procurement under it has been unusually long for a DFC,
/4   This is about 14 months behind the schedule envisioned in CIB I, because
CIB and the Bank agreed that more experience in using the Manual was
desirable in order to make a more satisfactory revision.



- 16 -
because most provinces do not permit enterprises to prepare detailed designs
or make investigative tours abroad, which are necessary ig most cases given
China's relative .4solation, until the subloan is approved-/ (para. 3.20).
CNTIC then must wait until the overseas tour is completed, which involves on
average about six months, before starting final contract negotiations. And
only after these negotiations, wheni the foreign exchange cost is determined,
will CIB sign the subloan agreement. Moreover, the enterprises often have to
send staff to Beijing to learn the details of CIB's procurement and disburse-
ment procedures. The average time from subloan approval to disbursement is
therefore estimated at nine months for subprojects which do not require
overseas stuay tours, generally the smaller ones, and 15 months for those
which do.
3.27      Supervision.  On June 30, 1983, CIB issued a comprehensive and
satisfactory Project Supervision Manual for its staff, following closely the
procedures of PCBC. The Supervision Manual covers the full cycle from loan
agreement to project completion report. CIB is now giving priority to
supervision work, which is being done by the projects staff in the branches.
The Project Lending Department oversees the branches' monitoring of project
implementation. New graduates will need to be trained in project supervision,
but most staff transferred from PCBC are already familiar with this. An in-
house seminar on project supervision is planned for 1984 (para. 3.12).
3.28      Repayments.  According to CIB's Lending Regulations and Policy
Statement, the maturity of CIB's loans normally does not exceed seven years,
and the longest period does not exceed twelve years, including a grace period
of two to three years. A short average loan period is possible because of the
high financial profitability of most industries to which CIB lends. The grace
and repayment periods are based on the incremental profits and depreciation
allowances which will be used to service the loans. At negotiations, an
assurance was obtained that Government would enable enterprises to obtain the
foreign exchange needed for payments to CIB. If any enterprise does not have
sufficient retained foreign exchange for interest and princlpal payments on
its foreign exchange loan from CIB, the supervisory agencies and local
government will provide the balance, or the enterprise will have to purchase
it from BOC (at the internal settlement rate).
Operations
3.29      As of April 30, 1984 (13 months since CIB I became effective), CIB
and the Bank/Association have approved 32 subprojects (21 "A" subprojects,
either above the free limit of $1 million or one of the first three from each
branch, and 11 "B" ones), totalling $52.5 million and Y 136 million.  Subloan
agreements have been signed for 24 of these, and procurement contracts for
18. Disbursements amounted to only $3.5 million and Y 33.4 million, due to
the delays noted in para. 3.26. CIB's operations have been distributed widely
over various industrial subsectors (Annex 4). Of the 32 subprojects, 15 come
under the Ministry of Light Industry, six under the Ministry of Textiles, four
under the Ministry of Health (for pharmaceuticals), three under the Ministry
of Machine Building and two each under the Building Materials Administration
5/   CIB is trying to get this rule relaxed, but the outcome is uncertain.



- 17 -
and the Ministry of Electronics. The borrowers are state enterprises except
for tthree urban collectives. CIB has not financed any joint-ventures. Only
four of the subprojects (in Tianjin and Shanghai) are classified as capital
construction; the rest are for modernization. Tianjin accounts for 45% of the
total value of approvals, Jiangsu 25% and Hebei 13%.  Thirteen of the subloans
ate in Jiangsu, nine in Tianjin, five in Hebei, two in Shanghai, two in Fujian
and one in Hubei. Approval of the first loans by the newest branch, in
Liaoning Province, is expected shortly. Also, no loans have yet been made in
provinces where there is no CIB branch, and only a few are now in the pipe-
line. Prior to CIB I effectiveness, CID approved ten local currency loans
totalling Y 47 million, but has discontinued such lending.
3.30      The average size of the subloans is $1.6 million, and of the
associated local currency loans Y 4.3 million.  The subloans are for 3-10
years, including grace periods from I to 3 years. Two of the subloans,
totalling $1.4 million, are entirely for financing import of technology.  The
projected financial rates of return to the enterprises range from 13% to 80%
p.a., with an unweighted average of 33% p.a., and the economic rates of return
of the "A" subprojects also from 13% to 80% p.a., but averaging 41% p.a. (12%
p.a. is the minimum acceptable). The financial rates of return average less
than the economic ones due to import and sales taxes and because, in most
cases, the sales prices received by the enterprises are below border prices.
One somewnat disturbing pattern is that most of the subprojects are very
capital-intensive, often creating no incremental employment. This results
largely from the concern of exporting enterprises for the quality of output,
which they feel can best be ensured by the more automated processes. On the
positive side, not only have most CIB subprojects introduced advanced techno-
logy and promoted exports, but a number of them have conserved energy and
reduced pollution as well.
Resources and Financial Position
3.31      Resource Position.  Since its establishment, CIB has received share
capital of Y 400 million from the Government and $70 million onlent by Govern-
ment from CIB I with a fixed amortization schedule for 20 years (para. 4.02).
Of the paid-in share capital, CIB used Y 28 million to purchase $10 million
from the Government as a revolving fund for its foreign currency lending. CIB
then borrowed Y 140 million from PCBC at 1.8% p.a., and with it bought a
further $50 million in foreign exchange to increase its revolving fund to $20
million and to have additional foreign exchange for lending, including to
cover any gap between CIB I and CIB II. As of the end of 1983, the local
currency resources available for approval were Y 212 million and the foreign
currency $60.2 million (not including the $20 million revolving fund)
(Annex 3, Table 3).
3.32      Financial Performance.  CIB's audited profit and loss statement for
1983 is in Annex 3, Table 4. Because of the commitment fee on CIB ., and the
fact that CIB had not yet collected any interest on its foreign currency
subloans, and does not collect front-end or commitment fees from its borrow-
ers, CIB's financial expenses exceeded interest income on loans. Overall,
however, its expenses have been more than adequately covered by interest
income from FBC (at 1.8% p.a.) on its deposited share capital, leaving net
income after taxes in 1983 of Y 5.14 million, representing a return of 1.3%
p.a., on equity. CIB's 0.6% p.a. foreign exchange spread and 3.6% p.a. local



- 18 -
currency spread give it an average spread of 2.0% p.a. copared to expected
administrative costs of only some 0.2% p.a. of portfolio _
3.33      Financial Position.  Annex 3, Table 5 shows CIB's audited balance
sheet as of December 31, 1983. The long-term debt/equity ratio was only 0.4:1
well within the agreed ceiling of 5:1 under CIB I (para. 4.05).
Accounting System, Audit and Projection Completion Report
3.34      CIB's accounting manual, incorporating the Bank's comments and based
on Wesl>rn accounting principles, was issued in January 1983. The internal
settlement rate of Y 2.8 = $1 is used to convert foreign exchange in the
accounts. Overall, China's accounting and audit profession is not well
developed, and the Bank is helping to provide technical assistance to build up
the capability of the newly-established State Audit Office. At negotiati"ns,
assurances were obtained that, as under CIB I, (i) CIB would keep accounts
which would be audited annually, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank/Association, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consis-
tently applied, (ii) the audit report would be submitted to the Bank/
Association within six months after the end of each fiscal year, and (iii) CIB
would prepare a CIB II project completion report, within six months after
completion of disbursements. CIB's accounts are being audited by the China
Consultants of Accounting and Financial Management (CCAFM); they have
completed the audit of CIB's 1983 accounts satisfactorily and on schedule. As
part of the audit, CCAFM will also advise CIB on its management inforination
and accounting systems. CCAFM was established in March 1982, by the Pub'ie
Finance Society of China and the Accounting Society of China, with its head
office in Beijing. It has audited the accounts of some joint ventures and
branches of foreign petroleum companies operating In China, and has signed
cooperation agreements with several international accounting firms. CCAFM's
key staff have received two-year training in these firms in the USA and
Europe.
Prospects and Projections
3.35      Operations.  While there are a variety of foreign exchange sources
available (para. 2.06), demand exceeds supply, and it has remained quite
difficult for many enterprises, especially small- and medium-scale ones, to
obtain foreign exchange for investment. CIB, as of April 1984, had built up a
pipeline of 43 subprojects totalling $93 million, of which approximately 20%
is for light industry, 13% for textiles, 33% for chemicals, 11% for machine
building, 8% for pharmaceutical, and 15% for other subsectors (electronics,
metal working, paper, building materials, tourism and fisheries).  In light of
CIB's progress to date in appraising projects, the remaining $17 million of
CIB I for subprojects is expected to be fully committed around June 1984.
This leaves about $75 million in the pipeline to be financed under CIB II;
although a number of these projects will eventually be dropped or financed by
/6   These costs are unusually low for a DFC because of (a) China's salary
structure, (b) administrative support from PCBC, and (c) minimal risk of
loan default due to guarantees from supervisory agencies and tight
Government financial control over unterprises.



- 19 -
other sources, CIB branches are already looking at a significant number of
potential projects not yet approved by the Head Office for entry into the
pipeline.
3.36      Resources.  CIB's forecasts of approvals, commitments and disburse-
ments for 1983-88, together with the underlying assumptions, are in Annex 3,
Table 1.  In the light of the present subproject pipeline, the potential
demand for CIB's financing in the various provinces, CIB's absorptive
capacity, and the recommended $175 million for CIB II, CIB estimates that its
total loan approvals would increase by an average of 29% p.a. over 1984-88
from Y 432 million (including $90 million J.n foreign exchange) in 1984
to Y 1,200 millicn (including $250 million) in 1988. The approvals in the six
years 1983-88 would total $930 million and Y 1,905 million. In addition to
its Bank/Association funds and the fore.Ign exchange already purchased from
Government (para. 3.31), CIB hopes to raise foreign exchange from other
sources as well, starting with $40 million irn 1985.
3.3t      For local currency, CIB will continue to rely upon Government share
capital, supplemented by low-interest loans from PCBC. While Government has
paid in Y 400 million against CIB's authorized share capital of Y 4 billion,
it has indicated that it is not prepared to increase its paid-in amount
automatically within this limit. In CIB's projections, the assumption used is
that Government would provide half of the additional local currency needed
starting in 1986, as paid-in share capital; this matter is still under
consideration by Government.
3.38      Financial Performance.  CIB's projected income statements for 1984-
88 are in Annex 3, Table 4. Assuming a net spread of 0.6% p.a. on CIB's
foreign currency lending, 3.6% p.a. on its local currency lending through 1985
and 2.1% p.a. thereafter, CIB's net profit would increase from Y 5.1 million
in 1903 to Y .18.8 million in 1987, before dropping to Y 12.4 milLi,n in 1988
when CIB's five-year income tax holiday expired, and the rate of return on
avera3e equity would increase from 1.3% to 2.9%, before dropping back to 1.5%
in 1c88.
3.39      CIB's projected balance sheets for 1984-88 are in Annex 3,
Table 5. Based on the above assumptions, CIB's total assets would grow from
Y 550 million at the end of 1983 to Y 2,813 m'illion in 1988, an average annual
rate of growth of 39%. Its long-term debt would grow from Y 151 million in
1983 to Y 1,845 million in 1988, but the long-term debt/equity ratio would
only reach 1.9:1. It should be noted that CIB has an exceptionally strong
financial position for a DFC, due to its large equity base and low loan
default risk.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN/CREDIT
Amount and Maturity
4.01      The proposed loan/credit would be for $175 million, based on CIB's
institutional progress and hence its absorptive capacity, with allowances for
other foreign exchange raised or planned to be raised by C13. The Bank loan
would be $105 million equivalent and the IDA credit SDR 65.8 milLion



- 20 -
($70 million equivalent), based largely on the overall country lending
program.  The loan and credit would be made to the People's Republic of
China. State Council approval of the Development Credit Agreement and Loan
Agreement would be a condition of loan/credit effectiveness. All of the
loan/credit would be for subprojects; CIB's technical assistar.ce and training
needs over the period would be financed from CIB I (para. 3.02). The funds
are expected to be committed to some 60-80 subprojects over 18-20 months.
Subprojects could be submitted to the Bank/Association for approval until
June 30, 1987. To the extent feasible, the credit would tie committed first.
Back-to-back repayment of the subloans and Bank loaa would not be appropriate
because the subloans would have unusually short maturities averaging about 5-6
years. Therefore, as for CIB I, the Bank loan would be of fixed amortization
on the standard country terms for China, which are 20 years including five
years grace on principal. On behalf of the Government, CIB would pay the cost
of the front-end fee ($262,500) in advance.
Onlending Terms
4.02      Government would onlend both the loan and credit to CIB under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank/Association, the signing
of which would be a condition of loan/credit effectiveness. As under CIB I,
both IDA and Bank funds would be onlent for 20 years including five years
grace, with CIB allowed to roll-over the funds. Government would charge CIB a
fixed interest rate of 7.0% p.a., plus the Bank and IDA commitment charges.
Government would thus bear the risk from the --riable Bank interest rate, as
under CIB I. Including the front-end and commitment fees, the total cost of
these funds to CIB would be about 7.4% p.a., compared to its onlending rate of
8% p.a. Thus the net spread to CIB on Bank/IDA funds would be 0.6% p.a., as
under CIB 1. By onlending to CIB denominated in US$ valued at the date of
withdrawal, Government would also bear the foreign exchange risk between the
US$ and (a) the currency pool index (for the Bank loan portion) and (b) the
SDR (for the IDA credit portion). These arrangements have been maintained
because it would be too complicated and burdensome for CIB to pass these
interest rate and foreign exchange risks on to its subborrowers, most of whom
have no experience with foreign borrowings. As subloans would also be
denominated in US$, valued at the date of withdrawal, subborrowers7yould be
taking any foreign exchange risk between the US$ and Chinese Yuan.-
Free Limit, Maximum Subloan Size and Debt/Equity Ratio
4.03      Free Limit.  Under CIB I, the free limit was $1.0 million, one of
the highest frae limits for a first loan/credit to a DFC.  A few of the
branches have now demonstrated reasonable competence in subproject appraisal
(para. 3.22), and the free limit for them should be increased. On t..e other
hand, appraisal work by some new branches is no better than that of the
original branches at the start of CIB I. The problem is generally
/7   Most subborrowers, who would earn sufficient foreign exchange, would not
face this risk, as they would repay directly in US$; however, those who
earned primarily local currency would have to convert it into US$ at the
internal settlement rate, which Government might change from time to
time.



- 21 -
particularly acute when the appraisal is done primarily by PCBC sub-branch
staff (para. 3.12). To date, CIB's head office has not been able to
consistently impose adequate quality control on the branches. There would
therefore be two free limits~ $2.0 million for the branches agreed between
CIB and the Bank/Associatiorn, and $1.0 million for the other branches. An
understanding was reached at negotiations that branches receiving the higher
free limit would be those which were adequately staffed and trainied and had
consistently met reasonable appraisal standards, and that initially only the
Shanghai and Tianjin branches would have the higher free limit. An estimated
50% of the subprojects by number and 75% by amount would be above the free
limits. The first three subprojects from each branch (whether financed under
CIB I or CIB II), regardless of size, would remain subject to Bank/Association
approval. To allow some leeway, the aggregate free limit would be $60
million.
4.04      Maximum Subloan Size.  CIB may onlend for individual subprojects up
to $15 million in foreign exchange, an increase from the present $8 million.
Where justified, exceptions to this ceiling could be made, with the approval
of the Bank/Association. This high limit reflects the fact that: (a) CIB
would be taking virtually no financial risk; and (b) in general it is for the
larger of the medium-sized projects that CIB's appraisal is most valuable,
because these projects are more likely to involve major technology import,
serve nationwide or international markets which must be studied, and have many
linkages to other industries. However, the average subloan size is still
expected to be $2-3 million.
4.05      Debt/Equity Ratio.  Under CIB I, CIB's long-term debt/equity ratio
is not to exceed 5:1. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that this
covenant would remain unchanged under CIB II. CIB's projections are for a
debt/equity ratio of 1.9:1 by 1988 (para. 3.39), but even if Government
provided no more equity, the debt/equity ratio would not reach 5:1 until 1988.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.06      Procurement.  As under CIB I, individual contracts of at least
$3 million equivalent would be awarded after international competitive bidding
(ICB), including prior Bank/Association review of bid doci.ments, unless CIB
and the Bank/Association agree otherwise. CIB should spell out the case for
any exceptions in its appraisal reports.  A preference equal to 15% of the
c.i.f. cost or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to
local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Contracts below $3 million
would be awarded after evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from
at least three qualified suppliers. The existence of adequate competition to
help ensure reasonable prices would continue to be examined as part of the
Bank/Association review of all subprojects above the free limit. All
contracts of more than $1 million but less than $3 million would be subject to
post-review by the Bank/Association. Only about 4-8 contracts are expected to
exceed $3 million. Government has authorized CNTIC to handle all imports
under CIB I and this project. CNTIC might delegate their procurement respon-
sibilities for small contracts to qualified loc2al import-export corporations,
with CIB's concurrence.



- 22 -
4.07      Disbursement.  Disbursement would be made against full documentation
for 100% of: (a) foreign expenditures on goods and services for subprojects;
and (I-) the ex-factory price of locally-manufactured equipment for subprojects
under contracts procured througlh ICB. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by June 30, 1989. The projected disbursements are slower t.an the
disbursement profile of DFr lending in the East Asia and Pacific Regior for
the initial two years, based on CIB's experience to date (paras. 3.02 and
3.26), but the final years of the profile are telescoped because the
loan/credit is expected to be fully committed in FY86, and disburszments
should not extend for more than three years beyond then (Annex 5).
Environmental Safeguards
4.08      In recent years, China has been paying increasing attention to
environmental questions, and has established standards and controls for waste
disposal. Already, project feasibility studies cover environmental aspects;
CIB would continue to give c-reful attention to this in its appraisal reports,
as would the Bank/Associatiot. in reviewing those appraisals.
Benefits and Risks
4.09      Under CIB I, the Bank played a major role in the establishment of
China's fifth bank and first DFC. CIB is already having a positive impact on
China's industrial investment program by se-iecting generally good projects and
using an improved project appraisal methodology. As CIB moves upstream more,
its contribution to project design will increase. Although some projects that
CIB screens out or rejects may obtain finance elsewhere, the general shortage
of foreign exchange for investment, plus Government efforts to hold down total
investment, and the influence that CIB's decision will have on other agencies,
ensure that CIB's project selection will help determine which projects
ultimately are undertaken. There also remain long-term prospects for major
spillover effects, especially through improving the project appraisal work of
Chinese central and local planning agencies and other banks. By demonstrating
that locally-sponsored projects can be designed and evaluated from the
national perspective, CIB could also give further impetus to decentralization.
4.10      In a narrow sense, the project risk is low, because CIB has been
financing generally good subprojects, and the Bank will continue to review
carefully the bulk of CIB's sublending (para. 4.03).  However, the project's
success in its broader objective of introducing new project appraisal methodo-
logy to China depends largely on CIB overcoming its weaknesses in the critical
areas of technical review, market estimation and economic analysis of
subprojects, and its general shortage of qualified appraisal staff. Continued
Bank Group support is essential for building up CIB in these areas (paras.
3.07-3.10).
4.11      Less tractable are longer-term risks related to Government
commitment to the economic reform framework within which CIB operates, and to
CIB itself. Although the path of reform in China, as elsewhere, has not been
entirely smooth, Government is commirted to continuing the rLocess. Thus
Government appears unlikely to retreat into the more rigidly planned invest-
ment program which would tend to undermine CIB's role. Furthermore, as of now
Government's commitment to CIB remains strong, as indicated by a recent State
Council circular to ministries and local governments supporting an enhanced



- 23 -
role for CIB.  The Bank will also continue to stress to Government the
importance of more comprehensive project appraisal, particularly economic
cost/benefit analysis, and price reform in improving the efficiency of
industrial investment.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      The following would be conditions of loan/credit effectiveness:
(a) employment of a senior engineer with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank/Association (para. 3.08);
(b) employment of economics staff at the Head Office, with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank/Association
(para. 3.09);
(c) State Council approval of the Development Credit Agreement and Loan
Agreement (para. 4.01); and
(d) signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank/Association (para. 4.02).
5.02      At negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a) from CIB that it would implement its agreed staffing and training
plans (paras. 3.07 and 3.14);
(b)  from CIB that it would exchange views with the Bank/Association on
any proposed changes in its Policy Statement, Development Strategy
Statement, Charter, Supplemental Regulations or Lending Procedures
(para. 3.15);
(c) from CIB that it would: (i) onlend the blended loan/credit at not
less than 8% p.a.; (ii) inform the Bank/Association, and exchange
views, on any proposed change in its interest rates; and (iii)
inform the Bank/AssociatLion promptly after changes in the foreign
exchange lending rates of other Chinese banks (para. 3.17);
(d) from Government that it would: (i) take the impact on CIB operations
into account in determining the foreign exchange lending rates of
other banks; and (ii) at the request of any party, exchange views
with the Bank/Association and CIB on such impact and on CIB's
lending rates (para. 3.17);
(e) from CIB's that its Appraisal Manual and the instructions for its
use would be revised, satisfactory to the Bank/Association, and the
revision issued for use by all branches by December 31, 1984 (para.
3.22);
(f)  from Government that it would enable enterprises to obtain the
foreign exchange needed for payments to CIB (para. 3.28);



- 24 -
ig) from CIB that (i) it would maintain accounts which would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank/Association;
(ii) the audit report would be submitted to the Bank/Association
within six months after the end of each fiscal year; and (iii) it
would prepare a CIB II project completion report within six months
after the completion of disbursements (para. 3.34);
(h) from Government, that (i) the free limit under the project would be
$2 million for such branches as agreed between CIA and the Bank/
Association, and $1 million for all other branches; (ii) the
aggregate free limit would be $60 million; and (iii) the first three
subprojects from each branch would remain subject to Bank/Association
approval (para. 4.03);
(i) from CIB that the maximum subloan size under the project would be
$15 million (para. 4.04); and
(j) from CIB that it would not exceed a 5:1 long-term debt/equity ratio
(para. 4.05).
5.03      At negotiations, the following understandings were reached:
(a) CIB, under its staffing plan, would employ about an additional ten
staff per year in 1984 and 1985 for the Head Office and an average
of some four per year for each of the branches, with the majority to
be experienced staff, and including engineers, economists and market
analysts (paras. 3.07-3.10);
(b)  CIB's training program for 1984 and 1985 would include six to seven
in-house seminars per year, on project appraisal, supervision and
accounting (para. 3.14); and
(c) branches receiving the $2 million free limit would be those which
were adequately staffed and trained, and had consistently met
reasonable appraisal standards; initially, only the Shanghai and
Tianjin branches would have this free limit (para. 4.03).
5.04      With the above conditions and assurances, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of $105 million for 20 years, including 5 years grace, at the
standard variable rate, and an IDA credit equivalent to $70 million
(SDR 65.8 million) on standard terms. The Borrower would be the People's
Republic of China.



- 25 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
CHINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT II PROJECT
Policy Statement of the China Investment Bank I/
1.        The China Investment Bank (hereinafter called CIB) is designated by
the Chinese Government as a specialized bank to raise resources from abroad in
order to make investment loans. It shares the workload and cooperates with
other financial institutions of the country, in order to accelerate the
socialist modernization program.
2.        CIB's main activities are as follows:
(a) Raising long- and medium-term foreign exchange funds from abroad:
At present, CIB acts mainly as an intermediary, borrowing from
international institutions (the World Bank, etc.). Henceforth, CIB
will also borrow long- and medium-term foreign exchange funds on
favorable terms with low interest rates from other foreign banks, in
accordance with the development of its operations. With the
approval of the Government, CIB may also raise funds by issuing
securities abroad;
(b)  Providing investment loans to domestic enterprises:  the loans are
mainly to finance medium and small projects, especially the
expansion, modernization and technical transformation projects of
existing enterprises;
(c)  Handling World Bank-financed projects entrusted by the Ministry of
Finance and the World Bank;
(d)  Gradually developing consultancy services to borrowing units; and
(e)  Undertaking other banking operations.
3.        Under the direction of the overall national construction policy and
D' ional economic plans, and in conformity with the unified financial policy
the nation and CIB's own operational regulations, CIB shall select
p.jjects, make loans and handle other related operations. The projects
selected by CIB must be incorporated in the nation's fixed asset investment
plan. The borrowing units shall apply to the material supplying units for
required materials in accordance with government regulations, or purchase them
themselves.
4.        CIB shall select projects on the basis of the following basic
criteria: the products are suitable for sale and urgently needed for
developing the national economy; the projects are technically, financially and
1/   As revised in May 1984, and approved by CIB's Managing Committee.



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
economically viable, are under adequate business management, involve modest
investment costs, yield results quickly, and have the ability to repay both
foreign and local currency loans.
5.        CIB will require the borrowing units to make detailed feasibility
studies before project approval. .^. ioan will be approved only af-ar CIB has
made a thorough review and appraisal of the feasibility study and is assured
that all the criteria have been met in acordance with CIB's "Industrial Credit
Projects Appraisal Manual."
6.        GIB shall make foreign currency investment loans and local currency
investment loans. Foreign currency investment loans will be used mainly for
import of technology and equipment, while local currency loans will cover
local costs of ancillary domestic equipment and construction. CIB's maximum
foreign currency lending to one enterprise shall be US$15 million. For
projects exceeding that amount, CIB may finance them jointly with other
institutions.
7.        The ratio of long-term debt of CIB to its equity (including paid-in
capital, legal reserves and retained earnings) shall not exceed 5:1. The
total exposure of CIB in an enterprise shall generally not exceed 20% of CIB's
equity.
8.        The interest rate on foreign currency investment loans shall be the
borrowing rate plus a fixed margin. The interest rates on local currency
investment loans shall be in line with the relevant rates, as specified by the
Government.
9.        The period of CIB's loans (from the time of loan agreement to the
date when the principal and interest are fully repaid) shall normally not
exceed seven years, with the longest not exceeding twelve years. The period
of each loan shall be determined on a case-by-case basis and shall be
specified in the loan agreement. The loan period includes the construction
period (which will be the grace period) and the repayment period. The
construction period shall be based on the construction plan as spelled out in
the project feasibility study, while the repayment period shall be based on
the projected annual cash flow available for loan repayment after the project
is completed and production started.
10.       The borrowing units shall first repay foreign currency investment
loans and then repay local currency investment loans. When a borrowing unit
is delinquent in repayment of principal and interest during the repayment
period, the penalty rate on the overdue portion shall be 20% above the
original rate. When any loan is diverted to other uses, it shall be dealt
with in accordance with CIB's "Lending Regulations for Trial Use."
11.       According to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Chinese
Government and CIB, the foreign exchange risk on foreign currency investment
loans extended by CIB shall be borne by the Chinese Government and the
borrowing units respectively. CIB shall draw up concrete provisions in its
relevant regulations for implementation of the above-mentioned principle.



- 27 -
ANNEK I
Page 3
12.       CIB shall ensure that the borrowing units choose the most suitable
and most economical technology and equipment for importation. International
competitive bidding should be used for procurement contracts amounting indi-
vidually to over US$3 million. Comparison of quotations may be used for
contracts amounting individually to below US$3 million. When the latter
method is used, the quotations of at least three acceptable equipment
suppliers should be generally obtained.
13.       Borrowing enterprises which need to employ foreign consultants or
to have their own staff make investigations abroad for project implementation,
may obtain preparation subloans or may use their foreign exchaage investment
loans to pay su^h expenditures, after CIB's approval.
14.       During the loan period (including the construction period and the
repaymcnt period), CIB shall conduct systematic inspection and supervision of
the projects in accordance with its "Supervision Regulations for Loan-Financed
Projects (For Trial Use)," to ensure the proper utilization of the loan
proceeds, accelerate construction, improve management, maximize the economic
benefit of the investments anl ensure loan repayment on schedule.
15.       CIB shall adopt various measures to vigorously recruit and train
operational staff and raise orerational standards, and shall gradually
establish branches and sub-br:Anches based on operational needs and the
conditions of staff recruitment and tralning.



- 28 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
CHINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT II PROJECT
Development Strategy Statement for 19$4-1986 of the
China Investment Bank ..!
To facilitate the gradual expansion of its operations and to
accomplish its assigned tasks, the China Investment Bank (hereinafter called
CIB) will follow a development strategy in the period 1984-1986, as spelled
out below:
1.        CIB will follow the national policy of "actively carrying out
technical transformation in existing enterprises and maximizing economic
efficiency." In the coming few years, CIB's lending will mainly assist
existing enterprises to implement their modernization and transformation as
well as expansion projects.
2.        In the coming few years, CIB's lending wLll fc.cus mainly on projects
which involve modest investment cost, yield result; quickly and are clearly
able to repay. Thus, CIB will select projects primarily from the textile and
other light industrial sectors. At the same time, CIB will select some
urgently-needed projects with sound economic benefits from the chemical,
machinery, electronics, metallurgy, building material and other sectors.
3.        CIB's assistance will be provided mainly for implementation of
small- and medium-scale projects. In general, total foreign currency lending
to one project shall not exceed US$15 million (but may finance larger projects
with the sponsoring enterprises' own funds or through cofinancing with other
institutions); total ancillary local currency lending to one project shall not
exceed 30 million yuan.
4.        Projects financed by CIB in the coming few years should mainly be
those whose products can be exported to generate foreign exchange or can be
import substituting to save foreign exchange. Thus, CIB will initially
operate in the coastal provinces and municipalities where it is convenient to
develop export trade, and will gradually expand to interior provinces and
cities in which the industrial foundation is relatively strong and foreign
exchange generating and saving projects are relatively densely located.
5.        CIB will actively assist the borrowing enterprises to prepare
feasibility studies in accordance with state regulations and will then
appraise projects satisfactorily on the basis of such studies, so that
projects which are technically, financially and economically viable will be
selected. CIB's branches will review enterprises' loan applications which
will be subject to final review and approval by the Head Office.
1/   As revised in May 1984, and approved by CIB's Managing Committee.



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
6.        CIB shall vigorously recruit and train specialized staff who are
familiar with international finance, foreign and domestic trade, industrial
economics, engineering, foreign languages, etc., in order to raise its
operational standards. CIB will assign the China Trade Consultants and
Technical Service Corporation (CTC) to supply international and domestic
market and price information which S. needs in project appraisal in accordance
with the agreement signed between QIB and CTC.  When necessary, CIB will
assign the China International Engineering Corporation (CIECC) or other local
consulting firms to undertake technical appraisal work on CIB's projects. In
addition, CIB can also hire foreign and domestic advisors oa a shcrt-term
basis to assist its technical staff to appraise and supervise projects
satisfactorily.



- 30 -
ANNEX 3
Table I
CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
CIB Five-Year Financial and Operational Projections
Actual and Projected hperations, 1983-88
(Yuan million)
1983     1984       1985       1986       1987       1988
(Actual &  ----(Projected)-------------…---
audited)
Loan Approvals /a
Local currency              165.2      180.0      260.0      360.0      460.0      500.0
Foreign currenc, /b         139.4      252.0      364.0      504.0     644.0       700.0
(US$ million) ff'         (49.8)    (90.0)   (130.0)   (180.0:   (230.0)   (250.0)
Total Approvals       304.6      432.0      624.0      864.0   1.104.0   1.200.0
Loan Commitments /c
Local currency               76.1      179.1      220.0      310.0      410.0      480.0
Foreign currency /b          48.7      216.7      308.0     434.0      574.0      672.0
(US$ million)             (17.4)    (77.4)   (110.0)   (155.0)   (205.0)   (240.0)
Total Commitments    124.8       395.8      528.0      744.0      984.0   1,151.0
Loan Disbursements /d
Local currency               33.7       76.4      180.1      236.0      325.5      419.0
Foreign currency /b          10.9       98.0      227.4      336.6     463.4      589.4
(US$ million)              (3.9)    (35.0)    (81.2)   (120.2)   (165.5)   (210.5)
Total Disbursements   44.6        174.4     407.5      572.6      788.9   1.008.4
Loan Repayments /e
Local currency                4.8        6.8       15.9       19.0       29.0       83.4
Foreign currency./b            -          -         7.3       49.6      139.2     253.7
(USs million)                                    (2.6)    (17.7)    (49.7)    (90.6)
Total Repayments         4.8        6.8       23.2      68.6      168.2      337.1
Loans Outstanding
Local currency               28,,i      98.5      262.7      479.7      776.2   1,111.8
Foreign currency /b          10.9      108.9      329.0      616.0     940.2   1,275.9
(US$ million)              (3.9)    (38.9)   (117.5)   (220.0)   (335.8)   (455.7)
Total outstanding      39.8      207.4      591.7   1.095.7   1,716.4   2,387.7
Assumptions:
/a  Local currency loans would be approved together with foreign currency loans at the
ratio of Y2 to US$1.
/b  Converted at US$1 - Y 2.80.
Ic  50% of local eurrency and foreign currency loan approvals of the current year
would be committed (contract signed) during the year, and the remaining 50% of
approvals would be committed the following year.
/d  Disbursements would be made as follows, in relation to commitments:
Foreign currency loans : 30% in the current year, 60% in the following year
and 10% in tho third year.
Local currenr.y loans : 20% in the current year, 75% in the following year and
5% in the third year.
/e  Based on the rerayment schedules of the loans made in 1983, subloan repayments are
projected to follow the following pattern (by year):
Foreign currency loan (after 3-years' grace): 15%, 35%, 35%, 10%, 5%.
Local currency loans (after 2-years' grace): 10%, 30%, 25%, 20%, 15%.
/f  Rollover funds included:  $2.6 million (1986), $17.7 million (1987), and
$49.7 million (1988).
AEP Projects Depart-ent
May 1984



- 31 -
4NNEX 3
Table 2
CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
Actual and Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1983-88
(Yuan million)
1983     1984       1985      1986    1987      1988
(Actual    ----             (Projected)        …
& audited)
Sources
Net income before tax                       5.53      4.30      5.30    13.62   23.13        33.90
Add: Noncash items
Provisions for losses              0.01      0.04       0.12      0.22    0.34       0.48
Depreciation                       0.01
Amortization of front-end fee    0.08        0.12       0.12      0.12    0.12       0.12
Accrued expenses                   0.07
Subtotal                              5.70      4.46       5.54    13.96   23.59       34.50
Paid-in capital                              -         -         -      125.00  175.00    200.00
Domestic borrowings                       140.00       -         -      125.00  175.00    200.00
International borrowings                    5.23    98.00    220.10   285.90  313.30    290.10
Surplus                                     0.04
Subtotal                            145.27    98.00    220.10   535.90  663.30    690.10
Loan collections
Local currency                            4.84    11.16      15.90    19.00   29.00       83.40
Foreign currency                          -         -         7.30    49.60  139.20    253.70
Subtotal                              4.84    11.16       23.20    68.60  168.20    337.10
Total Sources                       155.81   113.62    248.84   618.46  855.09  1,061.70
Uses
Loan disbursements
Local currenc: loans                     33.65    76.40    180.10   236.00  325.50    419.00
Foreign currency loans                   9.33    98.00    227.40   336.60  463.40    589.40
Subtotal                             42.98   174.40    407.50   572.60  788.90  1,008.40
Increase of accounts receivable             0.29                 -         -        -         -
Purchase of equipment                       0.18       - 
Front-end fee                               1.68     0.74        -         -        -          -
Taxes                                       0.39      0.75       1.40     2.71    4.37       21.46
Total Uses                           45.52   175.89    408.90   575.31  793.27  1,029.86
Surplus (Deficit)                   110.29   (62.27)  (160.06)   43.15   61.82         31.84
Cash and Bank Balances
Year-end                                  510.29   448.02    287.96   331.11  392.93    424.77
AEP Projects Department
May 1984



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
Actual and Projected Resource Position, 1983-88
As of December 31
1983       1984      1985       1986       1987       1988
(Actual & ----------------- (Projected) -------------------
audited)
Local Currency Funds (Yuan million)
Resources available for approvals at
beginning of the year                    372.00    211.94       40.29   (209.01)  (292.20)  (364.44)
Paid-in capital                               -          -          -       125.00    175.00    200.00
Government loan                                -         -          -       125.00    175.00    200.00
Net income                                   5.14       3.55       3.90      10.91      18.76      12.44
Loan collections                              -         4.80       6.80      15.90      19.00      29.00
Total                                   377.14    220.29       30.99      67.80      95.56      77.00
Approvals of Investment loans during
the year                                (165.20)  (180.00)  (260.00)  (360.00)  (460.00)  (500.00)
Resources Available for Approvals    211.94         40.29   (209.01)  (292.20)  (364.44)  (423.00)
Foreign Currency Funds (US$ million)
Resources available for approvals at
beginning of the year                       -        60.20    145.20       55.20    177.80       55.50
International borrowings                    70.00    175.00       40.00    300.00       90.00    300.02
Foreign exchange.purchased                  40.00        -          -          -          -
Revolving fund                              20.00      20.00      20.00      20.00      20.00      20.00
Loan collections                               -         -          -         2.60      17.70      49.70
Total                                   130.00    255.20    205.20    377.80    305.50    425.20
Approvals of subloans during the year   (49.80)   (90.00)  (130.00)  (180.00)  (230.00)  (250.00)
Res urces Available for Approvals
(Excluding Revolving Fund)             60.20    145.20       55.20    177.80       55.50    155.20
AEP Projects Department
May 1984



- 33-                               ANNEX 3
Table 4
CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
Actual and Projected Profit and Loss Statements, 1983-88
(Yuan million)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
(Actual   --… ----(Projected)              …
& audited)
Income
Interest income from loans:
Local currency                  1.16    2.29    6.50   13.36   22.61   33.98
Foreign currency                0.12    4.79   17.52   37.80   62.25   88.64
Interest tncome from deposits
Local currency                  6.07    5.03    1.67    1.33    1.44   149
Foreign currency                0.42    2.80    2.24    1.68       1.12     1.12
Total Income                  7.77   14.91   27.93   54.17   87.42  125.23
Expenses
Financial expenses                1.79    8.69   20.09   37.52   60.73   87.26
Administrative expenses           0.44    1.46    2.00    2.39    2.80    3.17
Overseas training and              -       0.42    0.42    0.42    0.42    0.42
foreign consultancy
Provision for bad debts           0.01    0.04    0.12    0.22    0.34    0.48
Total expenses              2.24   10.61   22.63   40.55   64.29   91.33
Income Before Taxes         5.53    4.30    5.30   13.62   23.13   33.90
Industry and Commerce Tax           0.39    0.75    1.40    2.71    4.37    6.26
Tncome Tax                                    -        -                -      15.20
Net Profit                  5.14      3.55    3.90   10.91   18.76   12.44
Ratios:
As % of average total assets
Total income                    1.4      2.5     3.6      4.7      4.9      5.1
Financial expenses              0.3      1.4     2.6      3.2      3.4      3.5
Administrative expenses         0.1      0.2     0.3      0.2      0.2      0.1
Total expenses                  0.4      1.8     2.9      3.5      3.6      3.7
Income before tax               1.0     0.7      0.7      1.2      1.3      1.4
Net profit                      0.9      0.6     0.5      0.9      1.1      0.5
Net profit as % of average
Equity                          1.3      0.9      1.0     2.3      2.9      1.5
Paid-in capital                 1.3      0.9      1.0     2.3      3,1      1.6
EP Projects Department
May 1984



- 14 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5
CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
Actual and Prolected Balance Sheeto. 1983-88
(Yuan million)
As of December 31
1983     1984     1985       1986      1987        198,8
(Actunl   --------------- (Projected)-----------------
& audited)
ASRFTS
Currant Asseta
Cansh and bank deposit                           510.29   448.02   287.96    331.11    392.93       424.77
Current maturities of long-term loana
l,ocat currency                                 6.80    15.90    19.00       29.00     83.40      148.00
Foreign currency                                 -        7.30    49.60    13S.20    253.70      370.20
Total current nsaets                      517.09   471.22   356.56    499.31    730.03        942.97
Loan Portfolio
Local currency                                  28.81    98.50   262.70    479.70    776.20   1,111.80
Foreign currenty                                9.33   108.90   329.00    616.00    940.20   1,275.90
Total loan portfolio                       38.14   207.40   591,70  1,095.70  1,716.40   2,387.70
Leass  provision for losses                       (0.01)   (0.05)   (0.17)    (0.39)    (0.73)       (1.21)
Least  current maturities                         (6.80)  (23.20)  (68.60)  (168.20)  (337.10)   (518.20)
Net loan nortfolio                         31.33   184.15   522.93    927.11  1,378.57   1.868.29
Deferred Charges
Front-end fee                                      1.68     2.42     2.42       2.42      2.42        2.42
Less:  amortization                               (0.08)   (0.20)   (0.32)    (0.44)    (0.56)       (0.68)
Other deferred ebarges                            0.47
Net deferred charges                        2.07      2.22     2.10       1,98      1.86        1.74
Total long-term assets                     33.40   186.37   525.03    929.19  1,380.43   1,870.03
TOTAL ASSETS                              550.49   657.59   881.59  1.428.40  2,110.46   2,813.00
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
Current liabilities
Accounts payable                                  0.08       -        -          -         -
Current maturities of long-term debts              -         -        -          -       13.18       13.18
Total current liabilities                   0.08       -        -          -       13.18       13.18
Long-term liabilities
Local currency debt
Government loan                                  -         -        -       125.00    300.00     500.00
Construction Bank loan /a                     140.00   140.00   140.00    140,00    140.00       140.00
Foreign currency debt                              5.23   108.90   329.00    614.90    928.20   1,218.30
Less:  current maturities                          -         -        -          -      (13.18)    (13.18)
Total long-term liabilities               145.23   248.90   469.00    879.90  1,355.02   1,845,12
Total liabilities                         145.31   248.90   469.00    879.90  1,368.2C   1,858.30
Net Worth
Paid-in capital                                 400.00   400.00   400.00    525.00    700.00       900.00
Retained earnings                                 5.18      8.69    12.59      23.50     42.26       54.70
Total net worth                           405.18   408.69   412.59    548.50    742.26       954.70
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH           550.49   657.59   881.59  1,428.40  2,110.46   2,813.00
Ratios
Long-term debt/equity                             0.4:1    0.6 1    1.1:1       1.6:1     1.8:1       1.9:1
Total debt/equity                                 0.4:1    0.6:1    1.1:1       1.7:1     1.8:1       2.0:1
/a For purchasing foreign exchange $50 million.
AEP Projects Department
Ray 1984



- 35 -
ANNEX 4
3HINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Distribution of CIB I Subprojects
(as of April 30, 1984)
No. of                 Amount of
subprojects        %      subloans         %
($'000)
A. Sectoral Distribution
Industry
Paper and paper products                  2           6.2       8,000.0      15.2
Textiles and clothing                     8          25.0       8,148.5      15.5
Pharmaceuticals                           4          12.5       4,570.0       8.7
Packaging materials                       2           6.2       2,355.0       4.5
Printing (nontextile)                     4          12.5       3,638.0       7.0
Machinery and Electronics                 3           9.4       2,900.0       5.5
Building materials                        2           6.3       2,350.0       4.5
Metal works                               3           9.4      10,293.0      19.6
Miscellaneous                             4          12.5      10,240.0      19.5
Total                               32         100.0     52,494.5    100.0
B. Geographical Distribution
CIB Branch
Shanghai                                  2           6.3       4,351.0       8.3
Jiangsu                                  13          40.6      13,005.5      24.8
Tianjin                                   9          28.1      23,360.0      44.5
Hebei                                     5          15.6       6,873.0      13.1
Hubei                                     1           3.1       1,355.0       2.6
Fujian                                    2           6.3       3,550.0       6.7
Total                               32         100.0     52,494.5    100.0
AEP Projects Department
May 1984



- 36 -                             ANNEX 5
CHINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PRCJECT
Estimated Cumulative Disbursements of the Proposed Loan/Credit /a
(US$ million)
Bank/association              Estimated                Disbursement profile for
fiscal year                 cumulative                 "IDF Sector Loans" in
semester               disbursements            East Asia and Pacific Region
FY85
First                                                           0.5
Second                          3.0                            10.3
FY86
First                          15.0                            30.6
Second                         40.0                            57.4
FY87
First                          75.0                            85.9
Second                        110.0                           111.7
FY88
First                         130.0                           132.1
Second                        145.0                           147.0
FY89
First                         160.0                           157.2
Second                        175.0                           164.2
FY90
First                                                         169.0
Second                                                        172.3
FY91
First                                                         175.0
Closing Date:  June 30, 1989
/a  The projected disbursements start slowly based on the CIB I experience to
date, and then match the relevant disbursement profile (rounded to the
nearest $5 million) through FY88. The "tail" of the disbursement profile
for FY90 and FY91 is telescoped into FY89 because the loan/credit are
expected to be fully committed in FY86, and disbursements should not
extend for more than three years beyond then.



- 37 -
ANNEX 6
CHINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Many relevant documents are available in the project file for the
first China Industrial Credit Project. The additional documents are as
follows:
B.     Basic Documants Relating to the Project.
B-1    Draft Statute of China Trade Consultants and Technical
Service Corporatio'-
B-2    Business      _  . -- Agreement between CIB and China
Trade Consultan, kFebruary, 1984)
B-3    Provisional Methods of External Procurement and Settlement
for CIB Foreign Exchange Loan Projects (May 24, 1983)
B-4    CIB Lending Procedures (for Trial Use), (Promulgated by
MOF on April 2, 1983)
B-5    China Consultants oZ Accounting and Financial Management:
Articles of Association and CVs of Key OfWicers
(December, 1982)
B-6    Agreement on Technical Evaluation of the Industrial Projects
Entrusted by CIB to CIECC (February 1983)
B-7    CIB - Schedule of Periodic Reports to IBRD



- 38
CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
Organization Chart
(As of AprIl 30, 1984)
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
HONORARY CrWRMAti: Wang Bingq[an.
Mfr.0er of Finance
CHAIRMAN: Wu Boshan
Vice Minister ot Rnonce
President of Popte's
Construction Bank of
Chlno
MANAGING COMMirEE:A
BOARD CHAIRMANIT RALA
DEPUTY BOARD CHAPMAN (3)    -        CHIEF AU
MANAGING DIRECTORS (7)                 Boo Sh
PRESIDENT
Zhou Ha_nrng
|ViCE PRESIDENT|
Geng Genrgshan
GENERAL & ADMINISTRATiVE      COORDINATING & PLANNING             PROJECT LENDING              RNANCE & ACCOUNTING              SURVEY & ESEARCH
OFRCE                       DEPARTMENT                      DEPARTMENT                      DEPARTIVENT                    DEPARTMENT
MANAGER                        MANAGER:                        MANAGER:
DEPUTY                    Ms Chen Jinglanng                   Uing Han                      Deng Hailkuel                   MANAGER:
O!IRCE MANAGER                                                                                                                 Tong Tionshen
Uu .kJnin                  DEPUTY MANAGER              ACTING DERPlY MANAGER:             DEPUTY MANAGER:
Wang Furrong                    Guon Xland                    ms. Wang Ujuan
NO. OF STAfI             5                               4                              13                              3                               5
LIAONING BRANCH
Total No of Board Directors  = 32                                                                                                          A IANCH MANCH                  _
(IncludIng Honorary Chairman,                                                                                                             TAT nG Fu                        A
Chairman, Deputy Chalrman)                                                                                                                         TING Pu
ACTiNG DEPUT
Total No. of Staff In Head Office = 33                                                                                                         BRANCH MANAGERS
(Including Senior Manogement)                                                                                                                      Li Yutlan
Lu Chunling
lotal No. of Staff In Brcnches = 84                                                                                       NO. OF STAFF:
AEP Prjects Department
Aprl 30, 1984



VICE PRESIDENT
Thno Hong
SHANGHAI BRNCH                 ThANJIN BRANCH              JKANGSU BRANCH                  HEBEI BRANCH                RULAN BRANCH                 HUBEI BRANCH
ZTTNlG; BRANCH MANAGER.        BRANBRANCH MANA              BRNCH MANAGER                                          ACTING BRANCH MANAGER        ACnNG BRANCH MANAGER:
Yon Xloo-XIu l ESur BN                                      Ms Gu Bin                 BRANCH MA`AGER                  Shen Zhuo                  He Guangchang
DEPUTi BRANCH
EPUTv BRANCH MANAGER:             MANAGERS                    DEPUY BRANCH                   Chen Zhjan                  ACNG DEPUTY              DEPUTY Bl?ANCH MANAGER:
Le Xboukuel                   U Borning                    MANAGER:                                               BAC   AAE-HnGidn
Sun Yuniu                  Zhou GcanYI                                               Chen Hangzhan                 HnGldn
14                           16                            15                           10                     R                                   10
WUaUld Buank-25650



IBRD 17773R
siio                        I1'                                                         is M2° k15                                      AY 1984
rbr; mep hes ten wMepool bY'                                                                                                   r 
1. Ih. ZC-d   of the^$eOrlct M N Ol               ,                                                                                        v      (U. S. S. R.
_451l reOd&r *nd 1- *x/U   r - h, h   -         ,9                                                                    
.wonlsORrllen  I._ Mr-w    '-t                                                                                  Chanlgthun     
Cerooth- rhe cfnnvlt- 
usd 0od U.. bldd-ae sh-rR 
on0 wh frr^ do l nplt en the   ^s                                                                                     JILINj 
Mfle.l-onl Fna- Corllwn  ,t>,
sfen cunonles /NEIMIONGGOL  < 1
__ r                       >   %    :,,                         - o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Shcnvanrs\ \_.
,pJ ~~ \ _,) LIAONING .tEM. ~~PEOPLE'S
oHohh.t                      rk5 :                                                 REP. OF KOREA
_.>    ~~~IEIJINGg                 LI , 
~~ {/     ./                  .)    Shijl~~~~Azun          .                          ,                                 REPUESLIC OF
i   7   |                  "                   '                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KOREA
t  SHANXI      i._         k           linan                                                                                         35t
a,,   f   ,                  j     t,X,;S           ~~~~~SHANDONG     ,
s   \                             ,,          r~~~~~~~~~tcgz.
"At    SHAANXI                               HENAN            rS3                      JIANGSU    .JAPAN
'   n    \                                's AISH NGHAI                           ~~~~~            ~          ~~~CHINA30
SICHUAN             M             U£                           )      ANHUI                                        INDUSTRIAL  CREDIT  11 PROJECOT
g~ ~ ~~ ~ms                         _W;h,,n.,¢                               Ha$/b                      CHINA INVESTMENT BANKII1
/  ;   -  .}   S         6         >                        . l              za~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4    CIS HEAD OFFICE
t  J      *    ,      _r                               ~~~~~~~         ~         ~      ~~ ~~~ZHEJIANG  A    C18 BRAttCH OFFICES
*  &,,.( >  11    8  _<           ONanshang                                                    ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCES WITH Cl3 BRANCHES
2   '1   4           <                              |                   ,: s                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCES LIKELY T. HAVE BRANCHES
t[4pt            ~~~CKwgsba       ^                             t'.ESTABLISHED DURIING CIE 11
r  ,; , \ ,> ;, S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OROVINCIAL DOUNOARIIES
GUIZHOU   I",              HUNAN               it       JIANGXI        >>- -ITRA1NLEUDRE
050ivang   1                   ')                  9             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FuthoO;1
g                       S        ~~~~~~     ~~FUJIAN   ;
_25c   t.-   , d        z          S N                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
L                                                                                    0_  IO        20C>   _o lCZD 300    4 D  Boo
GUANGXtI)GANDN TAIWAN Oi c
j              \                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
,S     Guanpgh.u
T W10°    Ir 1v                              I\°l2                                                     12|5°



