Document of                                   CD i
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3819-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USW1O5.0 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 65.8 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 16, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =Yuan (Y)
Calendar 1983                February 1984
$1.00           =   Y 1.98                    Y 2.06
Y 1.00           =   $0.51                    $ 0.49
The staff appraisal report is based on the internal settlement rate of
$1 = Y 2.80.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 1
ACRONYMS
BOC   -   Bank of China
CIB   -   China Investment Bank
DFC   -   Development Finance Company
ICBC  -   Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
MOF   -   Ministry of Finance
NMP   -   Net Material Product
PBC   -   People's Bank of China
PCBC  -   People's Construction Bank of China



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CHINA INVESTMENT BANK II)
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
-Borrower:             People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:          China Investment Bank (CIB)
Amount:               $175.0 million equivalent, comprising $105.0 million
equivalent IBRD and SDR 65.8 million ($70.0 million
equivalent) IDA.
Terms:                Loan:  20 years, including 5 years grace; standard
variable interest rate.
Credit: Standard
Relending Terms:      Loan and Credit:  20 years, including 5 years of grace;
fixed interest rate of 7.0% p.a., plus commitment fees
equal to those under the loan and credit; the Government
would bear the interest rate risk on the Bank loan and
the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and (a)
the currency pool for the Bank loan and (b) the SDR for
the IDA credit. Subborrowers would bear the foreign
exchange risk between the US dollar and the Yuan.
Project
Dtscription:        The project furthers the development of CIB, which pro-
vides investment loans for small- and medium-size indus-
trial projects needing foreign exchange. The objective
would be to help raise investment efficiency through
import of technology and the introduction of improved
project design and selection methodology. Subborrowers
would be some 60-80 state and collective enterprises
primarily in coastal provinces and municipalities. Based
on the experience under CIB I, the investments are
expected to have high financial and economic returns.
The main project risks relate to the capacity of CIB,
which is a young institution, to strengthen its appraisal
standards, especially in the technical, economic and
marketing areas, and to the need for continued government
commitment to CIB within the process of economic
reform. However, the project provides for recruitment of
additional technical and economic staff, plus training
and marketing consultancy for CIB. This will further
strengthen CIB's ability to identify and evaluate
projects. Furthermore, the Government's commitment to
economic reforms and to CIB remain firm.
T his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i~i -
Bank FY       1985       1986        1987       1988      1989
…                  $ millions ---------------
Estimated
Disbursement:        Annual        3.0         37.0        70.0       35.0      30.0
Cumulative   3.0         40.0        110.0      145.0    175.0
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 4897-CHA, dated May 15, 1984.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
and credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a second indus-
trial credit project. The loan, for $105.0 million, would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, with standard variable interest rate.  The
credit, for SDR 65.8 million ($70.0 million equivalent), would be on standard
IDA terms. The loan and credit would be onlent to the China Investment Bank
(CIB) for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with a fixed interest rate of
7% p.a. The grant element of the Bank Group's financing package, calculated
on the basis of a 10% discount rate, would be 30%.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China: Socialist Economic
Development" (No. 3391-CHA), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
June 1, 1981. A country economic memorandum, entitled "China: Recent Economic
Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. Another economic mission which has
just returned from China is now preparing a report on long-term development
issues and options. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex 1.
Background
3.        Following a period of major institutional changes in the 1950s,
including land reform and the eventual establishment of communes in rural
areas and the extension of public ownership to cover almost all of the modern
sector, development efforts in China have been directed toward the major
objectives of industrialization and poverty reduction. Despite sharp
oscillations in policy and political upheavals like the Great Leap Forward
(1958-61) and the Cultural Revolution (1966-76), China has made substantial
progress toward achieving its objectives. Industrial growth since 1949 has
averaged more than 12% p.a. (compared with under 5% for agriculture); the
current share of industry in GDP (around 44%) is similar to the average for
middle-income developing countries; and the country now produces a far greater
variety of industrial goods than most other developing countries.  Per capita
GNP (with adjustments for international comparability) grew at 2.5-3.0% p.a.
in 1957-81, significantly above the average or other low-income developing
countries. In terms of basic education, nutrition and health the Chinese
population is better off than its counterparts in other low-income developing
countries.
4.        However, China remains a very poor country, with a GNP per capita of
only $300 in 1982 and about 200 million people or 20% of the population with



-2-
unacceptably low incomes.  The economy is also .nefficient:  past growth has
come mainly from massive mobilization of resources. For a country that faces
significant domestic resource constraints, inefficiency is a particularly
serious problem.
5.        To address these problems and ensure rapid growth and improvements
in living standards, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjust-
ment in 1979.  Economic reform, aimed at improving the efficiency of the
economic system, involves: (a) improving 'zhe quality of central planning and
policy coordination; (b) devolving more decision-making authority to lower
level units; (c) establishing more direct 'Links between incomes and the
performance of economic units and individuals; and (d) relying more on market
mechanisms and economic instruments and less on administrative directives to
influence economic activity. Structural adjustment, aimed at speeding
improvements in living standards, has involved readjusting the relative shares
of consumption and investment in national Income, some major sectoral and
subsectoral readjustments, and greater emphasis on foreign trade.  In 1981,
problems with inflation and large budgetary and current account deficits
resulted in short-term stabilization temporarily receiving the highest
priority, but by 1982 the Government was again pushing ahead rapidly with
adjustment and reform.
Economic Reform
6.        Reforms have now affected all sectors of the economy and institu-
tions from the central government down to rural households.  A major govern-
ment reorganization has strengthened the core planning and management agencies
(especially the State Planning Commission and the State Economic Commission)
and reduced the number of commissions, ministries and agencies under the State
Council from 98 to 52. Reorganization within miniStries also has occurred,
while that of provincial and local governments is; now under way.  Economic
management has been decentralized: provincial andc local authorities have been
given more autonomy in investment decision making and use of credit to finance
investment has increased; provincial and local gOveZrnments have been granted
greater budgetary flexibility and more incentives to expand revenues and/or
economize on expenditures; and ministries, new local trading companies and
some enterprises now have authority to engage directly in foreign trade.
7.        Reforms have been most far-reachinig in rural areas, where introduc-
tion of various types of the "product:ion responsibility system" has given
small groups and households more autonomy in production and investment
decisions and linked incomes directly with output. By the end of 1982, 92% of
production teams in China had implemented such a system; 78% had implemented a
household responsibility system, whereby collective ownership of farm land and
major equipment is maintained but plots of land are contracted out to
individual households, which can retain whatever they produce beyond their
obligations to the state and to the collective (which account for about one
third of production). The number and types of rural markets have also
increased.
8.        Economic reform has not proceeded as far or as fast in urban areas,
but significant systemic changes have occurred. Reforms in the management of



state enterprises have aimed at improving incentives through profit retention
schemes and more flexible payment and employment practices. There have also
been experimental changes in the organization of state enterprises, a greater
variety of marketing channels, some price flexibility and adjustment of
relative prices, and greater autonomy for state enterprises in production
decisions. The scope for cooperative and individual economic activities has
also been enlarged.
9.        Many economic reforms, especially those in rural areas, have already
had a positive impact on efficiency, while others will take longer to have a
significant effect. There are also some emerging issues with economic reform
that the Government will need to address.  In rural areas, there is a
potential conflict between enhanced economic incentives and equity in income
distribution, continued provision of basic services, and mobilization of
labor. In the state enterprise sector, many units are still inclined to
overinvest and overproduce, since substantial decentralization of decision
making and control over resources has not been accompanied by necessary
reforms in the pricing system. More use is being made of the market, but
information and transport systems are still weak, markets are fragmented and
competition is limited. It has also been difficult to develop effective
indirect fiscal and monetary policy instruments.
Adjustment, Stabilization and Growth
10.       During the past four years, the Government has followed a strategy
of setting relatively modest targets while implementing economic and admin-
istrative measures that contribute to adjustment and stabilization as well as
to economic growth. The various measures have included: major increases in
agricultural procurement prices; strict controls on many other prices;
rationing and other administrative measures to improve efficiency of resource
use; cutbacks in state capital construction investment; fiscal measures to
limit the budget deficit; increases in interest rates; moderation of currency
and credit expansion; and the introduction of an internal settlement rate for
foreign exchange transactions and other measures to encourage exports and
economize on imports.
11.       These economic and administrative measures, combined with systemic
changes, have played an important role in the impressive performance of the
Chinese economy in recent years. Gross agricultural and industrial output at
constant prices grew by 7.3% per year between 1978 and 1982 - agriculture by
7.5% and industry by 7.2% (heavy industry by 3.4% and light industry by
11.8%). Net material product (NMP) at constant prices grew by an estimated
6.3% p.a. during the same period.  Net investment has stagnated in real terms,
while material consumption grew by over 9% p.a. between 1978 and 1982. The
share of investment in NMP was reduced from 36% i-n 1978 to 29% in 1982.
Domestic consumption of energy rose by less than 2% p.a. during 1978-82.
12.       Structural adjustment and rapid overall economic growth, combined
with a low population growth rate (1.3% p.a. between 1978 and 1982), have led
to rapid increases in per capita incomes. In urban areas, real per capita
incomes increased by 4.8% p.a. between 1978 and 1982; in rural areas the real
increase in per capita incomes was about 12% p.a. While more prosperous areas



-4-
and households may have benefitted the most and income differentials at a
local level may have increased, many poor areas and households have also
enjoyed substantial income improvements.
13.       The high rate of investment in 1978 and the low returns to much of
this investment made a cutback in the investment rate a priority for the
adjustment program. But achieving such a cutback has proved difficult.
Decentralization of investment decision making has permitted a rapid growth in
investment financed from retained earnings or local resources. As a result,
most of the cutbacks in investment have been in large centrally financed
projects (in 1981 even the priority sectors of energy and transportation were
affected), though some of these were revived in 1982.
14.       Government policy measures have helped restore domestic economic
stability by lowering the rate of inflation from 6% in 1980 to 2.4% in 1981
and 2% in 1982, and by reducing the budget deficit (adjusted to eliminate
financing items) from 7% of NMP in 1979 ar,,d 5% in 1980 to less than 2% in 1981
and 1982. The restoration of fiscal stability was achieved mainly by sharp
cuts in expenditures on investment. Subsidies (mainly on daily living
necessities) rose dramatically from about 7% of total expenditures in 1978 to
26% in 1982, when they were 9% of NMP.
15.       China's external position has also changed greatly in recent years;
the current account deficit of $3.4 billion in 1980 was converted into a $5.6
billion surplus in 1982 and an estimated $4.6 billion surplus in 1983, an
improvement far greater than anticipated. The real growth of merchandise
exports has been very impressive, averaging over 15% p.a. during 1978-82,
mainly because of rapid growth in manufactured exports. The growth rate has
been declining steadily, however. Meanwhi:Le the volume of imports declined in
both 1981 and 1982, due in part to the lagged effect of contract cancellations
and suspensions, but also to delays in equipment deliveries and to problems in
obtaining high technology goods. A substantial increase in imports is, how-
ever, expected in 1984 and 1985 as China expands its investment program and
imports more machinery and equipment.
16.       A major consequence of the Government's conservative balance of
payments strategy has been reduced foreign borrowing. In 1980 and 1981 the
Government cut back sharply on interbank borrowing and in 1982 took advantage
of the unexpectedly strong current account position to repay commercial bank
and other loans. In 1981 China's debt service ratio was 7.8%, and in 1982
10.0%, due in part to accelerated loan repayments. At the end of 1981 total
reserves (excluding gold) were $5 billion; by the end of 1982 they had
increased to over $11 billion (equivalent to about seven months of 1982
imports), and by the end of 1983 they were nearly $15 billion.
Medium-Term Prospects
17.       During the remainder of the 1980s, the Government's efforts to
improve living standards should be helped considerably by continuation of a
relatively low population growth rate; by opportunities to make greater and
more efficient use of foreign technology and capital; and by the potential for
improving efficiency through economic reform. Rapid and equitable economic



-5-
development is constrained by a number of factors, however. There are serious
shortages of skilled manpower (current enrollment in universities and tech-
nical and vocational schools is one quarter of the average rate for other
developing countries). With limited possibilities for expanding the culti-
vated area and with cropping intensities and yields already quite high, the
growth rate for agriculture is unlikely to average more than 3-4% p.a. during
the 1980s. Energy availability will continue to constrain industrial growth,
and there are capacity constraints in the transport and commercial sectors.
Large investments will be required in energy and transport at a time when
competing demands from other sectors, especially housing, are very great,
domestic revenues have not been growing rapidly, and decentralization has
weakened government control over investment.
18.       In recognition of these difficulties, the Government's Sixth Five-
Year Plan (published in December 1982 but covering the period January 1981
December 1985) emphasizes continuation of the program of "adjustment, reform,
consolidation and improvement of the national economy." The plan period is
essentially viewed as an interim period during which the foundation will be
laid for more rapid economic development under subsequent plans. Modest
targets are set for production and income growth (4% p.a. for gross agri-
cultural and industrial output and for NMP), consumption is expected to grow
faster than investment, prices will be kept basically stable, the budget
deficit will be kept low, and a significant expansion in foreign trade is
forecast, with imports growing more rapidly than exports. Priority will be
given to measures improving efficiency rather than maximization of output, but
the Government expects most production targets to be surpassed, as they have
been in the first two years of the Plan.
19.       Reform implementation will continue during the next few years.
Rural reforms will be broadened and strengthened, with the production
responsibility system extended to new spheres of activity, new types of
organization (including joint ventures between rural and urban units)
encouraged, and the administrative functions of communes separated from their
economic functions. In state-owned industry, taxation will fully replace
profit remittance as the primary means of raising government revenue, indus-
trial administration will be streamlined, and more inefficient enterprises
will be closed down. The commercial system will be reformed and cooperative
and individual commerce, particularly in rural areas, will be promoted. In
investment planning, the Government is striving for more effective imple-
mentation of existing administrative regulations, but improving the structure
and efficiency of investment will be a long and difficult process, dependent
very much on progress on other aspects of reform. Measures to introduce
formal economic analysis (including use of shadow prices) into investment
decisions and to make producing units were economically and financially
responsible for their decisions through appropriate pricing and incentive
schemes are especially important. Price reform itself is recognized as being
crucial, but in view of the complexities and magnitude of the changes
required, the Government has decided that it cannot implement comprehensive
price reform until after 1985. However, appropriate upward or downward
adjustments in some of the most distorted prices are being made, and the
prices of many minor commodities are being allowed to fluctuate according to
market conditions.



- 6 -
20.       During the remainder of the 1980s, China's development and moderni-
zation programs are expected to result in rapid growth of imports of capital
and intermediate goods. Foreign capital requirements for energy development
will be particularly heavy.  By the late 1980s, some imports of oil are also
likely to be necessary before new domestic energy production capacity is
established. China's temporary current account surpluses thus are expected to
change to moderate deficits over the next several years. But the overall rate
of import expansion, the size of the current account deficit, and the
magnitude of foreign borrowing requirements are very sensitive to assumptions
about economic trends and the effectiveness of government programs. For
example, an acceleration of economic growth without significant improvements
in efficiency, especially energy efficiency, could result in large current
account deficits by the end of the 1980s. In fact, a relatively high rate of
economic growth of 6-7X p.a. during the rest of the 1980s (which is the growth
rate used in the projections in Annex 1) will probably be feasible only if
major improvements in energy efficiency continue.
21.       China has a strong claim to concessionary lending because it is
still one of the poorer countries in the world. However, access to conces-
sionary capital to finance its development and madernization program is
limited: apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of concessionary
capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other bilateral donors and
will probably average only $500-600 million a year during the 1980s.
22.       For China, as for many other developingy countries, the 1980s will be
a difficult decade. But looking further ahead, China's economic prospects
appear favorable. By 1990, most new entrants inlo the labor force will have
received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower deficit will have
been reduced. Further progress will have been made in tapping China's large
energy potential and in using it more efficiently. Continuation of recent
manufactured export trends should generate additional foreign exchange,
enabling the Government to use foreign capital more freely and be less con-
cerned about its terms. If the country's iimmense wealth of human talent,
effort and discipline can be combined with policies that increase the effi-
ciency of resource use, China will be able to achieve continuing substantial
increases in the living standards of its people. Whether this potential can
be realized, however, will depend crucially on the success of the Government's
program of reform and adjustment in the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROIJP OPEIATIONS IN CHINA
23.       In 57iew of the particular circumstances of China and the economic
transition now underway, the Bank's relationship with China should have
several broad objectives. Firstly, the Bank should offer China its consider-
able development experience a-ad institutional knowledge. Moreover, working
with the Bank represents one means for China. to re-establish its position in
the world community after its lengthy isolation. Secondly, the Bank should
assist China in removing the major constraints on development: shortages of
energy, transport infrastructure, skilled manpowe-: and modern technology.
Even more important, the Bank should help the authorities to use these and



- 7 -
other inputs more efficiently, by improving project analysis and investment
control, as well as overall economic management and planning. Finally, the
Bank should help the Government identify ways of reducing China's remaining
poverty. Since the Government has been successful in meeting the basic needs
of most of its people, these efforts should concentrate on the poorest rural
areas.
24.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May
1980, 15 projects involving lending of about $1,568 million have been
approved. Three have been in education (University Development, Agricultural
Education and Research and Polytechnic/TV University), three in energy (Daqing
V       Oilfield Gaotaizi Reservoir Development, Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum and Lubuge
Hydroelectric), four in agriculture (North China Plain, Heilongjiang Land
Reclamation, Rubber Development and Rural Credit), two in transport (Three
Ports and Railways), one in industry (Industrial Credit), one in health (Rural
Health and Medical Education) and one in technical cooperation (Technical
Cooperation Credit). Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and
credits as of March 31, 1984.
Economic and Sector Work
25.       The Bank's economic and sector work was initially designed to
provide a basis of knowledge on the development and functioning of the Chinese
economy.  This work resulted in completion of a nine-volume introductory
economic report in June 1981. A follow-up country economic memorandum (Report
No. 4072-CHA) analyzing developments over the next two years was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. In addition, the Bank has
undertaken studies in several areas important for our understanding of the
Chinese system, including rural finance and urban planning and management in
Shanghai. An economic mission which visited China in February and April 1984
will prepare a report on long-term development issues and options.
26.       Other economic work is designed to assist China in its present
effort to promote efficient use of investment resources, and more generally to
introduce new methods of economic management and planning. In the context of
the Industrial Credit Project, an appraisal manual was developed with Bank
assistance by the China Investment Bank, a then newly established financial
intermediary. The Bank is also helping the Agricultural Bank of China to
develop a similar manual in connection with the Rural Credit Project. A
program of economic research on China's development problems, aimed at the
application of advanced analytical techniques, is underway in collaboration
with Chinese economic research institutions in the areas of enterprise
incentives and analysis of structural change.
27.       Sector studies will help, inter alia, to identify and prepare future
investments. Some have been included in Bank Group-financed projects, e.g.,
agricultural development in Shandong Province under the North China Plain
Agriculture Project, containerization under the Three Ports Project, and agri-
cultural manpower and research under the Agricultural Education and Research
Project. A rural finance study provided the background for the Rural Credit
Project. A report entitled "The Health Sector in China" (No. 4664-CHA, dated
April 13, 1984) reviews rural health care delivery systems and health manpower
development.



-8-
Near-Term Lending
28.       Work is proceeding on a range of proJects, with emphasis on improved
management and efficiency as well as on technical assistance and training.
Several are in the key sectors of energy and transportation.  In energy, the
Bank's efforts will help to increase the supply of fuel and power. Future
petroleum projects will, like the first tliree, emphasize the introduction of
modern technology, staff training and studies.  Other operations are likely to
continue support for electric power and involve development and management of
large underground coal mines in Shanxi province. In transportation, work is
proceeding on a second railway project and a second ports project to provide
additional capacity.
29.       In view of China's shortages of manpower with higher or technical
education, the Bank will continue its support for education through a second
agricultural education project and another university development project.
Support for agriculture would continue through projects to provide further
assistance in agricultural research and to assist the Government in forestry
and seeds. In industry, in addition to the proposed second loan/credit to
CIB, there will be projects for technical renovation and modernization in
industries such as fertilizers and machine tools, and further loans to CIB.
Bank assistance is also planned for a rural water supply project.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
30.       Characteristics and AccompLishments.  China is one of the world's
ten leading industrial producers, and has the largest full-time industrial
employment (56 million). However, manufacturing output per capita is only
about 25% of the average for middle income countries and about 4% of that for
industrialized market economies.  State ent:erprises comprise 22% of China's
389,000 industrial enterprises, the rest beting urban or rural collectives, but
they account for 78% of output. Manufactured exports were only 4.1% of gross
industrial output in 1982, but accounted for 55% of total merchandise
exports.  Textiles were 21% of total exports, other light industrial products
14%, and heavy industrial goods 20%. Industrial exports grew by about 20%
p.a. in real terms over 1977-81, and by 10% in 1982 despite the world reces-
sion. A wide range of Chinese manufactures is internationally competitive in
terms of production cost, but quality and variety often need more emphasis.
Three accomplishments of Chinese industry stand out.  First, despite periodic
disruptions, gross output has grown at nearly 10x% p.a. since 1957, due to a
very high rate of fixed investment in industry, averaging 10-15% of GDP.
Second, the industrial base was broadened to produce nearly a full range of
machinery and industrial raw materials. Third, China has mobilized unskilled
labor, rural savings, and low-grade raw materials to establish a large number
of small-scale rural factories, bringing extra income and basic goods (albeit
often of low quality) to rural areas, and contributing greatly to employment.



-9-
31.       Weaknesses.  Chinese industry also has numerous shortcomings:
(a) Inputs are used very inefficiently, and total factor productivity has not
changed since the 1950s; incremental capital output ratios have risen, over-
manning is widespread and energy use per unit of GDP is 2-1/2 times that of
other developing countries. (b) The structure of production is unbalanced:
heavy industry, with its high demands on scarce capital and energy, has
received 80% of total fixed industrial investment; foreign trade has been
relatively neglected. (c) Technology is outmoded in many sectors; while the
use of older, labor-intensive equipment is generally sensible given Chinese
factor proportions, a lot of Chinese equipment and processes produce sub-
standard products or waste energy and raw materials. (d) Decisions are badly
coordinated: supply and demand are often mismatched and investments made with
insufficient attention to choice of location, scale, or product mix.  Some of
these weaknesses are the result of past policy errors, neglect of medium term
economic planning, and two decades of international isolation. Others stem
from deficiencies in the economic system: insufficient incentives to conserve
inputs or improve output quality, distorted prices, restricted access to
imports, and inadequate contacts between producers and users and among
different ministries and regions.
32.       Constraints on Growth in the 1980s.  It is particularly important
now to correct these weaknesses because the conditions which favored past
industrial success have substantially altered. Most importantly, domestic
energy output is likely to expand at no more than 2% p.a. during the remainder
of the 1980s. Raw materials, transport and high level manpower will also be
constraints. In addition, the Government is trying to reduce the resources
allocated to industrial investment in view of past over-investment and in
order to free more resources for the energy and transport sectors and for
consumption. At the same time, industrial exports will have to expand, in the
face of difficult world market conditions, to help offset reduced energy
exports, and industry must remain a principal source of new jobs. It is
possible for industry to grow at about 8% p.a., as called for in the
Government's long-term prospectus, provided that China reduces its unit energy
and materials consumption, emphasizes light industry, and, in general,
continues to reform its economic system so as to make efficiency gains the
main engine of growth.
33.       Government Strategy.  In 1979, the Government introduced a policy of
adjustment and reform (para. 5). The adjustment has increased the emphasis
on:  (a) light industry; (b) manufactured exports; (c)"modernization" of
existing workshops, rather than "capital construction" (which involves
building new facilities); and (d) energy conservation. The main thrust of
reform has been to decentralize decision-making and to rely more on incentives
and markets to guide decisions. The changes affecting industry include: (a)
profit and foreign exchange retention; (b) wider use of loans and other
capital charges; (c) increased use of bonuses; (d) encouragement of foreign
partnerships, urban collectives and very small private enterprises; and
(e) limited price changes and more flexible pricing and marketing arrange-
ments. In the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85), about one-third of total
industrial investment is to be for modernization, two-thirds for capital
construction. To help implement this program, the Government is expanding
imports of technology, through joint ventures, compensation trade (where the



- 10 -
equipment supplier accepts Chinese exports as payment), licensing agreements,
and import of equipment, increasingly with technical assistance and/or
training attached.
34.       Recent Developments.  The adjustment program was initially fairly
successful in controlling investment and shifting emphasis toward light
industry, which also helped reduce energy consumption. But actual capital
construction in 1982 exceeded the plan by 25%, using mainly extra-budgetary
finance (para. 38), primarily for industry and housing. This strained the
supply of energy, building materials and transport capacity, and drained
resources from light industry and from high priority energy and transport
projects, while the output of heavy industry, in supplying the producer goods
demanded, greatly exceeded the plan. Industrial reform had raised the
interest of enterprise management in increasing output and profits, but had
not been accompanied by more extensive pricing changes to give better
allocation signals (para. 19). Furthermore, there was no measurable
improvement in industrial efficiency. In response, the Government has
tightened control over investment finance and stopped many low-priority
projects.
The Financial Sector
35.       Role.  As in most centrally planned economies, China's financial
system is relatively underdeveloped because most fixed investment and even
working capital has been financed through the budget. The financial system
has served mainly to channel budgetary funds for approved purposes and to help
control state and collective enterprises. More recently, increased attention
has been paid to using the banks to mobilize savings, increase investment
efficiency, and provide a detailed review of project proposals independent of
the enterprises and their supervisory agencies.
36.       Institutional Background.  China's financial system has included
five specialized state banks grouped under two separate jurisdictions. The
People's Bank of China (PBC) has had ministry-level status as a multi-purpose
central and commercial bank. Under PBC have been the Bank of China (BOC),
responsible for commercial transactions and loans in foreign exchange, and the
Agricultural Bank of China, in charge of banking and financial administration
in rural areas nationwide. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) has supervised two
institutions: the People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC), which has the
main financial responsibility for appraising and disbursing for capital
construction in the productive and social sectors of the economy, through both
grants and loans in local currency, and the recently-established CIB, which
lends for investments requiring foreign exchange to modernize or expand
industrial enterprises.
37.       In September 1983 the State Council reformed the financial system by
formally establishing PBC as the central bank, mandated to supervise the bank-
ing operations of all other financial institutions. The practical implica-
tions of this change are still being spelled out. PBC's commercial banking
activities (taking deposits and providing short-term working capital loans and
medium-term modernization loans) were spun off to form the Industrial and Com-
mercial Bank of China (ICBC). The extension of PB3C's supervisory role over



- 11 -
the entire financial system is a further step towards separating MOF's fiscal
functions from the regular banking activities of the financial system, and
provides an institutional framework within which other financial sector
issues, such as interest rates and the roles of the various specialized banks,
can be dealt with. It is also expected to reinforce the ongoing effort to
increase the efficiency of investment by shifting from a grant system admin-
istered by MOF to a more autonomous credit system. In addition, a Financial
Board of Governors representing MOF and the main banks was established, to
improve coordination in policy making and implementation.
38.       Investment Finance.  Fixed investment in China is financed from a
variety of sources: state budget grants (from central and local governments),
extra-budgetary funds of various government agencies, enterprises' retained
profits and depreciation allowances, domestic bank loans and foreign loans.
The share financed by state budget grants has fallen steadily during the past
15 years, from an average of 85% over 1962-66, to 31% in 1982, Until 1979,
the offsetting increase was virtually all from enterprises and government
agencies; bank loans financed less than 2% of fixed investment. Since then,
the role of credit has expanded dramatically: in 1982, domestic bank loans
financed 16% of fixed investment in the state-owned sector, and foreign loans
a further 7%. Now PCBC passes on budget funds as loans to most enterprises
that are profitable; the state budget grants go mainly for infrastructure,
plus certain industries (e.g., coal mining), which have high priority but low
profits. Most of the investment in light industry (of which 40% is in
textiles and 30% in food processing) is loan financed. The domestic bank
loans for capital construction are mostly from PCBC, using both state budget
funds and enterprise and agency deposits; those for modernization are chiefly
from ICBC and BOC. Under the new banking system most of PCBC's modernization
lending is to be transferred to ICBC. All lending is supposed to be in line
with the annual national credit plan prepared by PBC and approved by the State
Council; however, investment lending for capital construction in 1982 was Y7.3
billion, while only Y3.5 billion was in the plan. Renewed efforts are now
being made to control this lending.
39.       The shift from grants to loans gave enterprise managers some incen-
tive to economize on investment costs, as higher amortization reduced profits,
which have been one measure of enterprise performance. The introduction of
limited profit retention increased this incentive, and a recent partial shift
from profit remittance to an industrial income tax should go further in this
direction. However, given the existing distorted price structure, full
reliance on credit would shift investment towards the more financially profit-
able industries, which may not be those with the highest economic returns.
The success of the financial reforms will therefore remain incomplete without
comprehensive price reform.
40.       Foreign Exchange Finance.  Enterprises whose investments include
foreign exchange costs often look for overseas partners, usually for compen-
sation trade, especially if overseas marketing is expected to be critical and
difficult. Enterprises which do not need or fail to obtain such partners turn
to BOC or CIB for foreign exchange investment loans. BOC became very active
in this area only in 1982; until then, it concentrated on short-term
finance. It has been using China's balance-of-payments surplus for most of



- 12 -
its investment lending for modernization projects, which exceeded $600 million
in 1983, for some 3,300 projects. If that source dries up, BOC may make
greater use of the foreign suppliers' and buyers' credits for which it is the
sole channel. BOC's loan criteria remain primarily commercial, with the
ability to generate foreign exchange to repay the loan given greatest
weight. In some provinces, CIB and BOC meet together with the core agencies
to divide up the investment program; in others, they actively compete for
business. Competition is based in part on special terms and exemptions
accorded to one or the other bank by the Government; these anomalies reflect
poorly coordinated decision-making in the financial sector in the past.
However, they do not seriously affect the competitive position of CIB, nor do
they lead to significant misallocation of resources, and coordination is
expected to improve (para. 37).
41.       Interest Rates.  Lending rates to industry, while positive in real
terms, are low by international standards; however, there are other charges on
capital which reduce the subsidy to capital otherwise implicit in low interest
rates. The highest local currency rate is for working capital, 7.2% p.a., to
discourage excessive inventories. Fixed investments for modernization are
deemed more profitable than those for capital construction, and local currency
loans for the former by PCBC and ICBC therefore carry higher rates of 5.04% to
6.48% p.a., compared to 2.4% to 3.6% p.a. for capital construction. Lending
rates on foreign currency loans are set partly by reference to international
rates. However, BOC's rate on US dollar lcians for modernization was lowered
in 1983 from 10-11% p.a. to 7.5%-8.5% p.a. The Government also made an
exceptional allocation of $500 million of China's own foreign exchange for
selected projects in Shanghai and Tianjin to hasten modernization there; BOC
charges enterprises 2.52% p.a. for these funds just to cover cost. Deposit
rates for enterprises and agencies are 1.8% p.a. for demand deposits and 3.6%
to 5.04% p.a. for time deposits, depending on maturity. As part of its
financial and other economic reforms, China needs to develop a more consistent
interest rate policy once the banking reorganization is completed.
Bank Objectives and Role in Industrial and Financial Sectors
42.       The Bank's principal objective in industry and finance is to support
the program of adjustment and reform focussing on areas where prior experience
and expertise gives it a comparative advantage. The focus is on improving
policies and institutions, upgrading technology, conserving energy and
promoting exports. So far, the Bank's only industrial lending operation has
been the first Industrial Credit Project (CIB I -- Credit 1313/Loan 2226-CHA),
which was approved by the Executive Directors on December 21, 1982. That
project's focus on modernization of existing enterprises, with emphasis on
import of technology and export promotion, fits in well with the Government's
adjustment strategy. CIB also supports the reform objective of improving
project quality by introducing comprehensives project appraisal methodologies
including economic cost/benefit analysis. The implementation performance
under that project has been generally satisfactory (para. 45). The May 1983
industrial projects reconnaissance mission discussed with the Government
possible projects in machine tools, fertilizer, cement and electronics;
preparation work on the first two of these hlas started and is providing the
initial opportunity for the Bank to do extensive work on industrial subsectors



- 13 -
and to assist the Government in subsector planning. All four projects would
emphasize technological modernization, and the fertilizer and cement projects
would also focus on energy conservation. In addition, a collaborative
research project on enterprise management with the Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences is producing factory-level data with a view to understanding how
enterprises make investment, production and marketing decisions. Finally, an
IDA credit (1462-CHA) equivalent to $50 million was recently approved for a
Rural Credit Project that will finance a wide range of activities including
agroprocessing, through the Agricultural Bank of China, in Guangxi Zhuang
Autonomous Region.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
History
43.       The need for a financial intermediary for industrial lending invol-
ving import of equipment and technology was identified by the Bank's first
economic mission to China in October-December 1980. Specific proposals for
the first Industrial Credit Project (CIB I) were developed in the course of
1981 and 1982, and implementation began in 1983. The proposed second project
(CIB II) was appraised in October 1983 and negotiated in Washington in April
1984. The Government and CIB were represented by a delegation led by
Messrs. Ge Fucun (Director, External Finance Department, MOF) and Zhao Hong
(Vice President, CIB). A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4897-CHA, dated May 15,
1984) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Supplementary data are in Annex III.
Establishment of CIB
44.       With advice and assistance from a number of Bank missions, the
Government formally established CIB in December 1981 as its fifth bank and
first development finance company (DFC). CIB is officially under the leader-
ship of MOF and in practice remains closely tied to its parent agency, PCBC,
for administrative services, access to enterprises and other agencies, assign-
ment of managers and staff, etc. An initial share capital of Y 400 million
was paid in by the Government in early 1982, and the Bank/Association provided
CIB's first foreign exchange for lending with a loan of $40.6 million (inclu-
ding a front-end fee of $0.6 million) and a credit of SDR 28 million (equiva-
lent to $30 million) under CIB I.
Performance under CIB I
45.       CIB and Government did an excellent job by meeting the six substan-
tive conditions of effectiveness almost on schedule, and CIB I became effec-
tive on April 5, 1983. So far, performance of CIB has been satisfactory in
terms of setting up an adequate organization, formulation and adoption of an
appropriate Policy Statement, opening new branches, business development and
generally good selection of projects. Subloan approvals have been rapid - 77%
of the subloan component has been committed in the thirteen months since
effectiveness, to 32 subprojects - but disbursement by CIB has been slow
because procurement procedures, which CIB is trying to change, can usually



-- 14 -
begin only after subloan approval. Wlhile t:he quality of subprojects has
generally been good, that of the appraisal reports is uneven, though
improving. The main weaknesses are in economic, marketing and technical
analysis. CIB has had only a limited impact on subproject design to date, as
due to its newness and staff shortages it has tended to become involved late
in the project cycle.  The $1.0 million earmarked for subloans for project
preparation has not been utilized because foreign exchange liberalization has
made it possible for enterprises to obtain the roelatively small amounts needed
from other sources, usually on softer terms (grants or local currency loans
with permission to purchase the foreign exchange at the official exchange
rate). This amount will be reallocated to the investment subloan component,
as most overseas study tours, which can only take place after subloan
approval, would be financed as part of the investment subloan. The $300,000
for technical assistance and overseas training for CIB has also not been
committed yet, except for a small amount used for an EDI course, as CIB has
seen no need so far for expatriate engineering advice beyond that supplied by
Bank missions, and is emphasizing domestic rather than overseas training for
now, largely because of the language barrier. Funds under this component will
remain available for use during the CIB II commitment period, and could be
used to finance overseas postgraduate training particularly in economics for
CIB staff, and engineering consultancy services for some of the larger
subprojects, to be determined on a case by case basis. Overall, CIB's initial
institutional development has been reasonably good, given the general shortage
of people with the relevant qualifications in China, the very low mobility of
staff between institutions, and the difficulties in establishing a new
organization, but the pace of progress will need to be maintained under CIB II
and beyond if CIB is to be able to carry out its growing responsibilities
effectively.
CIB II Objectives and Strategy
46.       CIB II would continue the Bank Group's institution-building work
with CIB. CIB should begin to move upstream more into project design, to
improve the appraisal work especially of itis weaker branches, and to appraise
larger and more complicated projects, including those involving sectoral
issues. Towards these objectives, the focus would be on improving CIB's
overall appraisal capability, especially in technical, economic and marketing
issues, through recruitment (para. 48), outside consultancy (para. 48), expan-
ded training (para. 50), and revision of CIB's Appraisal Manual (para. 53).
The Bank, for its part, would continue to pay particular attention to project
implementation. This institutional strengthening is particularly important
because CIB is in its initial period of rapld expansion and because these
early years are crucial for establishing CIB's credibility with other
agencies. At the same time, the development of a DFC is a long-term process
which will need to continue well beyond CIB II.
The China Investment Bank (CIB)
47.       Management.  CIB's 32-member Board of Directors, consisting of
senior officials of PCBC and other agencies and ministries of the central and
local governments, meets once a year to review and decide on CIB's annual
plan, major policies, etc. A Managing Committee consisting of the Board



- 15 -
Chairman, three Deputy Chairmen and seven Managing Directors deals with all
other major matters including loan approvals of Y 10 million- or more. Loans
below Y 10 million are approved by the President, who is a Deputy Chairman of
the CIB Board and the First Vice President of PCBC. Day-to-day management is
largely in the hands of CIB's two Vice Presidents. The Head Office has five
departments - Project Lending, Finance and Accounting, Survey and Research,
Coordination and Planning, and the General and Administrative Office -- each
headed by a Manager or Deputy Manager. An internal auditor is directly
responsible to the Managing Committee. The CIB management has extensive
experience, primarily within PCBC. Although some of the concepts involved in
DFC operations and economic appraisal of projects were new to them, they have
been willing to adopt them once clearance was given from above.
48.       Staffing and Consultancy.  The Head Office has 33 staff and the 7
branches a total of 84. Except for the ten engineers, virtually all came from
PCBC or are new graduates, as interagency transfers are rare 4n the Chinese
system. As CIB's operations have been expanding rapidly, and CIB has
maintained reasonably high employment standards, staff recruitment has still
not caught up with the workload.  Agreement was reached with CIB on a staffing
plan, which CIB will implement (Section 2.01 of, and Part C.1 of the Schedule
to, the draft Project Agreement), for about an additional ten staff per year
in 1984 and 1985 for the Head Office (including, over a two-year period, three
to five more engineers and at least two economics graduates and one market
analyst) and an average of some four per year for each of the branches, with
the majority to be experienced staff.  In particular, each currently existing
branch will have an engineer by December 30, 1984, and each new branch within
a year of its opening. In addition, as conditions of effectiveness, CIB will
employ: (a) a full-time senior engineer with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank/Association to supervise the work of the other head
office and branch engineers, and to help arrange for outside technical
assistance as needed; and (b) economics staff, with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank/Association, at CIB's Head Office to guide
the branches in their economic analysis, review economic aspects of appraisal
reports, and coordinate with other agencies on economic issues related to
CIB's work (Section 5.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). For
the provision of such information and analysis on world markets as needed to
review its proposed loans, CIB has signed a satisfactory contract with the
China Trade Consultants and Technical Service Corporation under the Ministry
of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade.
49.       Branches.  CIB has branches in Shanghai and Tianjin Municipalities
and Jiangsu, Hebei, Fujian, Hubei and Liaoning Provinces, which together
account for 24% of China's population and 38% of its industrial output.
*        Branches were opened at a much faster pace than originally planned, because
CIB's initial branches faced keen competition from BOC and other sources of
foreign exchange, while other provincial governments and PCBC branches were
eager for CIB to operate in their areas. However, such a high rate of
expansion placed a great strain on CIB's Head Office, and henceforth only
about one branch per year will be established.



- 16 -
50.       Training.  As most CIB staff were not previously familiar with
development banking, training has been a major and critical activity. The
Economic Development Institute (EDI) has given three five-week development
banking courses, primarily for CIB and PCBC staff, and a further one is
planned for 1985. CIB has also sent staff to short-term banking seminars
overseas and to long-term domestic training in finance and English, and has
conducted a variety of in-house seminars. CIB has appointed a training
officer to coordinate its training program, and selected four staff from CIB
and institutes of finance and banking under MOF as a part-time team of
trainers to raise the quality of CIB's in-house training, especially at the
branch level. CIB will carry out a program of courses acceptable to the
Bank/Association (Section 2.01 of, and Part C.2 of the Schedule to, the draft
Project Agreement). Understandings were reached on CIB's training program for
1984 and 1985, which will include six to seven seminars per year on project
appraisal, supervision, accounting, etc., some to be given at the Head Office
and others for and at specific branches.
51.       Operating Policies.  In accordance with its Policy and Development
Strategy Statements, CIB will continue to focus on relatively small- and
medium-sized modernization projects of exilsting state or collective enter-
prises. Now that China has liberaljized access to foreign exchange, new
lending is being expanded from covering only direct export projects, which
were the only ones initially readily able to repay loans in foreign exchange,
to include indirect export and import-substitution projects as well. Sectoral
emphasis remains on textiles and other light industries, but CIB has been
expanding its scope to include chemicals, machinery, electronics, building
materials, metallurgy, etc., in accordance with the demand for loans.  CIB now
lends local currency only in conjunction with foreign exchange, and only for
fixed investment; its borrowers obtain the necessary complementary working
capital loans from ICBC. An assuran,ce was obtained that CIB would exchange
views with the Bank/Association on any proposed changes in its Charter,
Supplementary Regulations, Policy Statement, Development Strategy Statement or
Lending Procedures (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
52.       Interest Rates.  CIB's 8% p.a. interest rate for foreign exchange
loans strikes a balance between the need to be competitive with BOC
(para. 41), and the importance of trying to be in a position within 1-2 years
to borrow from commercial sources. As world interest and inflation rates have
fallen over the past 18 months, CIB's rate is now less out of line with
international rates, and would be at least marginally positive in real terms
over the life of CIB's loans, given projected world inflation rates. CIB's
local currency lending rate is 3.6% p.a.; this is the national rate for most
capital construction loans and is a positive real rate given China's average
inflation rate of 2% p.a. in 1981-1983, but it is lower than the usual rates
on modernization loans (para. 41), which helps CIB compete against BOC.  CIB
would onlend the blended loan/credit at not less than 8% p.a. (Section 2.03(a)
of , and Part A.1 of the Schedule to, the draft Project Agreement). In
addition, assurances were obtained that: (a) CIB would inform the
Bank/Association, in time for an exchange of views, in advance of any proposed
change in its interest rates; (b) the Government would take into account the
impact on CIB's operations in determining the fcreign exchange lending rates
of other Chinese banks; (c) CIB would inform the Bank/Association promptly



- 17 -
after changes in the foreign exchange lending rates of other Chinese banks;
and (d) from time to time at the request of any party, the Government and CIB
would exchange views with the Bank/Association on the impact of such changes
in other rates on CIB's operations and on CIB's lending rates, in the light of
CIB's cost of funds and profitability, and of movements in interest and
inflation rates in China and internationally (Section 3.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement).
53.       Project Selection and Appraisal.  CIB has been conscientious in
screening out projects that appeared unsuitable -- some 20-30% of the
applications. On the basis of extensive factory visits, Bank missions have
concluded that most projects selected by CIB have been good ones. With the
help of other Chinese experts and the Bank, CIB prepared an Industrial
Projects Appraisal Manual which has been used by its branches since it was
distributed for experimental use in March 1983. This is the first such manual
in China, and it has enjoyed a very good reception from various government
agencies. To improve its application by CIB staff, an assurance was obtained
that, based on CIB's experience to date, the Appraisal Manual and the instruc-
tions for its use would be revised, satisfactory to the Bank/Association, and
reissued for use by all branches by December 31, 1984 (Section 2.08 of the
draft Project Agreement). CIB's staff have been trying to apply the Appraisal
Manual conscientiously in their appraisal work. The quality of appraisal
reports from the more experienced branches has been improving, but problems
remain in reports prepared by the newer CIB branches and by PCBC subbranches.
Although the Head Office has sent about half of the reports it received back
to the branches for revision, it has still not been able to impose consistent
quality controls, due to shortages of staff and pressure of time. Neverthe-
less, on average CIB's appraisal work is improving and some appraisal reports
are as good as those of much more experienced DFCs. With the staff streng-
thening proposed under the project, revision of the Appraisal Manual, and
continued close Bank supervision, further significant improvements are
expected, although this is a long-term process.
54.       Subloan Repayments.  The maturity of CIB's loans will not exceed
twelve years, and normally is seven years or less (Part A.3 of the Schedule to
the draft Project Agreement), including a grace period of two to three
years. A short average loan period is possible because of the high financial
profitability of most industries to which CIB lends. The grace and repayment
periods are based on the incremental profits and depreciation allowances which
will be used to service the loans. If any enterprise does not have sufficient
retained foreign exchange for interest and principal payments on its foreign
exchange loan from CIB, the supervisory agencies and local government will
provide the balance, or the enterprise will have to purchase it. An assurance
was obtained that the Government would enable enterprises to obtain the
foreign exchange needed for payments to CIB (Section 3.01(b)(ii) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
55.       Operations.  As of April 30, 1984, CIB had approved 32 projects
totalling $52.5 million (77% of the subloan component of CIB I) and Y 136 mil-
lion. Subloan agreements have been signed for 24 of these, and disbursements
amounted to $3.5 million and Y 34 million. Of the 32 subprojects, 15 come
under the Ministry of Light Industry, six under the Ministry of Textiles, four



- 18 --
under the Ministry of Health (for pharmaceuticals), three under the Ministry
of Machine Building and two each under the Building Materials Administration
and the Ministry of Electronics.  The borrowers are state enterprises except
for three urban collectives. The projected economic rates of return range
from 13% to 80% p.a., with an average of 41% p.a. The financial rates of
return to the enterprise also range from 13% to 80% p.a., but have a lower
average of 33% p.a. due to import and sales taxes and because, in most cases,
the sales prices received by the enterprises are below border prices. Most of
the subprojects are very capital-intensive, largely due to the concern of
exporting enterprises for the quality of output, which they feel can best be
ensured by the more automated processes. Most CIB subprojects introduced
advanced technology and promoted exports, and a number of them have conserved
energy and reduced pollution as well. CIB will continue its supervision of
these and future subprojects on the basis of its Project Supervision Manual,
which was issued in 1983. CIB is giving priority to supervision work, which
is done by the branches but overseen by the Head Office.
56.       Resources and Financial Position.  Of its Y 400 million paid-in
share capital, CIB used Y 28 million to purchase $10 million from the Govern-
ment as a revolving fund for its foreign currency lending. CIB then borrowed
Y 140 million from PCBC at 1.8% p.a., and with it bought a further $50 million
in foreign exchange, of which $10 million was added to its revolving fund. As
of the end of 1983, the local currency resources available for approval were
Y 212 million and the foreign currency $60.2 million (not including the $20
million revolving fund).   CIB had net income after taxes in 1983 of
Y 5.14 million, representing a 1.3% p.a. return on equity. CIB's 0.6% p.a.
foreign exchange spread and 3.6% p.a. local currency spread give it an average
spread of 2.0% p.a. compared to expected administrative costs of only about
0.2% p.a. of portfolio.
57.       Accounting System and Audit.  CIB's accounting manual, incorporating
the Bank's comments and based on Western accounting principles, was issued in
January 1983. Overall, China's accounting and audit profession is not well
developed, and the Bank is helping to provide technical assistance to build up
the capability of the newly-established State Audit Office.  CIB's accounts
will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank/
Association, and the audit report will be submitted to the Bank/Association
within six months after the end of each fiscal year (Section 3.02 of the draft
Project Agreement). CIB's accounts are being audited by the China Consultants
of Accounting and Financial Management, which completed the audit of CIB's
1983 accounts satisfactorily and on schedule.
58.       Prospects and Projections.  While there are a variety of foreign
exchange sources available for investments, demand exceeds supply. CIB has
built up a pipeline of 43 subprojects tota:Lling $93 million, of which
approximately 20% is for light industry, 13% for textiles, 33% for chemicals,
11% for machine building, 8% for pharmaceuticals and 15% for other sub-
sectors. After the remaining $17 million of CIB I is fully committed, around
June 1984, there will remain about $75 million in the pipeline to be financed
under CIB II.   In the light of the present: subproject pipeline, the potential
demand for CIB's financing in the various provinces, and CIB's absorptive
capacity, CIB estimates that its total loan approvals would increase by an



- 19 -
average of 29% p.a. over 1984-88 from Y 432 million (including $90 million in
foreign exchange) in 1984 to Y 1,200 million (including $250 million) in
1988. In addition to its Bank/Association funds and foreign exchange
purchased from the Government, CIB hopes to raise foreign exchange from other
sources as well, starting with $40 million in 1985. For additional loca'l
currency, CIB expects to rely half upon Government paid-in share capital and
half upon low-interest loans from PCBC. CIB projects its net profit to
increase to Y 18.8 million in 1987 and the rate of return on average equity to
reach 2.9%, before dropping back to Y 12.4 million and 1.5% respectively in
1988 when its five-year income tax holiday expires.  It should be noted that
CIB has an exceptionally strong financial position for a DFC, due to its large
equity base and low loan default risk.
The Proposed Bank Loan and IDA Credit
59.       Amount and Maturity.  The proposed loan/credit would be for
$175 million, based on CIB's institutional progress and hence its absorptive
capacity, with allowance for other foreign exchange raised or planned to be
raised by CIB. The Bank loan would be $105 million equivalent and the IDA
credit SDR 65.8 million ($70 million equivalent). State Council approval of
the Development Credit Agreement and Loan Agreement would be a condition of
loan/credit effectiveness (Sections 5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement and draft Loan Agreement). The CIB II funds are expected to be
committed to some 60-80 subprojects over 18-20 months; the credit would be
committed first. The terminal date for submitting subprojects would be June
30, 1987 (Section 2.02(d) of the draft Project Agreement). Back-to-back
repayment of the subloans and Bank loan would not be appropriate because the
subloans would have unusually short maturities averaging about 5-6 years
(para. 54). Therefore, as for CIB I, the Bank loan would be of fixed
amortization, on the standard country terms for China, which are 20 years
including five years' grace on principal. CIB, on behalf of the Government,
would pay the front end fee in advance. All of the loan/credit would be for
subprojects; CIB's technical assistance and training needs over the period
would be financed from CIB I (para. 45).
60.       Onlending Terms.  The Government would onlend both the loan and the
credit to CIB under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank/
Association, the signing of which would be a condition of loan/credit
effectiveness (Sections 3.02 and 5.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). As under CIB I, both IDA and Bank funds would be onlent for 20
years including five years of grace, with CIB allowed to roll-over the
funds.  The Government would charge CIB a fixed interest rate of 7.0% p.a.,
plus the Bank and IDA commitment charges. The Government would thus bear the
risk from the variable Bank interest rate, as under CIB I. Including the
front end and commitment fees, the total cost of these funds to CIB would be
about 7.4% p.a., compared to its onlending rate of 8% p.a, leaving a net
spread of about 0.6% p.a., as under CIB I. By onlending to CIB denominated in
US$ valued at the date of withdrawal, the Government would also bear the for-
eign exchange risk between the US$ and (a) the currency pool index (for the
Bank loan portion) and (b) the SDR (for the IDA credit portion). These
arrangements have been maintained because it would be too complicated and
burdensome for CIB to pass these interest rate and foreign exchange risks on



- 20 --
to its subborrowers.  As subloans would also be denominated in US$, valued at
the date of withdrawal, subborrowers would be taking any foreign exchange risk
between the US$ and the Yuan (Section 3.05 of, and Part A.4 of the Schedule
to, the draft Project Agreement). This risk will be small, as most
subborrowers will earn foreign exchange which they will use for repayment
without needing to convert into Yuan.
61.       Free Limit.  Under CIB I, the free limit is $1.0 million.  For CIB
II, two free limits would be set: $2.0 million for branches agreed between
CIB and the Bank/Association and $1.0 million for the other branches. Under-
standings were reached that branches receiving :he higher limit would be those
adequately staffed and trained and which had consistently met reasonable
appraisal standards, and that initially only the Shanghai and Tianjin branches
would have the higher free limit. An estimated 50% of the subprojects by
number and 75% by amount would be above the free limits. The first three
subprojects from each branch (whether financed under CIB I or CIB II),
regardless of size, would be subject to Bank/Association approval. To allow
some leeway, the aggregate free limit would be $60 million (Section 2.02(b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
u2.       Maximum Subloan Size and Debt/Equity Itatio.  CIB may onlend for
individual subprojects up to $15 million in foreign exchange (Section 2.03(a)
of, and Part A.2 of the Schedule to, the draft Project Agreement), an increase
from the present $8 million. This high limit reflects the fact that in
general it is for the larger of the medium-sized projects that CIB's appraisal
is most valuable, because these projects are more likely to involve major
technology import, serve nationwide or international markets which must be
studied, and have many linkages to other industries. However, the average
subloan size is still expected to be $2-3 million. As under CIB I, CIB's
debt/equity ratio is not to exceed 5:1 (Section 3.03 of the draft Project
Agreement). According to present projections, even if Government provided the
required local currency funds only as loans, the long-term debt/equity ratio
would not reach 5:1 until 1988.
63.       Procurement and Disbursement.  As under CIB I, individual contracts
of at least $3 million equivalent would be awarded after international
competitive bidding (ICB), including prior Bank/Association review of bid
documents, unless CIB and the Bank/Association agree otherwise. A preference
equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would
be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Contracts below
$3 million would be awarded after evaluation and comparison of quotations
solicited from at least three qualified suppliers. The existence of adequate
competition to help ensure reasonable prices would continue to be examined as
part of the review of all subprojects above the free limit. All contracts of
more than $1 million but less than $3 million would be subject to post-review
by the Bank/Association (Part B of the Schedule to the draft Project Agree-
ment). Only 4-8 contracts are expected to exceed $3 million. Disbursement
would normally be made against full documentation for 100% of:  (a) foreign
expenditures on goods and services for subprojects, and (b) the ex-factory
price of locally-manufactured equipment for subprojects under contracts
procured through ICB. Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30,
1989. The disbursement projections are at a slower rate for the initial two



- 21 -
years than the disbursement profile of DFC lending in the East Asia and
Pacific Region, in view of CIB's experience to date (para. 45), but the final
years of the profile are telescoped because the loan/credit is expected to be
fully committed in FY86, and disbursements should not extend for more than
three years beyond then.
64.       Benefits and Risks.  CIB is already having a positive impact on
China's industrial investment by selecting generally good projects and using
an improved project appraisal methodology. As CIB moves upstream more, its
contribution to project design will also increase. Although some projects
that CIB rejects may obtain finance elsewhere, the general shortage of foreign
exchange for investment, plus Government efforts to hold down total
investment, and the influence that CIB's decision will have on other agencies,
ensure that CIB's project selection will help determine which projects are
undertaken. There also remain long-term prospects for major spillover
effects, especially Through improving the project appraisal work of Chinese
planning agencies and other banks. By demonstrating that locally-controlled
projects can be designed and evaluated from the national perspective, CIB
could also give further impetus to decentralization.
65.       In a narrow sense, the project risk is low, because CIB has been
financing generally good subprojects, and the Bank will continue to review
carefully the bulk of CIB's sublending (para. 61). However, the project's
success in its broader objective of introducing new project appraisal methodo-
logy to China depends largely on CIB overcoming its weaknesses in the critical
areas of technical review, market estimation and economic analysis of
subprojects, and its general shortage of qualified appraisal staff. Continued
Bank Group support is essential for building up CIB in these areas. Less
tractable are longer-term risks related to Government commitment to
the economic reform framework within which CIB operates, and to CIB itself.
Although the path of reform in China, as elsewhere, has not been entirely
smooth, the Government is committed to continuing the process. Thus it
appears unlikely that it will retreat into a more rigidly planned investment
program which would tend to undermine CIB's role. Furthermore, as of now the
Government's commitment to CIB remains strong, as indicated by a recent State
Council circular to ministries and local governments supporting an enhanced
role for CIB.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of China and the Association, the draft Loan Agreement between the People's
Republic of China and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement among the Associa-
tion, the Bank and the China Investment Bank, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
67.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness (Sections 5.01 of the draft
Development Credit and Loan Agreements) are:



- 22 -
(a) approval by the State Council of the Development Credit and Loan
Agreements;
(b)  signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and CIB
satisfactory to the Bank/Associat:ion; and
(c) employment by CIB of a full-time senior engineer and of economics
staff, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Bank/Association.
68.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank. and Articles of Agreement of the
Association, respectively.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 16, 1984
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
23 -                                                                 Page 1 of 6
CHINA, PEOPLE-S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA, PEOPLE-S REP. OF                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENTr              L OW INCOME              MIDDLE INCCME
1960-b       17bET                       ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
ARA (T SMKAND SQ. KN)
TOTAL                                 9561.0       9561.0       9561.0
AGRICL'LTURAL                         3176.3       3213.0       3182.9
GII PER CAPITA (US$)                       40.0/c        90.0        300.0               276.7                       1028.6
ENERGY CONElPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         340.0        427.0        618.0                398.4                       792.8
POPDLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS*
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  683400.0    838900.0    991300.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           18.4/d         ..         20.6                 21.5                         32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
t                          POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                1197.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                  1434.6
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                  2040
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Of.                           71.5         87.7        102.5                161.7                       260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               215.2        261.1        307.8                363.1                      1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                             38.9         37.7         32.2                 36.6                        39.4
15-64 YRS                             56.3         57.2         62.4                 59.2                        57.2
65 AND ABOVE                           4.8          5.1          5.4                  4.2                         3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (x)
TOTAL                                  1.7          2.1          1.5                  1.9                          2.3
URBAN                                   ..           .,           ..                  4.0                         3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)            38.9/e       34.1         20.9                 29.3                         31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)            23.77T         9.8          7.8                10.9                          9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  2.87T        2.6          1.4                  2.0                          2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)               ..           ..
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..           ..         74.0/f               48.1                        46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                             ..        100.0        117.0                111.4                       125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (T OF REQUIREMENTS)          78.8le       88.7        107.0                 98.1                       114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              49.4/e       53.0         65.0                 56.7                        57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE              ..         12.7         15.0                 13.9                        14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE*            26.1/e       10.7          7.2                 12.2                          7.6
HEALMTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)*          40.5/g        57.9         67.2                59.6                         60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)*         165.0Th       90.0         71.0                 96.6                        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
rOTAL                                   ..           ..           ..                 32.9                        37.1
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                 70.8                        54.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                 22.2                        26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..           ..                 18.1                        41.4
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                 72.7                        47.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                  4.7                        33.4
POPLLATION PER PHYSICIAN              8330.0/h    3800.0/h    1920.0/h               3506.0                      7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               4020.0       2840.0       1890.0               4797.9                      2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               1040.0        760.0        490.0               1100.6                      1047.2
URBAN                                210.0           ..        160.0                298.4                       651.1
RURAL                              10140.0           ..       1010.0               5941.6                      2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..           ..           ..                   ..                        27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..           ..          5.2
URBAN                                   ..           ..          4.2
RURAL                                   ..           ..          5.5
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RUJRAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT, (2 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..
_- - - - - - - - - - - --_ _ - - - --_ _ - - - --_ - - - - - --_ _ - - - --_- - - - - - - --_- - - - - - - - - - - - --_- - - - --_- - - - - _   _ _-_-_ _ _-__ _-_- -_ _   _ _-_ _-_-_ _- -_-_-_-_ _-_-_-_ _-_-_-_-



-24 -                                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
CHINA, PEOPLES; REP. OF -- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA, PEOPLE-S REP. OF                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) |a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT  /b           LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCaCE
1960-        19'7G-  EST1IATE-            ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION"C
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     109.0         110,0        1 .7.0                96.1                        101.2
MALE                         ..           ..        126.0                107.8                        106.0
FEMALE                       . .          , .       106.0                 82.9                         97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      21.0          23.0         :4.0                 30.2                         44.9
MALE                         . .           .         40.0                 37.3                         50.0
FEMIALE                      ..           . .        27.0                 22.2                         44.6
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)                ..            ..          2.2                  2.3                        18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                  ..           ..         26.0                 34.4                         32.7
SECONDARY                                ..            .         17.0                 18.4                         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                  43.0/d                     69.0/i               53.5                         72.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP                ..           ..            *                   1.6                          9. 7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               ..           ..        150.6                  96.8                       113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                  ..           ..         15.8                   9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAYD POPULATION                   ..           ..            ..                16.4                         54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA            ..           ..            ..                  3.6                         3.4
LABOR FORCE***
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           319589.0/J  377495.0    463348.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      38.3          38.0         37.2                 33.3                         33.6
AGRICLLTURE (PERCENT)                    ..           ..         68.9                 69.0                         50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                       ..            .         18.7                 15.8                         19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  46.8/d       45.0         46.7                 42.5                         38.6
MALE                                   55.97'       534.5        57.0                 54.4                         50.7
FEMALE                                37.0/J        35.0         35.9                 29.8                         26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.9/j        1.0          3.8                  1.0                           1.1
IN(COE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCCME
RECEIVED BY
HIGREST 5E OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..           ..         12.5/k                16.5                        22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ,.         39.37I               43.5                         48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..           ..           6.87k                6.9                          6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..           .4. 1.4                         17.5                         15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INC1ME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    .            , .           ..               133.9                        194.5
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..                111.6                        155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (JS$ PER CAPITA)
'JRBAN                                   ..           ..            ..                  ..                        178.0
RURAL                                   ..            .            ..                  ..                         164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (1)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            ..                43.8                         24.4
RURAL                                    ..           .             ..                51.7                         41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLF
NO T E S                                                                                                    I
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estim te" between 1979 and 1981.
Xc  Interpolated 1957-62 data; Id 1964; /e 1955-65 average; /f Percentage of women of reproductive age; /g 1955-64
average; /h Senior doctor of western medicine; /i 1982; /4 1957; 1k Distribution of people ranked by households per
capita income.
*  All population and vital statistics are Bank esti¢rates whicr  differ from Chinese official statistics.
** Formal education only; non-formal enrollment is substantial.
*    Definition and coverage differ from those of Chinese official statistics.



-25 -                                                                                       ANNEX!I
Page 3 of 6
2!FPItfiIlllh Of_SOCIAL ItDIiCAytIl
itt.: Alhoghhadaa ae   rov  ro   eursogeneall   juge   he must au              rtaiead reltble, It should also  ha votd tor they may tot bs  nentlta
tuaroshe htaut u  thelat  utatadarlee    detttosmd  otrt    sd by diffate-t conries It colletivg the dat.  T'he data are,  -tnehal..s *aenlt
desrlh   adorb    a   agntud, ldirItat   tre.,ad ch--ttrite  tertalt major differe-eut  betenuoattres..
The reteteuce. gru.,p  are Il th   ae         Sooy~ur u,  f the sobJ-et  ...tr  and Ill2. ronotry groP olilh momeht htgharaoerege  Ioose thou th  tone   gr..up of the
suhioct countr~y I:t--      ar"hg f     utumH"; Ill  fphtt"       .ru    alert "fddle  Inom   Nort1'Ih afrlta  atd .Middle' atL       stIsvhnuoofmeae    nutluo
affltties) .  It The rnar-t  gruny data the  -orage   ar .pyaatu   ieghed' arithst  saafr eah ldttradsentl   hnmjrt   ftecoti.I 
vurla   n  e ,'ga.tgnv of a In- itat- r tu to-hec          M..Ths  autoe      r. only usilhacmavn   h  valu  of ant Ivibdo--ht  mIsime aao.g ihh  ttnnceyi.d
ARt"  (thousa..  * q.ba.I                                                                                   upattpet             tta- paru-tl- dliIded by nuaher of rattn
-Tat1 oufac   area ....   pritetg laud area end inlandsar; 1960.                                  phF   taeq lee   emamdIcal at haul atoleeiylvl
1970 and 19f0da'.                                                                                    rouatu         re tori.t 9 Pereon -   tyalahiot dtIvded by nuehe  of rrartiog
farcrpentues  mrkeIn   Ih.tb. taudets or To lie  fal1s   1960,cragaelare 
lftor  d 1990 dat.                                                                                   Pvusl cr itmlalj  Sad - totl  ubmvNer                    ua       orlto    ttl
rhat'.  andP rurl   divdd byteI            ft repcietse    f boaitl lds
GNP PIt iAI'If  1U111 - GNP pert -pita estlec              -a crren  .a ~rl   price,                        -omlable  Inrblit and prln_te gNerlan  aptai'dhertl and
cacltdby sa      --icneca   sethod as OrIdtak 'atla   11979-81 hasia);                              rsahittutntr. hoptl  ea                         dnbllaaet.  pse.an       Iy s-mfid
91,170. anI99    at.ytles  one peyileiat.  tthims mpe-idlog pri-tipally  oeda
_tre are nut  Itlded.  total Insh,'                     oeoe  Ino1uds healthan
EfiRty CONhSUiPTIOg Pit IdyITa - Manuel aPa ran   tnuPt lo-a  tof           aa-tae-1o cs-vtrm   otPes                                     Ietystffed by a physician  (hue bya  medical
yvimsryeasoy7(t-a  s.d   igeics    -eutn,nnua  gas and hydre-,  Taia                                       nihn,nre   h'ht   c                     hith v Pet  t-uIent a-ta datl  mo.   d
and'gvhra  ricrttr   Ic kilugrass at -u    qataan   pr  apfta                                             pad    lImited rangeo   ela   faIltIs.                    , sattolpntyoee
1910.  1970  an  199  dat,                                                                                urban h,uapltalsitluda Welspri-tp1?generl hospItal., and roral
POPUILATIiON gi OtIAL, ITATISIC'                                                                            Spectli.cd huspitals ae  includedonlly, unde  tte.
T.ta  P.nrnmtolNt, id-OaaTthta.ds) - dA af July  I; 1960, 1970, aod 1981                                Adls, lnsta  fnorital ted- Tal nuhe  of admIsin   tc or di-.hrgos
data,                                                                                                   fromh.spltal  dIvided by the nomber of teds.
Orhbn  ptolatlc  (pecnto-          ntl  - tatlaaf urhac ec nata  pepul.ata;
dlterntefattno   o  uyha  areas may  yfact t....arah1ity of data                            HOUISIN
omueg  auetria; 19h.1901  an      .I9 dat.                                                      Acrag  l ice of HN.uashold Ipermustrhaeholdl - tIa     ran   e   ua
yanlonln  Ic rar 111  - Correctr ypuat-loc prajec 1ita   urn hosd o  1980                         vol thrir sa i tnd    A hoardr  ur leger s,oy  r say nu  he Inlded Is
tutal peyclotlon by age and son .and .tl.slsataly adtetit                                   h    aahl  trna  aia   pacaa
raes     .r.jt..n .parsir   a  sra  t   asstnr                   ithe                             atgnetro   ean   ttosttl  ur ban, an  rural avrage  -ubhr
1e-a1 suea ..-i    life  aptcat birth In-reaing oli  cot ry'  pr                                      fIryuIpr  om          In llubano ,.ad_rrl    told   acettoa
enril: it-n into, sed. ta-li  Lift  eatot-ny acubiLt.nin                 71.                         Inelns   opeia  .   oalnav  udo -prastsrcue    n
yas Thparst-e forsfartr,itlucy ra-r oh -avhrsaleo-I                                           u...c-pied parts,
aaulgdetl    In..    -iinr1Icy a...cr.d%Ig ha lecas-  lene  andpa  festly                      ttac clvt-rtill (I....ts           ofa doslltnga( -talurbso   n   oa
p.oetti   pefarat..          t      _ccry  In .ht     ISltlaea1teevv                                 Cunattna    allestt  ele,rltyIn lIIgqaresa  prcenage
coallnaclaus at sntatlty  and f ittlIy treds .far pt-jnelc .  urpmna                       of canal, urban, and totl dnelltgate-pec-i-ly.
mIc  tebIt  rain  i  aqua  to the deah  Iat, -nl also the  g                                     fICCAT !ON
structur   tesaln   cucatat . lIaath_s_d  -n1ynftat feItfttcy rate                          ejutt  In"len " tat
declIne  cc the ceyl-tese.t Ilcal of u.It not  atdtInrt,  ahradrli-ry- eclul-ntl  mal ad fe...ale-restalmlealfae
eaIgeeatIcadssa   epae   Islfsh.l.Th   itlctyarclec    fal   geyiib                                                                         rlay    -e1 a    eratae    t  eyef        v
lpoplto    letoetetdc   h   el   ftmyueilhrco-p oyshu-g rarcJ-ttcta1vF-nly to -Idollt  thildre- aged h-Il
Itstltva f 110 pupala'iue  In the yea  lIt), and  thrat attf.decIne of                                  yeaca but adjuatd fat difftrac   langtbnof pr.iaay anso;for
f-tlicyratttn rplI-c ...nI letal.                                                                      cce t  alih unitralod.t...tyllet                     .sy  .nc      100 perc...t
learoatlaary   uoulalan  a rechad- ma ya-r  h-e  sttcaya.teoeppl   r Ioln hrahon  heuffcPa ItIa  age.
ta   n   a  I-yea    apu'tlc  Prsqnt  kil--tc   1101 hettrr) ad                                 -cuidangeecl c-a-ta,o   ya  ot  riIg                           o clans. tic
totlne;1_,190, an  190dt.ppIsuulyn  12 cc 17 yanta of a I; torr...n..ede  courses are
Per mu.  a. ootutrlalnd - Canpucd a b h-c for .grlt1lt... I land                                          1acaraty  -tluld.
..I,; "9I0, 1971 aad19   dora,                                                                     tutcina t    tutcIlse. c ..  ctn  atf secocdoyl - Ocatl-       d . InstitutIons
yauaioAN. heuou--      t-   et     Clildceo  (0-14 yan         o erlka-age  (I-                     telurK areca  ,Inuar or,c  utter pragrsa  dh                   opeat  iadeped-
pepelalct; 1h0, 170, an  IStI  acy.                             -y.rIl-teahetta Ia - trtnfy. and seucala1-caaI                                           acden    toledn
Paoat   - Ooth Satt ftoct-i-  o -    - -      eau  at h rates of canal nid-                         pileor1yiand soc-dary ItoeIa dialled by c..shersa  crteain thear
r..r p..pol-tia  fur 1910-6d, 1960-70, and 1970-tI.                                                    reoPcedic Aens
yarolation  -rah lat  (petnl-ura-n                   rl1one   rote  uf u-hac                            adultil     c   ao Iprtct_-Ler :tdulta  (alIt, to road ad  arliefa
pcpnlallac   tot 19i51-h0,-191170, and 1970-hI.                                                        ap-ortcae  fct    dl  yurulat icc   and15 yer  adatn
Icd. Bieth tans (oap         I)lul  - Manul lIIca b Ichy  ptchaca-d at vld-
YearIllualc;190  19170~, ad1991 data,                                                              CONSUMPTION
Ccds heath lasI  cccsa    M-cao  d-acha pet thcuad cf nid-yra                                         Pa..ts.ae  Cars (cer cthc.t.. dF..ucula-t-leol -t
nrPaltln   111   97,   e  11  data,                                                                      tart aetig lest than sight per -t;e                -s aabu la-te,  oar... and
Ircns ltproducctct Oate-httogotn-ho   uf dnnghtrn-     uoan i11  hoot It                         'I oY nahlcIt
cer caal repoduttlr yacld  if as        ....cl .P"" ycun  age-yeRlltlaI  R.i-eaoro  Icer  h...nad pprulatia) - All cyya   i o ec -iars  fnn cadio
iottlllcyrten;uauuly  tIcs-yer hocragt  -cd,c  ic  1960, '1970','.adbrc-dtascot0to-rl p-Ill  y- thu.....d uf pepulat--; ncluad-no
1981.                                                                                                  Ilesdrnocy   n  onrn   and InY ter                     ohtrelarcInordi
at birch--t-nca  d-aite    _ctrouy_r  aI ntlcca   toll Ylaeg                                            ccut Irtenohulv d  lcclg
FaiLZ l    o.o  Icnn - -tr  Ipr .e.ot of martIa  a..e.  -l y.ro_cag   of --arrd                           generaI public  per thosad  ;poptlttoo;  _ttld_t unlict_d TVlr.toI..rt
ocatnofchIld-hearlcgal    l-ayao   ,otbtch-cattct    - -lcn                                             -tcccoadlc~ yoa-aach-                   tcatcof Tttni-na
Idea of Putd Otdtlnctttt                    997-0 1~-Intaf   _er cal-.                                    Iu'llcv....d..    tt,  tclar1- y ivetrin   aea -noao.   1In               --tcndectd
data.                                                                                     IdIOt PIttd  i  k-..d  .r.   l~  .--J.
sauos,so  cote   cc stuck.  Notu-    uppi-   a och ult 19c1o65   teed, asyd, t19r81;Ih    90  n   Si   aa
at ieue    pltlution-  - apuiLad-c1ic  atlp-       lcgIt. iprttan   fcr..                          Indtstd ofoce) - . la.          fct It  t  e,cntutIn    aaatcn
at, hoahldI Ine;1P-9.97   n   SaIc.an    ltrcc,ote   n. np cetg    fttllau   at;I90
Pe .anc   srl  of~. rotl  (grant   _perlay)  .-ratltd cncteu  atd pe=t,-a170al.  196(1 data'. d191d-
na   upl  o   un- e - -daby.      upye   odI Frflcld00 h..          n rdreuorat-oct                            -tt  -arceoc   -fouac, malt oca' fnao-ysrtl   paloc ec
_eqire"Yl  for ntI  c.... to id      atallla-ln. . ycc   ccl ...Iod ololsan                             acIvIty  rnta o.re cupu  on - ctol    malt,frand 1t96       a 197c0   frt198 a
all osn.t. at. kfrb.tI.   f total yrtiol  pocdnyacdl;1ros-or forsolat                                   pertnagsora, l                  onltultcyuI       coctalaeaoseclnly
yav   pcel,o  ohlhch1;11   I961 gru70 -hIlI  ananal yre-               ma                               1910  -970, ned 1901data    ges  arc hosedat Ilf'  port I.b.ca   canes 960
nriaclacdt ar  tnc  ha    ca  uf 75  cann_        c P_  tal   racnl  af P3 arava                         c11 attId ago-so dtrutc   f  h    cu_t,an   agcletn
ThIrdacrI  Pau  San y; 1911-65          of -, (90ad19    Ino  ,caanI  le-dtteteto  (P                                             tI_ at p          _uetoodvr_ 15 -nd      ad ueri
Per ndrItayrut   ao          frn nalod rulnbyE-_ct _l nupl fof foci                                      tht cart laboforte
chIldoo   I-t  eah  tac   gcr- thosal 1,- Mcal Ita-h   pedtuco    t                                     rcctg    f    ct               Inyce  (ho     It ca.h adpknd .-.ceac:b   loo
couctWorl duc   oln         tnl FotusS-; 1916, 19701aol 19I1 dta,                                      h t nhc d-n.            1.--.o             pl   ..odr1   .6   .                 r1
atbIt1;11,17  aodl.90  dat.                                                                        ah-tllbn dccrpr1t61ai65c,n197r0it dnt19oo
Intcttucateyfan   nc  tcvadl- Mcal  aty  c  tfocaudv   nt                      nnlatd    aaluc  rnetyOntatINtCOME                 rtDactal-  rbn ad  url 
yend(.r. at  4g tnttheuntn lIne  th.....nd  -9t  toI ad-th.  dcc, fh-d                                jl.stiuT~ pofcn   tott-   Intel (.hai clan  Itom   knidl heu   aIl-d  ay sie - a
Macra ug Sf  Wtr(pretofptlalo  -tt    tc4hacf                     , an-    rra  Htctllicuahl ad20t  dIeot, pI.a....cc20    nat-fun.d proturtsec 40l-v  ot
tuber of peopto (conn~rild-nt  a         gd      70rucalld...: a'iduoalatnacaI                    ffrat
raoc ttpl  I Ic-odo  treate   aurfct  notr  at 1n9      ao   u                                  IentlllattPot pIcsh.n-10   e    onl-ahc  n   ua
urhacarst1960ut19t  foucad  or8 ttcpn    uaoda  er   hn10mtr                                                                                     bllan   dutct   u   ihrts   tIlIgI   rn    tan
IrnaI      uc.afetc_trlaohtgatenrauotvatn  o   htttluo    outcIyllu    houn  ctt   ncm    ae  (ecn 
bun,   Ic-rlara Jcaao   -hla       .-Iotd-huycuhof      h    hasttieu                        a    druAt--rret-   cfpuI u  n-        c USktodcrol-,i-oc-'rbso od  .r
senhorofete0Maota1loto II,,;ttc bOvdaltyt-ycc9lavant  partc-f oycc-t.o                                                                                   I1,,, Ih              1-
the: day It  _ntttlng  thtq-faillypia eacat ete,o.
a   omvtfntI.,  ItculI   cc  o   eeacol-  oa,ab                           n
_rt..urnb   olotic   o    ...eul .             n..t or a_rhc     d tralaset   tf-totIo_                                                                  se-oca            rbto Oottlo
bueco oncect and otta-noce   by.: fnttr --bcc  dycs  cr the ott- ofiS. tIn                       Rccomc ualtp  ao..o)eclenOepr
pr   Pleyan  slilor                                                                                                                                      "Pcltoc,cy19



PR360/DF-58/D916/13-16
-26-                                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population:  1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita:  US$300 (1982)
CHINA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual Growth (Z) at Constant Prices
1957-70   1970-77   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Production
Gross Output
Agriculture                     2.2       3.4       9.0    8.6    3.9    6.6   11.0
Light industry                   8.3      7.8      10.8    9.6   18.4   14.1    5.7
Heavy industry                  11.6      9.3      15.6    7.7    1.4  -4.7    9.9
Net Material Product (NM?)         5.2      4.8      12.4    7.0    6.1    4.8    7.4
1957    1970    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981   1982
Prices
Retail price index (1970-100)  92.2   100.0   102.7   103.3    105.4   111.7   114.4  116.6
NM? deflator        (1970-100)  90.7   100.0    99.1   100.5    104.5   108.4   110.5  110.9
Exchange rate       (Y/US$)       2.46    2.46    1.86    1.68       1.55    1.50    1.71   1.89
Amount                                                     Average Annual Gtowth
1982                  Shares of GDP (%)                   (%) at Constant Prices
National Accountsa           C$ billion)   1957    1979    1982    1985    1990  1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-90
/a       /a
GDP                          260.4       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    5.8         5.8      6.0       6.5
Agriculture                 96.1          ..    32.5    36.9    32.4    27.9    1.6         3.2      5.8       3.2
Industry                   105.4          ..    43.5    40.5    44.4    48.1   12.1        8.9       7.4      8.2
Other                       58.9          ..    24.0    22.6    23.2    24.0    3.5         4.3      1.2       7.1
Consumption                  181.6        76.4    68.4    69.7    73.8    76.7    2.7         5.4      5.7       7.4
Irtvestment                   73.2        23.2    32.5    28.1    27.5    25.0    9.8         6.8      2.3       4.8
Exports GNFS                  24.9         3.7/b   6.0      9.6     8.7      8.1    1.6/b    8.0/b   14.1        3.2
Imports GNFS                  20.0         3.5/b   6.8      7.7    10.0      9.8    2.37Wb    9.4/b    2.7       7.9
National savings              78.9        23.6/c  31.9    30.3    26.4    23.0
As X of GDP
Public Finance                                 1957          1979          1981
Current revenues (excluding foreign          28.7          27.4          22.6
borrowing)
Current expenditures                         16.1          17.7          14.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                  +12.6          +9.7         +8.0
Capital expenditures                         11.9          15.1           8.8
Foreign borrowing /d                          0.7           0.9           1.6
Other Indicators                             1957-79   1979-82   1982-85   1985-90
/a
GDP growth rate (x)                          54         6.0       5.7        7.0
GDP per capita growth rate (%)               3.5        4.6       4.4        5.8
Energy consumption growth rate (x)           8.3
ICOR                                         5.4         ..        ..        3.8
Marginal savin- rate                         0.42        ..         ..       0.16
Import elastieiLy                            0.95      0.45       1.9        1.3
/a  NMP basic.
7i Goods only.
/c  GDS.
/d  Gross.



FR360/DF-58/D916/17-20
- 27 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population:   1,C08 million (mid-1982)
.GNP per capita: US$300 (1982)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                Annual Growth Rates (Z)
(million US$ at                           (at constant 1980 prices)
Indicator                     current prices)                     Actual                           Projected
1982                    1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
External Trade
Merchandise exports               22,476                  25.5   16.8   15.9    6.2    2.6    2.0    1.0    4.0
Energy                          5,353                    ..      ..      ..     .        .
Other primary                   5,110                    ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
Manufactures                    11,356                    ..     ..      ..      ..     ..
Other                              657                    ..     ..      ..     ..
Merchandise imports               17,830                  21.7   16.7   -8.6    3.0    7.6   15.0   10.0    9.0
Food                            4,003                    ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
Petroleum                            0                    ..     ..      ..            O      O       O       O
Machinery and equipment          3,405                               ..      ..     ..      ..      ..
Other                          10,422                    ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
Prices
Export price index (1978-100)         ..                 100.0  115.9  119o1  114.4  109.8  113.0  117.5  124.2
Import price index (1978-100)         ..                100.0  116.6  121.9  103.9  103.0  107.5  112.4  118.6
Terms of trade index (1978-100)                          100.0   99.4   97.7  110.1  106.6  105.1  104&5  104.7
Composition of Merchandise Trade (1)                  Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                              (at constant prices)
1979   1980   1981   1982 _1985   1990   1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-85  1985-90
Exports                      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0         1.6       8.0      14.8       1.9      4.0
Energy                      19.5   25.1   22.9   23.8   10.9    0                           ..       ..
Other primary               34.1   28.4   24.1   22.8   24.2   23.8          ..        ..
Manufactures                46.4   46.5   47.8   50.5   59.5   70.9          ..        ..
Other                        0      0       5.2    2.9    5.4    5.3         ..        ..
imports                      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0         2.3       9.4       3.2      10.8     10.0
Food                          ..      ..   19.6   22.5   20.0   16.8         ..        ..       ..
Energy                       0       0      0       0       0      8.2       ..       0        O         0
Machinery and               25.2   27.5   24.2   19.1   26.7   25.1          ..        ..        ..
equipment
Other                         ..      .,   56.2   58.5   53.3   49.9
Share of Trade With
Share of Trade With          Share of Trade With              Countries with Centrally
Industrial Countries (Z)   Developing Countries (X)             Planned Economies (Z) /a
Direction of Trade            1978             1981         1978            1981              1978             1981
Exports                     37.3            45.9         51.6             50.2              11.1              3.9
Imports                     73.3            76.8         17.5             18.7               9.2             4.5
/a Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.



- 28 -                            ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Population: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
CNP per capita:  US$300 (1982)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Actual           __Projected
Indicator                               1979    1980    1981        1982    1983    1985    1990
__ _ _ _ __ _  estimate
Balance of Paments
Exports of goods and services             15,351  20,901  25,157   25,989  26,300  29,350  48,020
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.            13,658  18,492  22,027   22,476  22,150  24,420  39,330
Imports of goods and services             18,204  24,752  24,380   20,793  22,100  30,040  59,470
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.            16,212  22,049  21,047   17,830  19,010  26,230  52,760
Net transfers                                596      500      680       412      420      500      800
Current account balance                   -2,257  -3,351    1,457    5,608   4,620    -190 -10,650
Private direct investment                      -       57      265       359      400      500   1,500
MLT loanis (net)                             800   1,130       416       426      400      800   6,000
Official                                   350      446      479       557     600
Private                                    450      684      -63     -131    -200
Other capital                              2,054   2,555       365      -102    -400    -600   1,000
Change in net reserves ("-" -
increase)                                 -597    -391  -2,503   -6,291   -5,020   -510   2,150
International reserves                     7,274   7,665  10,168   16,459   21,479
of which:  gold                          5,120   5,120   5,120    5,120    5,120
Reserves as months imports                   4.8      3.7      5.0       9.4      11.6
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements                           ..
Concessional loans                          ..
DAC
OPEC
IDA
Other
Nonconcessional loans                       ..
Official export credits                   ..
IBRD.
Other multilateral                        ..
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed              ..   5,433   5,78'i    6,058
Official                                  ..
Private
Undisbursed debt                            ..
Debt service
Total service payments             ..       ..       ..
Interest                         ..       ..       ..
Payments as x exports GNFS         ..       ..      5.0      7.8/a   10.0/a
Average interest rate on new
loans ( % )
Average maturity of new loans
(years)
/a  Including some early repayment of principal.



ANNEX II
- 29 - 
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1984)
Loan or
Credit                                                       ($ millions)
Number    Year   Borrower              Purpose         Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
2021      1981   People's Rtiublic   University
1167                of China             Development  100.0  100.0       133.6
1261      1982   People's Republic   Agricultural
of China             Development           60.0       42.5
2207      1982   People's Republic   Ports             124.0      -      124.0
of China
1297      1982   People's Republic   Ag. Ed. and          -    75.4       70.4
of China             Research
2226      1982   People's Republic   Industrial         40.6   30.0       67.7
1313                of China             Credit
2231      1983   People's Republic   Daqing            162.4      -      160.0
of China             Petroleum
2252      1983   People's Republic   Zhongyuan         100.8      -      100.0
of China             Petroleum
2261      1983   People's Republic   leilongjiang    35.3   45.0          80.0
1347                of China             Land Recla-
mation
1411      1983   People's Republic   Polytechnic/TV    -    85.0          85.0
of China             University
1412      1983   People's Republic   Technical            -    10.0        9.8
of China             Cooperation
1417      1984   People's Republic   Rubber               -   100.0      100.0
/a       of China             Development
2382      1984   People's Republic   Lubuge Hydro-  145.4         -      145.4
/b       of China             electric
1984   Peoples Republic    Railway          220.0      -      220.0
/c       of China
/e
Total                                708.5  505.4   1,118.4
Total-now held by Bank and IDA              708.5  505.4
Total undisbursed                           704.4  414.0
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1984)
None
/a Signed on January 5, 1984, but not yet effective.
/b Signed on March 12, 1984, but not yet effective.
7T Signed on April 13, 1984, but not yet effective.
7T Credit of SDR 47.2 million ($50.0 million) for the Rural Credit Project
approved on April 24, 1984, but not yet signed.
/e Credit of SDR 80.2 million ($85.0 million) for the Rural Health and
Medical Education Project approved on May 8, 1984, but not yet signed.
Note: The status of the projects- listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is
updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.



- 30 -                             ANNEX III
CHINA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CHINA INVESTMENT BANK II)
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:               3 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:               CIB, with Bank assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank/Association:  February 1983
(d)  First Bank mission to identify the project:  February 1983
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:          October 1983
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:              April 1984
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                   October 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The project will need intensive supervision to achieve its full
objectives. The first supervision mission is scheduled for June/July
1984, shortly after the scheduled date of Board presentation.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(i) Employment of a senior engineer (para. 48); and
(ii) Strengthening of Head Office economics staff (para. 48);
(b) Other
(i) Implementation of staffing plan (para. 48) and training plan
(para. 50);
(ii)  CIB onlending rate to be at least 8% p.a. (para. 52);
(iii) Consultation on interest rates (para. 52); and
(iv) Revision of CIB Appraisal Manual (para. 53).



IBRD 17773R
110°             115°    j                            120°           <                    125°            )                               l~~~~I io   MAY 1984
This mno h.. beena Plp-ead by
rhe wo,,'d -k . wt t           teot t M ONGO L IA          I- .       
f,toIhe coveene ot the
-d-0 rv)esee iextbetttte            ~        ,/(                                                                              .>                                                    .        U . S . S. R .
fnt-ml us To he Worl01d B-ents                                                                                      L" ht~v 
and Ihe Interahonat Fnane/                                                                                                                  hagu                       5i 
UD.d and the boud-mn Msshwr
onths maD do t>t /mply,                                                                                                                           JILIN\s    SS
p.at & The Wnd Ronkand te                                                                                                                1          JIN.    y
onent-0-el Fin-ne tBrporaion   w                                                                                                     .Vl 
any jutg tLn on the ee Su  i..  ;._
end-rsement ot accpneo
.,ch b-udd-es                           NEI MONGGOL                                  .>X> t-V9'-A i1 
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M PEOPL 
/5                    g  r                       OZhenghoA    ^g:\;  HohhHZt                                                            ReP OF KORE
X                                                               X                        INDUSIR\*wL-                              *MEei I 
*   G U lz H O U   > ,   H U N A N   ( t      JI A N G X I      , ,   0   0     t t ,   ;  ; > p                            -     -   I N T E R N A T I O N A L   9 O U N D A R i E
r    k  4    fh   ffi  _  52 ' < ; o X X sw sw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
GUANGXI   0   GUANGDONG                         9                          / TAIWAtV  g           1             1~~     ~     ~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00   0   3t
G"nsZhou~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RPBI rOF
ONanninS ~         ~     ~~~ ,t    yuani                                                               110a0                                             25



I



