LOAN NUMBER 2434 CHA
DoCMNT
Loan Agreement
(Second Industrial Credit Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GRINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                 LA          , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2434 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1984, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01 (a) of
the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the International Development Association (the
Association) (hereinafter called the Development Credit Agree-
ment), by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association to pro-
vide additional financial assistance towards the financing of the
Project and by the Development Credit Agreement the Association
is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to sixty-five million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 65,800,000) (hereinafter called the
Credit);
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practi-
cable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures
on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for in this Agreement are made;
(D) the Project will be carried out by China Investment
Bank (hereinafter called CIB) with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
CIB the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided and the pro-
ceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit Agree-
ment; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the   terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association,
the Bank and CIB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Sche-
dule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions applicable thereto have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the term "Development Credit
Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Association for the purpose of the Project, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time, such term in-
cludes the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, as made
applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the
Development Credit Agreement, and all schedules to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred five million dollars ($105,000,000).
Section 2.02. CIB, on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to
Section 2.09 of this Agreement, may withdraw the amount of the
Loan from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, for amounts to be paid) by CIB on account of
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan to
meet 100% of the reasonable foreign currency cost and 100% of the
reasonable local currency cost (ex-factory) of goods and services
required for the Investment Project in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; provided, however,


﻿- 3 -
thac no witt1drawa  shall be made in respect of such a Sub-loan
.less: (a) the Sub-loan has been approved by the Bank; or (b)
r-ae Sub-loan is a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to two hundred sixty-two thousand five hundred dollars
($262,500).
(b) Prior to the dispatch by the Bank of the notice
referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 12.03 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall pay to the Bank the amount of said
fee in such currency or curencies as the Bank shall specify.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half per cent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.07 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum,
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"   means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,


﻿-4-
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(c) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. CIB is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section,
Section 2.02 (b) and (c) and Article III of the Development
Credit Agreement are incorporated in, and made a part of, the
Loan Agreement, provided that the term "Association" in said
Section 2.02 (b) and (c) and in Article III shall be read as
"Bank," and the term "Credit" in said Section 3.02 (b) shall be
read as "Loan".
(b) As long as the Bank has not given notice to the con-
trary to the Borrower and so long as the Development Credit
Agreement shall have not terminated prior to the termination of
this Agreement: (i) the obligations of the Borrower to consult
with and to furnish or cause to be furnished, information, docu-
ments, reports, records and statements to the Bank shall be
satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such obliga-
tions is rendered to the Association; (ii) the obligations of the
Bank to consult with and to furnish information to the Borrower


﻿- 5 -
shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled
by the Association; and (iii) all actions taken (including the
giving of approvals or the granting of waivers) by the Associa-
tion pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed
to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan Agreement and in the name and on behalf of both the
Association and the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, the events set out in
Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, provided, how-
ever, that the term "Association" wherever it appears in such
Section shall be read as "Bank".
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, the events set out in
Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, provided, how-
ever, that the term "Association" wherever it appears in such
Section shall be read as "Bank".
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the Borrower's State Council has approved this Agree-
ment; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date                  t        , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.03. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates
prior to the termination of this Agreement, the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement referred to in this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect between the Borrower and the
Bank.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                     Telex:
FINANMIN                         22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9--
SCHEDULE 1
AmDrtization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (Expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 1989
through   June 15, 2004                     3,500,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 10
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
The interest rate (expressed)
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the balance
outstanding on the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
before maturity                              0.15
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                     0.30
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              0.55
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                              0.80
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
before maturity                              0.90
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              1.00


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) Paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 is deleted and the follow-
ing substituted therefor:
"11. The term "Project" means the Second Industrial
Credit Project, as described in Section 3.01 (a) of the
Development Credit Agreement (Second Industrial Credit
Project) between the Borrower and the Association of even
date with the Loan Agreement and as the description thereof
may be amended from time to time by agreement among the
Borrower, the Bank, and the Association."
(2) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"20. The term "Project Agreement" has the meaning set
forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement (Second Industrial Credit Project) between
the Borrower and the Association of even date with the Loan
Agreement."
(3) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(4) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If: (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days; (b) by
the date specified in Section 2.02 (d) of the Project
Agreement no applications for approval or requests for
authorization to withdraw from the Loan Account permitted
under paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of such Section, res-
pectively, shall have been received by the Bank in respect
of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received,
shall have been denied; or (c) after the Closing Date an
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan
Account, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate


﻿- 12 -
the right to request such approvals and authorizations or to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.     Upon
the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of Z,198/.
FOR SECRETARY


