Report No. PID8532
Project Name                     Bosnia-Herzegovina-Mostar Water Supply (@+)
and Sanitation
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Urban Water Supply
Project ID                       BAPE57951
Borrower(s)                      Government Of Bosnia And Herzegovina
Implementing Agency
Mostar Water Supply & Sewerage
Utility
Mostar Water And Sewerage Utility
Address: 106 Mostar, Bosnia And Herzegovina
Contact Person: Mr. Mile Pulic/Mr. Mirsad
Huseingic
Tel: 387 88 318 329
Fax: 387 88 315 016
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 6, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 13, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 25, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Institutional framework During the war, Bosnia's water and waste
management systems suffered extensive damage. At war's end, the resulting
water supply and waste management problems were further exacerbated by the
division of the country and the massive population movements that strained
basic services beyond their limits. Moreover, some municipalities were
denied access to water resources from municipalities that had serviced
them before the war but were now located across newly drawn borders.The
situation in the water supply sector is now improving, due largely to
international funding and efforts of local institutions. As a result:Most
local water companies in the Federation are now fully staffed and in
operation.Water supply services are available throughout the country, but
the quality of services still varies considerable. It is estimated that
the service level has reached about 90 percent of the pre-war level.
After the war, water services were available only 50 percent of the time
on average; supply is now almost continuous.Technical assistance to water
management companies and to the entire water sector generally, as well as
measures to reorganize and decentralize the sector, are helping to
strengthen institutions.The Vodovods face severe financial difficulties
and have poor cash flow. Even though tariffs need to increase, the major
problem is the inability to improve the collection rate. Achieving a
collection rate near 100w is one of the highest priorities for the
Vodovods. The military, hospitals, schools and other public users are
among the largest consumers, yet they rarely pay the Vodovods for services
received. The role of barter in lieu of cash payment services is also a
significant problem. Training on cost recovery methods and financial
management is being conducted in 60 municipalities.Sewage collection and
treatment are still completely unsatisfactory. Proper sewage and water
disposal systems either do not exist or are not operational. A country



wide study for the Solid Waste Master Plan (to be completed in February
2000) will determine the most effective means for collecting and disposing
of solid waste and appropriate guidelines for waste, including
institutional changes toward an inter-municipal association.
2. Objectives
Prior to the war, a single Mostar Water Supply and Sewerage Utility served
the entire city of Mostar. As a result of the war, the utility was split
into two parts: the Eastern Utility serving the Bosniac part and the
Western Utility serving the Croat part of the city. The division of the
utility and war damage resulted in substantial inefficiencies in
management and operations. Mostar (population 110,000), was a prosperous
city in the pre-war years and the Mostar water utility was a profitable
enterprise. After the war, the European Union Administration of Mostar
(EUAM) and bilateral aid agencies assisted in the partial reconstruction
of the potable water supply and sewerage services. This assistance helped
restore basic water services, but did not address pervasive network damage
and deferred maintenance that has led to the current 60-809 physical
losses. Today, the infrastructure of the Vodovods (water utilities) is
severely in need of rehabilitation. In addition, their financial
situation is weak. Therefore, for operational and, in particular,
financial reasons, the Vodovods seek to reunite into one company.The water
project is the second World Bank project in Mostar. This project would
follow up on the Mostar Cultural Heritage Project that aims to improve the
climate of reconciliation through reaffirmation of the common cultural
heritage in Mostar. Both projects, through different sectors, attempt to
tackle one of the most delicate issues of post-war reconstruction
promoting reconciliation for a lasting peace, which is obviously a
prerequisite for any type of sustainability. The merger of the two
utilities would have an impact beyond improving water and wastewater
services by being a symbol of reconciliation that could encourage similar
initiatives in other sectors. Recently, the Japanese have been successful
in merging municipal transport by insisting that the two sides work
together prior to providing investments or equipment.While reunification
of the Vodovods is the major objective of the project, it also includes
the following important sectoral development objectives: (a) develop the
merged utility into an autonomous, efficiently managed and commercially
operated entity; (b) provide water and appropriate sanitation facilities
for selected poor non-served refugee areas on the periphery of the city;
(c) assist the merged utility to become financially viable by improving
billing and collections through the introduction of better commercial
practices and by harmonizing tariffs between the two sides; (d) improve
the quality and reliability of water and wastewater services to the
population of Mostar on both sides of the river; and (e) improve the
efficiency of the water supply system by reducing water wastage and
addressing serious network leakage and hydraulic inefficiencies.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Currently, only the Norwegian Government is involved in the water and
wastewater sector in Eastern Mostar.    Some NGOs (largely Italian) are
involved in small scale water supply projects. The Bank's primary
advantage is its experience and ability to take the lead in implementing
this major project as well as to provide strategic direction and encourage
reform. Substantial interest has been expressed by the donor community in
providing assistance to Mostar's water sector if the Bank is involved in
- 2 -



helping set the policy framework and in building the institutions,
provided the Bank takes the lead, given its track record and
implementation capacity.
4. Description
Bank-Financed
Component 1: Urgent Investments
During the first year of project implementation, this component will
finance high priority investments that are economically justified, clearly
defined and prepared during project preparation. This will include:
installation of production meters; security of the existing water sources;
and replacement of pipes with known high volume leaks that are beyond
repair.
Component 2: Water Distribution Network Extensions
This component would expand the water supply network, with basic
facilities for sanitation, in poor non-served refugee areas on the
periphery of the city. People living in these areas belong to the poorest
segment of Mostar's population.
Component 3. Water Distribution Network Rehabilitation
A leak detection and distribution unit would be established to implement
an initial find-and-fix leak detection and repair program, a Network
Information System (NIS) and network zoning. Active leakage control and
mains and service connection replacement programs would be initiated.
These works would comprise repair of leaks, including replacement of
pipes, service connections and system appurtenances where the cost of
repairs exceed cost of replacement. The component would include
investments, technical assistance and training.
Component 4: Sewerage Network Rehabilitation
The sewerage system has suffered the same neglect as the water system
since the beginning of the war. Sewers in some areas are clogged from
sediment or collapsed sections. Others are operating at over capacity as
a result of infiltration. This component would include a condition
survey, to be followed up with an initial repair program. The unit
established for the leak detection and distribution unit would also be
responsible to implement an NIS for sewerage, routinely survey the system
and carry out an ongoing sewer replacement program.
Component 5: The Capital Investments Fund
Capital investments would be selected during project implementation by the
Mostar utility with the assistance of the technical operator. The main
criteria for selection would be operational efficiency, cost reduction and
income generation. The investments would fall into two categories: (a)
equipment and materials in support of the institutional strengthening and
capacity building program, including computer software and hardware,
- 3-



office equipment, vehicles and operating equipment; and (b) works and
improvements equipment replacements and energy-saving improvements. All
investment proposals would be prepared jointly by the Mostar Utility and
the technical operator and submitted to the Bank for approval.
Component 6: Operating Expenditures
This component would finance critical expenditures for a two year period
following the merger (will seek management guidance on this particular
component during the PAD meeting). Expenditures to be financed under this
category would primarily include energy and other major operating expenses
such as salaries. It is vital for the success of the merger that, during
the initial period, the utility has sufficient resources so that workers
feel that the merger has improved the situation, and not further
deteriorated.
Component 7: Technical Assistance/Technical Operator
A technical operator will be engaged to assist in project implementation
and to provide technical assistance for institutional improvement. They
would assist with procurement, leak reduction, rehabilitation programs for
the water supply and sewerage networks and provide necessary experts for
the technical assistance programs. The technical operator would also
assist in preparation of designs and bidding documents.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               2.70
IDA                      12
Cofinanciers
Total Project Cost       14.70
6. Implementation
The proposed project would be implemented during FY 2001-2006 under the
overall responsibility of the Mostar Water and Sewerage Utility. The
utility will create within its organization a Project Implementation
Agency (PIA) staffed by its own personnel. However, as this is the
utility's first loan from a foreign lender, a technical operator will be
hired to support the PIA project implementation and procurement
matters.The IDA Credit will be made to the Government of Bosnia
Herzegovina, which would on-lend the funds to the Mostar utility. The
Government would receive the standard IDA terms with a 10 year grace
period, final maturity of 35 years, a service charge of .75% and
commitment fee of .50%.   The Government will on-lend these funds to the
utility. Given the sector's characteristics and the financial position of
the utility, the project team recommends that the onlending terms be
essentially equal to the standard IDA terms though with a maturity of 20
years, with a counter guarantee from the municipal government to the State
Government.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the project will largely depend on: (a) creating a
unified Mostar water and wastewater utility that can efficiently operate
autonomously and in a professional manner with the full support of the
- 4 -



leadership of the City and the Federation Government; and (b) achieving
financial viability by increasing revenues to cover adequate operation and
maintenance expenditures, a portion of investments and debt service; and
(c) the efficiencies of the technical assistance and to improve the
efficiency and operations of the utility . The current problems,
particularly the lack of adequate cash flow, largely stem from the
aftermath of the war, the need to educate consumers (and particularly the
large public users) on the importance of paying for services received, and
the separate operation of an artificially divided system.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bosnia-Water, Sanitation and Solid Waste Urgent Works project
(TF024032) was the first water project after the war. It provided
assistance to municipalities for urgent works and training, equipment and
materials and technical assistance. The project was implemented so
effectively that it closed 6 months before the closing date despite the
difficulties of the post-war situation. Its success was due to several
factors: a high level of commitment created by involving client and
stakeholders closely in the conceptualization and definition of project
interventions; the technical and management capacity of the executing
agencies involved; and an enormous effort by the Bank to guide and
facilitate project preparation and implementation.The positive experience
with the Urgent Works project will be invaluable for the Mostar project.
Successful preparation and implementation of the Mostar project, however,
will be more difficult in two respects. Firstly, the political/ethnic
divisions in Mostar will need to be considered carefully in decision
making throughout the project cycle. Secondly, sector development
objectives related to success of the merger, institutional strengthening
and cost recovery are far more ambitious than under the Urgent Works
project. The lessons learned form the Urgent Works project and from
overall Bank experience with water projects and reflected in the proposed
project design are: (a) The importance of client ownership by having
project preparation in close collaboration and implementation with the
local stakeholders. The total commitment from the local authorities and
project executing agencies is necessary to ensure that implementation
proceeds properly. This is particularly pertinent for the Mostar project,
where the reunification is a politically sensitive issue requiring
tremendous courage from those supporting it.(b) The importance of
establishing a sound institutional framework to ensure that the project
and the utility are sustainable. Achieving the full legal merger prior to
Board presentation will demonstrate stakeholder commitment. As the
project will require a major overhaul of the current organization
structure due to the merger and operations need to improve, the technical
operator will assist in providing institutional strengthening and
efficient utility management.(c) A clear definition of project
responsibilities and processes should be set forth in a Project
Implementation Manual that defines the responsibilities of the agencies
involved: municipal authorities, merged utility, PIA, consultants and the
administrative processes for procurement, disbursements, auditing, and
reporting. (d) Ensure implementation readiness to avoid potential delays
in project initiation and disbursements. Investments are being prepared
so that the first year investments can be executed immediately after
effectiveness.(e) The need for maximum up-front action rather than
exclusive reliance on loan conditionalities for key action. This will be
done by: staffing of PIA by negotiations; the merger completed by Board
- 5 -



presentation; full billing by both sides by mid-2000 (date to be confirmed
during appraisal) and increasing collections by 3t each year; hiring of
the technical operator and engineering consultants by credit
effectiveness.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        In accordance with OD.4.01 (Environmental
Assessment), the project has been classified as Category B, which requires
a limited environmental analysis to determine potential negative
environmental impacts and propose mitigation measures where needed, as
well as to identify opportunities for environmental improvements. An
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and Environmental Analysis was
prepared in response to these requirements. These will be finalized in
coordination with the borrower during the appraisal mission. The project
will have no negative environmental effects and will not raise any
resettlement or property rights issues since it focuses on rehabilitation
of the existing network and facilities. All work will be executed either
within existing facilities or within rights of way of public street
networks. The project will not affect any known archeological or
historical sites. Bidding documents will specify requirements for keeping
work sites pollution-free, returning sites to their original conditions
and minimizing dust, noise and related work nuisance. They will also be
responsible for following strict procedures applicable to unknown
historical sites (discovery, notification etc.). The project will not
involve issues related to indigenous people, involuntary resettlement or
land acquisition. The project is expected to bring environmental and
health benefits because: (a) rehabilitation and improved operation and
maintenance of the water network will reduce water losses and decrease the
volume of water intake; (b) water conservation through demand management
is expected to eliminate the need for new capacity; and (c) improvement in
operations will contribute to better day-to-day environmental management
(handling of hazardous chemicals, improvements in the operation and
maintenance of the sewerage network and better compliance with
environmental regulations).International WaterwaysMostar sits on the
Neretva River, an international waterway that flows through Croatia before
entering the Adriatic. As such, staff reviewed OP 7.50, "Projects on
International Waterways." That OP applies to any water project that
involves "the use or potential pollution of international waterways.
However, it specifically exempts from the notification requirement "minor
additions or alterations" to existing schemes that "will not adversely
change the quality or quantity of water flows to the other riparians."
The proposed Mostar investment meets this definition. Existing water
sources are groundwater and two springs intercepted at source. No new
water sources will be developed. The bulk of the project investments aim
at reducing system leakage and the water saved will result in decreased
groundwater pumping, while use of spring water remains unchanged.
Additional supply could potentially go to villages on the periphery of
Mostar that were served by the Mostar water utility before the war, but
where war damage to village distribution systems has forced temporary
alternatives such as standpipe supply. In addition, a number of new
refugee villages could be served (using water saved through leakage
control). These villages currently rely wells or trucked supply for
water, with wastewater discharging to septic tanks. The latter
- 6 -



arrangements would continue and result in no new loadings on the Neretva.
No new sewerage investments are contemplated, although funds may be used
to clear blockages in the existing system and repair damaged pipes. This
sewerage-related activities fall within the scope of normal system
maintenance.Given that no surface water sources will be affected by the
project, that new supply will not be developed, and that no additional
pollution loading to the Neretva is anticipated as a result of the
project, the project team judged that the notification requirements of OP
7.50 did not apply.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager - Seema Manghee
Smanghee@worldbank.org
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-5702
Fax: 202 614-0902
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 7 -



