E-326
ENVIRONMENTAL PLAN FOR THE MOSTAR WATER AND SANITATION
PROJECT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA



I~



1     Terms of reference
This report describes the results of an environmental plan in the framework of the preparation
for a proposed World Bank supported Mostar water supply and sanitation project. The
mission took place from the 20th of June until the 3rd of July 1999. The terms of reference for
the mnission are presented in Annex A to this report. It should be understood, however, that
these terms of reference for an environmental (and health) assessment will need to be updated
due tlo the changing laws and regulations.
The mission has built on the results of work by others and on available documents. This report
will :not repeat facts described in the documents mentioned in Annex B.
During the mission, the consultant has worked with the organisations mentioned in Annex C.
Within these organisations, many more staff members have been involved than appears from this
list. The consultant wants to thank all of them for their cooperation during the mission.
2     Legislation and supraregional institutional framework
The central goveirnment of the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina (SBiH) is responsible for only a
limited number of policy areas, e.g. foreign affairs. Most policy areas are the responsibility of the
governments of the two entities in the SBiH, the Federation of BiH (FBiH) and the Republika
Srpska (RS), including the policy areas relevant to the proposed Mostar project: water,
environment and health. The FBiH Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry is
responsible for water management at entity level.
A FBiH Water Law was passed in 1998. This complex piece of legislation has been described as
non-iimplementable in a monograph by the Office of the High Representative (OHR, March
1999). According to a Phare study (April 1999), the law is not conform to the European Union
(EU) 'acquis communautaire' which is a condition for accession. Both documents are very
critical of the institutional structure of the FBiH water sector and especially of the dominant
position of the so-called Vodoprivredas (see below). One of the OHR/EU proposals is the
establishment of a new Ministry of Environment and Water Management, but it seems unlikely
that the FBiH will accept this.
In official comments on the OHR/EU recommendations to the FBiH government to adapt the law
according to the results of the Phare study, the World Bank wrote that the law indeed needs to be
amended, but that the OHR/EU proposals were too complicated for the present BiH situation.
In the FBiH Water Law, the responsibility for water management is shared by a) the FBiH
Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry; b) the Vodoprivredas; and c) the
cantons. The division of responsibilities between the three partners is not always clear from the
text of the law. The municipalities are not mentioned in the law. The levying of water extraction
charges is an element of the new FBiH Water Law, but at present this is not implemented.
2



Old laws and regulations from the former Socialist Republic of BiH are still in force and used
until they will be replaced by new ones. The following are relevant for the proposed Mostar water
and sanitation project:
*     law concerning the quality norms for drinking water
*     law concerning the methods for testing drinking water quality
*     regulation concerning the classification of surface water in four degrees of quality
*     regulation concerning the minimum quality requirements for each river in the country
*     regulation concerning dangerous substances that cannot be discharged into water that may
be used for the production of drinking water.
New FBiH environmental laws are concerned with nature protection, environmental protection,
construction and physical planning, but according to the Ministry of Physical Planning and
Environment they are not directly relevant to water management.
Two advisory committees have been established in 1998, the Inter-Entity Water Committee and
the Inter-Entity Environmental Steering Committee. They offer a rare opportunity for concerted
action by the two entities in policy areas that are not State affairs.
3     Regional and local water management
Vodoprivredas
A major role in water management in the FBiH is played by two regional agencies, so-called
Public Companies for Watershed Areas. Usually, these agencies are still called by their old name
'Vodoprivreda'. Rivers in BiH drain either into the Adriatic Sea or (via the Danube) into the
Black Sea. The Neretva River flowing through Mostar drains into the Adriatic Sea, via a short
stretch in Croatia. Mostar is in the catchment area served by the Public Company for the Adriatic
Sea Area. The Mostar Vodoprivreda covers most of three cantons of the FBiH. The remainder of
the FBiH is covered by the Public Company for the Sava River Area, also known as the Sarajevo
Vodoprivreda. The Sarajevo area drains into the Danube system via the Sava River. The whole
territory of the RS, including its share of the Adriatic Sea catchment area, is covered by a single
Vodoprivreda.
The Water Law (article 157) specifies 13 tasks for a Vodoprivreda, which can be summarized as
follows (see also Phare report, attachment 3):
1.    promotion of good use of water, especially drinking water.
2.    promotion of water quality, e.g. by monitoring the quality of surface water
3.   flood protection, e.g. by maintenance of dykes and tunnels
The Mostar Vodoprivreda has a staff of 14. It advises municipalities and cantons, formulates
water policy and supervises implementation. One could call it a think tank, a katalyst for
development, and a partner in water projects of a certain minimum size. It co-finances some
infrastructural works for which cantons and/or municipalities pay the major share. Most practical
activities in the field - e.g. maintenance work - are contracted out to private companies.
3



A Vodoprivreda receives the following public funding:
*     according to the Water Law: 70% of the user charges added to the Vodovod water bills
and paid into the FBiH budget (at present this user charge is 0.09 DM/m3);
*     according to the Water Law: 100% of the remuneration from concessions;
*     the major source of funding: a share from the fees paid by hydroelectric power companies
to the FBiH budget.
In 1999, the Adriatic (Mostar) Vodoprivreda hopes to receive approximately DM 3.5 million, of
which approximately DM 2 m. will flow to municipalities in the form of co-financing.
At present, the Mostar Vodoprivreda has no official contacts with the sister organisations in either
the RS or Croatia.
Vodovods
Each BiH municipality has a Vodovod or water utility, which takes care of supplying drinking
water and sewerage systems. Some municipalities have a proper sewerage system, others make
use of septic tanks and simple pits. Three municipalities in the Adriatic Sea area (2 in the FBiH -
in Ljubuski and Grude - and 1 in the RS) have functioning sewage treatment plants, using
primary (mechanical) and secundary (biological) methods, but Mostar has no such plant. In
Mostar, untreated sewage flows from dozens of sewage outlets directly into the Neretva River.
Outlving areas in Mostar have no sewers but latrines with and without proper septic tanks.
For income and expenditures of the two Mostar Vodovods: see GHK report section 1.4. More
than 90% of domestic connections in Mostar-West are metered. In Mostar-East, a per capita fee is
charged. Many Vodovods including those in Mostar have trouble balancing the books because a)
municipalities have exempted some categories of users, e.g. public agencies or poor people, and
b) many users do not pay their water bills.
There is no hierarchical relationship between the Mostar Vodoprivreda and the two Mostar
Vodc,vods. They exchange information and the Vodoprivreda can assist the Vodovods with
planning and execution of infrastructural works.
Cantons and municipalities
The important role of the cantons in water management is described in the Water Law, but not so
clear in reality. In Mostar the three cantonal ministries responsible for physical planning, water
management, environment and health take an interest in water supply, water quality and waste
water disposal, but they still have to enact the cantonal legislation in this field. They agree,
however, that the FBiH ministries in Sarajevo have no direct role in this field. Like almost all
institutions in Mostar, the Hercegovacko Neretvanski Kanton is still divided between East and
West., but it is planned to abolish this separation. According to the Water Law, the cantons
receive 20% of the user charges added to the Vodovod water bills and paid into the FBiH budget
(at present this user charge is 0.09 DM/m3).
4



The municipalities have traditionally played the major role in water supply and waste water
disposal and they still have most of the technical staff for this work. It is planned that the 6
municipalities in the Mostar area gradually hand over their responsibilities to the City of Mostar,
and that the City of Mostar and the Hercegovacko Neretvanski Kanton work out the division of
responsibilities between them. At present, the municipalities receive a 10% service charge paid
by the user on top of his water bill. The municipalities set the price of drinking water on advice
from the Vodovods.
When trying to understand the division of tasks and responsibilities for water management at
regional and local level, the following description seems realistic. At all levels, Mostar is still
thoroughly divided between East and West and it remains to be seen how reunification will work
out. However, it is a small town and the players in the field know each other well. Within each
half of the city, water management and project preparation are getting done between
municipalities, city, canton,Vodovod and Vodoprivreda, much on the basis of existing expertise
and personal commitment, and without bothering too much about the legal small print concerning
responsibilities, ownership and licencing rights. It would be useful, however, if only for the
enlightenment of foreign partners, to have the present and planned division of reponsibilities
written down in a short document, or even as a table as suggested in Annex D.
For the planning of water supply and waste water treatment, and for the interpretation of
morbidity data, it is essential to know some demographic data about Mostar and the
Hercegovacko Neretvanski Kanton. Before the war, the last census showed 270,000 inhabitants
of the region which is now called the Hercegovacko Neretvanski Kanton. Mostar then had
127,000 inhabitants. The Phare report quotes the Federation Statistics Institute with nearly
194,000 inhabitants of the Kanton in 1997. This is close to the figure of 187,000 given by the
USAID Public Education Campaign for the year 1999. If the latter figures are true, it is not
possible that the City of Mostar now has approximately 125,000 inhabitants, and the river basin
downstream of Mostar until the Croatian border approximately 50,000 inhabitants, as one is
usually told in Mostar (and which data are used in this report). This discrepancy must be resolved
during the preparation phase of the proposed Mostar water supply and sanitation project.
4     Present supply of drinking water
It is stated in the GHK report that good water is available in sufficient quantity in Mostar from
ground water wells throughout the year. However, this does not apply to Mostar-East, because
water production is insufficient for around-the-clock supply to all citizens of Mostar-East.
Water from the Neretva River is not being used to prepare drinking water in Mostar. Water taken
from the Neretva River at Citluk and Capljina further downstream is used for irrigation only. The
areas around the ground water wells are not protected. Because of the porous karst formations,
this could theoretically cause pollution, e.g. from manure, fertilizer, pesticides or other forms of
pollution. In practice, the ground water on the West bank of the Neretva River is considered to be
sufficiently pure, but there are doubts about the East bank (see below for quality control).
5



In both East and West, ground water is treated with chlorine before being pumped into the
system. It is not filtered, sedimented, aerated or treated with other chemicals. In Mostar-West, the
ground water becomes turbid following heavy rains after a dry period, which happens a few times
per year during a few days. The population is then advised to boil the water before drinking, or
certain reservoirs are disconnected from the system. For this reason, Mostar-West would like to
install a filter system, but this is beyond its financial means. Mostar-East has no such problems.
According to the Water Law, the networks - wells, pipes, reservoirs, pump stations and water
meters - are owned by the canton and managed by the two Vodovods in East and West. In
practice, the Vodovods feel they own the network. For details about the network and the payment
for drinking water: see GHK report. Some households depend on private wells and rainwater
collection; there is no official quality control of this private supply, but anecdotal information
questions its purity. It has been impossible to obtain reasonably precise estimates of the number
of people connected to the official drinking water supply and the number of people who are not.
Possibly 10,000 persons in the urban area of Mostar (total: 90,000 inhabitants), both East and
West, and nearly all 35,000 inhabitants of the rural area depend on rainwater, private wells or
water trucks.
Control of drinking water quality
The two Vodovods regularly test the quality of the drinking water they supply. Samples are taken
both at the production site and at the users' taps. Each Vodovod has its own laboratory for a
limited number of physical and chemical tests. The laboratory of theVodovod of Mostar-East
also does some microbiological testing of doubtful value; the most recent tests showed no micro-
organisms at all, which is unlikely unless heavy chlorination is applied. Microbiological testing
and s;pecial chemical tests for Mostar-West are carried out in the Mostar-West branch office of
the F]BiH Institute of Public Health (which by some is regarded as a cantonal institution), or in
Split (Croatia). Independent microbiological and physico-chemical testing in Mostar-East is
carried out by the Institute of Public Health of the Hercegovacko Neretvanski Kanton in Mostar-
East. To a large extent, East and West monitor the same essential parameters of drinking water
purity and use rather similar maximum values for each parameter (see Annex E). These
maxirnum values are either the former Yugoslav norms (East) or present Croatian norms (West),
which differ only marginally from each other. No comparison is made with either EU or WHO
norms.
The test results of Mostar drinking water can be summarized as follows:
*     a few physical tests are performed daily or weekly and never exceed the limits;
*     a limited set of chemical tests is perforrned daily or weekly and never exceeds the limits
except for turbidity in Mostar-West after heavy rain; independent chemical testing in
Mostar-East exceeded the limits in 7% of the samples;
*     testing for micro-organisms is performed weekly, and never exceeds the limits; however,
independent microbiological tests in Mostar-East exceeded the limits in 45% of the
samples;
*     special tests (heavy metals, pesticides, radioactivity) have been done sporadically and
have shown no abnormality.
6



The Institute of Public Health of Hercegovacko Neretvanski Kanton in Mostar-East blames the
less than perfect results in Mostar-East on the wrong sites selected for the wells after being cut off
from the good water of Mostar-West, and on the state of disrepair of some water pipes. Against
the regulations, one well is located in an industrial area. Even for a recently constructed water-
intake in Blagaj near Mostar (an EU-Echo project) a wrong site was said to have been chosen, but
this was not conformed by others.
5     The Neretva River
Immediately downstream from the town of Konjic, the Neretva River is visibly polluted (no
laboratory results available), among others by rubbish dumped into it from the river bank.
However, the artificial Jablanicko Lake and a number of other lakes further downstream
including a visibly polluted lake just above Mostar seem to absorb the polluting materials, and the
river enters Mostar looking clean.
In the forner Yugoslavia, the quality of surface water used to be graded from I (fit for the
production of drinking water) to IV (not even fit for irrigation) and this terminology is still in use
in the FBiH. At present, the Neretva River is said to have grade II quality all the way from Mostar
to the Croatian border which makes it fit for recreation, swimming, fish consumption and even
fish farming. Before the war, water quality was grade III immediately downstream of Mostar
because of industrial pollution, but most industrial activities have ceased and it is said that some
types of fish that were not seen downstream before the war have reappeared. Even before the war,
river water quality improved again to grade II further downstream due to the diluting and self-
cleaning properties of the river. There is some fear that water quality will deteriorate again in the
future if industrial activity will resume.
Before the war, the monitoring of river water quality was the responsibility of the Hydro-
Meteorological Institute (HMZ). After the war, the Mostar Vodoprivreda has voluntarily taken up
this task ('somebody has to do it'); the new Water Law does not specifically oblige it to do so.
Water samples are being taken from four sampling sites, from immediately downstream from
Mostar (near the village of Bacevici) to just before the Croatian border (in the town of Capljina),
and analyzed in the Mostar branch of the FBiH Institute of Public Health and partly also in
Croatia. Some test results from one sampling site are presented in Annex F. These test results
show that classification as grade II may be justified except for a too high number of coliform
bacteria. This finding occurred repeatedly, also at other sampling sites, and makes the water unfit
for swimming.
6     Present discharge of waste water
Before the war, a majority of SBiH urban areas were serviced by sewage collection systems, but
waste water treatment was rare. Most waste water and industrial waste was and is being
discharged into rivers without treatment, also in Mostar. For a description of the Mostar sewerage
system: see GHK report, sections 1.2 and 1.3.2. Outlying areas in Mostar have no sewers but
latrines with and without septic tanks. It has been impossible to obtain reasonably precise
7



estimates of the number of people served with household connections to conventional public
sewers, and the number of people who are not. Possibly 30,000 to 40,000 persons in Mostar are
connected out of a total of 125,000 persons.
In the EU, the principle has been adopted that the polluter must pay the clean-up cost, e.g. of
waste water treatment. In Mostar, the main polluters are the private households, but there is
also some specific and potentially dangerous pollution by others, e.g. garages, hospitals and
the aluminium factory. However, the aluminium factory ("Aluminij') has a functioning
industrial waste water treatment plant, a closed circuit without any discharge into the river.
There is no list of known or suspected polluters, but the Mostar Vodoprivreda is planning to
establish such a list. There is, in fact, a FBiH regulation for the discharge of industrial waste:
the polluter should submit a laboratory report to the Vodoprivreda every 2 years, specifying
the quantity and type of the effluent discharged (expressed in population-equivalents, PE), but
this rarely happens and is not enforced by the canton.
In addition to payment for connection to the public sewer pipes system, industrial polluters
should pay effluent charges, but this element of the new FBiH Water Law has not (yet) been
implemented. Actually, the SBiH is the only country in Central and Eastern Europe where
such effluent charges are not being paid.
As the Vodovods and their sewage system are not merely considered as collectors of sewage
but also as polluters themselves, they also have to monitor the composition of their sewage,
but this is not (yet) happening.
The SFOR military camp has organised its own waste water discharge with a private contractor
who trucks the waste water to Neum on the coast, where it is 'treated' (mechanical treatment
only) and discharged into the sea.
One can conclude that in Mostar at present there is no insight into the quantity, chemical quality
and potential toxicity of the effluents. There is little or no problem with the visual and olfactory
aspects of the waste water disposal, as can be witnessed from the many people who use the
Neretva River for recreation.
7     Health risks related to drinking water and waste water
Worldwide there is much interest in the relation between the supply of drinking water,
sanitation methods and human health. WHO has asked the FBiH and RS Ministries of Health
to prepare an Environmental Health Action Plan. WHO and UNICEF together have asked the
FBiH and RS ministries responsible for water management to fill out a questionnaire for the
Global Water Supply and Sanitation Assessment 2000. These activities should be linked to
the proposal by the World Bank to the FBiH and RS governments to prepare an
Environmental Action Plan with help from the Bank.
Health problems can be caused by either an insufficient quantity and/or quality of drinking
water, or by pollution of the environment by unsuitable disposal of waste water and solid
waste (solid waste is not considered here). Health problems may be either acute or chronic
with a long latency period.
8



Lack of personal hygiene because of water shortage plays no role in Mostar, although some
citizens in Mostar-East receive only a few hours of water per day. In Mostar-East, intermittent
supply may increase the risk of contamination of drinking water, especially where the pipes are
old or damaged.
The quality of drinking water can be evaluated with physical, chemical and microbiological
parameters. An overview of the parameters used in Mostar is presented in Annex E. EU standards
for drinking water cannot yet be adhered to in the FBiH because funds and laboratory capacity
are lacking. Therefore, a choice has been made for a limited number of tests which can detect the
major risks.
The only physical health risk which might exist in Mostar is naturally occurring or man-made
radioactivity in drinking water, but occasional tests for radionuclids have been negative.
Drinking water may be contaminated with thousands of chemical compounds, organic and
anorganic, naturally occurring and man-made. It is impossible to detect them all and a water
utility has to make a selection according to financial and laboratory capacity and potential health
risks. The sets of tests used by both Mostar utilities are acceptable under the present
circumstances.
Waterbome infections are usually the biggest health risk related to drinking water. Population
statistics of infectious diseases in and around Mostar are difficult to interpret because they follow
ethnic divisions and cut across canton and municipal borders. Fortunately, this practice is ending
this year and the 1999 statistics will show real municipal and cantonal data.
However, the population denominator should become much more precise, otherwise no
meaningful conclusion can be drawn. In 1998, 150 cases of 'enterocolitis acuta', 6 cases of
dysenteria bacillaris, 6 cases of salmonellosis and 2 cases of hepatitis. A were notified to the
FBiH Public Health Institute in Mostar-West for the 137,000 Croat inhabitants of the
Hercegovacko-Neretvanska Kanton. For the same period, the Institute of Public Health of
Hercegovacko Neretvanski Kanton in Mostar-East counted 203 cases of 'enterocolitis acuta' and
12 cases of dysenteria bacillaris for the Eastern part of the city of Mostar. The rates are not very
different from those in EU countries. As in other countries, underreporting will occur. In fact,
according to the FBiH Institute of Public Health (Dept. of Epidemiology) there were epidemics of
dysenteria bacillaris (shigellosis) in Mostar and Capljina in 1998 with more than 1000 cases that
somehow did not find their way into the statistics.
Little can be said of relation between these diseases and the quality of drinking water. Often, such
diseases are primarily caused by contaminated food. Since 1994, notification of 'enterocolitis
acuta' is increasing in the whole of 'Croat Herzegovina' (approximately 500,000 inhabitants), but
this is probably the result of improving notification rather than increasing incidence. Seasonal
fluctuations in the incidence of diarrheal diseases have not been found by the FBiH Institute of
Public Health in Mostar-West, which is an argument against contaminated drinking water as a
cause. It should be remembered that there is no control of the quality of drinking water from
private wells and rainwater collection used by an unknown number of the Mostar population.
9



Downstream from Mostar until the border with Croatia, approximately 50,000 people are
partially being supplied with drinking water from wells close to the Neretva river, especially
in summer when the flow from springs elsewhere is diminished. It has not been proven
that -Neretva River water and associated chemical or microbiological contamination can
penetrate into these wells, but the theoretical possibility exists.
Finally, a polluted Neretva River may also affect public health by swimming in it and by
consuming fish from it, causing, for example, gastroenteritis, eye infections, and ingestion of
heavy metals. In view of its above-mentioned classification as grade II surface water, this
would be unlikely, but microbiological monitoring must continue. The Institute of Public
Health of Hercegovacko Neretvanski Kanton in Mostar-East suspects that a few cases of
serous (viral) meningitis could be attributed to swimming in the Neretva River. In 1998, 10
such cases were notified in Hercegovacko-Neretvanska Kanton, 5 in the East and 5 in the
West. Further research would be needed before such a claim can be made on the basis of these
sporadic cases. The institute is conducting a survey of such recreational risks.
8     Environmental risks of lack of waste water treatment
Dumping untreated waste water into rivers may endanger aquatic life, and indirectly also other
species, e.g. birds feeding on fish. Polluted surface water may also pose risks to cattle drinking
from it and to crops irrigated with it. It could have a negative impact on the tourist industry on the
Adriatic coast because of real or perceived risks. Downstream from Mostar, near the Croatian
border, is a sensitive wetlands habitat, the National Park 'Hutovo Blato'. During this mission it
was not possible to collect and analyse data on the ecological situation in this park, and on
potential threats to rare or endangered species living there. It appears that water usually flows
from the park to the Neretva River but that sometimes this flow is reversed.
9     Conclusions
Legal, institutional and commercial aspects of the proposed World Bank supported Mostar water
and sanitation project have already been discussed by other consultants. The SBiH has adopted a
complicated administrative system with four levels of government (state, entity, canton and
municipality) with an as yet unclear division of responsibilities as to water management. There
are also the two 'Public companies for watershed areas'('Vodoprivreda;) in the FBiH at a level
between (or parallel to) entity and canton. All institutions are still trying to figure out their
responsibilities in water management. The new Water Law does not provide all necessary
guidance in this matter, nor is it frlly respected. Other existing laws are also not completely
implemented or enforced. There is no law against the discharge of untreated waste water, except
that t:he water quality of the Neretva River must be grade II.
In Mostar, the situation is even more complicated because of the de facto division between East
and West and the new structure of the "City of Mostar", comprising 6 municipalities. The
responsibilities of all partners in water management in Mostar must become clear, in writing,
because efficient and secure institutional arrangements will be essential for the success of the
proposed water supply and sanitation project. This requires a follow-up by the GHK consultants.
10



The economic costs and benefits of improvement in the Mostar drinking water supply have
been estimated by GHK. The health picture of the present drinking water situation in Mostar
is incomplete, therefore the potential health benefits of improvement in the drinking water
supply cannot be quantified. However, these health benefits will probably be limited. More
health benefit can be expected from connecting the presently unconnected households than from
improving the water quality of the public supply, mainly by repairing broken water pipes. In the
municipality of Mostar-North, large-scale Italian, Norwegian and EU supported projects are
already under way to improve the drinking water supply, including a connection to the old town
of Mostar. This will also diminish the contamination risks of intermittent water supply in Mostar-
East.
In the future, quality control of Mostar drinking water must be well organised. Routine
internal monitoring with physical and chemical test by the united Vodovod should continue
at one or two sites, with standardized equipment, tests and norms. Microbiological testing and
supervision of physico-chemical testing should be done by one or both of the public health
institutes in Mostar, which should cooperate for reasons of standardization and efficiency.
Rare and complicated tests (pesticides, specific micro-organisms, etc.) could be done at the
FBiH Institute of Public Health in Sarajevo or even abroad (in Croatia) if this is more
efficient.
Instead of trying to enforce the legal obligation for owners of a private water supply
(rainwater or well) to have their water tested at their expense, free testing and health
education could improve the compliance.
It is obvious that an expanded and improved system of sewers and sewage treatment can only
be beneficial for the environment. However, expanding the network of sewers and emptying
those sewers into collecting tanks without proper sewage treatment could be detrimental,
because an increasing amount of sewage would flow into the river in more concentrated form.
Without a waste water treatment plant it would be better not to expand the network of sewers,
but to use better septic tanks instead. Repair of existing broken or blocked sewers is always
indicated to prevent overflow of sewage which is a public health risk.
The establishment of a waste water treatment plant in Mostar will carry a high cost. The
benefits of such a plant will be mainly environmental, with possibly a limited positive effect
on human health as well. It is difficult to express the environmental and health benefits in
monetary terms. Benefits will be more substantial if the population of Mostar will grow and
industrial production will resume and grow. In view of the major investment needed for a
waste water treatment plant, it is necessary that the picture of the environmental (and to a
more limited extent: health) consequences of the present waste water situation in Mostar
become more clear. This requires an in-depth study into ecological and economical aspects.
The ecological aspects include the short-term and long-term effects of not treating Mostar's waste
water on flora and fauna in the Neretva River basin. The economical aspects include a forecast
for the future need of drinking water and the future production of waste water, based on
assumptions on economic growth, population growth, tourism, etc.
11



The following data should still be collected during project preparation which bear a relation to
public health and environmental control:
*     the real number of inhabitants of the city of Mostar, subdivided into 6 municipalities, and
subdivided into those connected and those not connected to public drinking water
networks and public sewerage systems; for those not connected, data on the method they
use (e.g. rainwater for drinking water; e.g. latrines without proper septic tank for toilets
and other waste water)
*     completion of the table in Annex D
*     continued monitoring of drinking water quality, with comparison to EU norms and WHO
guidelines (see suggestions in Annex E)
*     reliable monthly data on the incidence of gastro-intestinal infectious diseases in the whole
city area, preferably per age group, sex, and city area. These data can probably not be
obtained through the present notification process. Therefore a specific study should be
undertaken (prof Zlatko Puvacic is prepared to organise such a study)
*     continued sampling of water from the Neretva River (see suggestions in Annex F)
*     water quality data from an additional sampling point in the Neretva River, upstream from
Mostar, for better interpretation of the effluent problems in Mostar, and for future
reference
*     an overview of the major producers of waste water (except households) in Mostar,
including the type of effluent which can be expected from them (this overview is already
being planned by the Vodoprivreda)
Such data can also be used in the future as indicators for monitoring the environmental and
health effects of the project.
12



I



Annex A - Terms of reference Environmental Assessment
Background Information
1.    The Environmental Assessment is part of the preparatory work needed for the Mostar
Water and Wastewater Project. Prior to the war, there was one water and wastewater utility
serving Mostar. As a result of the war, the utility was split into two parts: the Eastern utility
serving the Bosniacs and the Western utility serving the Croats. Under the project, the two
utilities would be reunited, which would result in substantial institutional, financial and economic
benefits.
2.    The World Bank and management teams of the two utilities have agreed on an outline of
the proposed project concept:
Assist the water and waste water entities in Mostar to become more efficiently managed and
operaited, financially self-sufficient; and commercially operated municipal utility water supply
and waste water utilities;
Improve the quality of the water in the river.
Improve the quality and reliability of water and sewerage services on selecting investments on the
least cost and high priority basis
Technical Aspects
3.    Needs in water supply and sewage disposal have been discussed in detail with the water
authorities for both water supply and sewage disposal.
(a)   Water Supply. There is a need for leak detection and repairs of mains and house
connections in the oldest parts of the City. This is due to old pipe material and war damages.
Along with repairs, replacement of pipelines may be required. There is also a need for some
water network extensions to cover unserved areas.
(b)   Sewage disposal. Mostar, a town with approximately 115,000 inhabitants, has no proper
sewage disposal system. From the central part of town, raw sewage is discharged via storm
drains directly into the Neretva River. In other parts of town, septic tanks of various types and
quality are used. In 1983, plans for a sewage disposal system were made, which were updated in
1996. Under project preparation, consultants will be hired to modify the design to a least cost
solution.
Outpult
4.    The consultant should prepare an environmental assessment report that is concise and
limited to significant environmental issues. The main text should focus on the findings,
conclusions and recommended actions supported by the summaries of the data collected.
13



Description of the proposed project
5.    The consultant (s) shall provide a complete description of the area of the project (using
maps) at appropriate scale where necessary and include the following information - location,
general layout, unit process description and diagram; size in terms of population and population
equivalents; present and projected; number and types of connected industries; anticipated influent
and effluent characteristics; pre-construction activities; construction activities, schedule, staffing
and support facilitates and services; operation and maintenance activities, staffing and support
facilities and services; required off-site investments; and life span.
Description of the Environment
Physical Environment
6.    The physical environment should be detailed to include: geology (general description for
overall study areas; details for land application sites); topography; soils; monthly average
temperatures, rainfall and runoff characteristics; description of receiving waters (identification of
streams, lakes or marine waters; annual average discharge or current data by month, chemical
quality; existing discharges or withdrawals).
Biological Environment
7.    The biological environment should include: terrestrial communities in areas affected by
construction, facility siting, land application or disposal; aquatic estuarine or marine comminutes
in affected waters; rare or endangered species; sensitive habitats, including parks or preserves,
significant natural sites; species of commercial importance in land application sites and receiving
waters.
Sociocultural Environment
8.    The sociocultural environment should cover present and projected population; present
land use; planned development activities; community structure; present and projected
employment by industrial category; distribution of income, goods and services; recreation; public
health; cultural properties; customs, aspirations and attitudes.
Policy - Legal and Administrative Framework
9.    The legislative and regulatory should be described in terms of pertinent regulations and
standards governing environmental quality, pollutant discharges to surface waters and land,
industrial discharges to public sewers, water reclamation and reuse, agricultural and landscape
use of sludge, health and safety, protection of sensitive areas, land use control, etc.
All regulations and guidelines should be reviewed:
National laws and/or regulations on environmental reviews and impact assessment
14



Regional, provincial or communal environmental assessment regulations; and
Environmental assessment regulations of any other financing organizations involved in the
project.
Determination of the potential impacts of the proposed project
10.   Distinguish between significant and positive and negative impacts, direct and indirect
impacts and immediate and long-term impacts. Identify impacts which are unavoidable or
irreversible. Whenever possible, describe impacts quantitatively in terms of environmental costs
and benefits.
The :following should be analyzed:
The appropriate regulations and standards goveming environmental quality; pollutant discharges,
use cf health and safety, protection of sensitive areas, land use control etc. at international,
national, regional and local levels;
Extent to which receiving water quality standards and or beneficial use objectives will be
achieved with the proposed type and level of treatment;
The length of stream or expanse of lake which will be positively or negatively affected by the
discharge, and the magnitude of the changes in water quality parameters;
The length of stream or expanse of lake or marine waters which will be positively or negatively
affected by the discharge, and the magnitude of the changes in water quality parameters;
Sanitation and public health anticipated.
Analysis of alternatives to the proposed project
11.   Describe altematives that were examined in the course of developing the proposed project
and identify other altematives which would achieve the same objectives. The concept of
alternatives extends to design, technology selection, construction techniques and phasing and
operating and maintenance procedures. Compare altematives in terms of potential environmental
impacts; capital and operating cost; suitability under local conditions; and institutional, training
and rnonitoring requirements. When describing the impacts, indicate which are irreversible or
unavoidable and which can be mitigated. To the extent possible, quantify the costs and benefits
of each alternative, incorporating the estimated costs of any associated mitigating measures.
Include the altemative of not constructing the project, in order to demonstrate environmental
conditions without it.
Identification of institutional needs to implement Environmental Assessment recommendations
12.   Review and analyze the capability of institutions at local, provincial/regional and national
levels and recommend steps to strengthen or expand them so that the management and
monitoring plans in the environmental assessment can be implemented. The recommendations
15



may extend to new laws and regulations, new agencies or agency functions, intersectoral
arrangements, management procedures and training, staff, operation and maintenance training,
budgeting and financial support.
Development of a Monitoring Plan
13.   Prepare a detailed plan to monitor implementation of mitigating measures and the impacts
of the project during construction operation. Include in the plan an estimate of capital and
operating costs and a description of other inputs (e.g. institutional strengthening and training)
needed to carry it out.
Inter-Agency Coordination and Public/NGO Participation
14.   Assist in co-ordinating the environmental assessment with other government agencies in
obtaining the views of local NGO's and affected groups, and in keeping records of meetings and
other activities, communications.
16



Annex B - References
-     European Union directives and standards, including EU urban waste water directives, EU
water quality directives and EU water hygiene standards. Internet:
www..europa.eu.int/comm/life/envir/index.htm
-     European Union: inforrnation about surface water quality. Internet: water@dgl l.cec.be
-     GHK International Ltd. Business plan for the water industry in Mostar: an update for
1999-2004 (final draft). London: GHK International Ltd, May 1999
-     GHK International Ltd. A discussion paper on the policies and procedures necessary for
the merger of the two water companies in Mostar (draft). London: GHK International Ltd,
May 1999
-     Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Water Law. Published .in the
Official Gazette of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina no. 18, 1 1 May 1998
-     Klarer J, McNicholas J, Knaus EM (eds). Sourcebook on economic instruments for
environmental policy- Central and Eastern Europe. Szentendre (Hungary): Regional
Environmental Center for Central and Eastern Europe (REC), April 1999
-     Regional Environmental Center for Central and Eastern Europe (REC). Internet:
www.rec.org
-     PHARE Programme. Water sector institution strengthening - Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. Final report by Plancenter Ltd, BCEOM and Hydro-Engineering Institute
Sarajevo, April 1999
-     Thomson S. Institutional and legal reform of the water institutions in the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina. Background paper (with bibliography). Sarajevo: Office of the
High Representative, March 1999
-     WHO (Geneva). Guidelines for drinking-water quality. Volume 1 - Recommendations,
second edition, 1993. Volume 2 - Health criteria and other supporting information, second
edition, 1996. With regular addenda.
WHO-Euro. The Protocol on Water and Health + background documents. Internet:
www.who.dk/London99
WHO/UNICEF. Global water supply and sanitation assessment 2000 - water supply and
sanitation sector questionnaire 1999
World Bank. Comments on the OHR/EU recommendations to the FBiH government
concerning water management, by K. Kleiner (January 28, 1999) and S. Manghee (April
13, 1999 and May 28, 1999)
17



World Bank. Mostar Water Supply and Sanitation project. Project preparation mission.
Aide memoires and BTO reports.
18



Annex C - Organisations consulted
-     FBiH Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment, Sarajevo; Mr Ramiz Mehmedagic,
minister; Mr Mehmed Cero, Mr Mladen Rudez
-     Inter-Entity Environmental Steenrng Committee; chaired by Mr Tarik Kupusovic and Mr
Borislav Jaksic
-     Water Policy Task Force (donor coordination group); chaired by Mr Stuart Thompson,
Office of the High Representative
-     FBiH Institute of Public Health, Laboratories for Control of Food, Water and Consumer
Products; Ms Velida Dilberovic-Busatlic, head
-     FBiH Institute of Public Health, Institute of Epidemiology; Mr Zlatko Puvacic, head
-     WHO Liaison Office, Sarajevo; Ms Nezahat Ruzdic, liaison officer
-     Regional Environmental Center, Sarajevo; Mr Nesad Seremet, director
-     World Bank Resident Mission, Sarajevo; Ms Elaine Patterson, deputy director; Ms Vesna
Francic, disbursement and procurement analyst
-     Public Company for the Adriatic Sea Watershed Area (Vodoprivreda), Mostar; Mr Damir
Mrdjen, director
-     Water utility (Vodovod), Mostar East; Mr Mirsad Huseinagic, director
-     Water utility (Vodovod), Mostar West; Mr Mile Puljic, director
-     FBiH Institute of Public Health, Mostar West; Ms Jelena Ravlija, epidemiologist
-     Institute of Public Health of Hercegovacko Neretvanski Kanton, Mostar East; Mr Mirsad
Rahimic, director
-     Aluminij factory, Mostar; Mr Velimir Cavar, director
-     International Management Group, Mostar office; Ms Adisha Tojaga, engineer
-     Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment of Hercegovacko Neretvanski Kanton,
Mostar-West; Mr. Kresimir Saravanja, vice-minister for environment
-     Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry of Hercegovacko Neretvanski
Kanton, Mostar-West; Ms Vesna Covic, vice-minister for water management
19



Annex D - Responsibilities in regional and local water management
It would be useful if the following organisations could indicate their responsibilities for the tasks
mentioned in the table, after January I st, 2000:
a.    Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry of Hercegovacko Neretvanski
Kanton
b.    Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment of Hercegovacko Neretvanski Kanton
c.    Ministry of Health of Hercegovacko Neretvanski Kanton
d.    Adriatic Vodoprivreda
e.    Common Vodovod (East and West)
f    Government of the City of Mostar
g.    Six municipalities
h.   Institute of Public Health of Hercegovacko Neretvanski Kanton in Mostar-East
i.    FBiH Institute of Public Health in Mostar-West
20



responsible organisation:  a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  7
tasks:
Planning and design of infrastructural work for drinking
water (groundwater exploration, new networks)
Planning and design of infrastructural work for waste
water (sewers, treatment)
perrnits for public and private water sources
Financing of construction, maintenance and repair
(drinking water)
Financing of construction, maintenance and repair (waste
water)
Construction work (drinking water and waste water)
Ownership of drinking water and waste water networks
setting of tariffs for drinking water
setting of tariffs for sewer connection (household and
industrial)
control of public drinking water quality (daily
monitoring)
control of public drinking water quality (supervision)
control of private drinking water quality
control of river water quality
Inspection and control of effluent discharge (domestic
and
Industrial)
Epidemiology of infectious diseases
health education about water and sanitation.
21



Annex E - Overview of Mostar drinking water quality testing
East-Mostar (Vodovod laboratory and Cantonal Public Health Institute:
test                 worst value in May    old Yugoslav norm  EU norm
1999                 fl987)
colony count         0                     not given        < 100/ml (220)
total coliform bacteria   0                0                0/100 ml
E. coli              0                     not given        0/100 ml
nitrate              0.5 mg/I              < 10 mg/l        < 50 mg/l
nitrite              0.002 mg/l            < 0.005 mg/l     < 0.5 mg/l
total pesticides     not tested            separate for each   < 0.5 jig/l
chloride             7.3 mg/l              < 200 mg/l       < 250 mg/l
residual chlorine    0.4 mg/l              < 0.4 mg/l
ammonia              0                     < 0.1 mg/l       < 0.5 mg/l
Fe                   0                     < 0.3 mg/l       < 0.2 mg/l
Mn                   0                     < 0.05 mg/i      < 0.05 mg/l
pH                   7.57                  6.5 - 8.5        6.5 - 9.5
turbidity            0.2 NTU               5 NTU            acceptable
conductivity         378 jS cnY1           < 1000 iS cmY'   < 2,500 pS cm-'
radionuclids         not tested            special formula    < 0.1 mSv/year
oxygen from KMnO4   13.16 mg/l I8 mg/1
West-Mostar (Vodovod laboratory):
test                 as measured in June    Croat norm      EU norm
1_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  11998                   __I
ammonia              0                     < 0.1 mg/l       < 0.5 mg/l
chloride             4 mg/l                < 200 mg/I       < 250 mg/I
residual chlonne     0.26 m/l              < 0.5 mg/l
nitrate              0.6 mg/I              < 10 mg/i        < 50 mg/1
nitrite              0.003 mg/i            < 0.03 mg/i      < 0.5 mg/l
sulphate             14 mg/l               < 250 mg/i       < 250 mg/l
phosphate            not tested            < 0.3 mg P/I
dissolved oxygen     81 %                  75 - 105 %
turbidity            0.69 NTU              < 4 NTU          acceptable
alkalinity           135 mg CaCO3/1        < 700 mg/l       -
pH                   7.12                  6.5 - 8.5        6.5 - 9.5
conductivity      X  192 tS cm__          j < 500 6S cm-'    <2,500 AS cm-
radionuclids         not tested            not given        < 0.1 mSv/year
total pesticides     not tested            not given        < 0.5 1.g/l
Both Vodovod laboratories monitor temperature, colour, taste and smell.
The standard sets of tests are not identical in Mostar-West and Mostar-East. Norms are not
identical either. Sometimes, tests are not performed because testing materials are out of stock.
22



In Mostar-West, microbiological testing is done in the FBiH Institute of Public Health (results
not shown here).
The purpose of this annex is to suggest standardisation of tests in East and West, and
utilisation of EU and/or WHO norms. Contrary to what many people think, EU norms are
often less strict than the BiH norms, but in the EU many more substances are being
monitored.
23



Annex F - Overview of results of monitoring Neretva River water quality
Data from the Bacevici sampling site, which is nearest to Mostar town (downstream)
test                    worst value found    BiH norm for grade  EU norm
since 1998         II                 (1998)
total coliform bacteria  1,600,000/100 ml    < 10,000/100 ml  <10,000/100 ml
E. coli bacteria        300,000/100 ml     not given          < 2,000/100 ml
suspended particles     10 mg/l            < 30 mg/l          not given
dissolved oxygen        9.5 mg/l           > 6 mg/l           not given
oxygen saturation       92%                > 75%              80-120%
biological oxygen demand  2,3 mg 02/1      < 4 mg 02/1        not given
in 5 days (BPK5)
oxygen from KMnO4       5.6 mg 02/1        < 12 mg 02/1       not given
dry residue             not tested         < 1000 mg/l        not given
nitrite                 0.83 mg/l          not given          not given
nitrate                 0.01 mg/l          not given          not given
total P                 0.13 mg/i          not given          not given
chloride                10.8 mg/l          not given          not given
sulphate                11.6 mg/i          not given          not given
solvents (e.g. tetrachlor-    not tested   not given           not given
ethylene)              I
total pesticides (e.g.  not tested         not given           < 0.5 gg/l
organo-phosphates)     I _=           _
More parameters are being tested in water from the Neretva River than shown in this table. Some
tests are more useful for drinking water (e.g. oxygen from KMnO4) or for waste water (e.g.
biological oxygen demand) than for surface water.
More BiH norms may exist than found in the legal text of the Socialist Republic of BiH of
1980. EU Directives 76/160/EEC and 98/83/EC use a completely different system of
monitoring the quality of bathing water, so that comparison is not really possible.
The purpose of this annex is not to present this table as a reference table, but to suggest the
regular production of tables from different sampling sites with results (mean values, worst
values) of a limited number of relevant tests, compared to BiH and EU norms.
24



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Table of Environmental Issues, Mitigation Measures, Costs and Monitoring
I Environmental   Mitication Within [ Mitigation       I Site Specific   IGeneral        1 Policy, Decision        implenentation   'Perforrnance and
Issue            Scope of          Described in        Detailed Design    Construction    Making Authority    Responsibility     Monitoring
Identified in   Environment at    Environmental        Required          Specification                                           Indicators
Report           Management Plan   Management Plan                       Required
New land use     Yes               Contract provision   Yes              May be           Mostar Utility       Contractors       No complaints
pen-nits                           to be developed                                                             through Mostar    and or damages
utilities
Architectural   Yes                Insure harmony      Yes               May be           Mostar Utility       Consultant/       Compliance with
design of pumps                    with the                                                                    contractor        codes and
stations and                       surrounding area,                                                                             drawings
reservoirs                         use same shapes
and drawings
Dust Control     Yes               Removal of surplus  At some specific   Yes             Mostar Utility and    Mostar Utility   No complaints
material           residential sites                  Municipalities
immediately and
spraying when
needed
Noise control    Yes               Use of noise        Yes               Yes              Mostar Utility       Mostar Utility    No complaints
for pump                           suppression system                                                                            from nearby
stations                           and proper                                                                                    community
operations         .
Safety hazards    Yes              Described in        For certain       Yes              Mostar Utility       Mostar Utility    Compliance with
during                             Specs. And          congested sites                                                           regulations and
construction                       Conditions                                                                                    rules
Proper local    Yes                No                  Yes               Yes              Mostar Utility                         Local flooding
drainage of all
facilities
constructed by
project                 ._ ___.___._
Traffic          Yes               Described in specs.  For certain       Yes             Mostar Utility                         No traffic
disruption                         And conditions      congested                                                                  congestion
during                                                 intersections
construction



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
MOSTAR WATER SUPPI,Y AND SANITATION PROJECT
Table of Environmental Issues, Mitigation Measures, Costs and Monitoring
Noise and air     Yes                Described in      No                 No                Mostar Utility     Mostar Utility    Compliance with
pollution by                         specs. And                                                                                  regulations and
tanker trucks                        conditions                                                                                  rules
Local             Yes               No                 No                Consider Policy    Mostar Utility and  Mostar Utility and  Compliance with
Employment                                                               for employment    Town Council        Other Contractors  employment laws
Benefits                                                                 from
neighborhood
affected
Increase Cost     Yes               Increase in        No                No                 Mostar Utility     Mostar Utility and  Amount of
Recovery for                        Connection Fees                                                           Techlnical         Revenues
Water Supply                                                                                                   Operator          Collected
Management of    Yes                No                 No                No                 WAJ               Mostar Utility     Customers'
Consumer Water                                                                                                                   complaints
Demand
Maintenance of    Yes               Phasing            For critical points  Yes             Mostar Utility     Mostar Utility    Low periods of
Water Supply                        construction       in water supply                                                           water
during                              activities and may  system.                                                                  interruptions.
Construction                        be water supply
Period.                             by tankers.
Control of        Yes               Enforcement of    Yes                Yes                                                     Number of
stormwater inflow                   building codes,                                                                              complaints and
(blockage and                       monitoring and                                                                               sewer overflows.
overflows of                        awareness
sewers). _
Air, Land and     Yes               Yes                Yes               Yes                Mostar Utility     Mostar Utility and  No complaints
Water Pollution.                                                                                               Other Contractors  from locals,
Sludge Disposal                                                                                                                  compliance with
standards.
World Bank User
P:\BOSNIA\INFRA\MOSTWTR\l LENP\iablcEnvn.doc
01/31/00 3:40 PM



